COUNTY CODE
of
GEM COUNTY, IDAHO
2002
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-06, passed 3-24-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Company
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This County Code of Gem County, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 2025-06, passed March 24, 2025. Ordinances of the
County adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to
the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
County office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the
code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL COUNTY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the board of county commissioners, this county code is
hereby declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official county code
of Gem County, state of Idaho. This county code of ordinances shall be known
and cited as the GEM COUNTY CODE and is hereby published by authority of the
board of county commissioners and shall be supplemented to incorporate the most
recent legislation of the county as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this county code by title in any legal documents. (2002 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This county code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
this state as the ordinances of the county of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2002 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the county code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this county code. All
such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this county code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the county code. (2002 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this county code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages
may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by
the board of county commissioners. The clerk of the district court shall see
that the replacement pages are properly inserted in the official copies
maintained in the office of the clerk. Any person having custody of a copy of
the county code shall make every effort to maintain said code current as to the
most recent ordinances passed. Such person shall see to the immediate insertion
of new or replacement pages when such are delivered or made available to such
person through the office of the clerk of the district court. Said code books,
while in actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be
and remain the property of the county and shall be returned to the office of
the clerk of the district court when directed so to do by order of the board of
county commissioners. (2002 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the county passed prior to the adoption of this
county code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this county
code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to
the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the
following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances;
appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
county; and all special ordinances. (2002 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this county code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the county code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this county code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2002 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceedings, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Scope Of Section: This section shall extend to all repeals, either by
express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any
new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Actions Now Pending: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the county herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the county under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this county code. (2002 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this county code or any part thereof or any portion adopted by reference
herein is for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective
by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the
validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or any part
thereof, or any portion adopted by reference herein. The board of county
commissioners hereby declares that it would have passed each section,
subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections,
subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2002 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this county code importing the
plural number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or
persons, any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included,
although distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter,
party or person is referred to in this county code by words importing the
singular number only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or
persons and the opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be
included; provided, that these rules of construction shall not be applied to
any section of this county code which contains any express provision excluding
such construction or where the subject matter or context may be repugnant
thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the county has been
changed in the content of this county code to "title", "chapter", "section"
and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the county's ordinances is not
meant to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2002
Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
BOARD: The board of county commissioners of Gem County, Idaho.
CLERK: The clerk of the district court of the county of Gem, state of Idaho.
May also include the county recorder, county auditor and clerk of the board of
commissioners.
CODE: The county code of Gem County.
COMMISSIONERS: The board of county commissioners, Gem County, Idaho.
COUNTY: The county of Gem, state of Idaho 1 .
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a county employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of Gem
County".
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the county, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a county officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of Gem County".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by his
proper mark. (2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 31-125.
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the county code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2002 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   Unless specifically provided elsewhere, any person convicted of a
violation of any section or provision of this county code shall be deemed
guilty of an infraction and may be fined in a sum not to exceed one hundred
dollars ($100.00); and in addition thereto, any person so convicted shall pay
such costs as the court may assess.
   B.   For second and subsequent infraction violations of this Code within
five (5) years, a fixed penalty of three hundred dollars ($300.00), plus any
such costs as the court may assess.
   C.   For third and subsequent violations of this Code within five (5) years,
a violation may be deemed a misdemeanor with a fine in the sum not to exceed
one thousand dollars ($1,000) for any offense and such person may be confined
in jail for a period of not more than six (6) months. Either or both such fine
and imprisonment may be imposed; and in addition thereto, any person so
convicted shall pay such costs as the court may assess. (2002 Code; amd. Ord.
2022-05, 6- -2022)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §§ 18-111, 18-113, 31-714.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this code and ordinance of the county the same
as though it were a part of each and every separate section or ordinance. Any
person convicted of a violation of this county code or any ordinance of Gem
County where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any action
which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful,
shall, unless otherwise provided, be deemed guilty. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed for each day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or
such act continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in this county code.
The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to any owner,
operator, tenant, lessor, lessee, and/or renter as long as each has prior
knowledge of the violation.
   B.   Imposition Of Penalty: In all cases where the same offense is made
punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this county code,
the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed; but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this county code
and there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach,
the provisions of this chapter shall apply.
   D.   Cost of Abatement. After conviction, the county may deem it appropriate
to abate the underlying subject or property, where applicable. If the county
does abate, the individual previously convicted shall be responsible for the
county’s cost in abatement, with no cost less than five hundred dollars ($500).
(2002 Code; amd. Ord. 2022-05, 6- -2022)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this county code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the board of county commissioners to impose such fine or penalty
on such officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the
section creating the duty. (2002 Code)
CHAPTER 5
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Board Established; Election And Terms Of Office
1-5-2: Qualifications
1-5-3: Bond
1-5-4: Organization; Meetings
1-5-5: Powers And Duties
1-5-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERMS OF OFFICE:
There is hereby established a board of county commissioners which shall consist
of three (3) members, one from each district in the county. At the general
election in 1936, two (2) members were elected for a term of two (2) years and
one member for a term of four (4) years; at each biennial election thereafter,
one member is to be elected for a term of two (2) years and one for a term of
four (4) years, it being further provided that at the general election in 1936,
the commissioner from county commissioner district No. 1 shall be elected for a
term of four (4) years, and that the four (4) year term shall be allotted
thereafter in rotation to districts No. 2, 3 and 1 1 . (2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §§ 31-701, 31-703.
1-5-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
No person shall be elected to the board of county commissioners, unless such
person has attained the age of twenty one (21) years at the time of the
election, is a citizen of the United States and shall have resided in the
county one year next preceding his election and in the district which he
represents for a period of ninety (90) days next preceding his election 1 .
(2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. IC § 34-617.
1-5-3: BOND:
Each county commissioner shall execute an official bond in the sum of five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) 1 . (2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. IC § 31-2015.
1-5-4: ORGANIZATION; MEETINGS:
   A.   Officers:
      1.   Chairman: The members of the board of county commissioners shall, at
their first regular meeting on the second Monday of January next after their
election, elect a chairman from their number.
      2.   Clerk 1 : The county auditor is ex officio clerk of the board of
county commissioners. The clerk of the board of county commissioners shall have
the duties as set out in Idaho Code section 31-708, as amended. (2002 Code)
   B.   Meetings:
      1.   Regular Meetings: The Gem County board of commissioners shall
conduct regular meetings on the first four (4) Mondays of each and every month,
and the first four (4) Tuesdays of each and every month, commencing at eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. until recessed by the board. If any of the days described
above falls on a holiday, which are defined as New Years Day, Martin Luther
King Day, President's Day, Memorial Day, Fourth Of July, Labor Day, Columbus
Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving, or Christmas Day, or a Monday upon which any
of those holidays are observed, the board will not meet that day. (Ord. 2000-
12, 10-10-2000, eff. 10-18-2000)
      2.   Adjourned Meetings: Adjourned meetings may be provided for, fixed
and held for the transaction of business, by an order duly entered of record,
in which must be specified the character of business to be transacted at such
meetings, and none other than that specified must be transacted.
      3.   Special Meetings: If, at any time after the adjournment of a regular
meeting, the business of the county requires a meeting of the board of county
commissioners, a special meeting may be ordered by a majority of the board. The
order must be entered of record, and five (5) days' notice thereof must, by the
clerk of the district court, be given to each member not joining in the order.
The order must specify the business to be transacted, and none other than that
specified must be transacted at such special meeting.
      4.   Public Meetings: All meetings of the board of county commissioners
must be public, and the books, records and accounts must be kept at the office
of the clerk of the district court, open at all times for public inspection,
free of charge. The clerk of the board must give five (5) days' public notice
of all special or adjourned meetings, stating the business to be transacted, by
posting three (3) notices in conspicuous places, one of which shall be at the
county courthouse door.
   C.   Quorum; Procedures: A majority of the board constitutes a quorum. The
chairman must preside at all meetings of the board of county commissioners, and
in case of his absence or inability to act, the members present must, by an
order, select one of their number to act as chairman temporarily. Any member of
the board or the clerk of the district court may administer oaths to any person
concerning any matter submitted to the board or connected with its powers or
duties. (2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 1-6A-2A of this title for bond requirements.
1-5-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The board of county commissioners shall have those powers and duties set out in
Idaho Code section 31-801 et seq., as amended. (2002 Code)
CHAPTER 6
COUNTY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
ARTICLE A. CLERK OF THE DISTRICT COURT
SECTION:
1-6A-1: Office Established; Election And Term
1-6A-2: Bonds
1-6A-3: Duties As Auditor And Recorder
1-6A-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERM:
There is hereby established the office of the clerk of the district court who
shall be ex officio auditor and recorder and ex officio clerk of the board of
county commissioners 1 . The clerk of the district court shall be elected by
the qualified voters of the county at the time and in the manner prescribed by
law and shall hold office for a term of four (4) years 2 . (2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 1-5-4A2 of this title.
2 2. Idaho constitution, article 5, § 16.
1-6A-2: BONDS:
   A.   Clerk Of The District Court: The clerk of the district court shall
execute an official bond in the penal sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00)
with two (2) sufficient sureties, to be approved by the district judge,
conditioned that such person will faithfully perform the duties of such office
and at all times account for and pay over all monies in his or her hands as
clerk of the district court, and the penalty of such bond may, at any time, be
increased by the district judge. The clerk of the district court may require a
bond from any deputy clerk 1 .
   B.   County Recorder: The county recorder shall execute an official bond in
the sum of not less than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) nor more than twenty
thousand dollars ($20,000.00) to be fixed by the board of county commissioners
and to cover the duties and liabilities as recorder, auditor and clerk of the
board of county commissioners 2 . (2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. IC § 31-2015.
2 4. IC § 31-2015.
1-6A-3: DUTIES AS AUDITOR AND RECORDER 1 :
   A.   County Auditor: The duties of the county auditor shall be as set forth
in Idaho Code section 31-2301 et seq., as amended.
   B.   County Recorder: The duties of the county recorder shall be as set
forth in Idaho Code section 31-2401 et seq., as amended. (2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 1-5-4A2 of this title for duties as ex officio clerk of the
  board of commissioners.
ARTICLE B. COUNTY TREASURER
SECTION:
1-6B-1: Office Established; Election And Term
1-6B-2: Bonds
1-6B-3: Duties
1-6B-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERM:
There is hereby established the office of county treasurer who shall serve as
ex officio county tax collector. The treasurer shall be elected for a term of
four (4) years as provided by law 1 . (2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Idaho constitution, article 18, § 6.
1-6B-2: BONDS:
   A.   County Treasurer: The county treasurer shall execute an official bond
in an amount double the probable amount of money that may, at any time, come
into his hands as such treasurer, to be fixed by the board of county
commissioners; provided, if surety bond be given as provided in Idaho Code,
section 41-2707, as amended, the bond need not exceed twenty five percent (25%)
of the probable amount that may be on hand at any one time, but in no case to
be less than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) 1 .
   B.   Tax Collector: The official bond of the tax collector shall be not less
than two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) nor more than fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) to be fixed by the board of county commissioners 2 . (2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. IC § 31-2015.
2 3. IC § 31-2015.
1-6B-3: DUTIES:
   A.   Duties As County Treasurer: The duties of the county treasurer shall be
as set forth in Idaho Code section 31-2101 et seq., as amended.
   B.   Duties As Tax Collector: The duties of the county tax collector in
relation to the collection of revenue are prescribed in Idaho Code title 63, as
amended. (2002 Code)
ARTICLE C. COUNTY ASSESSOR
SECTION:
1-6C-1: Office Established; Election And Term
1-6C-2: Bond
1-6C-3: Duties
1-6C-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERM:
There is hereby established the office of county assessor who shall be elected
for a term of four (4) years as provided by law 1 . (2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Idaho constitution, article 18, § 6.
1-6C-2: BOND:
The county assessor shall execute an official bond in the sum of five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00) 1 . (2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. IC § 31-2015.
1-6C-3: DUTIES:
The county assessor shall perform the duties prescribed in Idaho Code, title
63, as amended, relating to revenue 1 . (2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. IC § 31-2501.
ARTICLE D. COUNTY PROSECUTING ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-6D-1: Office Established; Election And Term
1-6D-2: Qualifications
1-6D-3: Bond
1-6D-4: Powers And Duties
1-6D-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERM:
There is hereby established the office of county prosecuting attorney who shall
be elected for a term of four (4) years as provided by law 1 . (2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Idaho constitution, article 18, § 6.
1-6D-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
No person shall be elected to the office of prosecuting attorney, unless he has
attained the age of twenty one (21) years at the time of his election, is
admitted to the practice of law within this state, is a citizen of the United
States and a qualified elector within the county 1 . (2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. IC § 34-623.
1-6D-3: BOND:
The county prosecuting attorney shall execute an official bond in the sum of
two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) 1 . (2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. IC § 31-2015.
1-6D-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The county prosecuting attorney shall have those powers and duties set out in
Idaho Code, title 31, chapter 26, as amended, and as elsewhere set out in the
Idaho Code. (2002 Code)
ARTICLE E. COUNTY SHERIFF
SECTION:
1-6E-1: Office Established; Election And Term
1-6E-2: Bond
1-6E-3: Powers And Duties
1-6E-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERM:
There is hereby established the office of county sheriff who shall be elected
for a term of four (4) years as provided by law 1 . (2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Idaho constitution, article 18, § 6.
1-6E-2: BOND:
The county sheriff shall execute an official bond in the sum of ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00) 1 . (2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. IC § 31-2015.
1-6E-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The county sheriff shall have those powers and duties as set out in Idaho Code,
title 31, chapter 22, as amended. (2002 Code)
ARTICLE F. COUNTY CORONER
SECTION:
1-6F-1: Office Established; Election And Term
1-6F-2: Bond
1-6F-3: Powers And Duties
1-6F-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERM:
There is hereby established the office of county coroner who shall be elected
for a term of two (2) years as provided by law 1 . (2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Idaho constitution, article 18, § 6.
1-6F-2: BOND:
The county coroner shall execute an official bond in the sum of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) 1 . (2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. IC § 31-2015.
1-6F-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The county coroner shall have those powers and duties as set out in Idaho Code
section 31-2801 et seq., as amended. (2002 Code)
CHAPTER 7
POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Personnel Policy
1-7-2: Fair Housing
1-7-3: Nondiscrimination On Basis Of Disability
1-7-4: Nonsmoking Policy
1-7-5: Medical Indigency Claims; Denial; Appeal
1-7-6: Nonmedical Indigent Assistance
1-7-1: PERSONNEL POLICY:
The Gem County personnel policy, as amended from time to time by the board of
county commissioners, a copy of which is on file in the office of the clerk of
the district court, is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as
though set forth in full and at length. (2002 Code)
1-7-2: FAIR HOUSING:
   A.   Policy: It is the policy of the county of Gem to implement programs to
ensure equal opportunity in housing for all persons regardless of race, color,
religion, sex, or national origin.
   B.   Discrimination Prohibited: Discrimination in the sale, rental, leasing,
financing of housing or land to be used for construction of housing, or in the
provisions of brokerage services because of race, color, religion, sex or
national origin is prohibited under title VIII of the 1968 civil rights act
(federal fair housing law).
   C.   Assistance: Within available resources, the county of Gem will assist
all persons who feel they have been discriminated against because of race,
color, religion, sex or national origin to seek equity under federal and state
laws by filing a complaint with the Idaho human rights commission or the U.S.
department of housing and urban development, Seattle regional office compliance
division.
   D.   Publication:
      1.   Resolution: The county of Gem shall publicize the resolution
codified herein and through this publicity shall cause owners of real estate,
developers and builders to become aware of their respective responsibilities
and rights under the federal fair housing law and any applicable state or local
laws or ordinances.
      2.   Program: Such program will, at a minimum, include, but not be
limited to:
         a.   The printing and publicizing of this policy and other applicable
fair housing information through local media and community contacts;
         b.   Distribution of posters, flyers and any other means which will
bring to the attention of those affected knowledge of their respective
responsibilities and rights concerning equal opportunity in housing. (Res.
2002-03, 10-22-2001, eff. retroactive to 5-1-1992)
1-7-3: NONDISCRIMINATION ON BASIS OF DISABILITY:
   A.   Policy: It is the policy of the county that all programs and activities
shall be accessible to and usable by qualified persons with disabilities.
   B.   Evaluation: The county shall undertake an evaluation, conducted in
consultation with citizen groups involving persons with disabilities, of its
programs, policies, procedures and facilities in order to determine those areas
where discrimination may occur.
   C.   Compliance With Section 504: The county shall, upon completion of said
evaluation, make such revisions, modifications, or other changes so as to fully
comply with the letter and intent of section 504 of the rehabilitation act of
1973.
   D.   Structural Barriers: The county shall, where building modifications are
required, develop and implement a transition plan for the timely elimination of
structural barriers to citizens with disabilities. (Res. 97-13, 3-17-1997)
   E.   Grievance Procedure: The following grievance procedure is established
to meet the requirements of section 504 of the rehabilitation act, as amended,
and the Americans with disabilities act of 1990 (ADA):
      1.   Right To Submit Grievance: According to these laws, the county, as a
recipient of an Idaho community development block grant (ICDBG) funds,
certifies that all citizens shall have the right to submit a grievance on the
basis of disability in policies and practices regarding employment, services,
activities, facilities, or benefits provided by the county.
      2.   Filing Of Grievance:
         a.   Required Information: When filing a grievance, citizens must
provide detailed information to allow an investigation, including the date,
location and description of the problem. The grievance should be in writing and
should include the name, address, and telephone number of the complainant.
         b.   Alternative Means Of Filing: Upon request, alternative means of
filing complaints, such as personal interviews or a tape recording, will be
made available for individuals with disabilities.
         c.   Submission Of Complaint; Designation Of Coordinator: The
complaint should be submitted by the complainant or his/her designee as soon as
possible, but no later than sixty (60) days after the alleged violation.
Complaints must be signed and sent to the ADA coordinator who shall be the
county treasurer at 415 East Main Street, Emmett, Idaho 83615, telephone (208)
365-3272.
      3.   Meeting With Complainant: Within fifteen (15) calendar days after
receiving the complaint, the treasurer will meet with the complainant to
discuss the complaint and possible resolution.
      4.   Response To Complaint: Within fifteen (15) calendar days after the
meeting. The treasurer will respond in writing. Where appropriate, the response
shall be in a format accessible to the complainant (such as large print or
audiotape). The response will explain the position of the county and offer
options for resolving the complaint.
      5.   Appeal:
         a.   Right To Appeal: If the response by the county treasurer does not
satisfactorily resolve the issue, the complainant or his/her designee may
appeal the decision of the county treasurer. Appeals must be made within
fifteen (15) calendar days after receipt of response. Appeals must be directed
to the board of county commissioners or their designee.
         b.   Meeting With Board Of County Commissioners: Within fifteen (15)
calendar days after receiving the appeal, the board of county commissioners or
their designee will meet with the complainant to discuss the complaint and to
discuss possible resolutions.
         c.   Commission Response: Within fifteen (15) calendar days after the
meeting, the board of county commissioners or their designee will provide a
response in writing. Where appropriate, the response shall be in a format
accessible to the complainant. The response shall be accompanied by a final
resolution of the complaint.
      6.   Files; Records: The treasurer shall maintain the files and records
of the county pertaining to the complaints filed for a period of three (3)
years after the grant is closed out.
      7.   Methods Of Filing: All individuals have a right to a prompt and
equitable resolution. Individuals or classes of individuals who believe they
have been subjected to discrimination based on disability have several ways to
file a grievance:
         a.   Use the grievance procedure provided by the county;
         b.   File a complaint with any agency that provides funding to the
county; or
         c.   File with one of the eight (8) federal agencies designated in the
title II regulations.
      8.   Lawsuit: Under title II, filing a grievance with the county's ADA
coordinator, filing a complaint with a federal agency, or filing a lawsuit may
be done independently of the others. Individuals are not required to file
either a grievance or complaint to bring a lawsuit. Lawsuits may be filed at
any time.
      9.   Federal Agencies: The following are four (4) of the eight (8)
agencies where a title II complaint can be filed:
         a.   Department of Justice, Civil Rights Division, Public Access
Station, Post Office Box 66738, Washington, D.C. 20035-9998;
         b.   Department Of Housing and Urban Development, Community Planning
and Development; 451 Seventh Street, Washington, D.C. 20410-4000;
         c.   Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
(ATBCB), 1331 F Street NW, Suite 1000, Washington, D.C. 20004-1111;
         d.   Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), 1801 L Street NW,
Washington, D.C. 20507. (Res. 97-14, 3-17-1997)
1-7-4: NONSMOKING POLICY:
   A.   Smoking In Public Buildings:
      1.   Smoking Prohibited: There shall be no smoking in any or all
buildings owned and operated by the county.
      2.   Signs: All buildings owned and operated by the county shall have
signs conspicuously posted so they are visible to the public.
      3.   Designated Smoking Area: No buildings will have a designated smoking
area in them.
      4.   Posting Of Resolution: The resolution codified in this section shall
be posted in each building owned and operated by the county. (Res. 92-03, 1-13-
1992)
   B.   County Vehicles And Equipment: Employees shall not smoke in county
vehicles or equipment at any time, whether or not the equipment or vehicle is
being operated on official county business. (Res. 96-12, 3-4-1996)
1-7-5: MEDICAL INDIGENCY CLAIMS; DENIAL; APPEAL:
Any applicant for medical indigency benefits under title 31, chapters 34 and 35
of the Idaho Code whose claim has been denied by the board of county
commissioners may request a hearing before the board within thirty (30) days of
the date of the denial. (Ord. 96-02, 10-23-1995; amd. 2002 Code)
1-7-6: NONMEDICAL INDIGENT ASSISTANCE:
   A.   Definition: As used in this section, "resident or residency" means a
person with a physical presence within a home, house, place of abode, place of
habitation, dwelling or place where he or she actually lives for a consecutive
period of thirty (30) days or more by maintaining a physical mailing address
and demonstrating the intent of establishing Gem County as his or her permanent
home. A "resident" does not include a person who comes into this state for
temporary purposes, including, but not limited to, education, vacation, or
seasonal labor. All applicants must be valid residents of Gem County and the
United States of America to qualify for said assistance.
   B.   Housing: Any nonresident applying for the first month's rent in Gem
County shall not be eligible under the nonmedical indigent fund. Payment of
rent shall only be approved when the applicant has established residency in Gem
County. Further, the amount of rent or housing assistance shall not exceed one
month's reasonable rent, if the following conditions have been met:
      1.   The applicant has received an eviction notice for a residence
located in Gem County, Idaho.
      2.   Such eviction would be detrimental to the health and well being of
the applicant or its household.
      3.   The applicant has exhausted all other sources for funds to meet
their housing expense.
      4.   If the applicant has applied for housing assistance and has
indicated that he/she is living in substandard housing, the housing, to be
considered as substandard housing, must consist of certification from a unit or
agency of government or from an applicant's present landlord that the
applicant's unit has one or more of the deficiencies listed below:
         a.   The housing unit is dilapidated, does not provide safe and
adequate shelter and in its present condition endangers the health, safety, or
well being of a household; or it has one or more critical defects, or a
combination of intermediate defects in sufficient number of original
construction, or they may result from continued neglect or lack of repair or
from serious damage to the structure;
         b.   Does not have operable indoor plumbing or access to an outhouse;
         c.   Does not have electricity or has inadequate or unsafe electrical
service;
         d.   Does not have a safe or adequate source of heat;
         e.   Should, but does not have a kitchen; or
         f.   Has been declared unfit for habitation by an agency or unit of
government. (Single room occupancy (SRO) housing as defined in 24 CFR 882.102
is not substandard solely because it does not contain sanitary or food
preparation facilities (or both).)
   C.   Clothing: There exists in Gem County free assistance for clothing
through church service centers, and WICAP, Gem County will authorize payment
for specialized clothing only upon extraordinary circumstances.
   D.   Food: There exists in Gem County food assistance through the
established community food bank and WICAP. An applicant must exhaust this
resource as well as provide proof of application for food stamps through Idaho
health and welfare before any consideration is given for emergency food
assistance.
   E.   Utilities: Gem County will provide utility assistance to eligible
applicants who have received a disconnection notice when said disconnection
would be detrimental to the health and well being of the applicant or their
household and when such intervention by Gem County would constitute crisis
intervention. Payment for utilities shall be limited to one average month
expense for said utilities. The applicant must exhaust all other resources
prior to Gem County being obligated to provide assistance. Additionally,
assistance shall be limited to one payment per year, be used to defray heat
costs only, and not be provided to applicants who demonstrate a self-created
emergency. Applicants must meet one hundred thirty percent (130%) of federal
poverty guidelines.
   F.   Transportation Expense: Gem County will only provide transportation
assistance for medical treatment for eligible applicants when no other
resources are available. Gem County may provide transportation assistance for
relocation of applicants and their households upon a showing of special
circumstances.
   G.   Shelter Care Expense: Gem County will not provide any assistance to
shelter care residents presently receiving any form of state or federal
assistance. Gem County determines that the base assistance provided to said
residents is adequate to meet all nonmedical needs of the residents.
   H.   Other Assistance: Gem County will not provide any further nonmedical
assistance to eligible individuals that is not set forth above.
   I.   Medically Unemployable Person: A qualified applicant shall be
classified as medically unemployable. Medically unemployable persons shall be
eligible for nonmedical services for a period of time to be determined in the
sole discretion of the Gem County commissioners based upon medical
documentation submitted by the applicant.
   J.   County Welfare Director: The Gem County welfare director is hereby
authorized to, in her or his discretion, in an emergency determine the
eligibility of applicants for nonmedical assistance and disburse assistance in
sums not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00) per applicant without the
necessity of board action. Any sums in excess of said amount shall be made by a
majority of the board or county commissioners. (Res. 98-06, 10-27-1997)
CHAPTER 8
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
SECTION:
1-8-1: Creation Of Right
1-8-2: Number Of Petitioners Required
1-8-3: Form Of Petition
1-8-4: Time For Filing Petitions
1-8-5: Printing Petition, Sheets For Signatures; Time Limit
1-8-6: Verification
1-8-7: Examination And Certification Of Signatures
1-8-8: Sufficiency Of Petition; Notice
1-8-9: Form Of Ballot; Election
1-8-10: Canvass Of Returns
1-8-11: Prohibited Acts; Penalty
1-8-12: Limitation
1-8-1: CREATION OF RIGHT:
The people of this county shall have the right to enact ordinances through the
initiative process and to repeal ordinances through the referendum process
according to the procedures set forth herein. (Ord. 79-3, 10-10-1979)
1-8-2: NUMBER OF PETITIONERS REQUIRED:
To enact an ordinance by initiative or to repeal an ordinance by referendum,
there shall be attached or appended to the petition the signatures of the
qualified electors of the county equal to at least twenty percent (20%) of the
total number of voters at the last general election in the county. (Ord. 79-3,
10-10-1979; amd. 2002 Code)
1-8-3: FORM OF PETITION:
   A.   Initiative Petition: The initiative petition shall be in substantially
the following form:
Initiative Petition to the Board of County Commissioners of Gem County, Idaho:
We, the undersigned citizens and qualified electors of Gem County, respectfully
demand that the following proposed ordinance, to-wit: (set out full text of
measure proposed) shall be submitted to the qualified electors of Gem County,
Idaho, for their approval or rejection at the regular general election, to be
called in accordance with Idaho Code Section 31-717, and each for himself says:
I have personally signed this petition; I am a qualified elector of Gem County;
my residence and post office are correctly written after my name.
   Signature   Printed Name    Residence   City Or
                     Street And Number   Post Office
(Here follow numbered lines for signatures.)
   (Ord. 79-3, 10-10-1979; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Referendum Petition: The petition for referendum on any ordinance
passed by the board of county commissioners shall be in substantially the same
form with appropriate title and changes, setting out in full the text of the
ordinance to be referred to the people for their approval or rejection. (Ord.
79-3, 10-10-1979)
1-8-4: TIME FOR FILING PETITIONS:
   A.   Initiative Petitions: Initiative petitions with the requisite number of
signatures attached shall be filed with the clerk of the district court not
less than four (4) months before the election at which they are to be voted
upon.
   B.   Referendum Petitions: Referendum petitions with the requisite number of
signatures attached shall be filed with the clerk of the district court not
less than sixty (60) days following the final adoption of the ordinance to be
subject to referendum. (Ord. 79-3, 10-10-1979)
1-8-5: PRINTING PETITION, SHEETS FOR SIGNATURES; TIME LIMIT:
   A.   Examination By Clerk Of The District Court; Petition Specifications:
Before or at the time of beginning the circulation of any petition for
initiative or referendum, the person or persons, organization or organizations
under whose authority the petition is to be circulated shall send or deliver to
the clerk of the district court a copy of such petition duly signed by at least
twenty (20) electors qualified to sign such petition. The clerk of the district
court shall immediately examine the petition and specify the form and kind and
size of paper on which the petition shall be printed and circulated for further
signatures. All petitions and sheets for signatures shall be printed on a good
quality bond or ledger paper, on pages eight and one- half inches in width by
thirteen inches in length (81/2" x 13"), with a margin of one and three-fourths
inches (13/4") at the top for binding, and the sheets for signatures shall have
numbered lines thereon from one to twenty (20) for signatures. The petition
shall be prepared in sections, with each section numbered consecutively. Each
section of a petition must have a printed copy of the petition as the first
page, and each section shall have attached to it not more than ten (10) sheets
for signatures.
   B.   Approval Or Requirement For Perfecting: The clerk of the district court
shall indicate, in writing, on the petition that he has approved it as to form.
The clerk of the district court shall inform the person or persons,
organization or organizations under whose authority the petition is to be
circulated, in writing, that the petition must be perfected with the required
number of certified signatures within sixty (60) days following the date of
approval as to form. Any petition that has not been perfected with the required
number of certified signatures within the sixty (60) days allowed shall be
declared null and void ab initio in its entirety. (Ord. 79-3, 10-10-1979)
1-8-6: VERIFICATION:
Each signature sheet of each petition containing signatures shall be verified
in substantially the following form by the person who circulated said sheet of
the petition, by his affidavit thereon, as a part thereof:
   STATE OF IDAHO   )
      ) ss.
   County of Gem    )
I,                 , swear, under penalty of perjury, that every person who
signed this sheet of the foregoing petition signed his or her name thereto in
my presence. I believe that each has stated his or her name and the
accompanying required information on the signature sheet correctly, and that
the person was eligible to sign this petition.
            Signature         
            Post Office Address              
Subscribed and sworn to before me this      day of            ,       .
(Notary Seal)   Notary Public          
         Residing at         
(Ord. 79-3, 10-10-1979)
1-8-7: EXAMINATION AND CERTIFICATION OF SIGNATURES:
   A.   Presentation To Clerk Of The District Court: All petitions with
attached signature sheets shall be presented on the same day to the clerk of
the district court, who shall make a cursory examination of them to determine
whether the petitions apparently contain the necessary number of signatures.
   B.   Insufficient Signatures: If the total number of signatures on the
petitions is not sufficient to satisfy the number required by section
1-8-2 of this chapter, all petitions with attached signature sheets shall be
retained by the clerk of the district court who shall notify, in writing, the
person filing the petition of the number of signatures needed, and further
signatures may be gathered, if within the time limit of section
1-8-5 of this chapter.
   C.   Rejection: If cursory examination of the signature sheets reveals:
      1.   Erasures on any signature;
      2.   Illegible or undecipherable signatures;
      3.   Signatures not properly identified by all of the information
required on the sheet;
      4.   Duplicate signatures;
      5.   Signatures of persons who have requested, in writing, to have their
names removed from the petition;
the clerk of the district court shall summarily reject such signatures, and
they shall not be counted. Each rejected signature shall be drawn through with
ink and initialed by the clerk of the district court. If the total number of
signatures not rejected is not sufficient to satisfy the number required by
section
1-8-2 of this chapter, all petitions with attached signature sheets shall be
retained by the clerk of the district court who shall notify, in writing, the
person filing the petition of the number of signatures needed, and further
signatures may be gathered, if within the time limit of section
1-8-5 of this chapter.
   D.   Filing; Comparison: All petitions presented to the clerk of the
district court found to apparently contain the necessary number of signatures,
after the cursory examination provided for above, shall be filed with the clerk
of the district court and become public records of the county not to be
returned. The clerk of the district court shall examine each such signature
purported to be that of a registered elector of this county and compare each
such signature with the registration documents available to the clerk of the
district court. The clerk of the district court shall summarily reject all
signatures which are not the signatures of a registered elector of this county,
and such rejected signatures shall not be counted. Rejected signatures shall be
drawn through with ink and initialed by the clerk of the district court. The
clerk of the district court may take up to, but not more than ten (10) days
after filing of the petition to complete his examination. The clerk shall
certify each signature found to comply with all of the requirements of this
chapter by an appropriate mark following each signature.
   E.   Tally: The clerk of the district court shall total the number of
certified signatures and, if found to total the number of signatures required
by section
1-8-2 of this chapter, shall proceed as provided in section
1-8-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 79-3, 10-10-1979)
1-8-8: SUFFICIENCY OF PETITION; NOTICE:
   A.   In the event that a petition filed with a clerk of the district court
does not contain the required number of certified signatures, the clerk of the
district court shall inform the person or organization under whose authority
the petition was circulated that the petition is defective for lack of
certified signatures and specify the number of additional signatures required
to make the petition valid. The petition must be perfected within thirty (30)
days of the date that the clerk of the district court finds the petition
defective for lack of certified signatures. If the petition is not perfected
within the thirty (30) day period, the clerk of the district court shall
declare the petition null and void ab initio in its entirety.
   B.   In the event that a petition filed with the clerk of the district court
is found by the clerk of the district court to contain the required number of
certified signatures, the clerk of the district court shall promptly, by
certified mail, inform the petitioners and shall also notify the board of
county commissioners at its next meeting that the initiative or referendum
petition is in proper form.
      1.   If the petition is for a referendum, the board of county
commissioners shall have thirty (30) days from the date of certification of the
petition to repeal the ordinance being referred to the voters. In the event the
board of county commissioners repeals the ordinance, the referendum petition
shall be declared null and void.
      2.   If the petition is an initiative petition, the board of county
commissioners shall have thirty (30) days to pass an ordinance substantially as
proposed by the petition. In the event the board of county commissioners passes
such an ordinance, the initiative petition shall be null and void.
      3.   In the event the board of county commissioners neither repeals the
ordinance which is the subject of a referendum petition nor enacts an ordinance
which is the subject of an initiative petition, an election shall be ordered by
the clerk of the district court to be conducted countywide. A special election
for initiative or referendum shall be provided not more than ninety (90) days
following the certification of the petition; provided, that in the event a
county election will occur within the ninety (90) days, the initiative or
referendum shall be submitted at the time of the county election. (Ord. 79-3,
10-10-1979)
1-8-9: FORM OF BALLOT; ELECTION:
   A.   Ballot Preparation: The board of county commissioners shall prepare a
ballot for an initiative or referendum election in one of the following ways:
      1.   If the full text of the ordinance or proposed ordinance to be voted
upon does not exceed one hundred (100) words in length, it may be set out in
full on the election ballot; or
      2.   If the full text of the ordinance or proposed ordinance to be voted
upon exceeds one hundred (100) words in length, and the board of county
commissioners vote not to have it printed at length on the election ballot, it
shall prepare a short title and description of the ordinance or proposed
ordinance which shall clearly and impartially state its purpose and effect,
which short title and description shall be printed on the election ballot.
   B.   Conduct Of Election: Initiative or referendum elections, whether
special or general, shall be conducted and the results thereof canvassed and
certified in all respects as near as practicable, in like manner as general
elections, except as otherwise provided. (Ord. 79-3, 10-10-1979)
1-8-10: CANVASS OF RETURNS:
The board of county commissioners shall meet within five (5) days after said
election to canvass the votes cast at such election, and the clerk of the
district court shall immediately announce the results. Any initiative measure
approved by a majority of the votes cast shall be in full force and effect from
the date of such announcement. Any referendum measure for which a majority of
the votes were cast in favor of repealing an ordinance shall be effective on
the date of such announcement. (Ord. 79-3, 10-10-1979)
1-8-11: PROHIBITED ACTS; PENALTY:
A person is guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be subject to punishment of
thirty (30) days in the Gem County jail and/or a fine of three hundred dollars
($300.00), who commits and is found guilty of the following acts:
   A.   Signs any name other than his own to any initiative or referendum
petition;
   B.   Knowingly signs his name to any initiative or referendum petition if he
is not a registered county elector;
   C.   Wilfully or knowingly circulates, publishes or exhibits any false
statement or representation concerning the contents, purport or effect of any
initiative or referendum petition for the purpose of obtaining any signatures
to any such petition or for the purpose of persuading any person to sign any
such petition;
   D.   Circulates or causes to circulate any initiative or referendum petition
knowing the same to contain false, forged, or factitious names;
   E.   Makes any false affidavit concerning any initiative or referendum
petition or the signatures appended thereto. (Ord. 79-3, 10-10-1979)
1-8-12: LIMITATION:
Nothing within the terms and language of this chapter should be considered or
interpreted to allow for procedures herein to divest or otherwise interfere
with the normal powers and duties of the board of county commissioners of this
county with regard to their right to adopt or repeal any ordinance pursuant to
state law. Nothing in the language of this chapter should be considered or
interpreted to allow for the violation of substantive or procedure requirements
of state law. (Ord. 79-3, 10-10-1979)
CHAPTER 9
NONBINDING ADVISORY ELECTION
SECTION:
1-9-1: Title
1-9-2: Authority
1-9-3: Purpose
1-9-4: Call For Election
1-9-5: Eligible Voters
1-9-6: Notice Of Election
1-9-7: Ballot
1-9-8: Conduct Of Election; Polling Places
1-9-9: Cost
1-9-10: Violation; Penalty
1-9-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the GEM COUNTY NONBINDING ADVISORY ELECTION
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 87-1, 2-23-1987, eff. 2-26-1987)
1-9-2: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority granted by Idaho Code
sections 31-714, 31-801 and 31-828. The board of county commissioners shall
have the authority to place a question on the ballot pertaining to any issue
before the citizens of Gem County during a primary or general election. The
results of such an election shall be advisory only. (Ord. 87-1, 2-23-1987, eff.
2-26-1987; amd. 2002 Code)
1-9-3: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide the board of county commissioners
with a nonbinding advisory vote on issues relating to the conduct of public
business involving the safety, health, prosperity, peace, good order, comfort
or convenience of the county. (Ord. 87-1, 2-23-1987, eff. 2-26-1987)
1-9-4: CALL FOR ELECTION:
A nonbinding advisory election may be called by a majority vote of the board of
county commissioners. (Ord. 87-1, 2-23-1987, eff. 2-26-1987)
1-9-5: ELIGIBLE VOTERS:
   A.   Qualifications: Every person who is eighteen (18) years of age or
older, who has resided in the county for thirty (30) days or more on the date
of the election, and who is a citizen of the United States of America, shall be
entitled to vote once in the election upon certifying to his qualifications
under oath and in writing.
   B.   Absentee Ballot: A person must be present in the county to vote, and
voting by absentee ballot shall not be allowed. (Ord. 87-1, 2-23-1987, eff. 2-
26-1987)
1-9-6: NOTICE OF ELECTION:
   A.   Publication: The clerk of the district court shall publish at least two
(2) times the notice for the nonbinding advisory election.
   B.   Contents Of Notice: The notice shall include the form of the ballot and
shall state the date of the election, the polling places and the hours during
which the poll shall be open for the purpose of voting.
   C.   Time Of Publication: The first notice shall be published at least
twelve (12) days prior to any election and the second notice shall be published
not later than five (5) days prior to the election.
   D.   Newspaper: The notice of election shall be published in one newspaper
published within the county or a newspaper which has general circulation within
the county. (Ord. 87-1, 2-23-1987, eff. 2-26-1987)
1-9-7: BALLOT:
   A.   Form; Contents: The election ballot shall be in a form to be determined
by the clerk of the district court and shall contain the issue in question
form, calling for a yes or no vote, an official comment explaining the issue, a
comment in favor of a yes vote and a comment in favor of a no vote.
   B.   Posting Of Issue: The clerk of the district court shall post the issue
as it will appear on the ballot in three (3) public places and give notice that
those in favor of a yes vote and those in favor of a no vote may submit a
statement to the clerk of the district court for or against the issue within
seven (7) days of the date the notice is posted.
   C.   Statements For Or Against Issue:
      1.   Form: The statement shall be typewritten, two hundred (200) words or
less and signed by the one submitting the statement.
      2.   Availability: All statements submitted shall be available to the
public for inspection and shall be kept by the clerk of the district court for
as long as the clerk is required to retain the ballots of the election.
      3.   Placement On Ballot: A majority of the board of county commissioners
shall select from the statements submitted that statement which is most
representative in favor of a yes vote and that statement which is most
representative of those in favor of a no vote. These representative statements
shall be placed on the ballot. (Ord. 87-1, 2-23-1987, eff. 2-26-1987)
1-9-8: CONDUCT OF ELECTION; POLLING PLACES:
The clerk of the district court shall oversee the election in accordance with
the general laws of the state regarding elections and shall determine the
location of the polling places and shall provide for the operation of the
polling places. (Ord. 87-1, 2-23-1987, eff. 2-26-1987)
1-9-9: COST:
The cost of the election shall be a county expense which shall be paid in
accordance with laws governing county expenditures. (Ord. 87-1, 2-23-1987, eff.
2-26-1987)
1-9-10: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter may be punished
by a fine in the maximum amount of three hundred dollars ($300.00), confinement
in the county jail for a maximum of six (6) months, or both.
   B.   Sections 2301, 2302, 2303, 2304, 2306, 2307, 2308, 2309, 2310, 2311,
2312, 2313, 2314, 2317, 2318, 2319, 2320 and 2323, of title 18 of the Idaho
Code are incorporated herein by reference. It shall be a misdemeanor for any
person to violate any of the aforementioned sections of the Idaho Code with
regard to any nonbinding advisory election. (Ord. 87-1, 2-23-1987, eff. 2-26-
1987)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Public Corporation Created
2-1-2: Powers Of Corporation
2-1-3: Charter Issued To Corporation
2-1-4: Board Of Directors
2-1-5: Conflict Of Interest
2-1-6: Financial Restrictions And Requirements
2-1-1: PUBLIC CORPORATION CREATED:
   A.   Creation: The county does hereby create a public corporation to carry
out the purposes of title 50, chapter 27, Idaho Code, hereinafter referred to
as "the act".
   B.   Construction Of Chapter: This chapter shall not be construed to limit
or restrict the purposes of the act, but shall be liberally construed to effect
such purposes.
   C.   Name: The name of the public corporation shall be the industrial
development corporation of Gem County, Idaho. (Ord. 85-1, 5-6-1985, eff. 5-10-
1985)
2-1-2: POWERS OF CORPORATION:
The corporation shall have all the powers, and be subject to all the
limitations and provisions, contained in the act. Such powers shall include,
without limitation, all powers set forth in the charter of the corporation
provided for in section
2-1-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 85-1, 5-6-1985, eff. 5-10-1985)
2-1-3: CHARTER ISSUED TO CORPORATION:
A charter is hereby issued by the county to the corporation, the existence of
the corporation to commence at the time the enactment of the ordinance codified
in this chapter becomes effective. The charter grants to the corporation all
powers authorized by the act and may be amended from time to time by the board
of county commissioners. The charter is set out at length in section 7 of
ordinance 85-1 on file in the office of the clerk of the district court, and is
hereby approved pursuant to section 50-2703(l), Idaho Code. (Ord. 85-1, 5-6-
1985, eff. 5-10-1985)
2-1-4: BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
   A.   Composition:
      1.   Appointment: The board of directors of the corporation shall be
comprised of five (5) residents of the county, appointed by the board of county
commissioners, by duly adopted resolution. No member of the board may hold
elective office in any federal, state, county or municipal governmental agency
during his term on the board.
      2.   Term: The members shall serve staggered terms of two (2) or four (4)
years in length. Three (3) members shall be appointed to four (4) year terms.
Two (2) members shall be appointed to two (2) year terms.
      3.   Reappointment: Members may be reappointed to any number of
successive terms.
      4.   Vacancy: In the event that a member of the board shall for any
reason be unwilling or unable to serve as a director of the board, the board of
county commissioners shall, by resolution, designate a resident of the county
to serve as a director of the board in place of such member for a term
coterminous with the duration of such member's term in office.
   B.   Officers: The board shall elect officers from among its own members.
Such officers shall be elected at the initial meeting of the board in each
calendar year, shall serve until their successors have been duly elected, and
shall include a president and a secretary, and may include a vice president and
an assistant secretary. The offices of vice president and assistant secretary
may be held simultaneously by the same person; provided, that in such event,
such person shall not both execute and attest any resolution, document,
certificate, deed, mortgage, deed of trust, note, bond, contract or other
document or instrument. The board may elect such other officers as it shall
from time to time determine to be necessary or desirable.
   C.   Bylaws, Rules And Regulations: The board shall adopt bylaws and/or
rules and regulations governing the election of officers, the powers and duties
of such officers, the filling of vacancies in offices, the scheduling, giving
notice of, and conduct of meeting, and the conduct of the corporation. Such
bylaws, rules and regulations may be amended from time to time by the board;
provided, that any such amendment shall be consistent with the provisions
hereof.
   D.   Meetings; Quorum: A majority of the members of the board shall
constitute a quorum, and the approval of a majority of a quorum shall be
necessary for the board to take any action.
   E.   Functions: The affairs of the corporation shall be conducted and
carried out by the board.
   F.   Compensation, Expenses: Members of the board shall serve without
compensation but with reimbursement of expenses as may be provided in the
bylaws, rules and regulations of the board. (Ord. 85-1, 5-6-1985, eff. 5-10-
1985)
2-1-5: CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
No director, officer, agent, employee, or official of the corporation shall
have a direct or indirect financial interest in any property to be included in,
or any contract for property, service, or materials to be furnished or used in
connection with, any industrial development facility financed through the
corporation. (Ord. 85-1, 5-6-1985, eff. 5-10-1985)
2-1-6: FINANCIAL RESTRICTIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   County Funds: The county may not give or lend any money or property in
aid of the corporation except as expressly authorized by the act. This
provision shall not preclude the county from dealing with the corporation on an
arms length basis.
   B.   Net Earnings: Any net earnings of the corporation, beyond those
necessary for retirement of indebtedness incurred by it, shall inure to the
county and not for the benefit of any other person.
   C.   Alteration Of Charter; Dissolution; Audit: Alteration of the charter
of, or dissolution of, or audits of the corporation shall be as provided by the
act and by subsequent ordinances of the county. Upon dissolution of the
corporation, title to all property owned by the corporation shall vest in the
county. (Ord. 85-1, 5-6-1985, eff. 5-10-1985)
CHAPTER 2
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-2-1: Purpose
2-2-2: Creation
2-2-3: Officers
2-2-4: Rules Of Procedure; Bylaws
2-2-5: Meetings
2-2-6: Employees; Technical Experts
2-2-7: Powers And Duties
2-2-8: Funding
2-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the educational, cultural, economic
and general welfare of the public of the county through the identification,
evaluation, designation, and protection of those buildings, sites, areas,
structures, events, and objects which reflect significant elements of the
historic, architectural, archaeological, and cultural heritage of the county,
the state, and the United States of America. (Ord. 87-2, 4-27-1987)
2-2-2: CREATION:
   A.   Membership; Appointment: There is hereby created a Gem County
historical preservation commission which shall consist of eight (8) members who
shall be appointed by the board of county commissioners.
   B.   Qualifications: All members of the historical preservation commission
shall have demonstrated interest, competence, or knowledge in history or
historic preservation. The board of county commissioners shall endeavor to
appoint at least two (2) members with professional training or experience in
the disciplines of architecture, history, architectural history, urban
planning, archaeology, engineering, law, or other historic preservation related
disciplines.
   C.   Term:
      1.   Initial Appointments: Initial appointments to the historical
preservation commission shall be made as follows: two (2) 1-year terms; three
(3) 2-year terms; three (3) 3-year terms.
      2.   Subsequent Appointments: All subsequent appointments shall be made
for three (3) year terms.
      3.   Reappointment: Historical preservation commission members may be
reappointed to serve additional terms.
      4.   Vacancies: Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as original
appointments and the appointee shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired
term. (Ord. 87-2, 4-27-1987)
2-2-3: OFFICERS:
The historical preservation commission shall elect officers from among the
historical preservation commission members. The chairman shall preside at
meetings of the historical preservation commission. The vice chairman shall, in
the absence of the chairman, perform the duties of the chairman. (Ord. 87-2, 4-
27-1987)
2-2-4: RULES OF PROCEDURE; BYLAWS:
The historical preservation commission shall have the power to make whatever
rules are necessary for the execution of its duties as set forth in this
chapter and by law. Rules of procedure and bylaws adopted by the historical
preservation commission shall be available for public inspection. (Ord. 87-2,
4-27-1987)
2-2-5: MEETINGS:
   A.   Open Meetings: All meetings of the historical preservation commission
shall be open to the public and follow the requirements of Idaho's open meeting
laws.
   B.   Minutes; Records: The historical preservation commission shall keep
minutes and other appropriate written records of its resolutions, proceedings,
and actions. (Ord. 87-2, 4-27-1987)
2-2-6: EMPLOYEES; TECHNICAL EXPERTS:
The historical preservation commission may recommend to the board of county
commissioners, within the limits of its funding, the employment of or the
contracting with other parties for the services of technical experts or other
persons as it deems necessary to carry on the functions of the historical
preservation commission. (Ord. 87-2, 4-27-1987)
2-2-7: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The historical preservation commission shall be advisory to the board of county
commissioners and shall be authorized to:
   A.   Conduct a survey of local historic properties.
   B.   Recommend the acquisition of fee and lesser interests in historic
properties, including adjacent or associated lands, by purchase, bequests, or
donation.
   C.   Recommend methods and procedures necessary to preserve, restore,
maintain, and operate historic properties under the ownership or control of the
county.
   D.   Recommend the lease, sale, other transfer or disposition of historic
properties subject to rights of public access and other covenants and in a
manner that will preserve the property.
   E.   Contract, with the approval of the board of county commissioners, with
the state and federal government, or any agency of either, or with any other
organization.
   F.   Cooperate with the federal, state, and county governments in the
pursuance of the objectives of historic preservation.
   G.   Make recommendations in the planning process undertaken by the county,
the city, the state, or the federal government and the agencies of these
entities.
   H.   Recommend ordinances and otherwise provide information for the purpose
of historic preservation in the county.
   I.   Promote and conduct an educational and interpretive program on historic
preservation, historic properties, and historic events in the county.
   J.   Historical preservation commission members, employees, or agents of the
historical preservation commission may enter private property, buildings, or
structures in the performance of their official duties only with the express
consent of the owner or occupant thereof.
   K.   Review nominations of properties to the national register of historic
places within the county's jurisdiction.
   L.   Perform all acts as are reasonably necessary to carry out this chapter
and create and preserve an historical awareness in the citizens of the county.
(Ord. 87-2, 4-27-1987)
2-2-8: FUNDING:
Funding for the historical preservation commission shall be solely from grants
from state and federal governments together with private contributions. Funds
received for the historical preservation commission may be accumulated from
year to year and need not be expended during any one fiscal year, except that
unexpended monies from whatever source shall be deemed surplus to be budgeted
and appropriated for the subsequent year as provided by law. The historical
preservation commission shall maintain fiscal records which comply with the
general accounting offices "Standards for Audit of Governmental Organizations
Programs, Activities, and Functions". (Ord. 87-2, 4-27-1987)
CHAPTER 3
BOARD OF COUNTY GUARDIANS
SECTION:
2-3-1: Created
2-3-2: Membership
2-3-3: Powers And Duties
2-3-1: CREATED:
There is hereby created, pursuant to the authority granted in Idaho Code
section 15-5-601, a board of county guardians for the county. (Res. 96-23, 8-5-
1996)
2-3-2: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Appointment: All members of the board of county guardians shall be
appointed by the board of county commissioners pursuant to statute.
   B.   Term: The initial board shall be made up of three (3) 2-year terms and
three (3) 1-year terms.
   C.   Vacancy: Any vacancy in the board created by resignation or expiration
of term shall be filled by appointment of the board of county commissioners
pursuant to statute. (Res. 96-23, 8-5-1996)
2-3-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The board will have all the powers and duties as provided under law and shall
at all times be responsible to the board of county commissioners. (Res. 96-23,
8-5-1996)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definition
3-1-2: License Required
3-1-3: Application; Fee
3-1-4: Processing Of Application
3-1-4-1: Title
3-1-4-2: Authority
3-1-4-3: Purpose
3-1-4-4: Initial License Or Transfer
3-1-4-5: Renewal
3-1-4-6: Record Of Proceedings
3-1-4-7: Judicial Review
3-1-4-8: Penalty
3-1-5: Term
3-1-6: Conditions Of Operating Places
3-1-7: Days, Hours Of Sale
3-1-7-1: Title
3-1-7-2: Authority
3-1-7-3: Purpose
3-1-7-4: Jurisdiction
3-1-7-5: Allowed Sales
3-1-8: Separate License Required
3-1-9: Imputed Liability
3-1-10: Revocation
3-1-11: Sunday Deliveries
3-1-1: DEFINITION:
"Person", as used in this chapter, includes any individual, firm,
copartnership, association, corporation, or any group or combination acting as
a unit licensed to sell or distribute beer or wine by the state. (Ord., 10-11-
1977)
3-1-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall sell or distribute beer and/or wine within the county unless
such person shall annually obtain a county beer and/or wine license. (Ord., 10-
11-1977; amd. 2002 Code)
3-1-3: APPLICATION; FEE:
Every retailer of beer and/or wine operating in the county shall submit an
application for a license, transfer or renewal to the board of county
commissioners before commencing to sell beer and/or wine. The application form
shall be obtained from the clerk of the district court and the completed form
shall be turned into the clerk of the district court with the license fee which
shall be as set out in the fee schedule adopted by resolution of the board of
county commissioners. (Ord. 94-02, 2-14-1994; amd. 2002 Code)
3-1-4: PROCESSING OF APPLICATION:
3-1-4-1: TITLE:
This section
3-1-4 shall be known as the GEM COUNTY BEER AND WINE ORDINANCE. (Ord. 83-2, 11-
28-1983, eff. 12-1-1983)
3-1-4-2: AUTHORITY:
This section
3-1-4 is adopted pursuant to authority granted by Idaho Code sections 31-714,
31-801, 31-828, 23-1015, 23-1315 and 23-1318. (Ord. 83-2, 11-28-1983, eff. 12-
1-1983)
3-1-4-3: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this section
3-1-4 is to establish a time period within which a decision must be made by the
board of county commissioners following submission of an application to them
for beer and/or wine license, transfer or renewal. (Ord. 83-2, 11-28-1983, eff.
12-1-1983)
3-1-4-4: INITIAL LICENSE OR TRANSFER:
   A.   Hearing:
      1.   Presence Of Applicant Required: In the case of initial licenses or
transfers, the applicant shall be present on the date and time specified for
consideration of the application by the board of county commissioners.
      2.   Hearing Date: The date for the hearing shall be no more than three
(3) calendar weeks from the date the application is submitted. (Ord. 94-02, 2-
14-1994)
      3.   No Opposition; Issuance: If, at the hearing, there is no opposition,
the applicant is in compliance with all state and local laws, and the issuance
of a license is deemed to be in the public interest, the board shall grant the
application for the license or transfer. (Ord. 94-02, 2-14-1994; amd. 2002
Code)
      4.   Opposition; Noncompliance: If, at the hearing, there is opposition
or evidence that the applicant is not in compliance with all state and local
laws, or it is not deemed to be in the public interest, the board shall not
issue the license or transfer. The board shall issue their decision within
fifteen (15) days of the hearing, unless circumstances make it necessary to
obtain further information to make the decision. If further information is
necessary, the board shall indicate in writing what information is necessary
and when such information is expected to be received. At that time, a decision
will be made either granting or denying the license or transfer.
   B.   Decision Of Board: It the license or transfer is denied, the board
shall state in writing:
      1.   The statutes, ordinances and standards used in evaluating the
application;
      2.   The reasons for the denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, the applicant can take to obtain the license or
transfer. (Ord. 94-02, 2-14-1994)
3-1-4-5: RENEWAL:
   A.   Presence Of Applicant: In the case of an application for renewal, it is
not necessary for the applicant to be present at the hearing set before the
board of county commissioners.
   B.   No Opposition; Issuance: If there is no opposition to the renewal and
the applicant has complied with all state and local regulations, the board
shall grant the application for renewal at the end of the hearing.
   C.   Opposition; Hearing: If there is opposition or evidence that the
applicant is not in compliance with any state or local regulation, the matter
shall be set for a hearing at which the applicant shall be present. This
hearing shall be set within twenty one (21) days of the determination that a
hearing is necessary. The application will then be processed in accordance with
the procedures set out in section
3-1-4-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 94-02, 2-14-1994)
3-1-4-6: RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS:
All hearings on beer and/or wine licenses held before the board of county
commissioners shall be recorded and minutes shall be taken. The recorded record
shall be kept for a minimum of six (6) months after the final decision on a
matter is made. (Ord. 94-02, 2-14-1994)
3-1-4-7: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Any applicant denied a license, transfer or renewal may seek judicial review
under Idaho Code title 67, chapter 52, within twenty eight (28) days of such
decision by the board of county commissioners. (Ord. 94-02, 2-14-1994)
3-1-4-8: PENALTY:
The penalty for violation of this section
3-1-4  shall be the general penalties outlined in Title 1, Chapter 4 of this
code. (Ord. 83-2, 11-28-1983, eff. 12-1-1983; amd. Ord. 2022-05, 6- -2022)
3-1-5: TERM:
A county beer and/or wine license shall expire on December 31 in the year in
which the license is issued. (Ord., 10-11-1977)
3-1-6: CONDITIONS OF OPERATING PLACES:
Each place where beer and/or wine is licensed for sale or distribution by the
county shall be operated under the following conditions:
   A.   Compliance Required: In compliance with the laws of the state, the
United States, and ordinances of the county. (Ord., 10-11-1977)
   B.   Proximity To Church, School, Playground: Not less than three hundred
feet (300') from any permanent place of worship or any school, including the
school grounds, unless with the consent of the occupant and the board of county
commissioners. (Ord., 10-11-1977; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Display Of License: With the county beer and/or wine license
prominently displayed.
   D.   Intoxicated Persons: With no intoxicated persons permitted to loiter
upon the premises. (Ord., 10-11-1977)
3-1-7: DAYS, HOURS OF SALE:
3-1-7-1: TITLE:
This section
3-1-7 shall be known as the EXTENSION OF LIQUOR, WINE AND BEER SALES ORDINANCE
of Gem County. (Ord. 92-01, 1-27-1992)
3-1-7-2: AUTHORITY:
This section
3-1-7 is authorized under article 12, section 2 of the Idaho constitution and
Idaho Code sections 23-927, 23-1012, and 23-1332. (Ord. 92-01, 1-27-1992)
3-1-7-3: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this section
3-1-7 is to clearly establish the hours and days for the sale of liquor, wine
and beer upon any licensed premises, and to extend the hours that liquor may be
sold by the drink, and the hours that wine and beer may be sold upon licensed
premises until two o'clock (2:00) A.M. (Ord. 92-01, 1-27-1992)
3-1-7-4: JURISDICTION:
This section
3-1-7 shall apply to all licensed premises over which the board of county
commissioners has jurisdiction pursuant to Idaho Code. (Ord. 92-01, 1-27-1992)
3-1-7-5: ALLOWED SALES:
Pursuant to Idaho Code sections 23-927, 23-1012, and 23-1332, the county does
hereby allow the sale of liquor by the drink, wine and beer until two o'clock
(2:00) A.M. upon licensed premises. Sale of liquor by the drink shall not be
allowed on Sundays, Memorial Day, Thanksgiving or Christmas Day. (Ord. 92-01,
1-27-1992)
3-1-8: SEPARATE LICENSE REQUIRED:
A separate county beer and/or wine license shall be obtained from the county
for each place of business operated by the same person where beer and/or wine
is sold or distributed. (Ord., 10-11-1977)
3-1-9: IMPUTED LIABILITY:
Such conditions for operation of a place where beer and/or wine is sold or
distributed shall be binding upon each person licensed by the county, his
employees, and his helpers. (Ord., 10-11-1977)
3-1-10: REVOCATION:
   A.   Grounds: A revocation of a county license holder's state license to
sell or distribute beer and/or wine or a knowing violation by such license
holder of any condition for operating a place where beer and/or wine is sold or
distributed in the county shall be grounds for revocation of his county beer
and/or wine license or for denial of his application for a renewed county beer
and/or wine license.
   B.   Initiation Of Proceedings: Proceedings to revoke a county beer and/or
wine license or to deny an application for renewal of such license shall be
initiated by the filing of a complaint with the clerk of the district court.
The complaint shall specify the violation with particularity and a copy of the
complaint shall be served upon the license holder along with the written notice
of the hearing before the board of county commissioners.
   C.   Proceedings: Before a county beer and/or wine license is revoked or an
application for a renewal of such license is denied, the license holder or
applicant shall be entitled to a hearing before the board of county
commissioners. Written notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be
served upon the license holder at least fifteen (15) days before the hearing.
(Ord., 10-11-1977)
3-1-11: SUNDAY DELIVERIES:
Sale or delivery of any alcoholic liquor in, on, or from the premises of any
state liquor store or distributing station in the county on any Sunday which
does not fall on Christmas Day shall be allowed within Gem County. (Res. 2004-
09, 7-27-2004)
CHAPTER 2
PRIVATE AMBULANCE SERVICE
SECTION:
3-2-1: Authority
3-2-2: Definitions
3-2-3: Ambulance License Certificate Required
3-2-4: Application For License Certificate
3-2-5: Standards For Issuance Of License Certificate
3-2-6: Equipment, Maintenance And Identification
3-2-7: Periodic Inspections
3-2-8: Insurance Policy
3-2-9: Radio And Telephone Requirements
3-2-10: Ambulance Specifications
3-2-11: Replacement Or Addition Of Vehicles
3-2-12: Permit Of Drivers And Attendants; Fee
3-2-13: Standards For Issuance Of Driver's And Attendant's Permits
3-2-14: Ambulance Personnel Required
3-2-15: Responsibility Of Operator
3-2-16: Suspension Or Revocation Of License Or Permit
3-2-17: Right To Hearing Regarding Denial, Suspension, Or Revocation
3-2-18: Record Of Ambulance Calls
3-2-19: Penalty
3-2-1: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted by article 12,
section 2 of the constitution of the state of Idaho, and by section 31-714 of
the Idaho Code. (Ord. 98-05, 1-26-1998, eff. 2-9-1998)
3-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
The hereinafter listed words and phrases when used herein shall be defined as
follows:
AMBULANCE: Any privately or publicly owned motor vehicle which is used,
maintained, or operated for the transportation of wounded, injured, disabled or
sick patients, including funeral coaches or hearses which otherwise comply with
the provisions of this chapter.
AMBULANCE BUSINESS: The business of owning, operating, managing or maintaining,
as principal or agent, any ambulance vehicle, as herein defined, for the
purpose of receiving, picking up or transporting within Gem County handicapped,
infirm, wounded, injured, ill, or sick persons.
AMBULANCE OPERATOR AND OPERATOR: A person who engages in the ambulance business
within the corporate limits and boundary lines of Gem County.
ATTENDANT: Any person qualified, as herein provided, to care for, the
handicapped, infirm, wounded, injured, ill, or sick persons during the time
ambulance service is being provided, and who meets the qualifications elsewhere
set forth herein.
ATTENDANT-DRIVER: A person who is qualified as an attendant and a driver, as
provided herein.
BOARD: The Idaho board of health and welfare provided in section 39-103, Idaho
Code.
COUNTY: Gem County, Idaho.
DRIVER: Any person who drives and operates any ambulance during times when such
vehicle is being utilized to provide ambulance service, as provided herein.
LICENSE CERTIFICATE: The license issued to any "person" as herein defined to
engage in the ambulance business.
PATIENT: An individual who is sick, injured, wounded, or otherwise
incapacitated or helpless.
PERMIT: The license issued to any person who qualified as an ambulance driver
or attendant.
PERSON: Any person, individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company or organization of any kind, and their agents, servants and employees.
(Ord. 98-05, 1-26-1998, eff. 2-9-1998)
3-2-3: AMBULANCE LICENSE CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
   A.   Required; Exception: No person shall engage in the ambulance business
within the corporate limits and boundary lines of Gem County, without first
obtaining an ambulance license certificate as herein provided; provided,
however, that no license or permit shall be required pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter of any ambulance business or attendant-driver in cases where
the ambulance:
      1.   Is operated by an agency of the United States of America, the state
of Idaho, or any political subdivision thereof.
      2.   Has its normal place of doing business outside the boundaries of Gem
County, Idaho.
   B.   Fee: The fee therefor shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) for a calendar
year or part thereof. All such license certificates shall expire on December 31
of each year.
   C.   Criteria For Issuance: No license shall be issued hereunder to any
applicant unless and until the board of county commissioners shall find that
the applicant is fit, willing and able to perform such public transportation
and conforms to the provisions of this chapter and the rules promulgated by the
board of county commissioners as herein authorized. (Ord. 98-05, 1-26-1998,
eff. 2-9-1998)
3-2-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE CERTIFICATE:
   A.   Form: Any person desiring to obtain an ambulance license certificate
shall make application therefor upon forms available from the board of county
commissioners.
   B.   Required Information: Each application shall be sworn to by the
applicant and shall include:
      1.   The name of the applicant and trade name, if any, under which he
intends to conduct his business; or, if a corporation, its name, date and place
of incorporation, address of its principal place of business, and the names of
its principal officers, together with their respective residence addresses; or,
if a partnership, association or unincorporated company, the names of all the
partners or persons comprising such association or company, and the business
and residence address of each partner or person.
      2.   A description of each ambulance vehicle used or proposed to be used
by the applicant, including make, model, identifying motor and serial numbers,
state motor vehicle license number, year of manufacture, and the ambulance
business number therefor.
      3.   The address and telephone number of the premises at and from which
the applicant proposes to maintain and operate such ambulance(s).
      4.   The training and experience of the applicant in the transportation
and care of patients.
      5.   The names and addresses of each driver and attendant.
   C.   Background Investigation: Upon receipt of any such application, it
shall be the duty of the Gem County sheriff to cause an investigation to be
made of the background of the applicant or operator and his financial
responsibility.
   D.   Vehicle Inspection: The Gem County sheriff shall also determine if the
motor vehicles described in the application are fit and suitable for use as
ambulances or as invalid or wheelchair coaches.
   E.   Additional Information: The applicant shall furnish any and all
additional information as the board of county commissioners may reasonably
require. (Ord. 98-05, 1-26-1998, eff. 2-9-1998)
3-2-5: STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF LICENSE CERTIFICATE:
The board of county commissioners shall issue a license certificate hereunder
when it finds:
   A.   Insurance: The insurance policies as required by this chapter have been
procured.
   B.   Attendants; Drivers: The applicant and all attendants and drivers are
fit and proper persons to conduct or work in the proposed business.
   C.   Equipment: All equipment conforms with the standards, requirements and
regulations provided for herein, in the Idaho Code, and in the rules and
regulations promulgated by the Idaho board of health and welfare as provided in
Idaho Code section 39-145.
   D.   License Fees: All license fees have been paid.
   E.   Compliance: All the requirements of this chapter and all other
applicable laws or regulations have been complied with.
Licenses granted hereunder shall be transferable subject to the ability of the
transferee-applicant to meet the standards of this chapter and applicable state
and federal laws and regulations. (Ord. 98-05, 1-26-1998, eff. 2-9-1998)
3-2-6: EQUIPMENT, MAINTENANCE AND IDENTIFICATION:
   A.   Required Equipment: Any ambulance licensed under this chapter shall be
equipped, maintained, and identified at all times by the owner or operator
thereof as herein provided, and in accordance with any applicable state and
federal laws and regulations; said equipment shall be maintained in a safe,
workable and usable condition at all times, and shall include, but not be
limited to, the following, or the equivalent thereof:
      1.   Radio equipment as defined in section
3-2-9 of this chapter.
      2.   One siren.
      3.   One red flashing light (front and rear).
      4.   One fire extinguisher (underwriter approved).
      5.   Shock absorbers.
      6.   Tires with adequate tread for nonskid operation throughout the
inspection period.
      7.   Two (2) exits from compartment where patient is carried.
      8.   Glass without pits or cracks.
      9.   Stretcher restraining locks.
      10.   Security of all auxiliary equipment.
      11.   Safety belts fastened to main stretcher.
      12.   Adequate jacks and wheel wrenches.
      13.   At least one spare tire.
      14.   All other equipment deemed essential by the board.
   B.   Maintenance: Ambulance equipment shall be maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition.
   C.   Name Of Owner: The name of the owner or owners of each licensed
ambulance shall be painted in letters at least three inches (3") in height in a
conspicuous place on each side and on the back of each vehicle; provided,
however, that if the owner is a corporation, partnership, association or other
firm doing business under a trade name, which partnership, association or firm
currently has a correct corporate or trade name filed with the Gem County
recorder, as provided by law, the name of such corporation or such trade name
may be painted on the vehicle in lieu of the name of the owner or owners. (Ord.
98-05, 1-26-1998, eff. 2-9-1998)
3-2-7: PERIODIC INSPECTIONS:
All ambulance vehicles operated under the provisions of this chapter shall be
inspected to assure compliance with the provisions of this chapter and all
other applicable county, state and federal laws. Said inspections shall be made
in June and December of each calendar year, one of which may be the initial
inspection of ambulance vehicles upon application for or renewal of the license
certificate. The board of county commissioners may make such other inspections
of ambulance vehicles as in their discretion are deemed advisable. Records of
inspections shall be made and kept. (Ord. 98-05, 1-26-1998, eff. 2-9-1998)
3-2-8: INSURANCE POLICY:
   A.   Required: Every applicant hereunder shall file with the board of county
commissioners an insurance policy providing liability insurance coverage for
each and every ambulance vehicle owned, operated and/or leased by the
applicant; such policy shall be issued by an insurance company or companies
authorized to do business in the state of Idaho, and shall provide insurance
coverage for injury to, or death of, any person or persons in accidents and
resulting from any cause for which the owner or operator of said vehicle would
be liable on account of any liability imposed by law, regardless of whether the
ambulance vehicle was being driven by the owner, his agent or lessee; said
policy shall also provide insurance coverage against damage to the property of
another, including personal property, under like circumstances of liability.
   B.   Policy Limits: The minimum limits of policy coverage shall be not less
than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for the injury or death of one
person, not less than three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for the
injury or death of two (2) or more persons in any one accident, and one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for property damage in each accident.
   C.   Insolvency Or Bankruptcy Of Assured: Every such policy of insurance
shall continue to the full amount thereof, notwithstanding any recovery thereon
and shall provide that the liability of the insurer shall not be affected by
the insolvency or bankruptcy of the assured.
   D.   Term: Each insurance policy required hereunder shall extend for the
period to be covered by the license applied for and the insurer shall be
obliged to give the board of county commissioners and the assured not less than
thirty (30) days' written notice in the event of any change or cancellation
earlier than its expiration date. The cancellation or other termination of any
such policy shall automatically revoke and terminate any license issued
hereunder for the ambulance service covered by such policy, unless another
insurance policy complying with the provisions of this section shall be
provided and be in effect at the time of such cancellation or termination.
   E.   Indemnification: The limits of insurance provided above shall not be
deemed a limitation of any covenant to indemnify and save and hold harmless the
county, and if the county becomes liable for an amount in excess of the
insurance limits herein provided, the applicant or licensee, or any of its
agents upon whom duties may be imposed by this chapter, by accepting a license
or permit hereunder, shall be deemed to have agreed to indemnify and save and
hold harmless the county from any and all such losses, claims, and actions,
judgments or expenses for damages or injury to persons or property. (Ord. 98-
05, 1-26-1998, eff. 2-9-1998)
3-2-9: RADIO AND TELEPHONE REQUIREMENTS:
Each ambulance operated under the provisions of this chapter shall be equipped
with a two (2) way radio operating on an independent frequency authorized by
the federal communications commission or such other two (2) way communication
as may be approved by the board of county commissioners. Such radio
communication shall facilitate communications between each ambulance vehicle,
the licensee's dispatch base, and/or the Gem County sheriff's office. (Ord. 98-
05, 1-26-1998, eff. 2-9-1998)
3-2-10: AMBULANCE SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Specifications: No ambulance service licensed hereunder shall either
replace any ambulance used by said service or add any ambulance to such service
unless said ambulance or ambulances conform to the specifications set forth
below:
      1.   The ambulance vehicle shall have space for a driver, an attendant,
and not less than two (2) litter patients. The patients shall be able to be
positioned in the vehicle so that at least one can be given life-support in
transit. There shall be security capabilities between the driver's compartment
and the patient's compartment. The vehicle should be able to carry equipment
and medical supplies for safeguarding personnel and patients under hazardous
conditions, and for maximum emergency medical care, both outside the vehicle
and in transit. The emergency vehicle should be designed to provide maximum
safety and comfort for the patient.
      2.   Minimum space between the head of the litter and the bulkhead of the
vehicle shall be at least twenty five inches (25"), including a seat for an
attendant so positioned that he can provide respiratory care and resuscitation.
      3.   Minimum space at the foot of the litter shall be five inches (5") to
accommodate traction splints and an attendant.
      4.   Minimum space between litters shall be fifteen inches (15") so that
an attendant can move between litters, and kneel to perform external cardiac
compression and other medical functions.
      5.   The minimum height shall be at least fifty four inches (54") from
floor to ceiling in the patient compartment.
   B.   Inspection By Sheriff: Prior to the issuance of an ambulance
certificate hereunder, or the renewal thereof, the sheriff shall inspect each
ambulance, and certify to the board of commissioners that it conforms with and
is equipped in accordance with the requirements of this chapter. In lieu of an
inspection by the sheriff, an inspection by the Idaho department of health and
welfare, emergency medical services bureau, or an agent thereof may be
submitted, provided that said inspection complies with requirements of this
chapter. (Ord. 98-05, 1-26-1998, eff. 2-9-1998)
3-2-11: REPLACEMENT OR ADDITION OF VEHICLES:
Whenever a license holder replaces a vehicle, he shall file with the county
board of commissioners a description of the vehicle to be placed in use with
the name of the manufacturer, year of manufacture, engine and serial numbers
and state motor vehicle license number. Such information shall also be
furnished for any vehicle or vehicles being added to the operation. Each new
vehicle shall be presented for inspection according to the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 98-05, 1-26-1998, eff. 2-9-1998)
3-2-12: PERMIT OF DRIVERS AND ATTENDANTS; FEE:
No person shall drive or serve as an attendant of an ambulance vehicle licensed
hereunder without first procuring a permit from the board of county
commissioners. The permit fee shall be three dollars ($3.00) for a calendar
year or part thereof, and all permits shall expire on December 31 of each year;
such permits shall not be transferable. (Ord. 98-05, 1-26-1998, eff. 2-9-1998)
3-2-13: STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF DRIVER'S AND ATTENDANT'S PERMITS:
   A.   Driver: An applicant for a driver's permit shall meet the following
qualifications:
      1.   Is of the age of nineteen (19) years or over.
      2.   Is able to speak, read and write the English language.
      3.   Is not addicted to the use of intoxicating liquors or narcotics.
      4.   Has a valid state of Idaho motor vehicle chauffeur's license.
      5.   Has paid the required permit fee to the county treasurer.
   B.   Attendant: An applicant for an attendant's permit shall meet the
following qualifications:
      1.   Is of the age of nineteen (19) years or over.
      2.   Is able to speak, read and write the English language.
      3.   Is not addicted to the use of intoxicating liquors or narcotics.
      4.   Possesses a current state certification for emergency medical
technician (EMT) or above.
      5.   Has never been convicted of a felony.
      6.   Has paid the required permit fee to the county treasurer.
   C.   Driver/Attendant: An applicant for a driver-attendant permit shall meet
the following qualifications:
      1.   Is the age of nineteen (19) years or over.
      2.   Is able to speak, read and write the English language.
      3.   Is not addicted to the use of intoxicating liquors or narcotics.
      4.   Possesses a valid state of Idaho motor vehicle chauffeur's license.
      5.   Possesses a current state certification for emergency medical
technician (EMT) or above.
      6.   Has never been convicted of a felony.
      7.   Has paid the required permit fee to the county treasurer. (Ord. 98-
05, 1-26-1998, eff. 2-9-1998)
3-2-14: AMBULANCE PERSONNEL REQUIRED:
No ambulance may be operated in Gem County unless such ambulance is manned by
two (2) qualified emergency medical technicians, one of whom may also be the
driver (when qualified). With the patient's, or the patient's physician's
permission, an EMT attendant shall not be required on routine, nonemergency
transfer calls. (Ord. 98-05, 1-26-1998, eff. 2-9-1998)
3-2-15: RESPONSIBILITY OF OPERATOR:
   A.   Supervision: It is hereby made the duty of the ambulance operator to
supervise his employees, the drivers of the ambulances, and the attendants
thereon and to inspect all ambulances which he operates, to assure that:
      1.   At all times such vehicles are in condition to meet the requirements
of this chapter.
      2.   A competent licensed driver is operating the same when making calls.
      3.   At such time a licensed attendant is present within such vehicle.
   B.   Driver Under Influence Of Intoxicating Liquor Or Drugs Prohibited: Such
operator shall not permit any person who is under the influence of intoxicating
liquor or drugs to drive any ambulance or to accompany the same as an
attendant. In case the driver-attendant violates any provision of this chapter,
the operator may be held responsible and his license may be revoked for such
violations. (Ord. 98-05, 1-26-1998, eff. 2-9-1998)
3-2-16: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT:
Any license or permit granted hereunder may be suspended for a period of not
more than thirty (30) days, or revoked by the board of county commissioners,
whenever it shall be made to appear that the person to whom the license or
permit was issued has violated any of the provisions of this chapter, or any
other ordinance of Gem County or any state or federal law. A notice of the
suspension or revocation shall be mailed by registered mail to the licensee at
his business or residence address at least ten (10) days before the effective
date thereof. (Ord. 98-05, 1-26-1998, eff. 2-9-1998)
3-2-17: RIGHT TO HEARING REGARDING DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION:
   A.   Demand For Hearing: Any applicant shall have the right to a hearing
with respect to any order of the board of county commissioners denying a
license or permit applied for hereunder; any licensee whose license or permit
is revoked or suspended shall also have the right to such a hearing before the
board of county commissioners. Demand for such hearing must be made in writing
and filed with the clerk of the district court within ten (10) days after
notice has been mailed to the licensee of such denial, suspension or
revocation. The demand for hearing shall specify an address at which the
licensee may be given notice of the date set for hearing.
   B.   Hearing: The board of county commissioners shall conduct such hearing
which may be continued from time to time as the circumstances may warrant. At
the hearing, the licensee shall be entitled to appear in person and offer
evidence pertinent to the revocation, suspension or denial of a license.
   C.   Written Order: The board of county commissioners shall determine by
written order whether the revocation, suspension or denial of a license shall
be sustained, and its action in that respect shall be final and conclusive.
(Ord. 98-05, 1-26-1998, eff. 2-9-1998)
3-2-18: RECORD OF AMBULANCE CALLS:
Every person engaged in the operation of an ambulance business shall keep at
the location for which his/her license is issued, a chronological record
showing each call for ambulance service ordered or made, the name of the driver
and attendant, the time and place of the origin and end of each ambulance trip,
and the fee charged; upon the request of any person paying an ambulance charge,
the licensee shall furnish a receipt showing such information relative to that
charge. Such records shall at all reasonable times be open to the inspection of
the board of county commissioners or their designated agent or representative.
(Ord. 98-05, 1-26-1998, eff. 2-9-1998)
3-2-19: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum
not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00), or by imprisonment in the county
jail for a term not exceeding six (6) months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment. (Ord. 98-05, 1-26-1998, eff. 2-9-1998)
CHAPTER 3
PAWNBROKERS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definition
3-3-2: License Required
3-3-3: Fee; Transferability
3-3-4: Bond
3-3-5: Records Required
3-3-6: Inspection Of Records
3-3-7: Memorandum To Pledgor
3-3-8: Report To Police
3-3-9: Redemption Or Removal Of Pledged Property
3-3-10: Hours Of Business
3-3-11: Pledges From Minors Prohibited
3-3-12: Exclusive Business As To Licensed Place
3-3-13: Minimum Age Of Employees
3-3-14: Prohibited Pledges
3-3-15: Display Of Certain Weapons
3-3-16: Police Report; Revocation Of License
3-3-17: Penalty
3-3-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this chapter, the word, "pawnbroker" shall mean any person who loans
money on deposit or pledge of personal property, or who deals in the purchase
of personal property on condition of selling the same back at a stipulated
price. (Ord. 95-03, 1-9-1995)
3-3-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall exercise or carry on the business of pawnbroker within the
county without being duly licensed therefor by the board of commissioners. The
board of commissioners will not consider granting a county license until the
applicant provides proof of a valid state of Idaho license. (Ord. 95-03, 1-9-
1995; amd. 2002 Code)
3-3-3: FEE; TRANSFERABILITY:
   A.   License Fee: Every applicant for a license to act as a pawnbroker
within the county shall pay to the county an annual fee in an amount set, from
time to time, by board action.
   B.   Transferability: Such license will not be transferable to any person,
except upon written consent of the board of commissioners. (Ord. 95-03, 1-9-
1995)
3-3-4: BOND:
Every person so licensed shall, at the time of receiving such license, file a
certificate of bond with two (2) or more sureties to be approved by the board
of commissioners, in the sum as it determined, payable to the county
conditioned for due observance of all provisions of this chapter or other
ordinances that may be passed during the term for which the license is granted.
(Ord. 95-03, 1-9-1995)
3-3-5: RECORDS REQUIRED:
   A.   Record Book; Required Information: Every pawnbroker licensed under this
chapter shall keep a record book in which shall be legibly written, at the time
of each pledge or purchase of personal property, the following:
      1.   The name and address of the pledgor or seller;
      2.   The pledgor's or seller's driver's license number or military
identification number if available;
      3.   A general description of the pledgor or seller;
      4.   An identification and complete description of the pledged or
purchased property, including serial numbers if available;
      5.   The amount of money loaned on the pledged goods, or the purchase
price of purchased goods;
      6.   The rate of interest to be paid on each loan; and
      7.   The date and time of each pledge or purchase of personal property.
   B.   Preservation Of Records: Each pawnbroker licensed under this chapter
shall preserve the records required by this section for one year from the date
of the pledge or purchase or until the item is sold or redeemed, whichever
occurs later. (Ord. 95-03, 1-9-1995)
3-3-6: INSPECTION OF RECORDS:
The record book provided for in section
3-3-5 of this chapter, as well as every article or thing of value pawned or
pledged, shall at all reasonable times be open to the inspection of the board
of commissioners or any member of the sheriff's department. (Ord. 95-03, 1-9-
1995)
3-3-7: MEMORANDUM TO PLEDGOR:
Every pawnbroker shall, at the time of each loan, deliver to the person pawning
or pledging any goods, articles or thing, a memorandum or note signed by him,
containing the substance of the entry to be made in his book, which is provided
for in section
3-3-5 of this chapter, and no charge shall be made or received by any
pawnbroker for any such entry, memorandum or note. (Ord. 95-03, 1-9-1995)
3-3-8: REPORT TO POLICE:
It shall be the duty of every person licensed hereunder to make out and deliver
to the sheriff's department before the hour of twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on
Monday of each week a legible and correct copy of the record book required in
section
3-3-5 of this chapter regarding all personal property and other valuable things
received on deposit during the preceding week, together with the time when
received or purchased. (Ord. 95-03, 1-9-1995; amd. 2002 Code)
3-3-9: REDEMPTION OR REMOVAL OF PLEDGED PROPERTY:
No personal property received on deposit or pledged by any such licensed person
shall be sold or permitted to be redeemed from the place of business of such
licensed person for the space of twenty four (24) hours after the copy and
statement required to be delivered to the sheriff's department shall have been
delivered as required by section
3-3-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 95-03, 1-9-1995)
3-3-10: HOURS OF BUSINESS:
No person licensed under this chapter shall receive on deposit or pledge any
personal property or other valuable thing before the hour of six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. nor after the hour of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. (Ord. 95-03, 1-9-1995)
3-3-11: PLEDGES FROM MINORS PROHIBITED:
No person licensed under this chapter shall take or receive any property,
bonds, notes, securities, articles or other valuable things as a pawn or pledge
for money loaned which may be in the possession or control of any person under
eighteen (18) years of age, regardless of any claim by such minor with respect
to ownership. (Ord. 95-03, 1-9-1995)
3-3-12: EXCLUSIVE BUSINESS AS TO LICENSED PLACE:
No person licensed under this chapter shall carry on any other business or
vocation, directly or indirectly, in the same building or in any building
adjoining the place or building in which he may be licensed to carry on the
business of pawnbroker. (Ord. 95-03, 1-9-1995)
3-3-13: MINIMUM AGE OF EMPLOYEES:
No person licensed under this chapter shall employ any person under twenty one
(21) years of age to take or receive pledges or pawns. (Ord. 95-03, 1-9-1995)
3-3-14: PROHIBITED PLEDGES:
No person licensed hereunder shall take any article or pawn from any person
appearing to be intoxicated. (Ord. 95-03, 1-9-1995)
3-3-15: DISPLAY OF CERTAIN WEAPONS:
No pawnbroker shall show, display or exhibit any pistol, revolver, derringer,
bowie knife, dirk or other weapon of like character, which can be concealed on
the person, in any show window or in or on any premises immediately abutting
upon any public way in the county in such a way that the same may be seen from
such public way. (Ord. 95-03, 1-9-1995)
3-3-16: POLICE REPORT; REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
It shall be the duty of all members of the sheriff's department to report to
the board of commissioners any failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter and the board of commissioners may revoke the license of the person
offending against any of these provisions. (Ord. 95-03, 1-9-1995)
3-3-17: PENALTY:
Every pawnbroker who shall violate or neglect or refuse to comply with any of
the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a
penalty of up to six (6) months in the county jail, up to a three hundred
dollar ($300.00) fine, or both, and in addition to such penalty, the license of
any person convicted as aforesaid shall be revoked. (Ord. 95-03, 1-9-1995)
CHAPTER 4
MASS GATHERINGS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Title
3-4-2: Authority And Purpose
3-4-3: Definitions
3-4-4: License Requirements
3-4-5: Conditions For Issuing License
3-4-6: Application For License
3-4-7: License Issuance
3-4-8: Removal Of Structures
3-4-9: Revocation Of License
3-4-10: Violation; Penalty
3-4-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the GEM COUNTY MASS GATHERING ORDINANCE. The
previously adopted Gem County ordinance 2015-04 is hereby rescinded and
replaced with this Gem County ordinance 2016-02. (Ord. 2016-02, 7-19-2016)
3-4-2: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
   A.   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority granted to counties
to regulate mass gatherings as provided in the Idaho Code and the constitution
of the state of Idaho.
   B.   The purpose of this chapter is to establish consolidated rules and
regulations governing mass gatherings. (Ord. 2016-02, 7-19-2016)
3-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
ASSEMBLY: A company of persons gathered together at any single location at any
single time for any purpose.
DEVELOPMENT SERVICES DIRECTOR: The individual appointed by the Gem County board
of commissioners to assist with the processing of applications for the
licensing of mass gatherings as established by this chapter.
PERSON: Any individual, natural human being, partnership, corporation, firm,
company, association, society or group. (Ord. 2016-02, 7-19-2016)
3-4-4: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: No person shall permit, maintain, promote, conduct,
advertise, act as entrepreneur, undertake, organize, manage or sell or give
tickets to an actual or reasonably anticipated assembly of three hundred fifty
(350) or more people, whether on public or private property, unless an
exception or a license to hold the assembly has first been issued by the Gem
County commissioners, the application for which must be submitted to the
development services director at least forty five (45) days in advance of the
assembly.
   B.   License And Fee: A separate license shall be required for each location
in which three hundred fifty (350) or more people assemble or can reasonably be
anticipated to assemble at any given time. The fee for each license shall be as
set by the board of county commissioners of Gem County.
   C.   Occupancy: The licensee shall not permit to assemble at the licensed
location more than the maximum permissible number of people at any given time.
   D.   Location Of Event: No license shall be issued to any anticipated
assembly of three hundred fifty (350) or more people where said location may be
hazardous, highly prone to wildfire, dangerous or detrimental to the public
health, safety and welfare unless appropriate safety provisions have been met.
   E.   Exceptions:
      1.   This chapter shall not apply to any regularly established, permanent
place of worship, stadium, athletic field, arena, auditorium, coliseum, school,
sales yard, park or other similar permanently established place of assembly.
      2.   This chapter shall not apply to government sponsored fairs, or
events held on regularly established fairgrounds, nor to assemblies required to
be licensed by other ordinances and regulations of the county, nor to
assemblies within any incorporated municipality within the county.
      3.   This chapter shall not apply to assemblies occurring in time periods
of less than five (5) hours within any twenty four (24) hour period. The twenty
four (24) hour period commences at the start of the assembly. (Ord. 2016-02, 7-
19-2016)
3-4-5: CONDITIONS FOR ISSUING LICENSE:
   A.   Number Of Persons At Assembly: Before an applicant may be issued a
license, the applicant shall first determine the maximum number of people that
will be assembled or admitted to the location of the assembly; provided that
the maximum number shall not exceed the maximum number that can reasonably
assemble at the location of the assembly, in consideration of the nature of the
assembly; and provided that, where the assembly is to continue overnight, the
maximum number shall not be more than is allowed to sleep within the boundaries
of the location of the assembly by any applicable zoning or health ordinances
of the county.
   B.   Requirements At Applicant's Expense: Before an applicant may be issued
a license, the applicant shall provide proof that the applicant will furnish,
at the applicant's own expense and before the assembly commences:
      1.   Health Requirements:
         a.   Enclosed toilets, meeting all state and local specifications,
conveniently located throughout the grounds, sufficient to provide facilities
for the maximum number of people to be assembled at a rate determined by the
chart in exhibit A of this section. An efficient sanitary means of disposing of
waste matter deposited therein, which is in compliance with all state and local
laws and regulations, is required.
      EXHIBIT A
Portable Unit Requirements For Number Of People Per Event Hours
Number Of People Numbers Of Hours For The Event
                 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10+
Portable Unit Requirements For Number Of People Per Event Hours
Number Of People Numbers Of Hours For The Event
                 1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10+
0 to 500         4  4  4  6  6  6  8  8  8  8
501 to 1,000     4  6  6  6  6  8  8  8  8  12
1,001 to 2,000   8  8  8  8  8  12 12 12 12 16
2,001 to 3,000   8  8  10 10 10 12 16 16 20 20
3,001 to 4,000   8  8  12 12 16 16 20 24 24 28
4,001 to 5,000   12 12 12 16 20 30 30 30 30 34
5,001 to 6,000   12 12 16 16 20 30 30 36 36 40
6,001 to 7,000   12 12 16 20 30 32 40 40 48 52
7,001 to 8,000   12 12 20 24 32 32 40 44 52 54
8,001 to 9,000   16 16 24 28 40 40 52 52 60 64
9,001 to 10,000  16 16 28 40 40 52 52 60 60 72
 
         b.   A plan for disposing and collecting of solid waste, in compliance
with state and local laws and regulations, sufficient to dispose of the solid
waste production of the maximum number of people to be assembled.
         c.   Qualified medical personnel, at the rate of at least one for
every one thousand (1,000) people, together with a covered structure where
treatment may be rendered, and at least one emergency transport vehicle
available for use at all times. An ambulance is required for any assembly held
at a location further than twenty (20) road miles from the nearest emergency
medical services (EMS) facility.
      2.   Lighting: If the assembly is to continue during hours of darkness,
illumination sufficient to light the central area of the assembly, to include
the medical and health facilities, at the rate of at least five (5) foot-
candles, but not to shine unreasonably beyond the boundaries of the location of
the assembly, to include laser lighting, spotlighting or strobe lighting, and
compliance with all local, state, and federal laws and regulations regarding
usage.
      3.   Parking: A parking area inside of the assembly grounds sufficient to
provide parking space for the maximum number of people to be assembled at the
rate of at least one parking space for every four (4) persons. In the event
that the site and access to it cannot handle the number of people expected to
attend the assembly, the sheriff of Gem County may require the promoter to
provide parking at other sites with transportation between the parking site and
the site of the assembly to be provided by the promoter.
      4.   Communication: Telephone service or other reliable means of
contacting emergency services (radio, cell phone, satellite phone or other
method) to be available for the duration of the assembly, and an internal
system of communication to manage and control the assembly.
      5.   Security Guards; Bond: A security plan shall be presented to the Gem
County sheriff, and approval of the plan shall be included with the
application. In the event the county sheriff requires extra help to provide
security for the proposed assembly, the promoter shall deposit with the county
a cash bond in the amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), with a higher
bond to be required if the county commissioners determine it to be necessary.
      6.   Fire Protection: A fire protection plan, including alarms,
extinguishing devices and fire lanes and escapes, sufficient to meet all
federal, state and local standards for the location of the assembly, including
applicable provisions of the international fire code, and sufficient emergency
personnel to efficiently operate the required equipment shall be submitted to
the applicable fire district, and approval of the plan shall be included with
the application.
      7.   Traffic Control And Dust Abatement: All traffic control and dust
abatement measures shall be set forth in a written plan, approved by the county
road and bridge department director and included with the application. The
promoter shall provide an emergency entrance and exit to and from the site of
the proposed assembly and said emergency entrance and exit shall be kept open
at all times for the use of emergency vehicles. The promoter is responsible for
providing a sufficient number of traffic control personnel that shall be set
forth in the plan and approved by the road and bridge department director.
      8.   Noise Control: If the assembly is to include the use of
amplification devices, amplified sound will be monitored by the event promoter
with decibel readers at the property line of the assembly location to assure
that no measured sound greater than seventy (70) dB will pass beyond such
property line between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock
(12:00) midnight. No measured sound greater than forty (40) dB will pass beyond
such property line between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
      9.   Insurance Policy:
         a.   The applicant must maintain a commercial general liability
insurance policy underwritten by an insurance company licensed to do business
in Idaho, with coverage of not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00)
combined single limit per occurrence. A certificate of insurance naming Gem
County as additional insured must be delivered to Gem County at least thirty
(30) days before the assembly.
         b.   The applicant shall indemnify and hold harmless Gem County, its
agents, its employees and authorized volunteers from and against all claims,
damages, losses, and expenses, including attorney fees, arising out of the
permitted activity or the conduct of applicant's operation of the event if such
claim: 1) is attributed to personal injury, bodily injury, disease or death, or
to injury or to destruction of property, including the loss of use therefrom,
and 2) is not caused by any negligent act or omission or wilful misconduct of
Gem County or its employees acting within the scope of their employment.
         c.   At its discretion, the board of Gem County commissioners may
require a performance bond for removal of structures required in section
3-4-8 of this chapter either in cash or underwritten by a surety company
licensed to do business in Idaho, or through a letter of credit from an
approved financial institution, at the rate of up to ten dollars ($10.00) per
person for the maximum number of people permitted to assemble. (Ord. 2016-02,
7-19-2016)
3-4-6: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Filing Period: Application for a license to hold an actual or
anticipated assembly of three hundred fifty (350) or more persons shall be
submitted in writing to the development services director at least forty five
(45) days in advance of such assembly.
   B.   Sworn Statement Required: The application shall contain a statement
made upon oath or affirmation that the statements contained therein are true
and correct to the best knowledge of the applicant and shall be signed and
sworn to or affirmed by the individual or "person" (see definition) making
application. In the case of a corporation, the oath or affirmation shall be
made by the president or chief officer of the corporation; and by all partners
in the case of a partnership; and by all members of an association, society, or
group.
   C.   Contents: In addition to including the written approvals set forth in
subsection B of this section, the application shall also include and disclose:
      1.   The name, residence and mailing address of all persons required to
sign the application, and, in case of a corporation, a certified copy of the
articles of incorporation together with the name, residence and mailing address
of each person holding ten percent (10%) or more of the stock of said
corporation.
      2.   The address and legal description of all property upon which the
assembly is to be held, together with the name, residence and mailing address
of the record owner(s) of the property.
      3.   Proof of ownership of all property upon which the assembly is to be
held or a statement made upon oath or affirmation by the record owner(s) of all
such property for an assembly of three hundred fifty (350) persons or more.
      4.   The nature or purpose of the assembly.
      5.   The total number of days and/or hours during which the assembly will
last.
      6.   The maximum number of persons which the applicant shall permit to
assemble at any time, not to exceed the maximum number which can reasonably
assemble at the location of the assembly.
      7.   The maximum number of tickets to be sold, if any.
      8.   The plans of the applicant to limit the maximum number of persons
permitted to assemble.
      9.   The plans for providing toilet and lavatory facilities including the
source, number and location, the type and the means of disposing of solid waste
deposited.
      10.   The plans for holding, collecting and disposing of solid waste
material.
      11.   The plans to provide for medical facilities including the location
and construction of a medical structure, the names and addresses and hours of
availability of qualified medical personnel under the licensing requirements of
the state of Idaho and its provisions for emergency ambulance service.
      12.   The plans, if any, to illuminate the location of the assembly,
including the source and amount of power and the location of lamps.
      13.   The plans for parking vehicles, including the size and location of
lots, points of highway access and interior roads, including routes between
highway access and parking lots.
      14.   The plans for communication, including the source, number and
location of communication devices.
      15.   The plans for camping facilities, if any, including facilities
available and their location.
      16.   The plans for the use of any amplification devices and the plan for
noise control during the assembly.
      17.   The plans for security, including the number of guards, their
names, addresses, credentials and hours of availability; the plans for fire
protection, including the number, type and location of all protective devices,
including alarms and extinguishers, and the number of emergency fire personnel
available to operate the equipment.
   D.   Bond; License Fee: Application approval requires payment in advance of
any bond or license fee required. (Ord. 2016-02, 7-19-2016)
3-4-7: LICENSE ISSUANCE:
Within fifteen (15) days of the receipt of the application for a license, the
reading of the application shall be properly noticed and placed on the board's
agenda for its next regularly scheduled meeting, at which time it shall be
reviewed publicly and a decision made to grant or deny the application. The
application shall be granted upon proof of compliance with this chapter and
fulfillment of all conditions required by the board. (Ord. 2016-02, 7-19-2016)
3-4-8: REMOVAL OF STRUCTURES:
Unless other arrangements are approved at the time of permit approval, a
cleanup shall take place, to include all structures, installations,
excavations, construction, trash, and debris being removed by the licensee from
the site of the assembly at the termination of the event. In the event this is
not accomplished within ten (10) days after the assembly, the county is
authorized to accomplish the removal and charge the cost of the removal against
the performance bond. (Ord. 2016-02, 7-19-2016)
3-4-9: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The license may be revoked by the county at any time if the conditions
necessary for the issuing of or contained in the license are not complied with,
or if any condition previously met ceases to be complied with. (Ord. 2016-02,
7-19-2016)
3-4-10: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Public Nuisance: The holding of any assembly in violation of any
provisions or conditions contained in this chapter shall give cause to the
county to seek injunctive relief for the creation of a public nuisance. Said
action shall be brought in any court of competent jurisdiction.
   B.   Violation Of Mass Gathering Ordinance: Any applicant who fails to
obtain a permit, makes misrepresentations during the permit application process
or otherwise violates this chapter, may be subject to penalties set forth under
Idaho Code section 31-714, including a fine of not more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) or by imprisonment not to exceed six (6) months or by both
such fine and imprisonment. Every day in violation is a separate offense. The
criminal provisions of this subsection are not enforceable against the licensee
in the event injunctive relief under subsection A of this section is granted.
   C.   Right Of Entry: If the county issues a license, the promoter and the
property owner and their designees shall allow entry to enforce provisions of
this chapter or license. (Ord. 2016-02, 7-19-2016)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
SECTION:
4-1-1: Title
4-1-2: Purpose
4-1-3: Definitions
4-1-4: General Applicability
4-1-5: Establishment Of Department
4-1-6: Establishment Of Fund
4-1-7: User Fees
4-1-8: Rule Making Authority
4-1-9: System Use Required
4-1-10: Rights Of Ownership
4-1-11: Scavenging; Interference
4-1-12: Waste Tires
4-1-13: Permits For Disposal Systems
4-1-14: Miscellaneous Provisions
4-1-15: Management Plan
4-1-16: Responsibilities Of Haulers And/Or Producers Of Commercial Solid Waste
4-1-17: Penalties; Remedies
4-1-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the SOLID WASTE ORDINANCE OF GEM
COUNTY. (Ord. 93-03, 7-12-1993)
4-1-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to foster the public health, safety and welfare
by providing for the safe and efficient management of solid waste generated in
the county or allowed to be imported by the board of county commissioners. To
this end, the board intends to exercise all powers granted to it by all
relevant provisions of the Idaho constitution and the Idaho Code, while abiding
by all applicable provisions mandated by federal and state regulations. (Ord.
93-03, 7-12-1993)
4-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent with the
context, words used in the present tense include the future tense and words
used in the future tense include the present tense, words in the plural number
include the singular number and words in the singular number include the plural
number. The words "shall" and "will" are mandatory and "may" is permissive.
Words not defined shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
APPROVED DISPOSAL SITE: A site which is approved by the board for the ongoing
disposal and/or transfer of solid waste by the operator of the solid waste
disposal system, with or without recovery of useful materials.
BOARD: Board of county commissioners of Gem County.
COLLECTOR: A person who, under the terms of an agreement with the board for a
given time, collects solid waste from properties in a given area of the county
and hauls it to an approved disposal site or other approved destination. A
collector shall not collect hazardous waste, nor other materials not acceptable
for delivery to an approved disposal site.
DEQ: Division of environmental quality of the department of health and welfare
of the state of Idaho.
DISPOSAL: Placing solid waste on or into land or water, or in a designated
container, for the purpose of abandonment, by its owner or by the owner's
authorized agent.
DISTRICT: Southwest III district health department.
GREEN WASTE: Plant materials discharged from a residential garden.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: Solid or liquid waste that, by itself, or in combination with
other materials or fluids, may be infective, explosive, poisonous, highly
flammable, extremely acidic or caustic, produce polluting liquids or gases, or
otherwise may become dangerous or injurious to human, animal, or plant life.
This definition includes the containers in which such hazardous materials are
or were kept. The department supervisor shall make the determination as to the
status of any waste, solid or liquid, that may be classified as hazardous.
IMPORTING: Bringing of solid waste, generated elsewhere, into the county.
MANAGEMENT: Planning, financing, construction, operation and maintenance of a
solid waste system in the county.
PERSON: Defined in Idaho Code sections 39-103(13) and 39-7403(37).
PROCESSING: Using solid waste or parts thereof, either for the manufacture of
certain products, the sorting out of certain materials, or preparing it for
safe disposal.
PROCESSING WASTE: An inert, nonsalable byproduct or residue resulting from
processing.
SCAVENGING: The unauthorized removal of objects or materials from solid waste.
SOLID WASTE: Defined in Idaho Code section 39-103(10) and 39-7403(50).
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEM: All lands, sites, facilities, equipment, and labor
necessary to accomplish the stated purpose of this chapter.
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEM COMPONENT: Any publicly or privately owned site,
collection location, disposal facility, transportation element, or other
functioning part of the solid waste disposal system for the county where one or
more phases of solid waste disposal is carried out by one or more persons.
Component shall not include the solid waste receptacle provided by a commercial
solid waste hauler or generator for use by a single business, customer, or
client, unless said receptacle is to be removed from the site where it
regularly rests for transportation to or emptying at another location.
WASTE TIRE: A tire discarded by its owner who last used it on a vehicle. A
waste tire is part of "solid waste".
WASTE TIRE COLLECTION SITE: A site on which more than one hundred (100) waste
tires are stored either on or in the ground, or in a container, or in a vehicle
or trailer, for more than seventy (70) hours. This definition does not apply to
sites where waste tires are regularly used for agricultural and other purposes.
(Ord. 93-03, 7-12-1993; amd. 2002 Code)
4-1-4: GENERAL APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Compliance Required: From the date of approval and publication of the
ordinance codified in this chapter, as required by law, all solid waste
generated within the county and all waste permitted to be imported by the board
shall comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Management Of Solid Waste: All solid waste shall be managed, whether
during generation, storage, collection, hauling, transfer, or during processing
and disposal, to prevent health and safety hazards, including environmental
pollution and public nuisance.
   C.   Regulation Of Discharges: This chapter does not regulate discharges
into the waters of the county, except as such discharges are not governed by
state and federal law. (Ord. 93-03, 7-12-1993)
4-1-5: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Established: There is hereby established the county solid waste
department under the supervision of the board, through which it will carry out
the provisions of this chapter and of any subsequent resolutions as adopted by
the board.
   B.   Supervisor: The board may delegate the responsibility for operation of
this department to a person selected by majority vote of the board. This person
shall be known as the solid waste department supervisor and will serve at the
pleasure of the board.
   C.   Duties: The department supervisor shall perform such duties as are
necessary to manage the solid waste system in the county, including maintaining
a liaison with local, state and federal regulatory agencies on behalf of the
board. (Ord. 93-03, 7-12-1993)
4-1-6: ESTABLISHMENT OF FUND:
   A.   Fund Created: To finance the operation of the solid waste department,
there is hereby created a solid waste fund within the budget of the county.
This fund shall support all activities made necessary for the continued
operation of the solid waste system in the county.
   B.   Special Accounts: The board may, by resolution, establish special
accounts within the solid waste fund for stated purposes to meet anticipated
operational needs of the solid waste system as it deems necessary and proper.
   C.   Revenue Options: The board may choose from the various revenue options
made available to counties to support solid waste activities as outlined in
Idaho Code section 31-4404 and elsewhere. The choice of any one funding option
does not preclude the concurrent use of one or more other options.
   D.   Tax Levy: If taxes are ever to be levied for support of the solid waste
system, the rate shall be established through the annual budget process and
certified to the state tax commission as required by law. (Ord. 93-03, 7-12-
1993)
4-1-7: USER FEES:
   A.   Fees Established: User fees may be charged to users of the solid waste
system as the board deems necessary to support all or part of the system. Said
fees may be established at any time by the board through adoption of a
resolution setting forth the fees to be charged. Such resolution may be amended
by the board at any time to accommodate changes in the fee system and/or
operating policies as deemed appropriate by the board.
   B.   Force And Effect Of Resolution: A resolution establishing fees shall
remain in full force and effect until repealed or amended. All previously
adopted resolutions of the board which are not inconsistent with the terms of
this chapter are hereby ratified, approved and confirmed.
   C.   Payment Required: No person shall dispose of waste in or on a solid
waste system component without paying the established fee or other obligation.
   D.   Credit Privileges:
      1.   Monthly Billing: Those persons who have been extended credit
privileges will be billed monthly for the fees incurred for using portions of
the solid waste system.
      2.   When Due: Payments are due on the fifteenth day of the month
following the month during which the fees were incurred.
      3.   Late Payment Charge: Late payments will be charged with a one and
one-half percent (11/2%) late payment charge for each month during which
payment is due. Repeated late payments may result in suspension of the credit
privilege.
      4.   Notice Of Arrearage: If a payment is thirty (30) days in arrears, a
notice will be sent by certified mail to the person owing the fee. (Ord. 93-03,
7-12-1993)
      5.   Collection Action: If the account is not brought current within
thirty (30) days of receipt of the notice, the matter will be turned over to
the prosecuting attorney for collection. If a lawsuit is filed, the debtor will
be assessed attorney fees, court costs, and interest. (Ord. 93-03, 7-12-1993;
amd. 2002 Code)
   E.   Appeal: Should a person owing a user fee imposed by resolution disagree
with the amount or the imposition of the fee, such party or entity may appeal
the fee before the board. The procedures for any such appeal shall be
established through the passage of a resolution by the board. (Ord. 93-03, 7-
12-1993)
4-1-8: RULE MAKING AUTHORITY:
The board shall have authority to adopt and implement rules necessary for
operation of the county solid waste system. Said rules may be adopted by
resolution of the board and may be enforced by imposition of additional fees
and charges to cover costs incurred through noncompliance and/or by such other
administrative remedies as the board deems appropriate. (Ord. 93-03, 7-12-1993)
4-1-9: SYSTEM USE REQUIRED:
   A.   Use Of System Components Required: From the effective date hereof, no
person shall discard or dispose of solid waste in the county except by use of
one or more approved solid waste system components.
   B.   Sites, Bins, Containers: The board shall, by resolution, specify what
sites, bins and containers are approved for the purpose of disposing of or
discarding solid waste. Any person depositing, disposing of, or discarding
solid waste at locations or in containers not approved by the board shall be in
violation of this chapter and subject to the penalties herein. (Ord. 93-03, 7-
12-1993)
4-1-10: RIGHTS OF OWNERSHIP:
   A.   Ownership: Upon delivery of solid waste to an approved disposal site,
all rights of ownership and exclusive possession to lawfully deposited solid
waste shall vest in the county or in the owner of the site, if the site is not
county owned. Any waste disposal sites provided by contractors who collect or
haul solid waste pursuant to contracts with the county shall be considered
county operated sites and ownership of solid waste lawfully deposited and
delivered to any such site shall vest in the county.
   B.   Recycling: Gem County reserves the right to authorize recycling of
materials in the waste stream in accordance with standards and conditions to be
set by the board.
   C.   Hazardous Or Improperly Handled Wastes: Hazardous or improperly handled
wastes shall remain in the ownership of their prior possessor until they are
disposed of in compliance with this chapter and other applicable laws and
regulations.
   D.   Right Of Refusal: The county reserves the right to refuse acceptance of
improperly discarded waste or solid waste not complying with this chapter, its
related resolutions, or any applicable state or federal law. (Ord. 93-03, 7-12-
1993)
4-1-11: SCAVENGING; INTERFERENCE:
   A.   Scavenging Prohibited: No person shall scavenge the solid waste owned
by the county, nor shall any person allow the scavenging of solid waste by an
animal.
   B.   Interference Prohibited: No person shall cause wilful interference with
private or public persons engaged in the lawful use or operation of one or more
solid waste system components.
   C.   Violation Of Rules And Regulations Prohibited: No person shall violate
any of the rules and regulations, including the payment of fees, adopted by the
board in furtherance of the stated purpose of this chapter. (Ord. 93-03, 7-12-
1993)
4-1-12: WASTE TIRES:
   A.   Applicable Regulations: Provisions of this section are subject to Idaho
Code sections 39-6501 to 39-6507, and any other provisions mandated by federal
and state regulations.
   B.   Importing Restricted: No waste tires will be imported in the county
unless the importer has valid permits from the district and from the board for
either a waste tire storage sites or for a waste tire processing site, and
unless the importation is specifically authorized under the terms of an
agreement between the importer and the board.
   C.   New Sites: No new waste tire collection site will be allowed to be
established in the county except at an approved landfill or in conjunction with
a waste tire processing plant.
   D.   Waste Tires: Waste tires, whole or cut, may not be placed in an
approved disposal site unless specifically authorized on a temporary basis by
DEQ, by the district, and by the board. Processing waste from tires may be
placed in an approved disposal site under the terms of a special agreement
between processor and the board.
   E.   Waste Tire Processing Site; Conditions: A waste tire processing site
may be established in the county subject to the following conditions:
      1.   Processor obtains a land use permit from the land use authority in
the jurisdiction the site is to be located.
      2.   Processor submits a site plan, an operations plan, and data showing
financial capabilities. If the board approves these plans and finds the
financial capability sufficient, the board may enter into a conditional
agreement with the processor. This agreement will set bonding, performance,
access and recording requirements, as well as any other requirements deemed
necessary.
      3.   Processor obtains the appropriate permits from DEQ and from the
district. (Ord. 93-03, 7-12-1993)
4-1-13: PERMITS FOR DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
   A.   Permit Required; Exception: No person shall operate a solid waste
disposal system component without a permit, properly issued by the county solid
waste department. This requirement shall not apply to a municipal corporation
operating a disposal system for its residents, wholly within its own corporate
limits.
   B.   Grant Of Permit; Fees: Permits may be granted for operation of waste
disposal system components upon compliance with the procedural standards set
forth in this chapter and its attendant rules and upon compliance with
applicable rules for disposal sites and practices adopted by the board and
appropriate state and federal agencies. Permit applicants shall bear full
responsibility for showing compliance with the standards applicable to their
proposed operation of a solid waste disposal system component. Fees may be
charged for permit issuance as established by resolution of the board.
   C.   Requirements: No person shall dispose of solid waste within the county
at a location not approved for disposal by the county, state and federal
regulatory agencies unless a prior exemption has been granted in accordance
with rules adopted by the board. Permits for operation of a solid waste
disposal site may be obtained from the county solid waste department. To obtain
a permit for operation of a disposal site, the applicant must show:
      1.   That the site proposed complies with requirements of title 11 of
this code and other applicable land use regulations of the county.
      2.   That the site has been reviewed and approved as an appropriate
location for a solid waste disposal site by the district and any state or
federal agency with jurisdiction.
      3.   That an operations plan for use and closure of the site has been
approved by the district, and any state or federal agency having jurisdiction.
      4.   That any private site operator has posted a performance bond to
guarantee adequate financial resources to assure proper operation and closure
of the site.
      5.   That operation and closure will comply with any regulations adopted
by the county regarding the operation of solid waste disposal sites.
      6.   That the operator has provided adequate safeguards to see that no
hazardous wastes, as such are classified by county, state, or federal
regulations, are to be disposed of in the solid waste disposal site. (Ord. 93-
03, 7-12-1993)
4-1-14: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Green Waste: Green waste such as grass clippings and plant prunings are
classified as normal solid waste. Brushes, tree trimmings, etc., must be tied
in bundles of less than sixty (60) pounds and shorter than four feet (4').
   B.   Hauled Solid Waste: Hauled solid waste must be contained in a leakproof
manner and covered to prevent blowing and littering.
   C.   Hazardous, Illegal Waste: A person who disposes of hazardous waste or
other illegal waste at a disposal site, or elsewhere in the county, is in
violation of this chapter and therefore subject to any of the penalties
contained herein, including liability for the full cost of controlling, removal
and proper disposal of such waste by the county and any other public or private
agency.
   D.   Operation Of Multiple Components; Exception: No person shall operate
one or more solid waste system components without specific approval by the
board. This prohibition does not apply to a municipal corporation which desires
to conduct collection and hauling activities.
   E.   Burning: The burning of solid waste is prohibited, except in a
specially designed facility with specific approval by the board. Where the
board finds that a hardship will result from compliance with the no burning
rule, it may grant a variance.
   F.   Recovery Of Reusable Materials: Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed to prevent the safe recovery of reusable materials, provided a prior
permit from the board has been obtained and the recovery activities do not
create a threat to health and safety of, nor a nuisance to, the people.
   G.   Medical Waste: Upon twenty four (24) hour prior notice, medical waste
shall be presented at the approved disposal site in a form required by state
and federal law.
   H.   System Use Conflict: Waste material not addressed in this chapter shall
not be allowed in the solid waste disposal system without approval, by
resolution, of the board of commissioners. (Ord. 93-03, 7-12-1993)
4-1-15: MANAGEMENT PLAN:
The county will develop a management plan. This plan will:
   A.   Be subject to approval by the council of the city of Emmett, prior to
adoption by the board.
   B.   Be reviewed yearly and updated biennially.
   C.   Provide a numerical valuation of current waste flow constituents and
projections of future waste flows.
   D.   Account for current costs and revenue and projections of future
revenues.
   E.   Define the objectives for the solid waste system.
   F.   Describe alternatives for achievement of the said objectives.
   G.   Provide means for public input concerning the technical, financial and
political feasibility of the alternatives.
   H.   Project needed management actions and expenditures.
   I.   Make recommendations for board action(s). (Ord. 93-03, 7-12-1993)
4-1-16: RESPONSIBILITIES OF HAULERS AND/OR PRODUCERS OF COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE:
   A.   Compliance Required: Any person who engages in collection, hauling, or
disposal of solid waste within the county or who generates solid waste as a
result of commercial or industrial activities shall comply with the provisions
of this chapter and any regulations adopted pursuant to authority established
by this chapter.
   B.   Reports:
      1.   Amounts Collected Or Hauled: Any person collecting or hauling solid
waste within the county or any generator of commercial solid waste within the
county shall report the amounts of solid waste collected and hauled from
accounts within the county, or generated, as the case may be, when requested,
no more frequently than on a bimonthly basis to the county solid waste
department. Said reports shall be filed in a form acceptable to the solid waste
department.
      2.   Location Of Disposal: Any person collecting or hauling solid waste
within the county, or any generator of commercial solid waste within the
county, shall also report the location of disposal of all solid waste hauled or
generated, no more frequently than bimonthly, on forms acceptable to the county
solid waste department. The county may, by resolution, establish bond
requirements to assure performance of responsibilities established by this
chapter.
   C.   Failure To Comply; Surcharge: Failure of solid waste collectors,
haulers and/or commercial solid waste generators to comply with regulations
implemented to carry out responsibilities established by this chapter may
result in imposition of a surcharge on fees charged to the hauler for use of
county operated disposal facilities. Such failure shall also be considered a
violation of this chapter, subject to all penalties and remedies otherwise
prescribed herein and in Idaho Code section 31-4410. (Ord. 93-03, 7-12-1993)
4-1-17: PENALTIES; REMEDIES:
Violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to the specific
penalties listed herein, as well as the following penalties and/or remedies:
   A.   Civil Responsibility For Violation: To obtain compliance with the
requirements of this chapter, the county may initiate civil action in a court
of competent jurisdiction. Said action may be either legal or equitable in
nature and may seek any remedy deemed appropriate by the board of county
commissioners or otherwise authorized by Idaho Code section 31-4410 to carry
out the purposes of this chapter.
   B.   Criminal Liability: Any violation of this chapter shall be subject to
the general penalties outlined in Title 1, Chapter 4 of this code.
   C.   State Statute Incorporated: The penalty provisions of Idaho Code
section 31-4410 are incorporated into this section and are made part of it as
if set forth fully herein. (Ord. 93-03, 7-12-1993; amd. 2002 Code; Ord. 2022-
05, 6- -2022)
CHAPTER 2
ORCHARD PESTS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Purpose
4-2-2: Definitions
4-2-3: Orchard Review Board
4-2-4: Funding
4-2-5: Control Procedures
4-2-6: Right Of Entry
4-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to enable the county to more effectively control
and prevent the spread of orchard pests, and by these actions protect the
viability, productiveness, and competitiveness of the orchard industry in the
county, and ensure the industry's continued contribution to the economy of the
county. The authority to control agricultural pests is granted to the board of
commissioners by Idaho Code section 25-2601. Pursuant to the authority granted
under that section, the Gem County board of commissioners hereby declares the
following to be orchard pests, the control of which is provided for under this
chapter. (Ord. 91-04, 8-12-1991)
4-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
BOARD: The orchard review board.
NEGLECTED OR ABANDONED: Any orchard or private orchard where standard orchard
or private orchard management practices as described in state and regional
publications are not being met and one or more pests, pathogens, disease or
conditions of economic consequence to the particular crop being grown exist.
ORCHARD: An area that has five (5) or more fruit trees, wild or cultivated, and
is currently or has been used for commercial purposes.
PESTS, PATHOGENS, DISEASES, CONDITIONS OF ECONOMIC IMPORTANCE TO POME FRUITS:
Include:
   A.   Presence of Venturia inaequalis as evidenced by the disease, scab, the
condition of corky scab lesions on apple fruit;
   B.   Presence of Physalospora/Botryosphaeria species as evidenced by the
disease, black rot (frog-eye leaf spot), the condition of black, rotted apple
fruit or spotted leaves;
   C.   Presence of codling moth;
   D.   Presence of plum curculio;
   E.   Presence of any other insect pest, or plant pathogen (disease), or
articulable conditions of economic consequence.
PESTS, PATHOGENS, DISEASES, CONDITIONS OF ECONOMIC IMPORTANCE TO STONE FRUITS:
Include:
   A.   Presence of Monilinia fructicola as evidenced by the disease, brown
rot, or the condition where peaches become mummified because of infection;
   B.   Presence of oriental fruit moth;
   C.   Presence of plum curculio;
   D.   Presence of twig borer;
   E.   Presence of any other insect pest, or plant pathogen (disease), or
articulable conditions of economic consequence.
PRIVATE ORCHARD: Privately owned fruit trees, the fruit from which is used
solely for the consumption of the owner's family members. (Ord. 91-04, 8-12-
1991; amd. Ord. 94-08, 5-16-1994)
4-2-3: ORCHARD REVIEW BOARD:
   A.   Created; Powers: Pursuant to the authority granted under Idaho Code
section 25-2603, the board of county commissioners hereby creates an orchard
review board to control orchard pests. The orchard review board is vested with
the power to control pests as provided in this chapter, subject to review by
the board of county commissioners. (Ord. 91-04, 9-12-1991)
   B.   Composition:
      1.   Appointment: The board shall be composed of six (6) members
appointed by the Gem County board of county commissioners.
      2.   Term: Each board member shall serve a two (2) year term. The terms
of one of the board members from the commercial orchard industry, the private
citizen position, and one of the private orchardist positions shall commence on
even calendar years. The terms of the second commercial orchard industry
representative and the second private orchardist shall commence on odd numbered
years.
      3.   Criteria For Appointment: Two (2) of the members shall be from the
commercial orchard industry, one shall be a private citizen and resident of the
county with no commercial ties to the orchard industry, two (2) members shall
be private orchardists or retired commercial orchardists or have some
background or knowledge of orchard management and fruit production, and the
sixth member shall be that person employed by the University of Idaho as the
Gem County agricultural extension agent. The Gem County agricultural extension
agent shall be a nonvoting member.
      4.   Compensation: The board members shall serve without salary or other
compensation. (Ord. 99-07, 9-13-1999)
   C.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the board to review and act on all
complaints involving orchard pests in orchards, private or otherwise. All
actions taken by the board shall comply with section
4-2-5 of this chapter as well as the abandoned orchard board working procedures
outline which is attached as exhibit A to ordinance 94-08 on file in the office
of the clerk of the district court. (Ord. 91-04, 9-12-1991; amd. Ord. 94-08, 5-
16-1994)
4-2-4: FUNDING:
All funds donated to or collected for the purpose of carrying out this chapter
shall be kept by the county in a separate account, and those funds may only be
used to carry out the provisions of this chapter as directed by the board and
the board of county commissioners. (Ord. 91-04, 8-12-1991)
4-2-5: CONTROL PROCEDURES:
   A.   Complaints; Investigation: Only signed written complaints shall be
reviewed and investigated by the board. Upon receipt of a complaint, the board
shall immediately notify the landowner of the complaint and name a voting
member to act as a contact for the landowner. That board member shall arrange
with the landowner a time for the appointed investigatory team to examine the
orchard or private orchard in question.
   B.   Investigatory Team:
      1.   Appointment: The board shall appoint three (3) investigators to
carry out the field inspection of any orchard or private orchard under review
by the board.
      2.   Composition: The investigatory team shall be composed of that board
member named as the contact person for the landowner, and that person employed
by the University of Idaho as the county agricultural extension agent to act as
an advisor. The other member of the investigatory team shall be determined by
the board.
   C.   Inspection Procedures: The board in conjunction with that person
employed by the University of Idaho as the county agricultural extension agent,
University of Idaho agricultural extension service; any other agricultural
extension specialist deemed necessary; and a representative of the Idaho
department of agriculture, division of plant industries, will establish the
inspection procedures to be used by any board investigatory team. Such
procedures shall be reviewed by the board of county commissioners and must be
approved by the board of county commissioners prior to implementation.
   D.   Notice To Control: If the investigatory team finds that an orchard or
private orchard does in fact contain orchard pests, the landowner in question
shall be given written notice to control such pests within ten (10) days of
receipt of the notice. Such notice shall comply with Idaho Code section 25-
2607.
   E.   Failure To Control; Notice Of Hearing: If the landowner fails to
control the specified pest or pests within ten (10) days, the landowner in
question shall be given notice, not less than seven (7) days before the
hearing, to appear before the board to show cause why the board should not
initiate steps to control the pest or pests.
   F.   Contract To Control: Unless the landowner can show that the
agricultural pests do not exist, or that they do exist but it is not necessary
to control them, such landowners shall be requested to enter into a contract
with the board specifying a time in which such pests will be controlled by the
landowner, and any other provisions determined by the board to be necessary for
the fulfillment of the purposes of this chapter.
   G.   Duty To Examine Possibilities And Mechanisms: It shall be the duty of
the board and the landowner to examine all possibilities and mechanisms to
resolve the situation, including, but not limited to, funding, education,
contract spraying, orchard or private orchard destruction and uprooting, and
chemical herbiciding of tree stumps. (Ord. 91-04, 8-12-1991)
   H.   Failure To Appear; Control By Board: If the landowner does not appear
at the hearing, or does appear but refuses to enter into the contract as
requested by the board, or fails to comply with the terms of the contract, the
board shall cause control procedures to be initiated as soon as practicable at
owner's expense. Collection of said expenses shall be made through a private
cause of action brought by the members of the board. (Ord. 91-04, 8-12-1991;
amd. Ord. 94-08, 5-16-1994)
4-2-6: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
   A.   Entry Authorized: Any agent authorized by the board to carry out an
inspection on its behalf may enter upon any property within the county for the
purpose administering this chapter and any other power exercisable pursuant
thereto, including the taking of specimens, general inspection, and the
performance of such acts as are necessary for the controlling and preventing
the spread of orchard pests and diseases. Such entry may be without consent,
and no action for trespass or damages shall lie so long as such entry and any
activities connected therewith are undertaken and prosecuted with reasonable
care.
   B.   Denied Access: Should any such authorized agent of the board be denied
access to such property where such access was sought to carry out the
provisions of this chapter, the board shall apply to any court of competent
jurisdiction seeking an order directing the landowner to allow the board or its
authorized agent to enter the land to exercise any power under this chapter. If
such an order is made necessary by the landowner, such landowner shall be
liable for attorney fees and legal costs associated with obtaining such order.
(Ord. 91-04, 8-12-1991)
CHAPTER 3
DRY VEGETATION CONTROL
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definitions
4-3-2: Fire Hazard Prohibited
4-3-3: Penalty
4-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A secondary structure, the use of which is incidental but
similar to that of the main building and which is located on the same plot and
is a permitted use for that particular zone in which it is located.
BUILDING: means any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy.
DRY VEGETATION: Any weeds, grass, vines, or other growth which attains a
prevalent height and becomes sufficiently dry to become flammable, combustible,
or otherwise to constitute a fire hazard.
MAINTAINED PASTURE: A land area intended and utilized for the habitation and
grazing of livestock. Such area is kept minimally combustible by irrigation or
other means to sustain moisture.
STRUCTURE: That which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of any
kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts joined
together in some definite manner.
STRUCTURE IGNITION ZONE: The area around a specific structure and associated
accessory structures, including all vegetation that contains potential ignition
sources and fuels that can affect ignition potential during a fire. (Ord. 2022-
05, 6- -2022)
4-3-2: FIRE HAZARD PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any owner or person in control of land to permit dry
vegetation within a structure ignition zone of thirty feet (30') of a building,
structure or within any platted townsites or subdivisions in unincorporated
areas of the county. A designated private lane must be clear cut for ten feet
(10') on each side from the edge of the roadway. It shall be the duty of an
owner or person in control of land to cut down or destroy dry weeds from the
property to a height of less than six inches (6") before or at the time that
the same becomes dry, flammable or combustible. Failure to remove such dry
vegetation within ten (10) days after service of notice upon such owner or
person in control of said land shall be a violation. Agricultural crops and
maintained pasture areas are exempt. (Ord. 78-3A, 9-11-1978; amd. Ord. 2022-05,
6- -2022)
4-3-3: PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be subject to the general
penalties outlined in Title 1, Chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 78-3A, 9-11-1978;
amd. Ord. 2022-05, 6- -2022)
CHAPTER 4
CONSOLIDATED EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM
SECTION:
4-4-1: Created
4-4-2: Definitions
4-4-3: Fee And Financing
4-4-4: Authorization Of Governing Board To Appoint Official
4-4-5: Emergency Communication Fund
4-4-6: Pay Phones Conversion
4-4-1: CREATED:
There is hereby created, for the purpose of providing for the public health,
safety, and welfare of the public, a consolidated emergency communication
system, also known as a 911 telephone system, in Gem County, state of Idaho,
all as permitted and sanctioned by Idaho Code title 31, chapter 48. The purpose
for the creation of the emergency communication system is to provide a county
wide 911 telephone system. (Ord. 98-04.1, 6-1-1998)
4-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
ADMINISTRATOR: The person, officer, or agency, designated to operate a
consolidated emergency communication system, and to receive funds for such
operation.
CONSOLIDATED EMERGENCY COMMUNICATION SYSTEM OR EMERGENCY COMMUNICATION SYSTEM:
Facility, equipment, and dispatching services directly related to establishing,
maintaining, and enhancing a 911 emergency communication service.
GOVERNING BOARD: The board of county commissioners of Gem County.
911 SERVICE AREA 1 : The entire area of Gem County in which area the residents
have voted to establish a consolidated emergency communication system. (Ord.
98-04.1, 6-1-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. § 31-125.
4-4-3: FEE AND FINANCING:
   A.   Financing Of System: The financing of the consolidated emergency
communication system shall, in whole, be by the line user fee in an amount not
greater than one dollar ($1.00) per month to be used to fund an emergency
telephone system, commonly known as 911 service.
   B.   Telephone Line User Fee: The telephone line user fee shall be a uniform
amount as established in subsection A of this section, per exchange access
line, trunk line, network access register, or equivalent, and such fee shall be
used exclusively to finance the initiation, maintenance, or enhancement of the
consolidated emergency communication system within Gem County. The fee for
collection of the monthly telephone line user fee shall be collected from
customers on a monthly basis by all telecommunication entities which provide
local telephone line service within Gem County, and may be listed as a separate
item on customers' monthly billings.
   C.   Line User Fee Collection: All such telephone companies shall remit such
fee to the county treasurer's office or to the administrator as designated by
the governing board. From every remittance to the governing board made on or
before the date when the same becomes due, the telephone company required to
remit the same shall be entitled to deduct and retain three-fourths of one
percent (0.75%) of the collected amount as the cost of administration for
collecting the charge. Local exchange companies will be allowed to list the
surcharge as a separate item in the telephone subscriber's bill, and shall not
be obligated to take any legal action to enforce the collection of any charge,
nor be held liable for such uncollected amounts. (Ord. 98-04.1, 6-1-1998)
4-4-4: AUTHORIZATION OF GOVERNING BOARD TO APPOINT OFFICIAL:
The governing board, in the absence of an agreement to form a joint powers
board or administrator as provided in section 31-4805 of the Idaho Code, is
authorized to appoint an official or administrator to maintain and govern a
consolidated emergency communication system. The designated administrator shall
be the Gem County sheriff and the Gem County sheriff's department shall service
the 911 calls. The governing board may change the designated administrator at
any time by resolution. (Ord. 98-04.1, 6-1-1998)
4-4-5: EMERGENCY COMMUNICATION FUND:
The Gem County treasurer is authorized to establish a dedicated fund to be
designated the "Emergency Communication Fund" in which all fees collected
pursuant to this chapter shall be deposited and such fund shall be used
exclusively for the purposes of this chapter. The monies collected and the
interest earned in this fund shall be apportioned by the county commissioners,
or governing board, for expenses incurred by the emergency communication system
as set forth in an annual budget prepared by the joint powers board, or in
their absence, the county commissioners, and incorporated into the annual
county budget. All monies collected and not so expended shall be held in trust
by the treasurer pending commencement of the next budget year. (Ord. 98-04.1,
6-1-1998)
4-4-6: PAY PHONES CONVERSION:
Every provider of telephone services or other owner of pay station telephone
within Gem County must convert every pay station telephone to permit dialing
911 or the telephone company operator without deposit of a coin or other charge
to the caller. Said conversion must be completed by or before the time the
emergency telephone system is operational. (Ord. 98-04.1, 6-1-1998)
CHAPTER 5
PUBLIC NUISANCE
SECTION:
4-5-1: Short Title
4-5-2: Authority And Purpose
4-5-3: Definitions
4-5-4: Public Nuisance Declared Unlawful
4-5-5: Enforcement Procedures
4-5-6: Abatement
4-5-7: Maintenance Requirements
4-5-8: Security Requirements
4-5-9: Penalties
4-5-10: Additional Authority
4-5-11: Appeals
4-5-12: Interference With Authorized Person
4-5-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the GEM COUNTY PUBLIC NUISANCE ORDINANCE and
parts of ordinances and resolutions in place at the effective date of this
chapter or in conflict herewith are hereby repealed. (Ord. 2012-01, 11-7-2011)
4-5-2: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to authority conferred by article 12, section
2, Idaho constitution, and sections 31-714, 31-801 and 31-828, Idaho Code. Its
purpose is to provide for, and further, the health, safety and welfare of the
public by providing a procedure for abating public nuisances which can create
traffic safety hazards, fire hazards, health hazards including those caused by
rodent infestation and/or insects, and other problems which may have a harmful
effect upon the health, safety and welfare of the public. Nothing in this
chapter shall be interpreted to allow or encourage circumvention of the
foreclosure statutes of the state of Idaho. (Ord. 2012-01, 11-7-2011)
4-5-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ABANDONED: A property that is vacant and unmaintained.
ACCESSIBLE: A property or structure that unauthorized persons may gain access
or entry to through a compromised/breached/unsecure gate, door, fence, wall,
window, or other point of entry.
DAYS: Consecutive calendar days.
DEED IN LIEU OF FORECLOSURE: A recorded document that transfers property from
the trustor to the holder of a deed of trust upon consent of the beneficiary of
the deed of trust.
DEED OF TRUST: An instrument by which title to real estate is transferred to a
third party trustee as security for a real estate loan. This definition applies
to any and all subsequent deeds of trust, i.e., second trust deed, third trust
deed, etc.
DEFAULT: The failure to fulfill a contractual obligation, monetary or
conditional.
DISTRESSED: A property that is under a current notice of default and/or notice
of trustee's sale or there has been a foreclosure by the trustee or has been
conveyed to the beneficiary/trustee via a deed in lieu of foreclosure.
EVIDENCE OF OCCUPANCY: Any condition visible from the exterior that on its own,
or combined with other conditions present, would lead a reasonable person to
believe that the property is legally occupied. Such conditions include, but are
not limited to, secured/locked structures; active utility services; the absence
of overgrown and/or dead vegetation; the absence of an accumulation of
newspapers, circulars, fliers and/or mail; the absence of an accumulation of
trash, junk and/or debris; the presence of window coverings such as curtains,
blinds and/or shutters; the presence of furnishings and/or personal items
consistent with residential habitation; statements by neighbors, passersby,
delivery agents, or government employees that the property is legally occupied;
or actual contact with occupants.
EVIDENCE OF VACANCY: Any condition visible from the exterior that on its own or
combined with other conditions present would lead a reasonable person to
believe that the property is vacant. Such conditions include, but are not
limited to, overgrown and/or dead vegetation; accumulation of newspapers,
circulars, fliers and/or mail; past due utility notices and/or disconnected
utilities; accumulation of trash, junk and/or debris; the absence of window
coverings such as curtains, blinds and/or shutters; the absence of furnishings
and/or personal items consistent with residential habitation; statements by
neighbors, passersby, delivery agents, or government employees that the
property is vacant.
FIELD SERVICE PROVIDER: An individual, entity or department that is responsible
for inspecting, securing, and maintaining abandoned property.
FORECLOSURE: The process by which a property, placed as security for a real
estate loan, is sold at auction to satisfy the debt, if the trustor (borrower)
defaults.
INSPECTION: A physical investigation at a property to obtain evidence of
occupancy or vacancy and/or to verify compliance with this chapter and any
other applicable code or law.
NEIGHBORHOOD STANDARD: Those conditions that are present on a simple majority
of properties within a one-half (1/2) mile radius of the subject property. A
property that is the subject of a neighborhood standard comparison, or any
other abandoned property within the one-half (1/2) mile radius, shall not be
counted toward the simple majority.
NOTICE OF DEFAULT: A recorded notice that a default has occurred under a deed
of trust and that the beneficiary intends to proceed with a trustee's sale.
OWNER: Any person, copartnership, association, corporation, or fiduciary having
a legal or equitable title or any interest in any real property, or a property
that has been acquired by the beneficial interest at trustee's sale.
PROPERTY: Any unimproved or improved real property, or portion thereof,
situated in unincorporated Gem County.
PROPERTY PRESERVATION/REAL ESTATE OWNED (REO) SECTION/DEPARTMENT: The entity,
group, section, department or the designee of a beneficiary that is responsible
for inspecting, securing and maintaining abandoned and REO property.
PUBLIC NUISANCE: A condition or use of property which is harmful or injurious
to, or creates a danger of harm or injury to the health, safety, or welfare of
the neighborhood, community, or members of the public, or such an obstruction
of the free use of property as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life and property by the neighborhood, community, or members of the public. The
term is further defined so as to include, by way of example, but not limited
to, the following:
   A.   A condition or use of premises or property which creates a fire hazard
as defined in section
4-3-1 of this title, or any traffic or safety hazard to members of the public.
   B.   A condition or use of premises or property which creates a health
hazard by permitting, allowing, or fostering the harboring and nesting of
rodents, vermin and/or insects, or which creates any other type of health
hazard to members of the public.
   C.   A condition or use of premises or property which allows the open
storage, deposit, or scattering of scrap lumber or wood, waste petroleum
products, scrap or waste paper, trash, garbage, junk, boxes or debris of any
type.
   D.   A condition or use of premises or property which allows the open
storage, deposit, or scattering of scrap, abandoned, discarded, or unused
objects such as furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans, containers,
tires, tools, or mechanical parts.
   E.   A condition or use of premises or property which allows the open
storage, deposit, or scattering of dismantled, wrecked, junked, scrapped,
discarded and unlicensed or nonoperable vehicles provided that no public
nuisance shall exist under this subsection unless three (3) or more vehicles
not in operating condition remain standing on the property for more than thirty
(30) calendar days.
   F.   A condition or use of premises or property which allows the growth of
weeds, grasses, bushes, shrubs, trees, or other plant life to such a size and
in such a condition as to cause, or reasonably threaten to cause a fire hazard
as defined in section
4-3-1 of this title, or a traffic or safety hazard because they obstruct sight,
applying the measurements and standards contained in Idaho Code section 49-221,
as amended, at intersections or other points at which driveways, lanes, or
highways come together, or a health hazard because they provide nesting areas
for rodents, vermin and/or insects, or the growth of weeds to such a size or in
such condition as to interfere with the free and comfortable use of adjacent
and neighboring premises and property.
SECURING: Such measures as may be directed to the record owner by the
administrator of development services, county treasurer, or his or her
designee, or the Gem County sheriff or his or her designee so that the property
is not accessible to unauthorized persons, including, but not limited to, the
repairing of fences and walls, chaining/padlocking of gates, the repair or
boarding of door, window and/or other openings. Boarding shall be completed to
a minimum of the current HUD securing standards at the time the boarding is
completed or required. Locking includes measures that require a key, keycard,
tool or special knowledge to open or gain access.
TENANT: Any person, copartnership, association, or corporation legally
occupying a property with an executed lease/rental agreement with the property
owner, or the owner's designated property manager.
TRUSTEE: The title company, or attorney as named on a deed of trust secured by
the property.
TRUSTOR: A borrower under a deed of trust, who deeds property to a trustee as
security for the payment of a debt.
VACANT: A building/structure that is not occupied.
WEEDS: Undesirable or objectionable and nonuseful plant growth but shall not
include noxious weeds as defined by Idaho Code, section 22-2402(15), as
amended. (Ord. 2012-01, 11-7-2011; amd. Ord. 2014-05, 7-7-2014; Ord. 2022-05,
6- -2022)
4-5-4: PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any person to create, cause, maintain or knowingly allow to
exist for more than ten (10) calendar days a public nuisance on any premises or
real property which the person owns, rents, leases, occupies, manages or has
charge or possession of.
   A.   Liability Of Successive Owners For Continuing Nuisance 1 : Every
successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing nuisance upon,
or in the use of such property, created by a former owner, is liable therefor
in the same manner as the one who first created it. (Ord. 2012-01, 11-7-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. IC 52-109.
4-5-5: ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES:
When a public nuisance is suspected within Gem County the administrator or his/
her designated code enforcement personnel shall be responsible for the
investigation of complaints, and the administration and enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter, and shall establish a procedure for the
investigation and filing of complaints.
   A.   Investigation Of Complaints: The administrator or his/her designated
code enforcement personnel shall decide after an investigation of a complaint
either filed with or initiated by the development services department, if there
is reasonable cause to believe that a public nuisance exists. If there is no
such reasonable cause, the complainant shall be advised. If there is such
reasonable cause, the following procedures will apply:
      1.   A written notice that a public nuisance exists shall be served upon
the owner, if known, and the occupant or person in charge of the possession of
the premises or property on which the nuisance is found. Such service shall be
by personal service or by USPS mail directed to the last known address of the
owner, occupant or person in charge of possession. If written notice cannot be
served personally or by mail, on the owner, occupant or person in charge of the
possession of the premises or property on which the nuisance is found, the
notice shall be posted by being affixed to a building or other place on the
premises or property so conspicuous that any person occupying, possessing or
using the premises or property can be reasonably expected to see it.
      2.   The written notice referred to in subsection A1 of this section
shall describe the nuisance, advise that the nuisance must be abated within ten
(10) days from the date of the notice, advise that civil proceedings and/or
criminal proceedings may be initiated if the nuisance is not abated, advise
that costs of court proceedings and the nuisance abatement may be assessed
against the owner, occupant or person in charge of the possession of the
premises or property. (Ord. 2012-01, 11-7-2011)
4-5-6: ABATEMENT:
   A.   Responsibility: It shall be the duty of the owner and/or tenant or
person in possession and control of any property, building, or premises whereon
any nuisance exists, to remove, abate or destroy the same without delay.
   B.   Notice To Abate:
      1.   Written Notice; Service: The Gem County zoning administrator or
other duly authorized representative shall notify in writing the owner of any
such property, place or area within the county, or the agent of such owner, or
the person in possession and control of such property to abate the nuisance
indicated in the notice; provided that such written notice shall be served
personally on the owner, lessee, agent, or person in possession and control, or
by USPS mail, addressed to said owner or agent of said owner or the person in
possession and control of such property at his last known address. If written
notice cannot be served personally or by mail on the owner, agent or person in
possession or control of such property on which the nuisance is found, the
notice shall be posted by being affixed to a building or other place on the
premises or property so conspicuous that any person occupying, possessing or
using the premises or property can be reasonably expected to see it. The
written notice shall describe the nuisance, advise that the nuisance must be
abated within ten (10) days from the date of the notice, advise that civil
proceedings and/or criminal proceedings may be initiated if the nuisance is not
abated, advise that costs of court proceedings and the nuisance abatement may
be assessed against the owner, or occupant of the premises or property.
      2.   Failure To Comply: Providing further, that upon failure, neglect or
refusal of any such owner, or agent of such owner, or person in possession and
control to abate the listed nuisance within ten (10) days after the date of
such notice or in the event that notice served by USPS mail is returned to the
county by the post office as unable to make delivery thereof, the county is
hereby authorized and empowered to abate the nuisance and remove it at the
expense of the property owner.
   C.   Abatement By County: Whenever a nuisance exists which cannot be abated
or removed because the person who is responsible therefor cannot be found, or
when the party who is responsible for the nuisance has, on at least one
occasion failed and/or refused to abate or remove said nuisance, any duly
authorized representative of the county shall be empowered to take steps
necessary to remove, abate, or destroy the same, or cause the same to be done
by abatement action with the courts against said responsible party.
   D.   Failure To Comply After Abatement By County:
      1.   Costs Assessed: Whenever the county has paid for the abatement of
the nuisance or has used its own employees and equipment for the abatement of a
nuisance as set forth in this chapter, the actual costs thereof, any additional
fines/penalties established by the county commissioners, plus interest at the
statutory rate applicable to civil judgments, from the date of completion of
the work, shall be charged to the owner of such property. The property owner,
agent or person shall have thirty (30) days to pay the cost of abatement.
      2.   Recording Of Lien Or Certification Of Charges: If the property
owner, agent or person in possession and control of such property has not paid
the cost of abatement, an authorized representative of the county may or shall,
at its option: a) cause such lien to be recorded in the county recorder's
office in the manner provided by law for mechanic's and materialmen's liens, or
b) certify such charges to the proper county officer for collection in the
manner provided by law for the collection of taxes and assessments, and duly
recorded. (Ord. 2012-01, 11-7-2011)
4-5-7: MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The exterior of a vacant/abandoned property shall be, in comparison to
the neighborhood standard, kept free of weeds, dry brush, dead vegetation,
trash, junk, debris, building materials, any accumulation of newspapers,
circulars, fliers, notices, except those required by federal, state or local
law, discarded personal items including, but not limited to, furniture,
clothing, large and small appliances, printed material or any other items that
give the appearance that the property is abandoned.
   B.   The property shall be maintained free of graffiti, tagging or similar
markings by removal, or painting over with an exterior grade paint that matches
the color of the exterior of the structure.
   C.   Insofar as there is existing, or previously existing landscaping, all
visible front and side yards shall be maintained to the neighborhood standard.
If no landscaping previously existed at the property in front and visible side
yards, installation of new landscaping is not required under this chapter.
   D.   Landscape includes, but is not limited to, grass, ground covers,
bushes, shrubs, hedges or similar plantings, decorative rock or bark or
artificial turf/sod designed specifically for residential installation.
   E.   Landscape does not include weeds, gravel, broken concrete, asphalt,
decomposed granite, plastic sheeting, mulch (unless applied in conjunction with
reseeding of turf areas), indoor-outdoor carpet or any similar material.
   F.   Maintenance includes, but is not limited to, regular watering,
irrigation, cutting, pruning and mowing of required landscape and removal of
all trimmings.
   G.   Pools and spas shall be kept in working order so the water remains
clear and free of pollutants and debris or drained and kept dry.
   H.   Adherence to this section does not relieve the property owner/
responsible party of any obligations set forth in any covenants, conditions and
restrictions and/or homeowners' association rules and regulations which may
apply to the property. (Ord. 2012-01, 11-7-2011)
4-5-8: SECURITY REQUIREMENTS:
Vacant/abandoned property subject to this section shall be maintained in a
secure manner so as not to be accessible to unauthorized persons.
Secure manner includes, but is not limited to, the closure and locking of
windows, doors (walk-through, sliding and garage), gates and any other openings
of such size that leave it accessible. In the case of broken windows, securing
means the reglazing or boarding of the window. Locking includes measures that
require a key, key card, tool or special knowledge to open or gain access.
(Ord. 2012-01, 11-7-2011)
4-5-9: PENALTIES:
Failure to abate a nuisance listed in section
4-5-3  of this chapter within the county limits after reasonable notice to the
property owner, or tenant responsible for maintaining or allowing the nuisance
shall be subject to the general penalties outlined in Title 1, Chapter 4 of
this code. (Ord. 2012-01, 11-7-2011; amd. Ord. 2022-05, 6- -2022)
4-5-10: ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY:
In addition to the enforcement remedies established in this chapter and title
11, chapter 14 of this code, the administrator of development services or his
or her designee shall have the authority to require the owner/tenant of any
property affected by this chapter to implement additional maintenance and/or
security measures including, but not limited to, securing any/all doors,
windows or other openings, installing additional security lighting, employment
of an on site security guard or other measures as may be reasonably required to
arrest the condition of the property. (Ord. 2012-01, 11-7-2011)
4-5-11: APPEALS:
Any person aggrieved by any of the requirements of this chapter may appeal
insofar as such appeal is allowed. (Ord. 2012-01, 11-7-2011)
4-5-12: INTERFERENCE WITH AUTHORIZED PERSON:
   A.   Interference Prohibited: It shall be unlawful, and shall be a
misdemeanor to interfere with the administrator or his/her designee or
designees or any law enforcement officer in the performance of duties connected
with enforcement of this chapter. Such interference shall include, but not be
limited to, removal of notices posted on the property pursuant to this chapter
or impediment or harassment of the authorized person in the performance of
their duties under this chapter.
   B.   Violation; Penalty: Violation of this section is a misdemeanor and
shall be punishable as provided in Title 1, Chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 2012-
01, 11-7-2011; amd. Ord. 2022-05, 6- -2022)
CHAPTER 6
FIREWORKS REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Short Title And Purpose
4-6-2: Definitions
4-6-3: Fireworks Prohibited
4-6-4: Emergency
4-6-5: Penalty
4-6-1: SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the BAN ON FIREWORKS IN UNINCORPORATED
GEM COUNTY. The purpose of this chapter is to ban use of fireworks in all
unincorporated areas of Gem County outside fire protection districts to lessen
the danger of fires in those areas. (Ord. 2003-09, 6-23-2003)
4-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply. Any
other words and phrases not defined in this chapter shall be given their
ordinary, commonly understood and accepted meanings:
FIRE SEASON: The period of time between June 1 and October 31 of 2003, and each
year thereafter.
FIREWORKS: Any combustible or explosive composition, or any substance or
combination of substances, or article prepared for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration or detonation.
Fireworks include items classified as common or special fireworks by the United
States bureau of explosives or contained in the regulations of the United
States department of transportation and designated as UN 0335 1.3G or UN 0336
1.4G. The term "fireworks" shall not include any automotive safety flares, toy
guns, toy cannons, caps or other items designed for use with toy guns or toy
cannons, party poppers, or popits or other devices which contain twenty five
hundredths (0.25) of a grain or less of explosive substance.
UNINCOPORATION AREAS OF GEM COUNTY OUTSIDE FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICTS: Any area
located in Gem County which is outside the city limits of any city within Gem
County and outside the boundaries of any fire protection district formed
pursuant to title 31, chapter 14, Idaho Code. This area is depicted on the map
attached as exhibit A to the ordinance codified herein as white area with cross
hatching. (Ord. 2003-09, 6-23-2003)
4-6-3: FIREWORKS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use fireworks in unincorporated areas of
Gem County outside fire protection districts during the current fire season.
(Ord. 2003-09, 6-23-2003; amd. Ord. 2022-05, 6- -2022)
4-6-4: EMERGENCY:
Due to the emergency need to protect life and property from potential fires,
this chapter shall take effect immediately upon posting in at least five (5)
public places within Gem County pursuant to Idaho Code section 31-715. (Ord.
2003-09, 6-23-2003)
4-6-5: PENALTY:
Violation of this chapter shall be subject to the general penalties outlined in
Title 1, Chapter 4 of this code. If damage is caused by the fireworks, a
violation may be punishable by a fine for up to five hundred dollars ($500.),
imprisonment in jail of up to six (6 months), or by both such fine and
imprisonment, as well as an order to pay any and all restitution. (Ord. 2003-
09, 6-23-2003; amd. Ord. 2022-05, 6- -2022)
TITLE 5
LAW ENFORCEMENT
CHAPTER 1
LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES AND POLICIES
SECTION:
5-1-1: Local Emergency Response Authority
5-1-2: Excessive Force
5-1-1: LOCAL EMERGENCY RESPONSE AUTHORITY 1 :
The local emergency response authority for the county is the county sheriff.
This corresponds with the Gem County emergency operations plan and standard
operating procedures for emergency response in the county. (Res. 92-14, 9-28-
1992)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 39-7105.
5-1-2: EXCESSIVE FORCE:
   A.   Prohibited: It is the policy of the county that excessive force by
local law enforcement agencies shall not be used against individuals engaged in
lawful and nonviolent civil rights demonstrations within the county boundaries.
   B.   Implementation Of Policy: The board of county commissioners and the
county sheriff will implement this section by amending applicable county law
enforcement procedures. (Res. 96-15, 3-11-1996)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Use Of Harmful Chemicals
5-2-2: Possession And Consumption Of Alcoholic Beverages In U.S. Department Of
Interior Bureau Of Reclamation Parks
5-2-3: Disorderly Conduct
5-2-1: USE OF HARMFUL CHEMICALS:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to inhale, breathe,
drink or otherwise take into his or her body any compound, gasoline fumes,
liquid, chemical or any other substance known as glue, adhesive, cement,
mucilage, dope, or any other materials or substance or combination thereof with
the intent to become intoxicated, elated, dazed, paralyzed, irrational, or in
any other manner changing, distorting, or disturbing the thinking process,
balance, or coordination of such person.
   B.   Penalty: Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this
section shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to the general penalties
outlined in Title 1, Chapter 4 of this code. Any person who shall violate the
above provision while also constituting a harm to himself or others shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to a general misdemeanor. (Ord., 2-25-1969; amd.
Ord. 2022-05, 6- -2022)
5-2-2: POSSESSION AND CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN U.S. DEPARTMENT OF
INTERIOR BUREAU OF RECLAMATION PARKS:
   A.   Prohibited: No person shall consume any beer, wine or other alcoholic
beverage or possess an open or unopened container of beer, wine or other
alcoholic beverage within Black Canyon Park, Cobblestone Park, Wild Rose Park,
or Triangle Park, shown in figures 1 through 4 of this section, unless
authorized by a valid special event permit issued by the U.S. department of
interior bureau of reclamation.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4764d6e064d6cb077faf9e50a7dbd401dea0b7c6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1251.gif]
 
   B.   Penalty: Violation of the provisions of this section shall be subject
to the general penalties outlined in Title 1, Chapter 4 of this code. (Ord.
2013-05, 7-1-2013; amd. Ord. 2022-05, 6- -2022)
5-2-3: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to engage in disorderly conduct. A
person commits disorderly conduct when such person:
   A.   Loiters, prowls or wanders upon the private property of another without
lawful business or permission of the owner or lawful occupant thereof.
   B.   Intentionally, knowingly or recklessly fights with another person in a
public place, except when necessary in self-defense.
   C.   Operates or permits the operation of a loud amplification device in
such a manner that the sound therefrom is plainly audible within any place of
residence not the source of the sound or is plainly audible upon a public right
of way or street at a distance of one hundred (100) feet from the source of
such sound. “Loud amplification device” for purpose of this section is any
equipment designed or used for sound production, reproduction or amplification.
“Plainly audible” for purposes of this section is any sound that can be
detected by a person using their unaided hearing faculties.
   D.   Penalty: Violation of the provisions of this section shall be subject
to the general penalties outlined in Title 1, Chapter 4 of this code. (Ord.
2022-05, 6- -2022)
CHAPTER 3
MINORS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Curfew
5-3-2: Runaways
5-3-3: Beyond Control
5-3-4: Parental Responsibility
5-3-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Hours: It is unlawful for any minor to go or to remain upon any
pedestrian or vehicular thoroughfare, public place or other premises open to
the public, or to operate or to ride in a vehicle at any such location between
the hours of ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. in
the case of minors under the age of sixteen (16) years or between the hours of
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. in the case of
minors over sixteen (16) years of age but under eighteen (18) years of age.
   B.   Exceptions: This prohibition shall not apply to the following:
      1.   A minor accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other adult
person having care and custody of said minor;
      2.   Minor upon an emergency errand or legitimate business directed or
authorized by his or her parent, guardian or other adult person having the care
and custody of said minor;
      3.   A minor participating in a lawful group activity of which the
sheriff's department has been notified; or
      4.   A minor who is lawfully married or who is a member of the armed
forces of the United States on active duty or on authorized leave from active
duty.
   C.   Violation:
      1.   Warning or citation: Any law enforcement officer finding a minor in
apparent violation of this curfew restriction shall ascertain the name and
address of the minor, warn the minor that he or she is in violation of curfew
and direct the minor to proceed at once to his or her home or usual place of
abode. In lieu of a warning, an officer may issue a citation to a minor in
violation of this section according to the procedure set forth in Idaho Code
title 20, Chapter 5.
      2.   Report To Parents: The officer shall also cause such action to be
reported to the minor’s parents, guardian or persons having custody or control.
      3.   Refusal By Minor: If the minor refuses to heed such direction by the
officer, or refuses to disclose his or her correct name and address, the minor
shall be taken to the sheriff’s department, and not within the jail, and the
parent, guardian or other adult person having care and custody of the minor
shall be requested to come and take charge of the minor.
      4.   Minor Held By Sheriff’s Department: If the parent, guardian or other
adult person cannot be located or fails to come and take charge, the minor
shall be held by the sheriff’s department until the parent, guardian or other
adult person having care and custody of the minor child takes charge of the
minor.
      5.   Costs: All costs associated with keeping and caring for the minor
shall be assessed to the minor’s parent or legal guardian, including, but not
limited to, costs of housing, supervision, youth attendants, and food.
   D.   Child Protection Act: If a parent or guardian cannot be located or
fails to come and take charge of the minor when notified he or she has been
picked up by a law enforcement officer, or if such child has been in violation
of this section on one or more previous occasions, a petition may be filed
under the child protection act. (Ord. 94-03, 2-14-1994; amd. Ord. 2022-05, 6- -
2022)
5-3-2: RUNAWAYS:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be a violation for any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years living or found in the county to be or to remain a person
who has run away from his or her parents, guardian or other legal custodian.
Upon conviction, such a minor shall be subject to the general penalties
outlined in Title 1, Chapter 4 of this code, and may be held at the sheriff’s
department in accordance with
5-3-1  of this code until a safe location and situation may be found for the
minor. If no suitable living situation can be arranged, a petition under the
child protection act may be filed. (Ord. 1-74, 7-12-1974; amd. Ord. 2022-05, 6-
-2022)
5-3-3: BEYOND CONTROL:
Prohibited: It shall be a violation for any person under the age of eighteen
(18) to be declared beyond control of his/her parent, guardian or legal
custodian, which declaration may be made when such person disobeys reasonable
rules, orders, directions or expectations of his/her parent, guardian or legal
custodian, or engages in behavior that is unruly, unmanageable or incorrigible,
and such disobedience or behavior is persistent, frequent or severe. (Ord.
2022-05, 6- -2022)
5-3-4: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Short Title, Purpose And Applicability: This section shall be known as
the GEM COUNTY PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY ORDINANCE, adopted for the purpose of
providing proper administration and enforcement of this section.
   B.   Definition: A “parent” is any person who is the parent, lawful guardian
or other person, except a foster parent, lawfully charged with the care or
custody of a child under sixteen (16) years of age.
   C.   Failure To Supervise A Child: Any person who is the parent, lawful
guardian, or other person, except a foster parent, lawfully charged with the
care or custody of a child under sixteen (16) years of age commits the offense
of failure to supervise a child if the child commits any of the following acts:
      1.   Fails to attend school or is not comparably instructed as provided
in section 33-202 Idaho Code; or
      2.   Violates a curfew, beyond control or runaway law of Gem County.
   D.   Exceptions: A person shall not be prosecuted under this section if the
person demonstrates any of the following:
      1.   The person is the victim of the crime charged, whether under chapter
5, title 20 of the Idaho Code, or whether the child is tried as an adult; or
      2.   The person reported the act of the child to the law enforcement
agency, the juvenile court, the department of health and welfare or other
appropriate authority; or
      3.   The person took reasonable steps to control the conduct of the child
at the time the person is alleged to have failed to supervise the child.
   E.   First Offense Warning: When a child commits any of the acts set forth
in subsection C of this section for the first time and the provisions of
subsection
      D of this section do not apply, the parents, lawful guardian, or other
person lawfully charged with the care and custody of the child, shall may be
advised by an officer of the Gem County sheriff’s department of the content of
this section and the penalties for violation of this section. This advisement
shall be made by serving a copy of the ordinance codified herein upon the
offender. Documentation of this service shall be recorded by the Gem County
sheriff’s department.
   F.   Second Or Subsequent Offense: When a child commits any of the acts set
forth in subsection C of this section after the parents, lawful guardian or
other person lawfully charged with the custody of the child have been served
with an advisement as set out in subsection E of this section and the
provisions of subsection D of this section do not apply, a citation or summons
may be issued to the parent, lawful guardian or other person lawfully charged
with the care or custody of that child unless the person with lawful custody is
a foster parent. The citation or summons shall set a date for appearance in the
magistrate division of the district court.
   G.   Penalty:
      1.   If the person pleads guilty or is found guilty of the offense of
failure to supervise a child, they shall be subject to the general penalties
outlined in Title 1, Chapter 4 of this code.
      2.   The court may order the person to pay restitution or make any victim
who suffers an economic loss as a result of the juvenile’s conduct in
accordance with the standard and requirements of sections 19-5304 and 19-5305,
Idaho Code. Said restitution shall not exceed the amount of two thousand five
hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
      3.   Any person who violates an order of the court entered under this
section shall be subject to contempt proceedings in accordance with chapter 6,
title 7, Idaho Code. The contempt proceedings and penalty for any contempt
found shall be in addition to and in substitution for any other penalties
authorized pursuant to this section. (Ord. 2000-07, 3-20-2000; amd. Ord. 2022-
05, 6- -2022)
CHAPTER 4
FIREARMS, DANGEROUS OR DEADLY WEAPONS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Discharge Of Firearm
5-4-2: Prohibited In Courthouse
5-4-1: DISCHARGE OF FIREARM:
   A.   Prohibited: No person in the unincorporated area of the county shall,
except in defense of person or property, or as consistent with Idaho Code 18-
3302J, discharge any firearm upon or across any county road or highway, and no
person in the unincorporated area of the county shall, except in defense of
person or property, discharge any firearm within a townsite, park, campsite, or
school ground.
   B.   Penalty: Violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor and upon
conviction, shall be punished by no more than a three hundred dollar ($300.00)
fine or up to six (6) months in the county jail, or both. (Ord. 93-01, 12-7-
1992; amd. Ord. 2022-05, 6- -2022)
5-4-2: PROHIBITED IN COURTHOUSE:
   A.   Definition: The term "deadly or dangerous weapon" includes, but is not
limited to, all firearms, all air pistols or rifles, dirks, daggers, any double
edged knife, any knife with a blade longer than five inches (5"), blowguns,
darts, bows, arrows and crossbows.
   B.   Prohibited: No person shall have on his or her person, or be in
possession of, any deadly or dangerous weapon while inside the county
courthouse, whether such weapon is concealed or not.
   C.   Evidence: This section shall not apply to persons having in their
possession any of the articles defined above for the purposes of procuring,
safeguarding, or disposing of those articles as evidence in a pending or past
criminal investigation, or for using those articles as evidence in any judicial
proceeding.
   D.   Exceptions: The provisions of this section shall not apply to persons
who are required, or authorized, to carry weapons in the course of their duties
as officials or agents of any governmental entity, including, but not limited
to, sworn peace officers, jail or corrections personnel, probation and parole
personnel, state and federal fish and game personnel, local, state and federal
law enforcement officers, prosecuting attorneys, and local, state and federal
attorneys authorized to carry weapons.
   E.   Application Of Section: This section applies to all persons, whether
they possess a concealed weapons permit obtained pursuant to Idaho Code section
18-3302 or some other equivalent state statute, or not. Possession of a valid
concealed weapons permit from this state or any other state shall not be a
defense in violation of the provisions of this section.
   F.   Search: All persons entering the county courthouse shall be subject to
search for weapons conducted by security personnel employed by the county using
any reasonable method of search. Any person found in possession of a dangerous
or deadly weapon inside the county courthouse as described in subsections A and
B of this section shall be in violation of this section.
   G.   Request To Leave: Any person found to possess a deadly or dangerous
weapon not described in subsections A and B of this section, but as determined
by security personnel to be a deadly or dangerous weapon, shall be asked to
leave and remove the weapon from the courthouse. Failure to immediately comply
with any such request made by security personnel shall be a violation of this
section.
   H.   Penalty: Any violation of the provisions of this section shall be
deemed a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine of up to three hundred
dollars ($300.00), and/or six (6) months' imprisonment in the county jail.
(Ord. 95-01, 1-23-1995)
CHAPTER 5
DOGS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Short Title
5-5-2: Authority And Purpose
5-5-3: Enforcement
5-5-4: Dogs At Large
5-5-5: Impounding
5-5-6: Dog Waste
5-5-7: Dog Nuisances
5-5-8: Penalty
5-5-9: Civil Remedies
5-5-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the GEM COUNTY DOG CONTROL ORDINANCE. All other
ordinances and parts of ordinances and resolutions in place at the effective
date hereof and in conflict herewith are hereby repealed. (Ord. 2012-02, 1-3-
2012)
5-5-2: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted upon the authority derived from Idaho Code sections 31-
801, 31-828, and 31-714 to provide for the health, safety and welfare of the
public. The purpose of this chapter is to resolve the problems caused by dogs
at large or present within Gem County. (Ord. 2012-02, 1-3-2012)
5-5-3: ENFORCEMENT:
The Gem County sheriff or the sheriff's designee shall enforce this chapter
within the designated areas of Gem County specified in this chapter. (Ord.
2012-02, 1-3-2012)
5-5-4: DOGS AT LARGE:
   A.   Dogs At Large:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a dog which the person
owns, keeps, harbors, or possesses to be at large (off leash) or to negligently
fail, neglect, or refuse to prevent a dog which the person owns, keeps,
harbors, or possesses from being at large within any of the following areas:
         a.   The Gem County sports complex, commonly known as the "Island".
         b.   Montour Campground (figure 1 of this section).
         c.   The designated pet area at Wild Rose Park (figure 2 of this
section).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4764d6e064d6cb077faf9e50a7dbd401dea0b7c6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1253.gif]
 
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a dog, except those
properly documented and identified as service animals, which the person owns,
keeps, harbors, or possesses to be present within or to negligently fail,
neglect, or refuse to prevent a dog which the person owns, keeps, harbors, or
possesses from being present within any of the following areas (refer to
figures 1-4 in section
5-2-2 of this title):
         a.   Black Canyon Park (also known as Reservoir Park).
         b.   Cobblestone Park.
         c.   Wild Rose Park, except for the designated pet area.
         d.   Triangle Park.
         e.   The Gem County Fairgrounds. (Ord. 2013-05, 7-1-2013)
   B.   Special Events: The above restrictions shall not apply when an
individual or group has received prior authorization from the government agency
or department responsible for day to day management of the designated area. The
authorization shall be in writing and shall specify the individual or group
allowed to use the designated area without adhering to the restrictions in
subsection A of this section. A copy of the authorization shall be presented to
the individual or group and a copy shall be filed with Gem County sheriff's
dispatch.
   C.   Definitions: "At large" as used herein means off the premises of the
person owning, keeping, harboring, or possessing a dog and not under that
person's control or the control of that person's immediate family or designee,
either by leash, cord, chain, or other means of physical restraint. (Ord. 2012-
02, 1-3-2012)
5-5-5: IMPOUNDING:
   A.   Apprehension Of Dog At Large: The sheriff or the sheriff's designee may
apprehend any dog that is found at large within the areas specified in
subsection
5-5-4A1 of this chapter or any dog found present within the areas specified in
subsection
5-5-4A2 of this chapter. A dog apprehended under this section shall be
impounded in a suitable place. If any fierce, dangerous, or vicious dog cannot
be safely apprehended and impounded as authorized under this section, such dog
may be slain by the sheriff or the sheriff's designee.
   B.   Record: The sheriff or the sheriff's designee so impounding or slaying
any dog shall record a written description of the dog in a book kept for that
purpose.
   C.   Recovery Of Dog: The owner, keeper, harborer, or possessor of a dog
that has been impounded under this section may recover possession of the same
upon payment to the sheriff of all applicable fees, which shall be established
by resolution of the Gem County board of commissioners. A copy of current fees
shall be kept on file in the Gem County clerk's office.
   D.   Disposal Of Unrecovered Dog: The sheriff or the sheriff's designee may
dispose of any impounded dog when the following conditions have been met:
      1.   Five (5) calendar days have elapsed from the date the dog was
apprehended, and
      2.   Efforts reasonable under the circumstances to notify the person
owning, keeping, harboring, or possessing the impounded dog have been
unsuccessful or the person has not recovered the dog after receiving notice of
its impound.
The method of disposal may include, but is not limited to, euthanasia.
   E.   Diseased Dog; Destruction: Any dog impounded and suffering from serious
injury or disease, as determined by the sheriff or the sheriff's designee after
consultation with a veterinarian, may be euthanized at the discretion of the
sheriff. (Ord. 2012-02, 1-3-2012)
5-5-6: DOG WASTE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a dog which the person owns,
keeps, harbors, or possesses to defecate upon, or fail to prevent a dog which
the person owns, keeps, harbors, or possesses from defecating upon the
following without immediately removing and properly disposing of the excrement:
   A.   The Island (Gem County sports complex),
   B.   The Gem County Fairgrounds,
   C.   Any bureau of reclamation park located in Gem County. (Ord. 2012-02, 1-
3-2012)
5-5-7: DOG NUISANCES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, keeps, harbors, or
possesses a dog to allow it to become a nuisance to others by any of the
following:
      1.   Excessive, continuous or untimely barking or noise, during the hours
of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. (Ord. 2012-02, 1-3-
2012)
5-5-8: PENALTY:
   A.   Violation: Unless specifically provided otherwise, a violation of this
chapter shall be subject to the general penalties outlined in Title 1, Chapter
4 of this code. (Ord. 2012-02, 1-3-2012; amd. Ord. 2022-05, 6- -2022)
5-5-9: CIVIL REMEDIES:
The Gem County board of commissioners shall be entitled to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter through any civil remedy available at law or equity.
These remedies shall include, but are not limited to, injunctions, restraining
orders, writs of mandate, and damage awards. These remedies shall be in
addition to, and not exclusive of, any criminal remedies. (Ord. 2012-02, 1-3-
2012)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CONTROL
SECTION:
6-1-1: Title
6-1-2: Statute Adopted
6-1-3: Purpose
6-1-4: Speed Limits
6-1-5: Signs
6-1-6: Negligent Operation Of Vehicle
6-1-7: Penalty
6-1-8: Parking
6-1-9: Air Compression Brakes
6-1-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the GEM COUNTY TRAFFIC CONTROL ORDINANCE. (Ord.
2001-07, 4-24-2001, eff. 5-3-2001)
6-1-2: STATUTE ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing rules and regulations
for the use of all streets and public thoroughfares of the county the Idaho
motor vehicle laws, more particularly title 49, Idaho Code and as the same may
hereafter be revised by the Idaho legislature or amended by the governing body,
and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated as an ordinance of the county
as though fully set forth at length herein. (Ord. 2001-07, 4-24-2001, eff. 5-3-
2001)
6-1-3: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish safe speed limits on county roads,
to provide for proper notice of such speed limits and to provide for proper
placement of stop and yield signs. (Ord. 2001-07, 4-24-2001, eff. 5-3-2001)
6-1-4: SPEED LIMITS:
   A.   Basic Rule: From the effective date hereof, no person shall drive a
vehicle at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions
and having regard for the actual and potential hazards then existing.
Consistent with the foregoing, every person shall drive a safe and appropriate
speed approaching and crossing an intersection or railroad grade crossing, when
approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hill crest, when
traveling upon a narrow or winding roadway, and when special hazards exist with
respect to pedestrians or other traffic, or by reason of weather or highway
conditions.
   B.   Platted Subdivisions: No person shall drive a vehicle at a speed
greater than twenty five (25) miles per hour on any street, road, or other
public way in platted subdivisions unless otherwise designated herein.
   C.   Designated Limits: The Gem County commissioners, after conducting a
traffic investigation and consulting with representative(s) from the Gem County
road department, are hereby authorized to establish and alter specific speed
limits throughout Gem County. The established speed limits for Gem County will
be in accordance with the speed limit schedule adopted by resolution of the Gem
County commission. A copy of current speed limits will be on file in the office
of the clerk of the district court. (Ord. 2001-07, 4-24-2001, eff. 5-3-2001)
6-1-5: SIGNS:
The Gem County road department is hereby authorized to erect and maintain speed
limit signs consistent with the speed limits passed by resolution by the Gem
County commissioners, and to erect and maintain stop signs, yield signs, or
other official traffic control devices, to designate by sign and/or by other
means no parking zones consistent with the locations specified as no parking
zones by resolution of the Gem County commissioners, to designate through
highways, or to designate intersections or other roadway junctions at which
vehicular traffic on one or more of the roadways should yield, or stop and
yield, before entering the intersection or junction. (Ord. 2004-03, 7-26-2004)
6-1-6: NEGLIGENT OPERATION OF VEHICLE:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle in a
negligent manner within the confines of the county.
   B.   Blood Alcohol Content: Without limiting the applicability of subsection
A of this section, it shall be a per se violation of this section if an
individual operates a motor vehicle, or is in physical control of a motor
vehicle with a blood alcohol content of eight one-hundredths percent (0.08%),
nine one-hundredths percent (0.09%), or ten one- hundredths percent (0.10%).
"Actual physical control" as used in this section shall be defined as provided
in Idaho Code section 18-8004(6). Blood alcohol content shall be established in
the same manner and have the same meaning as provided in title 18, chapter 80,
Idaho Code.
   C.   Substance Abuse Evaluation: Any person found to be in violation of
subsection B of this section shall obtain a substance abuse evaluation by an
evaluator licensed by the state to perform such evaluations prior to the
sentencing.
   D.   Penalty: A violation of this section shall be considered a misdemeanor
and subject the offender to a fine not to exceed three hundred dollars
($300.00) or incarceration in the county jail for a period of time not to
exceed six (6) months, or both fine and incarceration. (Ord. 97-02, 12-9-1996)
6-1-7: PENALTY:
It shall be an "infraction" as defined by Idaho Code section 49-110(5) for any
person to violate sections
6-1-2,
6-1-4, and
6-1-8 of this chapter, and the penalty for violation of sections
6-1-2,
6-1-4, and
6-1-8 of this chapter shall be by fine consistent with rule 9 of the Idaho
infraction rules. (Ord. 2004-03, 7-26-2004)
6-1-8: PARKING:
   A.   Basic Rule: From the effective date hereof, no person shall park a
vehicle in a no parking zone, as designated by resolution of the Gem County
commissioners.
   B.   Designated No Parking Zones: The Gem County commissioners, after
conducting a traffic investigation and consulting with representative(s) from
the Gem County road department, are hereby authorized to establish, define, and
alter, no parking zones throughout Gem County. A copy of the locations of
current no parking zones will be on file in the office of the clerk of the
district court.
   C.   Proposed No Parking Zones In State Rights Of Way: Where a proposed no
parking zone is located in an Idaho state right of way, the Gem County
commissioners, in order to be in compliance with state laws and regulations,
shall by resolution, recommend in writing to the appropriate state agency the
county's desire(s) and concern(s) for the no parking zone in the Idaho state
right of way. (Ord. 2004-03, 7-26-2004)
6-1-9: AIR COMPRESSION BRAKES:
   A.   Use of Compression Brakes Prohibited: The use of air compression brakes
(also known as "Jake Brakes") by vehicles or trucks, as defined in Idaho Code
Title 49, Chapter 1, within unincorporated Gem County is hereby prohibited and
shall be unlawful, except under emergency circumstances where the use of air
compression brakes is necessary to prevent an accident or injury to persons or
property.
   B.   Penalties: Any person who violates any provision of this section shall
be deemed guilty of an infraction and upon judgement thereof shall be subject
to the penalty set forth in Idaho Infraction Rule 9(b) (other infractions).
Failure to satisfy judgment as ordered by the court pursuant to this section
shall be deemed contempt of court punishable as a misdemeanor pursuant to Idaho
Code section 18-1801. (Ord. 2024-04, 8-12-2024)
CHAPTER 2
SNOWMOBILES
SECTION:
6-2-1: Designated Roadways
6-2-2: Restrictions
6-2-3: Penalty
6-2-1: DESIGNATED ROADWAYS:
The segment of the county road system known as the High Valley Road is
designated as a public roadway upon which properly numbered snowmobiles may be
operated, such road system being more properly described as follows:
That section of the county road which turns east at Ola and proceeds in a north
and easterly direction towards the Valley County boundary, more commonly known
as the High Valley Road, to the intersection with Valley County, a distance of
five (5) miles or less, all in the county.
(Ord. 2-73, 2-13-1973)
6-2-2: RESTRICTIONS:
The operation of any snowmobile on the above road system shall be in conformity
with the provisions of title 67, chapter 71, Idaho Code. In addition thereto,
the operation of any snowmobile upon that portion of the county road system as
described above shall be in conformity with the following restrictions: (Ord.
2-73, 2-13-1973; amd. 2002 Code)
   A.   Speed: No snowmobile shall be operated at a speed in excess of twenty
(20) miles per hour.
   B.   Passing: Every operator of a snowmobile shall yield to any auto or
truck, shall not overtake or pass any moving auto or truck, and shall come to a
complete stop when being passed by any auto or truck regardless of which
direction that auto or truck may be traveling.
   C.   Red Flag: Every operator of a snowmobile shall have a staff or rod
securely attached to the snowmobile upon which a red flag shall be tied or
fastened to the upper end and not less than six feet (6') above the road
surface. The flag shall not be less than six feet (6') above the road surface.
The flag shall not be less than one foot (1') in width and have a surface area
of one square foot.
   D.   Lights: Every operator of a snowmobile shall have securely fastened to
the snowmobile a lighted headlight and taillight at all times.
   E.   Operation On Roadway: Every operator of a snowmobile shall keep the
snowmobile as near as possible against the right hand side of the roadway.
   F.   Valid Driver's License: Every person operating a snowmobile pursuant to
this chapter shall be in possession of a current valid motor vehicle operator's
license authorizing said person to operate a motor vehicle on the public
highways of Idaho.
   G.   Minors: Any parent, guardian or legal custodian of any person under the
age of eighteen (18) years who shall knowingly permit said person under the age
of eighteen (18) years to operate a snowmobile in violation of this chapter
shall be guilty of having violated the same. (Ord. 2-73, 2-13-1973)
6-2-3: PENALTY:
Any person who shall be found guilty of having violated any provision of this
chapter shall be punished subject to the general penalties outlined in Title 1,
Chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 2-73, 2-13-1973; amd. Ord. 2022-05, 6- -2022)
CHAPTER 3
BOATING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Black Canyon Reservoir
6-3-2: Squaw Creek; No Wake Zone
6-3-1: BLACK CANYON RESERVOIR:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    DIRECTIONAL BODY OF WATER: Power boating shall be restricted to a clockwise
direction around the reservoir, keeping the shore nearest the vessel on the
port side while the boat proceeds in a forward direction.
   NO WAKE ZONE: A zone marked with buoys placed conspicuously in a line from
one point to another, and vessel speed will be restricted to a maximum of five
(5) miles per hour within the zone so marked.
   B.   Clockwise Directional Body: Due to the narrowness of this reservoir,
the curves, the blind corners and the number of power boats now using the
reservoir, Black Canyon reservoir is hereby declared to be a clockwise
directional body of water for the protection and safety of the boaters and
swimmers on this body of water.
   C.   No Wake Zone: A no wake zone is hereby created and shall be marked with
buoys surrounding near shore waters around Black Canyon state park and Triangle
Point park.
   D.   Posting: The ordinance codified in this section shall be posted in at
least five (5) places throughout the county. (Ord. 91-03-A, 8-5-1991)
6-3-2: SQUAW CREEK; NO WAKE ZONE:
   A.   Short Title: This section shall be known as the NO WAKE ORDINANCE.
   B.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the following meanings. Words or terms not defined herein shall have
their ordinary meanings.
    COUNTY: Gem County, Idaho.
   WAKE: A speed whereby there is white water in the track or path of the
vessel or in created waves immediate to the vessel.
   WATERCRAFT: Any vessel used or capable of being used as a means of
transportation on water.
   C.   Findings: The board of county commissioners has determined that it is
in the best interest of the citizens of Gem County and those who wish to use
and enjoy the waterways of Gem County to institute a no wake zone on certain
waters within Gem County, Idaho.
   D.   No Wake Zone: At the effective date hereof, it shall be unlawful for
any person to operate a watercraft on Squaw Creek from its confluence with the
slackwater of Black Canyon reservoir, upstream in such a manner as to create a
"wake" as defined herein.
   E.   Posting: The county shall clearly post the area which is the subject of
this section with warning signs which give notice to a person entering the area
that it is a "No Wake Zone".
   F.   Enforcement: This section shall be enforceable by any officer of the
Gem County sheriff's department or any officer of the Idaho department of parks
and recreation.
   G.   Penalty: Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be
punished subject to the general penalties outlined in Title 1, Chapter 4 of
this code. (Ord. 99-05, 5-10-1999, eff. 5-24-1999; amd. 2002 Code; Ord. 2022-
05, 6- -2022)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
COUNTY PROPERTY USE RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Vehicles, Trailers And Other Personal Property
7-1-2: Worm Probes
7-1-3: Obstructing Streets
7-1-4: Camping In Public Places
7-1-1: VEHICLES, TRAILERS AND OTHER PERSONAL PROPERTY:
   A.   Abandoned:
      1.   Twenty Four Hours: It shall not be allowed for anyone to leave
unattended vehicles, trailers or other personal property upon county property,
including, but not limited to, the fairgrounds, the hospital grounds, and the
courthouse grounds for periods longer than twenty four (24) hours unless the
owner of such property is involved in an event upon the county property which
necessitates long term presence of such vehicle, trailer or other property.
      2.   Seventy Two Hours: If such vehicle, trailer or other property is
left upon public county property for a period longer than seventy two (72)
hours, the county will tow, or otherwise impound, the property and charge all
expenses of such to the owner of the property.
   B.   Notice Of Intent To Impound: No less than twenty four (24) hours before
such property is towed, or otherwise impounded, the county shall place a notice
of such intent to impound the property upon the abandoned property in a
conspicuous place.
   C.   Recovery Of Impounded Property: In order to recover any such impounded
property, the owner must pay all costs which the county has incurred to impound
and store the property. If the owner does not make such payment or no owner
comes forward to claim the property, the property shall be declared abandoned
and treated in accordance with Idaho Code sections 14-501 through 14-541. (Res.
93-12, 9-27-1993)
7-1-2: WORM PROBES:
   A.   Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful for any person to utilize worm
probes, chemicals or any other method of device to take, collect or gather
worms or nightcrawlers from any property owned, leased or under the control of
the county.
   B.   Possession Prohibited: It shall be considered a violation of this
section if a person has in their possession worm probes or any other device
commonly used in the collection or gathering of worms or nightcrawlers upon
property that is owned, leased or under the control of the county, and such
worm probes or other devices are placed into or on the ground, regardless of
whether such devices are plugged in or not.
   C.   Penalty: Violation of this section shall result in the violator
receiving a written warning on the first offense. Such written warning shall
indicate the date, approximate time and a description of the violation. The
written warning shall be served upon the person violating this section by a law
enforcement officer. Any subsequent violations of this section be subject to
the general penalties outlined in Title 1, Chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 94-05,
3-28-1994; amd. Ord. 2022-05, 6- -2022)
7-1-3: OBSTRUCTING STREETS:
   A.   Prohibitions: Whoever remains standing, lying or sitting down on any of
the sidewalks, streets, alleys or public places in such a manner as to obstruct
or impede the free passage of pedestrians or public travel, after being
requested to immediately move on by any Law Enforcement Officer, or Code
Enforcement Officer or other county employee, or who willfully remains on the
sidewalk in front of any dwelling house or place of business which abuts on any
of the sidewalks in this County, in such manner as to obstruct the free passage
of any other person into or out of such dwelling house or place of business,
without the consent or against the will of the owner or proprietor, shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section 1-4-1 of this Code.
   B.   Exceptions: This section shall not prohibit the operation of a lawfully
licensed business or county approved activity.
   C.   Penalty:
      1.   Any Person violating the provisions of Sections
7-1-3 or
7-1-4 shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
      2.   Any individual in violation of this section that is told that they
are in violation of this section and are asked to vacate by law enforcement or
code enforcement, and then refuses to so vacate, may be charged with a general
misdemeanor and face up to six (6) months in jail and a one thousand dollar
($1,000.00) fine. (Ord. 2024-05, 8-26-2024)
7-1-4: CAMPING IN PUBLIC PLACES:
   A.   Prohibitions: It shall be unlawful for any person to use any of the
streets, sidewalks, parks or public places as a camping place at any time, or
to cause or permit any vehicle to remain in any of said places to the detriment
of public travel; or to cause or permit any livestock of any description to be
herded into any of said places during any hours of the day or night; provided,
that this section shall not prohibit the operation of a lawfully licensed
business or county approved activity.
      1.   The term "camp" or "camping" shall mean the use of public property
as a temporary or permanent place of dwelling, lodging or residence, or as a
living accommodation at any time between sunset and sunrise.
      2.   Indicia of camping may include, but are not limited to, storage of
personal belongings, using tents or other temporary structures for sleeping or
storage of personal belongings, carrying on cooking activities or making any
fire in an unauthorized area, or any of these activities in combination with
one another or in combination with either sleeping or making preparations to
sleep (including the laying down of bedding for the purpose of sleeping).
   B.   Exceptions: This section does not prohibit sleeping in a public park
during hours of operation and without any indicia of camping. This section does
not prohibit any activities approved at the Gem Island Sports Complex, Gem
County Fairgrounds, or other places that are specifically posted as open for
such activities or have a government procedure allowing said activity.
   C.   Penalty:
      1.   Any Person violating the provisions of Sections
7-1-3 or
7-1-4 shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
      2.    Any individual in violation of this section that is told that they
are in violation of this section and are asked to vacate by law enforcement or
code enforcement, and then refuses to so vacate, may be charged with a general
misdemeanor and face up to six (6) months in jail and a one thousand dollar
($1,000.00) fine. (Ord. 2024-05, 8-26-2024)
CHAPTER 2
GEM ISLAND SPORTS COMPLEX
SECTION:
7-2-1: Hours Open To Public
7-2-2: Rules And Regulations
7-2-3: Motorized Vehicles
7-2-4: Swimming In Pond
7-2-5: Alcoholic Beverages
7-2-6: Fireworks
7-2-7: Fires
7-2-8: Serious And/Or Repeated Violations
7-2-9: Penalty
7-2-1: HOURS OPEN TO PUBLIC:
   A.   Hours: Gem Island Sports Complex shall be open for public use during
daylight hours, one hour before sunrise to one hour after sunset.
   B.   Scheduled Events: Organizers may petition the Gem County board of
commissioners, or any other body or organization which has been appointed by
the Gem County board of commissioners to manage the Gem Island Sports Complex,
for an extension to allow an event to exceed the closing time of the complex.
Failure to comply shall constitute an infraction. (Ord. 2012-03, 7-23-2012)
7-2-2: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Power To Establish: The board of commissioners for Gem County is
empowered by this chapter to establish, by resolution, rules and regulations
for the use of the Gem Island Sports Complex.
   B.   Displayed: These rules and regulations shall be prominently displayed
at any and all entrances to the Island.
   C.   Violation: Violation of any of these rules and regulations shall be
considered a misdemeanor and subject the offender to the penalties as set out
in section
7-2-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-03, 7-23-2012)
7-2-3: MOTORIZED VEHICLES:
   A.   Designated Roadways: There shall be no motorized vehicles allowed on
the Gem Island Sports Complex except upon designated roadways and public
parking lots.
   B.   Maximum Speed: Motorized vehicles shall not exceed a speed of ten (10)
miles per hour while on designated roadways or in parking lots. (Ord. 2012-03,
7-23-2012)
7-2-4: SWIMMING IN POND:
Swimming in the pond on the Gem Island Sports Complex is strictly prohibited.
(Ord. 2012-03, 7-23-2012)
7-2-5: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
The use or possession of alcoholic beverages on the Island is prohibited. (Ord.
2012-03, 7-23-2012)
7-2-6: FIREWORKS:
No fireworks of any type shall be lit, launched, ignited, or used on Gem Island
Sports Complex except by persons or organizations that have obtained a permit
from the Gem County board of commissioners, or such other body or organization
as has been appointed by the board to manage the complex, to put on a public
fireworks display. (Ord. 2012-03, 7-23-2012)
7-2-7: FIRES:
Fires are strictly prohibited in the Gem Island Sports Complex except by
persons or organizations that have obtained a permit from the Gem County board
of commissioners designating authorized user, location, time and place,
refundable deposit fee and other conditions of operation. Failure to comply
shall constitute an infraction. (Ord. 2012-03, 7-23-2012)
7-2-8: SERIOUS AND/OR REPEATED VIOLATIONS:
Serious and/or repeated violations of the requirements of this chapter or the
rules and regulations established by the board will constitute grounds for the
board, any law enforcement personnel, or any agent of the board designated to
manage the complex, to require the offender to stay off the Island for any
period of time deemed appropriate. Failure to comply with this requirement
shall constitute a misdemeanor and subject the offender to the penalties as set
out in section
7-2-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-03, 7-23-2012)
7-2-9: PENALTY:
Unless specified otherwise, violation of any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to the general penalties outlined in Title 1, Chapter 4 of
this code. (Ord. 2012-03, 7-23-2012; amd. Ord. 2022-05, 6- -2022)
CHAPTER 3
GEM COUNTY FAIRGROUNDS RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK
SECTION:
7-3-1: Authority
7-3-2: Definitions
7-3-3: Rules
7-3-4: Penalty
7-3-1: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted by article 12,
section 2 of the Constitution of the State of Idaho, and by Idaho Code section
31-714. (Ord. 97-08, 8-18-1997, eff. 9-4-1997; amd. Ord. 2020-01, 2-10-2020)
7-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases when used herein shall be defined as follows:
COUNTY: Gem County, Idaho.
DESIGNATED PET AREA: The area where guests may walk their pets.
DURATION OF STAY: The length of time a guest may occupy the park in one
continuous period of time.
LOCK BOX: The designated payment depository where guests may pay for their stay
in the park.
NIGHTLY FEE: The amount of money remitted as rent for overnight use of the park
by guests, per twenty-four (24) hour period.
OPEN FIRES: Any fire other than that used in a fully contained barbecue unit.
QUIET HOURS: Designates the time period where guests must not make any loud
noises or disturbances that would interfere with the peace and quiet of other
guests.
SELF-CONTAINED VEHICLE: Any camper, trailer, motor home, or other vehicle with
an onboard sewage containment tank. (Ord. 97-08, 8-18-1997, eff. 9-4-1997; amd.
Ord. 2020-01, 2-10-2020)
7-3-3: RULES:
The following rules will govern the use of the recreational vehicle park:
   A.   Allowed Use: Only "self-contained vehicles" as defined in this chapter
are allowed to utilize the recreational vehicle park.
      1.   Recreational vehicles must be current on license registration to
utilize the park.
      2.   No more than two (2) automobiles allowed per RV space (tow vehicle
or motor home and one (1) other).
   B.   Duration: No person may utilize the recreational vehicle park for
longer than one hundred sixty eight (168) consecutive hours/seven (7) days.
After a person or persons have stayed at the recreational vehicle park for one
hundred sixty eight (168) hours/seven (7) days, they must cease to utilize the
park for a period of seventy-two (72) hours before using it again.
   C.   Fees: The fee for use of one of the recreational vehicle stalls is
twenty dollars ($20.00) per twenty four (24) hour period or any part thereof.
The fee is due upon check-in and will be paid into a lock box which is provided
by the county. Use of the facilities without payment therefor shall constitute
a misdemeanor and shall subject the violator to the penalty provisions
contained in section
7-3-4  of this chapter.
   D.   Check Out: Check out time for recreational vehicles is noon (12:00
p.m.).
   E.   Pets: Pets shall be allowed in designated pet areas only and must be on
a leash at all times. All pet waste must be collected and deposited in provided
containers.
   F.   Fires: No open fires are allowed anywhere in the recreational vehicle
park.
   G.   Quiet Hours: The recreational vehicle park shall be subject to quiet
hours from ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., seven (7)
days a week. Any person utilizing the park or visiting another person who is
utilizing the park may be requested by a law enforcement officer or another
agent of the county to reduce the noise level. Failure to comply with that
request is a violation of this chapter and subjects the violator to the
provisions of section
7-3-4  of this chapter.
   H.   Cleanliness: All trash must be deposited in provided containers only.
No person shall deposit waste, water, sewage or effluent from sinks, portable
toilets, and other plumbing fixtures directly upon or into the surface of the
ground, pavement, grass, sand, or water. Outdoor showering is not permitted.
   I.   Enforcement: All persons utilizing the recreational vehicle park and
all persons visiting persons who are utilizing the park must comply with any
and all lawful directions and instructions from Gem County law enforcement
personnel, or other designated agent of Gem County, with regard to usage of the
recreational vehicle park. Gem County reserves the right to require any person
who does not comply with the regulations contained in this chapter, or who
creates a disturbance, to leave the recreational vehicle park. Any person who
refuses to leave the park upon order of a law enforcement officer or another
designated agent of the county shall be in violation of this chapter and
subject to the penalty provisions contained in section
7-3-4  of this chapter or issuance of a trespass order. (Ord. 97-08, 8-18-1997,
eff. 9-4-1997; amd. 2020 Code; Ord. 2017-04, 4- 10-2017; Ord. 2020-01, 2-10-
2020)
7-3-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to the
general penalties outlined in Title 1, Chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 97-08, 8-
18-1997, eff. 9-4-1997; amd. Ord. 2020-01, 2-10-2020; Ord. 2022-05, 6- -2022)
CHAPTER 4
BARKER ISLAND
SECTION:
7-4-1: Hunting Prohibited
7-4-2: Discharge Of Firearm Or Pellet Gun Prohibited
7-4-3: Penalty
7-4-1: HUNTING PROHIBITED:
No person shall hunt on, above, or from Barker Island. Hunting shall be defined
for the purposes of this chapter as stated in Idaho Code section 36-202(i).
(Ord. 98-02.1, 12-15-1997)
7-4-2: DISCHARGE OF FIREARM OR PELLET GUN PROHIBITED:
No person shall discharge any firearm or shoot any pellet gun while on Barker
Island. (Ord. 98-02.1, 12-15-1997)
7-4-3: PENALTY:
Violation of this chapter shall be subject to the general penalties outlined in
Title 1, Chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 98-02.1, 12-15-1997; amd. Ord. 2022-05,
6- -2022)
CHAPTER 5
STREETS AND HIGHWAYS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Guidelines Adopted
7-5-1: GUIDELINES ADOPTED:
The highway and street guidelines for design and construction, on file in the
county and as may be amended from time to time, is hereby adopted to govern
highway and street design and construction within the jurisdiction of Gem
County. In the event any standard herein conflicts with other federal, state,
or local laws and regulations, the stricter requirement shall apply. (Ord.
2007-09, 8-13-2007)
TITLE 8
SANITARY CODE
CHAPTER 1
SEWER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Authority
8-1-2: Purpose
8-1-3: Definitions
8-1-4: Prohibited Conditions
8-1-5: Standards Of Maintenance
8-1-6: Removal, Transportation Or Disposal Of Sewage, Sewage Sludge Or Human
Excrement
8-1-1: AUTHORITY:
The southwest III district health board under and pursuant to the powers vested
in it by title 39, chapter 4, section 39-410, Idaho Code, and in order to carry
out the work effectively and to perform properly the duties intended and
required by said statute, does hereby make and place into effect rules and
regulations deemed necessary and proper to prevent the outbreak and spread of
dangerous contagious and infectious disease, said rules and regulations to be
known collectively as the SANITARY CODE OF GEM COUNTY. (Approved 12-27-1971)
8-1-2: PURPOSE:
This sanitary code is based on the concept of controlling and changing the
physical environments so as to protect and improve the public health. Certain
types of illness may be prevalent where living conditions place dependence on
common water supplies and on others for food and drink, where vermin abound,
where disposal of body wastes endanger others, and where filth in general
abounds. Such conditions perpetuate disease and may set into action a series of
events that result in epidemics. Methods have been developed to deal
competently with conditions promoting the transmission of disease. It is hereby
declared to be the duty of the board of health to deal with forces and
processes of the environment and to influence or control them in the interest
of health, individual and community alike, to prevent the outbreak and spread
of dangerous, contagious and infectious disease. (Approved 12-27-1971)
8-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BOARD OF HEALTH: The southwest III district health board.
DOMESTIC SEWAGE: Sewage derived principally from dwellings, business buildings,
and institutions and may not contain ground water, surface water or storm
water.
HEALTH OFFICER: The county health officer appointed by the board or his
authorized representative.
INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE: Sewage in which industrial wastes predominate.
INDUSTRIAL WASTE: The liquid waste from industrial processes as distinct from
domestic or sanitary sewage.
SANITARY CODE: The entire series of rules, now and hereafter adopted by the
board of health, which govern the environment of the area under jurisdiction by
the board, and specifically the several sections which follow hereafter.
SANITARY SEWAGE: A. Domestic sewage with storm and surface water included;
   B.   Sewage discharged from sanitary conveniences of dwellings, (including
apartment houses and hotels), office buildings, factories and institutions; or
   C.   The water supply of a community after it has been used and discharged
into a sewer.
SEWAGE: The liquid or water carried wastes from residences, business buildings,
and institutions together with the sanitary sewage from industrial
establishments, and with such ground water, surface water, and storm water as
may be present, but for the purpose of these regulations shall not include
industrial wastes.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit, generally closed but normally not flowing full, for
carrying sewage or other waste liquids.
SEWERAGE SYSTEM: A system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage and industrial wastes.
SEWERAGE TREATMENT: Any artificial process to which sewerage is subjected in
order to remove or alter its objectionable constituents and thus render it less
offensive or dangerous, and approved by the state board of health. (Approved
12-27-1971)
8-1-4: PROHIBITED CONDITIONS:
   A.   Sewage, sewage effluent, or human excretion should not be allowed to
remain open to the atmosphere, or not on the surface of the ground so that it
is or is likely to be:
      1.   A source of flies or fly breeding.
      2.   A source of noxious or offensive odors or conditions inimical to
public interest, dangerous or prejudicial to health, or a public nuisance.
   B.   Sewage, sewage effluent, or human excreta shall not be allowed to
endanger any source or supply of drinking water, or cause damage to any public
or private property.
   C.   Raw or untreated sewage shall not be allowed in any body of water,
watercourse, or any underground water drain, any storm water drain channel or
other surface water drain, except if subjected to satisfactory sewage
treatment.
   D.   No raw or untreated sewage shall be permitted to irrigate or flow onto
any ground so that edible portions of vegetables, fruit, root crops or other
edible portion of other growing food plants may come in contact with the sewage
or with such soil; or onto any ground used or intended to be used for the
pasture or enclosure of animals producing milk likely to be used for human
consumption or so that the sewage or soil containing such sewage will come in
contact with such animals, except if subjected to satisfactory sewage
treatment. (Approved 12-27-1971)
8-1-5: STANDARDS OF MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Existing Systems; Corrections, Alterations: Corrections and alterations
to existing sewerage systems or sewage treatment processes, or new sewerage
systems may be required when, in the opinion of the health officers, there is a
violation of
8-1-4 of this chapter.
   B.   Privies: Privies shall be maintained in such condition so as not to be
in violation of section
8-1-4 of this chapter.
   C.   Board Of Health Permit:
      1.   Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, alter or
extend individual sewage disposal systems within the county unless such person
holds a valid permit issued by the board of health or its legally authorized
representative in the name of such person for the specific construction,
alteration or extension proposed.
      2.   Application: Application for a permit shall be made to the board of
health or its authorized representative, shall be signed by the applicant and
shall include the following:
         a.   The applicant's name and address.
         b.   Lot and block number or street address and/or legal description
of property on which construction, alteration, or extension is proposed.
         c.   Complete plan of proposed disposal facility, including plot plan,
construction detail, location of water supplies and water supply lines,
existing sewage disposal facilities, buildings or dwellings, and adjacent lot
lines. (Approved 12-27-1971)
8-1-6: REMOVAL, TRANSPORTATION OR DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE, SEWAGE SLUDGE OR HUMAN
EXCREMENT:
   A.   Requirements: Any tank wagon, tank truck, can or other container or
equipment used or intended to be used for the purpose of removal and
transportation or disposal of sewage, sewage sludges, or human excrement shall
conform to the following requirements:
      1.   Watertight: The tank or container shall be watertight and so
constructed as to prevent spillage or leakage while being loaded or
transported.
      2.   Easily Cleaned: Tanks and containers shall be so constructed that
every portion of the interior and exterior can be easily cleaned and kept in a
clean condition at all times and while not in actual use.
   B.   Method Of Disposal: The material shall be disposed of in one or more of
the following ways:
      1.   Manhole Or Public Sewer: Discharged to a manhole on a public sewer.
      2.   Sewage Treatment Plant: Discharged to a sewage treatment plant.
      3.   Burial: Burial under two feet (2') of earth in a location and in a
manner not conflicting with section
8-1-4 of this chapter.
      4.   Drying: Drying in a manner not creating a nuisance and not
conflicting with section
8-1-4 of this chapter. (Approved 12-27-1971)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCE AND PENALTY
SECTION:
8-2-1: Nuisance Declared
8-2-2: Penalty
8-2-1: NUISANCE DECLARED:
The violation of any health regulation promulgated by the board is declared to
be an unhealthy nuisance. (Approved 12-27-1971; amd. Ord. 2022-05, 6- -2022)
8-2-2: PENALTY:
The penalty for any violation of this Title is in accordance with the penalties
outlined in
1-4-1  Title 39, Chapter 4 of Idaho Code, or if no penalty there exists, a
general misdemeanor as outlined in Idaho Code 18-113. (Ord. 2022-05, 6- -2022)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
9-1-1: Building Codes Adopted
9-1-2: Idaho Residential Energy Standards Adopted
9-1-1: BUILDING CODES ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption: The approved editions of the following nationally recognized
codes, as adopted by the state of Idaho of the Idaho building code board, are
adopted as the official building codes of Gem County:
      1.   International building code, including all rules promulgated by the
board to provide equivalency with the provisions of the Americans with
disabilities act accessibility guidelines and the federal fair housing act
accessibility guidelines.
      2.   International residential code, parts I-IV and IX.
The adopted versions of the foregoing codes shall be deemed superseded by
successive versions of such codes as they are adopted or approved by the Idaho
building code board effective on the date any such codes are made effective by
the Idaho building code board.
   B.   Exemptions: Agricultural buildings are exempt from the building codes
adopted herein but shall remain subject to placement requirements established
by zoning regulations. (Ord. 2003-10, 8-12-2003)
9-1-2: IDAHO RESIDENTIAL ENERGY STANDARDS ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption: The county adopts the statewide construction standards for
energy conservation established in chapter 23, title 44, Idaho Code.
   B.   Authorizations: The county will accept residential building
certifications from builders and issue authorizations to electrify according to
procedures described in the rules and regulations known as the Idaho
residential energy standards promulgated by the director of the Idaho
department of labor and industrial services. (Res. 91-02, 12-17-1990)
CHAPTER 2
MOBILE HOMES
SECTION:
9-2-1: Assessment Sticker
9-2-2: Installation Inspection Fee
9-2-1: ASSESSMENT STICKER:
   A.   Required: The county assessor or his deputy, after having assessed a
mobile home located in the county, shall furnish to the owner or occupant of
such mobile home an emblem or sticker, which emblem or sticker shall be printed
and furnished at county cost, to the owner or occupant of such mobile home, or
shall affix such emblem or sticker to such mobile home, and such emblem or
sticker shall be affixed so that it shall be visible from the public roadway,
and such emblem or sticker shall designate that said mobile home has been
assessed for that year.
   B.   Penalty: It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy or own a mobile
home in the county for a continuous period in excess of seventy two (72) hours
without having displayed, the emblem or sticker described in subsection A of
this section. A violation of this section shall be subject to the general
penalties outlined in Title 1, Chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 1-73, 1-22-1973,
eff. 3-1-1973; amd. Ord. 2022-05, 6- -2022)
9-2-2: INSTALLATION INSPECTION FEE:
The board of county commissioners hereby advises all appropriate individuals
and entities that there will be a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) charged for the
inspection on the installation of mobile or manufactured homes placed in the
county. (Res. 93-07, 8-2-1993)
CHAPTER 3
CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION NUMBER
SECTION:
9-3-1: Registration Number
9-3-2: Development Services Department Action
9-3-1: REGISTRATION NUMBER:
No building permit shall be issued to an applicant by the Gem County
development services department without presenting the development services
department with the contractor registration number for the contractor that will
be performing the construction of the building, unless the permit applicant
provides evidence to the satisfaction of the development services department
that the applicant and/or contractor is exempt from the registration
requirements pursuant to chapter 52 of title 54 of the Idaho Code. (Ord. 2006-
03, 3-13-2006)
9-3-2: DEVELOPMENT SERVICES DEPARTMENT ACTION:
When a contractor's registration number is required for a building permit, the
development services department shall conspicuously enter the contractor's
registration number on the face of the building permit issued. A building
permit may be issued to a person otherwise exempt from registration provided
such building permit shall conspicuously contain the phrase "no contractor
registration required". (Ord. 2006-03, 3-13-2006)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Application Requirements
9-4-1: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Authority: This section is authorized under the provisions of Idaho
Code section 67-6518.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to enhance the protection of
property and surface water against adverse effects from storm water runoff,
soil erosion, excavation, filling, clearing, unstable earthworks and other
activities related to the design and construction of building sites, roads and
other service amenities.
   C.   Applicability: This section applies to any person filing for a building
permit, final plat, private road application, floodplain development permit or
similar construction activity that requires an application through the
development services department and which application involves grading,
filling, excavation, earth removal or similar activity and where such activity
disturbs one or more acres of land and has the ability to discharge storm water
to a water of the United States.
   D.   Application And Information Requirements: Any person meeting the
criteria of subsection C of this section shall submit one of the following
documents to the development services department with their relevant
development application:
      1.   A copy of the notice of intent (NOI) filed with environmental
protection agency's (EPA) construction general permit (CGP) for the property on
which the proposed development activity will occur; or
      2.   A written and signed statement that the proposed development
activity is not subject to the CGP through EPA.
   E.   Administration: This section shall be administered in a manner
consistent with other ordinances of Gem County by an administrator as approved
by the board of county commissioners. The administrator and/or his or her
designated staff shall ensure proper notification to all applicants of the
requirements noted herein. The administrator shall require applicants to submit
acreage calculations, activity descriptions or other relevant information to
determine compliance with this section.
   F.   Appeals: Appeals concerning interpretation and administration of this
section may be filed as set forth in title 11, chapter 13 of this code. (Ord.
2007-21, 12-17-2007)
TITLE 10
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
CHAPTER 1
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
SECTION:
10-1-1: Adoption Of Plan
10-1-1: ADOPTION OF PLAN:
The board of county commissioners of Gem County hereby adopts the Gem community
joint comprehensive plan, its accompanying future land use map and any
amendments thereto. (Res. 2007-05, 7-2-2007)
CHAPTER 2
EMMETT AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
10-2-1: Purpose
10-2-2:    Emmett Area Of City Impact Boundary
10-2-3:    Annexation Limited
10-2-4:    Applicable Comprehensive Plan
10-2-5:    Applicable Ordinances and Standards
10-2-6:    Coordination of Plan Amendments, Ordinance Amendments, and Zoning
Applications
10-2-7:    Renegotiation
10-2-8:    Severability
10-2-1: PURPOSE:
To promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of Gem County and the
City of Emmett’s residents by establishing regulations for the Emmett Area of
City Impact, and further to ensure timely and economical provision of public
services such as water supply, sanitary and storm sewage collection and
treatment, public safety services, other community service facilities, and
promotes land use compatibility, street alignment and traffic flow objectives.
Section 67-6526, Idaho Code, requires that cities and counties negotiate an
area of city impact. (Ord. 98-04, 1-12-1998, eff. 2-9-1998; amd. Ord. 2023-7A,
5-23-2023)
10-2-2: EMMETT AREA OF CITY IMPACT BOUNDARY:
   A.   Boundary Map: The Emmett Area of City Impact is the area designated on
the Gem County land use map designated as Emmett Area of City Impact, attached
as Exhibit A to the ordinance herein and fully incorporated by this reference,
copies of which are available for inspection and delivery at the Gem County
Development Service office.
   B.   Property Split By Boundary: In case a property under single ownership
is divided by the boundary line of the Emmett Area of City Impact and the line
divides such property so that one or both parts has a depth of three hundred
feet (300') or less, such part may be included in the jurisdiction within which
the remainder and larger portion of the property is located. (Ord. 2023-7A, 5-
23-2023; amd. Ord. 2023-7B, 5-23-2023)
10-2-3: ANNEXATION LIMITED:
   A.   Lands Within Area of Impact: Annexation by the City of Emmett shall be
limited to lands lying within the Emmett Area of City Impact and pursuant to
Idaho Code section 50-222 et seq.
   B.   Application of Provisions Upon Annexation: Upon annexation, the
provisions of this title shall no longer apply to the annexed area.
   C.   Annexation Notification: The City of Emmett must notify the director of
the county’s development services department in writing ten (10) calendar days
in advance of the first public hearing at which annexation is considered by the
City of Emmett. The City of Emmett shall notify Gem County in writing within
ten (10) calendar days following the effective date of the adoption of each
annexation ordinance. (Ord. 2023-7A, 5-23-2023)
10-2-4: APPLICABLE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
The Gem County Comprehensive Plan, as amended, shall apply to the Emmett Area
of City Impact. Gem County recognizes that the City of Emmett has also
developed a comprehensive plan and accompanying map for the Emmett Area of City
Impact. Gem County shall give consideration to the city’s comprehensive plan
map designations when evaluating development requests within the Emmett Area of
City Impact. (Ord. 2023-7A, 5-23-2023)
10-2-5: APPLICABLE ORDINANCES AND STANDARDS:
   A.   Zoning: The Gem County Zoning and Subdivision Ordinance, Titles 11 and
12 of the Gem County Code, shall apply.
   B.   Subdivision:
      1.   Applications for RESIDENTIAL subdivision development that are both
in the Emmett Area of City Impact AND within one quarter (1/4) mile of the
corporate limits of the city of Emmett shall be evaluated for conformance to
the standards set forth in the City of Emmett’s subdivision ordinance, as
lawfully amended. The City Engineer will review the application and provide
written confirmation of conformance city’s subdivision ordinance.
      2.   Applications for RESIDENTIAL subdivision development within the
Emmett Area of City Impact AND beyond one quarter (1/4) mile of the corporate
limits of the City of Emmett shall be evaluated for conformance to the
standards set forth in Gem County’s Subdivision Ordinance, as lawfully amended.
      3.   Applications for MINOR RESIDENTIAL subdivision development as
defined in Gem County Code shall be evaluated for conformance to the standards
set forth in Gem County’s Subdivision Ordinance, as lawfully amended.
      4.   Applications for COMMERCIAL subdivision development within the
Emmett Area of City Impact shall be evaluated for conformance to the standards
set forth in the City of Emmett’s subdivision ordinance, as lawfully amended.
The City Engineer will review the application and provide written confirmation
of conformance city’s subdivision ordinance.
   C.   Special Use Permits And All Other Discretionary Applications:
      1.   Applications for anything other than zoning or subdivision
development in the Emmett Area of City Impact but not adjacent to the corporate
limits of the City of Emmett shall be evaluated for conformance to the
standards set forth in in the Gem County Code, as amended.
      2.   Applications for anything other than zoning or subdivision
development within the Emmett Area of City Impact and adjacent to the corporate
limits of the city of Emmett shall take into consideration the City of Emmett’s
ordinance, as amended.
   D.   Airport Area Of Influence: Any land use application within the airport
area of influence as depicted on the City of Emmett’s City of Emmett Master
Airport Plan shall be referred to the City of Emmett for review and comment at
least thirty (30) days prior to decision on the application. Gem County shall
take into consideration the City of Emmett’s comments and the City of Emmett’s
Master Airport Plan when evaluating applications within the airport area of
influence. (Ord. 2023-7A, 5-23-2023)
10-2-6: COORDINATION OF PLAN AMENDMENTS, ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS AND ZONING
APPLICATIONS:
   A.   At least thirty (30) days prior to a Planning and Zoning Commission
hearing on all County and City amendments to their respective Comprehensive
Plans and zoning ordinances which apply within the Emmett Area of City Impact
shall be sent by the entity considering such amendment to the other entity.
   B.   At least thirty (30) days prior to any public hearing, all county
applications for subdivisions, rezones, and special use permits within the
Emmett Area of City Impact shall be sent to Emmett City. Written comments and
recommendations shall be sent to Gem County no later than twenty (20) days
after the referral is received. If no written comment is received, the county
will consider the absence of written comments from the city as “No comments
from the City of Emmett” and this wording will be entered into the official
public record for the affected project.
   C.   At least thirty (30) days prior to any public hearing, all city
applications for subdivisions, rezones, and special use permits within the
Emmett Area of City Impact shall be sent to Gem County. Written comments and
recommendations shall be sent to the City of Emmett no later than twenty (20)
days after the referral is received. If no written comment is received, the
city will consider the absence of written comments from the county as “No
comments from Gem County” and this wording will be entered into the official
public record for the affected project. (Ord. 2023-7A, 5-23-2023)
10-2-7: RENEGOTIATION:
   A.   In accordance with Idaho Code 67-6526(d), the Board of Gem County
Commissioners or the Emmett City Council may request to renegotiate any
provision of this section. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of such written
request by each part, a meeting between the two jurisdictions shall occur.
   B.   While renegotiation is occurring, the provisions of this section shall
remain in effect until this chapter is amended or a substitute ordinance is
adopted by Gem County and the City of Emmett, in accordance with the notice and
hearing procedures provided in Gem County and Idaho Codes, or until a
declaratory judgment from the District Court is final. However, this section or
stipulated portions thereof shall be of no further force and effect if both
jurisdictions so agree by mutually adopted resolution. (Ord. 2023-7A, 5-23-
2023)
10-2-8: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, paragraph, sentence or provision hereof or the application
thereof to any particular circumstances shall ever be held invalid or
unenforceable, such holding shall not affect the remainder hereof, which shall
continue in full force and effect and applicable to all circumstances to which
it may validly apply. (Ord. 2023-7A, 5-23-2023)
TITLE 11
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, AUTHORITY, PURPOSE,
INTERPRETATION AND ZONING MAP
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Authority
11-1-3: Purpose
11-1-4: Declaration
11-1-5: Interpretation And Intent
11-1-6: Preservation Of Private Property Rights
11-1-7: Other Laws And Private Restrictions
11-1-8: Conformance Required
11-1-9: Prior Rights And Permits
11-1-10: Zoning Map
11-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known and entitled as the GEM COUNTY ZONING ORDINANCE, and
may be so cited and pleaded. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-1-2: AUTHORITY:
This title is adopted pursuant to authority granted by title 67, chapter 65 of
the Idaho Code, and article 12, section 2 of the Idaho constitution, as amended
or subsequently modified. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-1-3: PURPOSE:
This title, the zones, boundaries and regulations which apply within each of
the zones have been made in accordance with a comprehensive plan, which plan
and ordinance are designed to protect and promote the health, safety, and
general welfare of the community. It is intended, therefore, to:
   A.   Provide protection of property rights by conserving existing uses and
controlling future development.
   B.   Provide protection from the menace to the public safety that would
result from placement of buildings or other structures in such locations, or in
such a manner as to interfere with present or future traffic movement, and to
promote beauty along the highways and elsewhere.
   C.   Ensure that adequate public facilities and services are provided to the
people at a reasonable cost.
   D.   Ensure that the economy of the county and localities is protected and
enhanced.
   E.   Encourage the protection of prime agricultural lands for the production
of food, and to foster agriculture and industry together with uses related
thereto.
   F.   Ensure that the important environmental features of the county and
localities are protected and enhanced.
   G.   Encourage urban and urban type development within incorporated cities.
   H.   Avoid undue concentration of population and overcrowding of the land.
   I.   Ensure that the development of land is commensurate with the physical
characteristics of the land.
   J.   Protect life and property in areas subject to natural hazards and
disasters.
   K.   Protect fish, wildlife and recreation resources.
   L.   Avoid undue water and air pollution.
   M.   Promote the health, morals, convenience, order, prosperity, and general
welfare of the inhabitants of the county.
   N.   Secure safety from fire, flood, traffic hazards and other dangers.
   O.   Ensure public health is protected from diseases resulting from
unsanitary, overcrowded conditions.
   P.   Protect the tax base. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-1-4: DECLARATION:
In establishing the zones, the boundaries thereof and the regulations applying
within each of the zones, due and careful consideration was given, among other
things, to the suitability of land for particular uses with a view toward
conserving the value of buildings and land for the best use in encouraging the
most appropriate use of land throughout the county. The location of boundaries
of cities and any other areas not subject to zoning regulations by the board of
county commissioners, together with regulations applying within each city were
also considered in preparation of the ordinance codified in this title. (Ord.
2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-1-5: INTERPRETATION AND INTENT:
It is the intent of the board of county commissioners that the regulations and
restrictions, as set forth in this title, shall be also interpreted and
construed as to further the purpose of this title and objectives and
characteristics of the respective zones.
It shall be unlawful for any person to receive a building or zoning permit
without first complying with the provisions of this title and any other
applicable provisions of this code. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-1-6: PRESERVATION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY RIGHTS:
This title shall be interpreted in its various particulars to equally protect
each citizen from the undue encroachment in his private property to the end
that within the plan established, each citizen shall have the maximum use of
his property without placing undue burden upon that of his neighbor. Every
citizen of the county shall at all times have the right to appear in person, or
by his attorney or agent, before the commission or board of county
commissioners, as the case may be, in the proper order of business and before
such commission or board of county commissioners, to freely petition for the
relief of an alleged burden created by this title, and to appeal a decision of
the commission pursuant to the procedures herein set out to the board of county
commissioners and the courts of the state. In the enforcement of this title, it
shall be deemed to apply similarly and equally to each person and property in
similar circumstances and shall not be enforced to discriminate between one
individual and another individual or group as compared to all others similarly
situated. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-1-7: OTHER LAWS AND PRIVATE RESTRICTIONS:
It is not intended by this title to impair or interfere with other regulations
of effective state or local law or with private restrictions of the use of land
improvements and structures. Where this title imposes greater restrictions than
that imposed by the law or by private restrictions, this title shall prevail.
The stricter provisions of health department regulations and other regulations,
ordinances and state laws shall apply in the enforcement of this title. (Ord.
2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-1-8: CONFORMANCE REQUIRED:
Except as herein specified, no land, building, structure, or premises shall
hereafter be used, and no building or part thereof, or other structure shall be
located, erected, moved, reconstructed, extended, enlarged, or altered except
in conforming with the requirements herein specified for the zone in which it
is located. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-1-9: PRIOR RIGHTS AND PERMITS:
The enactment of this title shall not terminate or otherwise affect the rights,
variances and permits acquired or authorized for work that is actively in
progress under the provisions of any ordinance hereby repealed. Where a
building permit has been issued for the construction of a building or
structure, and for an authorized use and occupancy thereof, in accordance with
the law prior to the effective date hereof, said building or structure may be
completed in conformance with the approved plans and on the basis for which the
said building permit has been issued, provided construction of said building or
structure is commenced within one hundred twenty (120) days of the effective
date of the building permit and diligently prosecuted to completion. (Ord.
2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-1-10: ZONING MAP:
This title consists of this text and the official zoning map which shall be
designated as the Gem County zoning map, is hereby adopted by the board of
county commissioners as part of this title. Zoning boundaries shall be
interpreted per section
11-3-4 of this title. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITION OF TERMS
SECTION:
11-2-1: General Terms
11-2-2: Definitions
11-2-1: GENERAL TERMS:
For the purpose of this title, certain terms or words used herein shall be
defined and interpreted as follows:
   A.   The present tense includes the future tense, the singular numbers
include the plural and the plural numbers include the singular;
   B.   The words "shall" and "must" are always mandatory requirements, the
word "may" is a permissive requirement and the word "should" is a preference;
   C.   The words "used" or "occupied" include the words "intended, designed or
arranged to be used or occupied";
   D.   The word "lot" includes the words "plot", "parcel" and "tract";
   E.   The term "erected" means "constructed", "altered", "moved" or
"repaired". (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
ACCESS: A clear and unobstructed means of ingress and egress.
ACCESSORY BUILDING: A secondary building, the use of which is customarily a
part of and incidental but similar to that of the main building and which is
located on the same plot and is a permitted use for that particular zone in
which it is located and does not change the character of the permitted use.
ACCESSORY USE: The use of land, secondary building or part thereof, or a
portion of the main building, such as being accessory to, or incidental to, the
principal use of the premises wherein accessory uses are authorized uses which
do not require a permit.
ACRE: Forty three thousand five hundred sixty (43,560) square feet.
ADMINISTRATOR: The administrator of the Gem County development services
department, his or her designee, or another official expressly appointed by the
board of county commissioners to administer this title; or the building
official.
AFFECTED PERSON: One having an interest in real property that may be adversely
affected by the issuance or denial of a permit, as set forth in title 67,
chapter 65, Idaho Code.
AGRICULTURAL BUILDING: A structure designed and constructed on agricultural
land of five (5) acres or more, to house farm implements, hay, grain, poultry,
livestock or other horticultural products. This structure shall not be a place
of human habitation (this shall involve the need for office space, a dwelling
or restrooms) or a place of employment where agricultural products are
processed, treated or packaged, nor shall it be a place used by the public.
AGRICULTURAL LAND OR PURPOSE: An agricultural purpose or agricultural land, as
defined below, is land with an area of five (5) acres or more.
AGRICULTURE: Tilling of soil, horticulture, floriculture, forestry, fisheries,
viticulture, raising crops, livestock, farming, dairying and animal husbandry
including all uses customarily accessory and incidental thereto; but excluding
slaughterhouses, fertilizer works, boneyards and commercial feedlots.
Incidental retailing of goods on the premises of goods and products raised on
the premises shall also be considered as being within the definition of
agriculture.
AIRPORT: Any runway, landing area or other facility designed or used either
publicly or privately by any person for the landing and taking off of aircraft,
including all necessary taxiway, aircraft storage and tie down areas, hangars
and other necessary buildings.
ALLEY: A right of way designed to serve as secondary access to the side or rear
of those properties whose principal frontage is on a road.
ANIMAL CLINIC OR VETERINARY OFFICE: Any building or portion thereof designed or
used for the care or treatment of cats, dogs, sheep, cattle, and horses or
other animals in which veterinary services are performed including clipping,
bathing, boarding, and other services are rendered to such animals and pets.
APARTMENT: A multi-family residential complex. All units are owned by a single
person, group of people, or corporation and rented or leased to individuals.
APARTMENT HOUSE OR MULTI-FAMILY USE: Any building or portion thereof which is
designed, built, rented, leased, lent or hired out to be occupied, or which is
occupied as a home or residence of three (3) or more families living
independently of each other and doing their own cooking in said building, and
shall include flats and apartments.
APPLICANT: Any owner of land or an authorized representative who files an
application for a permit, variance or appeal in accordance with the
requirements of this title.
APPLICATION: The forms and information required to be filed by the applicant
for any permit, variance or appeal under this title.
AREA, MINIMUM LOT: The minimum area that is required within the property lines
of the lot excluding adjoining roads or rights of way.
AREA OF CITY IMPACT: The urbanized area surrounding a city as established by
mutual agreement with the county in conformance with the laws of the state of
Idaho.
AREA, PRIVATE PARKING: An open, graded area, other than a road or public way,
designed, arranged and made available for the storage of private passenger
automobiles or motor vehicles of occupants of the buildings for which the
parking area is developed.
AREA, PUBLIC PARKING: An open area, other than a road or alley, used for the
temporary parking of automobiles or other transportation and available for
public use, whether free, for compensation, or as an accommodation for clients
or customers.
AREA, SETBACK: The space on a lot required to be left open and unoccupied by
buildings or structures, either by the front, side or rear requirements of this
title, or by delineation on a recorded subdivision planned unit development
map.
AUTO SERVICE STATION: An area used exclusively for retail sales of fuels or
oils, having storage tanks and pumps located thereon and including minor
automotive repairs and washing, but not including body repairs, battery
rebuilding, engine rebuilding or any other major automobile repair.
AUTOMOBILE, MOTOR VEHICLE OR EQUIPMENT REPAIR: The repair, rebuilding or
reconditioning of motor vehicles or equipment repair or part thereof, including
collision, service, painting and steam cleaning of vehicles.
AUTOMOTIVE, MOTOR HOME, TRAVEL TRAILER AND FARM IMPLEMENT SALES: The sale or
rental of new and used motor homes, motor vehicles, travel trailers or farm
implements, but not including repair work except incidental warranty repair of
same, to be displayed and sold on the premises.
BAR/LOUNGE/TAVERN: A counter or establishment at which individual alcoholic
drinks and sometimes food are served at retail for consumption on the premises.
BICYCLE RACK: A device used for parking bicycles or similar nonmotorized
vehicles.
BOARD: The board of county commissioners of Gem County, Idaho.
BOARDING HOUSE, ROOMING HOUSE, DORMITORY: A dwelling or part thereof, other
than a hotel, motel or restaurant, where meals and/or lodging are provided for
compensation for three (3) or more persons not in the same family, where no
cooking or dining facilities are provided in the individual rooms.
BOND, PERFORMANCE OR SURETY: A financial guarantee by a third party on behalf
of a subdivider or developer with the county per title 12, chapter 5 of this
code.
BUILDING: Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any use
or occupancy.
BUILDING, ASSEMBLY: The use of a building or structure, or any portion thereof,
for the gathering of persons for purposes such as civic, social or religious
functions; recreation, food or drink consumption; or awaiting transportation.
BUILDING CLASSIFICATIONS: Building classifications not defined in this title
shall be classified in accordance with its occupancy use, as set forth in the
adopted building code.
BUILDING, EXISTING: A building erected prior to the effective date of October
10, 1978, or one for which a legal building permit has been issued, prior to
the effective date.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from grade to the highest point of the
coping of a flat roof, or to the deck of a mansard roof or to the average
height of the highest gable of a pitched or hip roof.
BUILDING LINE: A line which is usually parallel with a road right of way line,
shore of a lake, edge of a stream or a riverbank established on a parcel of
land, or on a lot for the purpose of prohibiting construction of a building.
BUILDING, MAIN OR PRINCIPAL: A building other than an accessory building, and
for which the use thereof is authorized by this title for the zone in which it
is located.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: The officer or other designated authority charged with the
administration and enforcement of the building code.
BUILDING PERMIT: A required permit to be issued by the Gem County building
official allowing any person, firm, or corporation to erect, construct,
enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert, or demolish any
building or structure in the county or cause the same to be done, with
exception to agricultural building classification which requires a zoning
permit.
BULK BUILDING MATERIALS: Materials used in construction, improvement, or
anything essential toward the completion of a building or structure for the use
intended, which are purchased or sold in quantities described as units,
pallets, or bags, and are limited to the following materials or materials of
similar nature: lumber (including decking, timbers and railroad ties), plywood
particleboard, siding, gypsum (sheetrock), fencing (wood, metal, and plastic),
roofing, cement block, cement, brick stone, insulation, and landscaping
materials.
BULK PLANT: An establishment where liquids are received by tank vessels,
pipeline, tank car or tank vehicle, and are stored or blended in bulk for the
purpose of distributing such liquids by tank vessel, pipeline, tank car, tank
vehicle or container.
BUSINESS: The purchase, sale, exchange or other transaction involving the
handling or disposition of any article, substance or commodity for profit or
livelihood, or the ownership or management of office buildings, offices,
recreation or amusement enterprises, or the maintenance and use of offices or
professions and trades rendering services.
CENTER, DAYCARE: See definition of Daycare Center.
CENTER, MEDICAL HEALTH: See definition of Clinic.
CENTRAL OR COMMUNITY SEWAGE TREATMENT FACILITY: Any plant, lagoon, or system,
other than a septic tank, drainfield, or pit privy, for receiving, treating,
and disposing of sewage.
CLINIC: A healthcare building designed and used for medical and surgical
diagnosis or treatment of ambulatory human patients on an outpatient basis
(includes psychological evaluation, medical and dental).
CLUB OR LODGE: The facilities of an association of persons for the promotion of
some nonprofit common interest, such as literature, science, good fellowship,
etc.; and which holds meetings periodically which are limited to members and
guests.
COMMERCIAL ENTERTAINMENT FACILITIES: Any profitmaking activity which is
generally related to the entertainment field, such as motion picture theaters,
nightclubs, cocktail lounges and similar entertainment activities.
COMMERCIAL, HEAVY: An establishment or business, which generally uses open
sales yards, outside equipment storage, or outside activities that generate
noise or other impacts, considered incompatible with less intense uses. Typical
businesses in the definition are lumberyards, construction specialty services,
heavy equipment suppliers or building contractors.
COMMERCIAL MEATPACKING FACILITIES: Includes: a) meat canning, b) curing, c)
smoking, d) salting, e) packing and f) freezing or other similar establishments
in which meat products are so processed for sale to the retail trade, and where
the inspection of meat and meat byproducts are maintained.
COMMERCIAL PACKING SHED FOR FARM CROPS OR FRUIT: Packing sheds for fruit,
vegetables, hops, or other farm crops will be considered commercial for the
terms of this title when less than fifty percent (50%) of the farm crops graded
or packed are produced by the owner on his immediate farm, owned or leased
property.
COMMERCIAL SLAUGHTERHOUSE AND MEATPACKING FACILITIES: Includes the: a)
slaughtering, b) meat canning, c) curing, d) smoking, e) salting, f) packing,
g) rendering, h) freezing or other similar establishments in which meat
products are so processed for sale to the public and where the inspection of
meat, meat byproducts and meat food products are maintained.
COMMERCIAL USE: A use other than agriculture, which involves the sale of
products or services for profit or compensation.
COMMISSION, PLANNING AND ZONING: The Planning and Zoning Commission of Gem
County as appointed by the Board of County Commissioners. Primary
responsibilities will be to make zoning decisions and to make long term
planning recommendations for the County. The use of the term “Commission” in
this ordinance shall refer to the Planning and Zoning Commission unless
otherwise noted.
COMMON LOT: A lot separate from individual building lots. All street or road
buffers, buffers between incompatible land uses, and open space must be on a
common lot, owned and maintained by all residents or business owners within a
subdivision.
COMMON OPEN SPACE: Land area exclusive of street or road rights of way and
street or road buffers, except for right of way specifically dedicated for
landscaping within subdivision. Street or road buffers wider than the required
minimum dimension may count fifty percent (50%) of the additional area as open
space. Open space may include trees, natural environmental features,
playgrounds, water areas, swimming pools, community centers, and recreational
facilities. Common open space must be on a common lot.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: A compilation of goals, policies, maps and other data
guiding the physical, social and economic development, both public and private,
of the county and its environs, as defined in the Idaho local planning act of
1975 1 .
CONDOMINIUM: An estate consisting of: a) an undivided interest in common in
real property, in an interest or interests in real property, or in any
combination thereof, together with b) a separate interest in real property, in
an interest or interests in real property, or in any combination thereof.
CONDOMINIUM PLAT: The drawing of a division of real property into individual
interests in common together with a separate interest in the real property for
the purpose of establishing condominium ownership together with the declaration
that is filed according to law with the county recorder.
CONTRACTOR'S YARD: A defined area in which a construction contractor either
operates his business, stores or dispatches equipment or stores materials.
COUNCIL: The city council of an incorporated city.
COUNTY: Gem County, Idaho, and its governing board.
COVENANTS: A written promise or pledge which, when recorded, attaches to
affected realty and which cannot be separated from the land without the consent
of the affected landowners.
DAIRY FACILITY: A facility whose principal function is the production of milk
and milk products and which may include the processing of milk so produced. A
dairy facility further refers to a dairy barn or processing facility or feeding
area where animals are kept, raised or fed in a restricted area, and where the
milking area is subject to the approval of the state of Idaho.
DAYCARE CENTER: A place, home, building, or location providing care with
organized play and instruction, for more than five (5) children not residing on
the same premises. Must follow rules and regulations specified by Idaho Code
sections 39-1101 through 39-1119.
DEDICATION: The setting apart of land or interest in land for use by the
public. Land becomes dedicated only when accepted by the board of county
commissioners as a public dedication, either through the recording of a
subdivision plat, by the passage of a county ordinance or by entry of a
resolution of approval in the official minute book of the meeting of the board
of commissioners.
DEVELOPMENT: Any grading, vegetation removal, construction activity, or any
other activity, excluding maintenance, which changes the existing character or
use of the land or has any impact on adjoining properties.
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT: A contract between the applicant and the county to
assure performance of the applicant on any permit and for the payment of any
impact fees, bonds, reimbursement fees, or other duties and obligations of the
applicant related to the permits.
DIVISION OF LAND: The segregation of one or more parcels of land from a larger
tract held in single or undivided ownership by transferring, or contracting to
transfer, title to or possession of a portion of the tract or by the filing of
a subdivision plat, establishing the identity of segregated parcels.
DRAINAGE: Includes natural drainage channels, streams, watercourse,
drainageway, channel or ditch.
DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment, other than a service station or truck
stop, which is designed to accommodate the motor vehicles or patrons in such
manner as to permit the occupants of such vehicles, while remaining therein, to
make a purchase or receive services.
DRIVEWAY: Not dedicated nor intended for public use, privately maintained,
serving one or two (2) parcels containing inhabited buildings.
DRIVEWAY, ALL WEATHER: Must be constructed with a driving surface width
requirement as adopted by the appropriate rural fire districts as provided for
in the fire code.
DUPLEX: See definition of Dwelling, Two-Family.
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof, containing one or more living units,
and which complies with the structural requirements of the adopted building
code.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building designed and/or used to house three (3)
or more families, living independently of each other.
DWELLING, SECONDARY: A secondary dwelling is a permanent structure used for
human habitation that is located on the same site as a single-family dwelling
and provides independent living facilities, including sleeping, cooking and
sanitary facilities. Secondary dwellings are subject to the standards outlined
in section
11-6-5 of this title. Secondary dwellings are not "accessory uses or buildings"
or "temporary hardships", as defined by the zoning ordinance.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building, designed for use and occupancy, or that
may include a group residence in which eight (8) or fewer unrelated persons who
are mentally and/or physically handicapped or elderly persons reside with one
or two (2) additional persons to act as houseparents or guardians who need not
be related to each other or and of the mentally and/or physically handicapped
or elderly persons who reside in the house. This definition excludes any group
residence whose occupants are under the supervision of the state board of
correction pursuant to section 20-219, Idaho Code, or who are required to
register pursuant to chapter 83 or 84, title 18, Idaho Code, or whose tenancy
would otherwise constitute a direct threat to the health or safety of other
individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial physical damage to the
property of others.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A detached building designed for use and occupied
exclusively by two (2) families living independently of each other, known also
as a duplex.
EASEMENT: Authorization by a property owner for the use by another, and for a
specified purpose, of any designated part of his property.
ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION SUBSTATION: An assembly of equipment designed to
receive energy from a high voltage distribution supply system to convert it to
a form suitable for local distribution and to distribute the energy to feeders
through switching equipment.
EQUESTRIANWAY: A public way designed to be used for horseback riding and so
designated.
EXPANSION OF USE: An increase in the scope, intensity, or areas of an existing
land use on a property.
EXTRACTION: To obtain or withdraw minerals, sand, rock, gravel, stone, earth,
or any similar material by breaking of the surface soil by physical or chemical
process or may mean to separate a metal from ore.
FAMILY FOOD PRODUCTION: The keeping of domestic animals, fowl, and the activity
of gardening of food for the use of the family occupying the premises.
FARM: See definition of Agriculture.
FARMERS' MARKET: An indoor or outdoor commercial area providing retail sale
booths for numerous merchants of produce and plant life. It may provide arts
and crafts booths accessory to the produce and plant life booth.
FEEDLOT: The operation or maintenance of a commercial stockyard where livestock
are fed concentrated feeds, particularly for the purpose of fattening for
market. Must meet all Idaho state regulations.
FIRE DEPARTMENT: That department or district within whose boundaries the
development lies.
FIRE OFFICIAL: The authority having jurisdiction to administer and enforce fire
codes and approve emergency vehicle access and turnarounds.
FLOODPLAIN: The relatively flat area or lowland adjoining the channel of a
river, stream, lake or other body of water which has been or may be covered by
water of a flood of 100-year frequency. The floodplain includes the channel,
floodway and floodway fringe, as follows:
Channel: A natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible extent, with
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct continuously or periodically
flowing water.
Flood: The temporary inundation of land adjacent to and inundated by overflow
from a river, stream, lake or other body of water.
Flood Of 100-Year Frequency: A flood magnitude which has a one percent (1%)
chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
Floodway: The channel or a watercourse and those portions of the floodplain
adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to carry and discharge the
floodwater of any watercourse.
Floodway Fringe: That part of the floodplain which is beyond the floodway. Such
areas will include those portions of the floodplain which will be inundated by
a flood of 100-year frequency.
FLOOR AREA: Usable area inside the building including basements, upper stories,
sleeping lofts and attached garage.
FRONTAGE LOT: The front of the lot, measured along the road from side property
line to side property line. On corner lots and through lots, all sides of a lot
adjacent to roads shall be considered frontage.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: A building or a portion thereof in which motor vehicles used
by the tenant of the main building on the premises are stored or kept.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: Building or portion thereof designed and used for the storage,
repair, or servicing of motor vehicles or boats as a commercial venture.
GARAGE, SERVICE STATION: See definition of Auto Service Station.
GOVERNING AUTHORITY: The board of county commissioners of Gem County, Idaho.
GRADE OR OFFICIAL GRADE: Grade (ground level) is the average of the finished
ground level at the center of all walls of a building. If the building is
within twenty five feet (25') of a sidewalk or curb, said ground level shall be
measured at the sidewalk or curb.
GREENHOUSE, COMMERCIAL: An establishment where flowers, shrubbery, vegetables,
trees and other horticulture products are grown in the open and/or in an
enclosed building for sale on a wholesale basis, with retail sales on premises
to be on an occasional basis.
GROUP HOME OR RESIDENCE: Residential shelter care facilities for mentally
handicapped, physically handicapped and elderly citizens. Group homes for eight
(8) or fewer residents are considered single-family dwellings for purposes of
land use ordinances.
HAZARD, EXPOSED: Any building (over 400 square feet) which is closer than fifty
feet (50') to another building.
HEALTH AUTHORITY: The officer or other designated authority charged with the
administration and enforcement of the rules and regulations of the health
department of the state of Idaho or its successor.
HEALTH DEPARTMENT: The Southwest district health department (SWDH) or its
successor.
HEALTHCARE FACILITY: Hospitals, psychiatric hospitals, tuberculosis hospitals,
skilled nursing facilities, intermediate care facilities, kidney disease
treatment centers, including freestanding hemodialysis units, ambulatory
surgical facilities, birthing centers, community health centers, health
maintenance organizations (HMO), independent laboratories, migrant health
center, public health clinics and freestanding emergency care centers.
HEARING EXAMINER: Appointment by the county commissioners of an individual to
hear applications for subdivision, special use and variance permits, and
requests for zoning district boundary changes.
HIGHER INTENSITY USE: When the purpose or activity for which a piece of land or
its buildings is designed, arranged, or intended results in a greater degree of
measurable noise, odor, light, vibration or other potential public nuisance
than an adjacent property, it shall be deemed a higher intensity use.
HOME, MANUFACTURED: A factory built structure that is manufactured or
constructed according to the national manufactured housing construction and
safety standards act of 1974, and as may be amended, which became effective
June 15, 1976, and is to be used as a place for human habitation, but which is
not constructed or equipped with a permanent hitch or other devices allowing it
to be moved other than for the purpose of moving to a permanent site, and which
does not have permanently attached to its body or frame any wheels or axles.
For purposes of this code, two (2) types of manufactured homes are established,
"stock" and "enhanced".
Enhanced Manufactured Home: A manufactured home that meets all the
architectural placement standards listed below:
   A.   The manufactured home shall have a pitched roof, except that no
standards shall require a slope of greater than a nominal three feet (3') in
height for each twelve feet (12') in width (3/12 pitch);
   B.   The manufactured home shall have exterior siding and roofing which in
color, material and appearance is similar to the exterior siding and roofing
material commonly used on residential dwellings within the community or which
is comparable to the predominant materials used on surrounding dwellings as
determined by the local permit approval authority.
Any approval standards, special conditions and the procedures for approval
adopted by a local government shall be clear and objective and shall not have
the effect, either in themselves or cumulatively, of discouraging needed
housing through unreasonable cost or delay.
Stock Manufactured Home: A manufactured home that does not have all the
architectural placement standards of an enhanced manufactured home.
HOME, MOBILE: A transportable, factory built home designed to be used as a year
round residential dwelling and built prior to enactment of the national
manufactured housing construction and safety standards act of 1974, which
became effective June 15, 1976. Such a home must submit an approved certificate
of compliance from the division of building safety of the state of Idaho before
a zoning permit may be issued. See section
11-6-8 of this title.
HOME, MOBILE REHABILITATED: Any mobile house constructed prior to June 15,
1976, the effective date of the national manufactured housing and safety
standards act (HUD code), that are currently sited within Idaho, or that may be
brought into the state after July 1, 1976, which have been upgraded to comply
with chapter 25, title 44, Idaho Code and received a certificate of compliance
from the division of building safety of the state of Idaho.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any gainful operation, profession or craft, which is
customarily incidental to or carried on in a dwelling place, and wherein the
use is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling
purposes (see subsection
11-6-5P of this title).
HOSPITAL: An institution which is primarily engaged in providing to patients,
by or under the supervision of physicians, diagnostic services and therapeutic
services for medical diagnosis, treatment, and care of injured, disabled, or
sick persons, or rehabilitation services for the rehabilitation of injured,
disabled or sick persons.
HOTEL: Any building containing six (6) or more guestrooms intended or designed
to be used, or which are used, rented or hired out to be occupied, or which are
occupied for sleeping purposes by guests.
HOUSE, BOARDING: See definition of Boarding House, Rooming House, Dormitory.
HOUSE, ROOMING: See definition of Boarding House, Rooming House, Dormitory.
IMPROVEMENTS: Roads, pavement, paths, bikeways, sedimentation control
facilities, revegetation, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, water systems, sanitary
and storm systems, gas lines, electric and telephone lines and appurtenances,
street or road signs, lights, irrigation canals, landscaping, lot corner
monuments, and other such items as may be required for compliance with the
regulation of this title.
INDUSTRIAL: Refers to the manufacture, processing and testing of goods and
materials, including the production of power. It does not refer to the growing
of agricultural crops, or the raising of livestock, or the extraction or
severance of raw materials from the land being classified. Uses that are
usually a nuisance in nature and do not produce objectionable problems to the
surrounding area.
INDUSTRIAL, HEAVY: Manufacturing, processing, assembling, storing, testing and
similar industrial uses which are generally major operations and extensive in
character requiring large sites. Normally they generate some nuisances such as
smoke, noise, vibration, dust, and air and water pollution beyond the zone
boundary.
INDUSTRIAL, LIGHT: Manufacturing or other industrial uses which are usually a
controlled operation; relatively clean, quiet and free from objectionable noise
or pollution.
INDUSTRY, EXTRACTIVE: When mineral deposits and other natural resources are
taken out of the ground for use in the business of selling such deposits, or
for use in another business, or for use by any department or division of
federal, state, county or municipal government.
JUNK: Old iron, glass, paper, used tires, discarded material, including
automobiles and machinery that are being dismantled for parts.
JUNKYARD: An outdoor space where waste, discarded or salvaged, or recyclable
materials are bought, sold, exchanged, baled, packed, disassembled, stored,
processed or handled including house wrecking and structural steel materials
and equipment. It does not include places where such uses are conducted
entirely within a completely enclosed building, such as pawnshops and
establishments for the sale, purchase, or storage of used furniture and
household equipment, and it does not include cars in licensed operable
condition or salvaged materials which are incidental to a legal manufacturing
operation. Junkyard includes vehicle wrecking yards, recycling yards and
establishments for the sale, purchase or storage of used motor vehicles and
parts, including machinery, in operating or nonoperating condition. Farm
machinery and equipment in agricultural zones are exempt.
KENNEL: A premises where more than four (4) dogs, six (6) months or older, are
raised, kept, housed, boarded, trained or bred. This definition does not apply
to livestock working dogs in an agricultural zone.
KINDERGARTEN: A place, home, building, or location providing care, with
organized play and instruction, for more than five (5) children of preschool
age not residing on the same premises.
LANDSCAPING: Refers to any landscaping areas at the entrances of subdivisions,
commercial developments or along the entryway corridors of Gem County as
defined by the Emmett and Gem County comprehensive plan (community design) and
in section
11-6-6 of this title.
LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT: Any development over fifty (50) lots or a planned unit
development.
LIVESTOCK: Domesticated hooved animals, poultry, rabbits and furbearing
animals.
LOT: A unit of subdivided land of sufficient size to meet minimum zoning
requirements for use, coverage and area, and to provide such yards and other
open spaces as are herein required, and may consist of:
   A.   A single lot of record;
   B.   A portion of a lot of record; and
   C.   A combination of complete lots of record, or of portions of lots of
record.
LOT AREA: The area of any lot shall be determined exclusive of road, highway,
alley, road or other rights of way.
LOT, BUILDABLE: A parcel of land that meets the Gem County zoning and
subdivision regulations for building allowing it to be developed for its
intended use.
LOT DEPTH: The average distance between the front and rear lot lines measured
in the direction of the side lot lines.
LOT, FLAG: A lot with limited frontage on a public or private road in which a
band of land, of at least thirty feet (30') in width, must be extended to
provide access to the public right of way. See subsection
12-6-1K of this code.
LOT FRONTAGE: The front of a lot shall be construed to be the portion nearest
the road. For the purpose of determining yard requirements of corner lots and
through lots, all sides of a lot adjacent to roads shall be considered frontage
and yards shall be provided as indicated under "yards" in this section.
LOT, NON- BUILDABLE: A parcel of land that cannot be developed due to its
failure to meet the requirements for legal, physical, or regulatory compliance
as specified the Gem County zoning and subdivision regulations.
LOT WIDTH: The width of a lot shall be:
   A.   If the side property lines are parallel, the perpendicular distance
between the sidelines;
   B.   If the side property lines are not parallel, the width of the lot shall
be the length between the side lot lines at right angles to the axis of the lot
measured at the required front setback line joining the midpoints of the front
and rear property lines.
MANUFACTURED HOME: See definition of Home, Manufactured.
MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME COURT: Any site or tract of land whereupon two (2) or
more manufactured/mobile homes, or travel trailers are placed, located and
maintained for dwelling purposes.
MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME PARK: A plot of ground divided into spaces, under the
ownership or management of one person, firm or corporation for the purpose of
locating two (2) or more manufactured/mobile homes for dwelling or sleeping
purposes, excluding the proprietor's unit.
MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME SPACE: A portion of land within a mobile home park for
the placement of a single manufactured/mobile home and the exclusive use of its
occupants.
MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: Any parcel of land, which may be divided,
or proposed to be divided in accordance with the definition of "subdivision",
whereupon one or more manufactured/mobile homes shall be placed.
MANUFACTURING, EXTRACTIVE: Any mining, quarrying, excavating, processing,
storing, separating, cleaning or marketing of any mineral natural resource.
MANUFACTURING, HEAVY: Manufacturing, processing, assembling, storing, testing
and similar industrial uses which are generally major operations and extensive
in character requiring large sites. Normally they generate some nuisances such
as smoke, noise, vibration, dust, and air and water pollution beyond the zone
boundary.
MANUFACTURING, LIGHT: Manufacturing or other industrial uses which are usually
controlled operations; relatively clean, quiet and free from objectionable
noise or pollution.
MINERAL: Coal, clay, stone, sand, gravel, metalliferous and nonmetalliferous
types of ores, and any other similar, solid material or substance.
MINISTORAGE FACILITY: A building or buildings containing various size storage
compartments not exceeding five hundred (500) square feet each, and wherein
each compartment is offered for rent or lease to the general public for the
private storage of materials, excluding materials sold at the facility or
directly delivered to customers.
MOBILE HOME: See definition of Home, Mobile.
MOTEL: A building or group of two (2) or more detached, semidetached, or
attached buildings containing guestrooms with automobile parking space provided
in connection therewith, and designed, intended to be used or used primarily
for the accommodation of transient automobile travelers and which are rented by
the day. This definition shall include auto cabins, tourist courts, motor
courts, motor lodges and similar designations.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING: A building, structure, or portion thereof, which does
not conform to the regulations of this title applicable to the zone in which
such building is situated, but which existed prior to the effective date of
October 10, 1978, or one for which a building permit was issued prior to the
effective date.
NONCONFORMING LOT: A lot or parcel of record which lawfully existed at the
effective date of October 10, 1978, but which, because of the application of
this title to it, no longer conforms to lot area or width requirements
prescribed in this title.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use of premises which does not conform to the regulations
of this title, but which was a legal use and in existence prior to the
effective date of this title.
NONOPERABLE VEHICLE: Any vehicle requiring licensing for operation on a public
roadway which is not in sufficient condition to be safely and legally operated
on public roadways.
NURSERY, PLANT MATERIALS: Land, building, structure or combination thereof for
the storage, cultivation, transplanting of live trees, shrubs or plants for
sale on the premises including products used for gardening or landscaping.
NURSING HOME, REST HOME, CONVALESCENT CENTER: A home or facility for the care
and treatment of more than five (5) pensioners, elderly people or persons
requiring twenty four (24) hour care.
OCCUPANCY: The purpose for which a parcel of land, building, structure or part
thereof is used or intended to be used.
OCCUPANCY, CHANGE OF: Any change in the character or use of a building or
premises, not including change of tenants, proprietors, or occupants.
OFF STREET PARKING SPACE: An area adjoining a building providing for the
parking of automobiles which does not include a public street or road but has
convenient access to it.
OPEN SPACE: An area substantially open to the sky which may be on the same lot
with a building. The area may include, along with the natural environmental
features, water areas, swimming pools, tennis courts, picnic areas, and other
recreational facilities that the commission deems permissive. Roads, parking
areas, structures for habitation and the like shall not be included.
ORIGINAL PARCEL: A lot or tract of land as described in the instrument of
conveyance (recorded deed or contract in escrow, etc.) which was recorded prior
to October 10, 1978.
OTHER USES: Implies such usages that may be permitted in the zone. In no way
does the term, when used, imply a permit or approval for a usage. "Other uses"
requires a review by the commission who will deny or approve (generally under
conditions) the requested usage.
OUTDOOR RECREATIONAL USE OR FACILITY: A place designed and equipped for the
conduct of sports and leisure time activities. May be either public or private.
OWNER: Any individual, person, firm, association, syndicate, partnership,
corporation, or other entity having a proprietary interest in real property
subject to this title. A leasehold interest is excluded from such proprietary
interest.
PARCEL: A tract of unplatted land or contiguous land in single ownership,
considered a unit for purposes of development.
PARK, MOBILE HOME: See definition of Manufactured/Mobile Home Park.
PARKING AREA OR LOT, PUBLIC: An open area, other than a road or public way, to
be used for the storage, for limited periods of time, of operable automobiles
and commercial vehicles, and available to the public, whether for compensation,
free, or as an accommodation to clients or customers.
PARKING AREA, PRIVATE: An open area, other than a road or public way, designed,
arranged and made available for the storage of private passenger automobiles of
occupants of the building or buildings for which the parking area is developed
and is necessary and accessory.
PARKING SPACE: A usable space within a public or private parking area, or a
building of not less than one hundred eighty (180) square feet, either within a
structure or in the open, exclusive of driveways or access drives, for the
parking of motor vehicles.
PERMIT: An official document or certificate authorizing performance or
specified activity.
PERMITTED USE: A use authorized or permitted alone or in conjunction with other
uses in a specified zone and subject to the limitations of the regulations of
such use zone.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, joint venture, limited partnership,
partnership, firm, syndicate, association, trustee, or other similar entity or
organization.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: An area of land in which a variety of residential,
commercial and industrial uses developed under single ownership or control are
accommodated in a preplanned environment with more flexible standards, such as
lot sizes and setbacks, than those restrictions that would normally apply under
these regulations.
PLAT: The reproducible and permanent drawing of a subdivision and dedications
and easements, prepared for filing and recording with the county recorder in
accordance with state law and this code.
PLOT: A parcel of land consisting of one or more lots or portions thereof,
which is described in reference to a recorded plat or by metes and bounds.
POINT OF ORIGIN: For the purpose of this chapter, point of origin shall mean
the point where the private road or roads intersects with a public road.
PRIMARY USE: The use for which a lot, structure, building, or major portion
thereof, is designed.
PRINCIPAL DESIGNATED USE: The main use of land or building as distinguished
from subordinate, accessory uses or other uses.
PRIVATE ROAD: A road serving more than two (2) permanent dwellings or
commercial or industrial uses which is privately maintained, not dedicated to
the public, not a part of the public highway system, and the beginning of which
shall have a clear point of origin.
PROFESSIONAL ACTIVITIES: The use of offices and related spaces for such
professional services as are provided by medical practitioners, lawyers,
architects, engineers and similar professions.
PROFESSIONAL OCCUPATION: The occupation of a licensed engineer, licensed
architect, certified public accountant, attorney, real estate broker, doctor,
dentist, optometrist or similar profession.
PROFESSIONAL OFFICE: The office of a licensed engineer, licensed architect,
certified public accountant, attorney, real estate broker, doctor, dentist,
optometrist or similar profession.
PROPERTY: A lot or plot including all buildings and improvements thereon.
PROPERTY LINE: A recorded boundary of a plot.
PUBLIC SERVICE FACILITY: The erection, construction, alteration, operation or
maintenance of building, power plants or substations, water treatment plants or
pumping stations, sewage disposal or pumping plants, and other similar public
service structures by a public utility, by a railroad, whether publicly or
privately owned, or by a municipal or other governmental agency, including the
furnishing of electrical, gas, rail transport, communication, public water and
sewage services.
PUBLIC USE: Public parks, schools, administrative and cultural buildings and
structures.
PUBLIC UTILITIES: Structures or facilities essential to furnishing the public
with electricity, power, gas, water supply, water treatment and public
services, including power plants and substations, water treatment plants or
public stations, fire stations, police stations or public communication
services regulated by federal, state, or county governments.
QUASI-PUBLIC USE: Churches, Sunday schools, parochial schools, colleges,
hospitals and other facilities of an educational, religious, charitable,
philanthropic or nonprofit nature.
REAL PROPERTY: Real estate consisting of:
   A.   Lands; possessive rights to land; ditch and water rights; and mining
claims, both lode and placer;
   B.   That which is affixed to land; or
   C.   That which is appurtenant to land.
RECREATION BUSINESS: Recreation or athletic activities or facilities open to
the general public where fees are charged for the use of the facility.
RECREATION, LOW DENSITY: Any recreational site that does not have permanent
structures or utilities.
RECREATION, PRIVATE USES: Noncommercial recreation activities or facilities
owned privately or by a nonprofit organization intended for the use and
enjoyment of the owner or owners.
RECREATION VEHICLE PARK: A premises upon which two (2) or more parking sites
are located, established, or maintained for occupancy by recreational vehicles
for temporary use for recreation or vacation purposes.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicular type unit primarily designed as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, which either has its
own motive power or is mounted on or drawn by another vehicle. The basic
classifications are: travel trailer, camping trailer, truck camper, fifth wheel
camper and motor home.
RECYCLING CENTER: A location where previously used items or remanufactured
items are collected to be used as the same product over again or another
product made of the same material.
REPAIR: The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing building for
the purpose of its maintenance. The word "repair" or "repairs" shall not apply
to any change in a structure such as would be required by additions to, or
remodeling of such structure.
RESIDENTIAL RETIREMENT FACILITY: A residential retirement facility with
individual living quarters, but with a central food service, dining, and
recreational center.
RESIDENTIAL USE: A building or portion thereof designed exclusively for
residential occupancy, including one-family, two- family and multiple-family
dwellings, but not including hotels, boarding and lodging houses, trailers,
camp trailers, motor homes or recreational vehicles.
RESTAURANT: A business establishment whose principal business is the preparing
and selling of meals of unpackaged food to the customer in a ready to consume
state in nondisposable containers, and where the customer consumes these meals
while seated at a table within the restaurant building. Alcoholic beverages may
be served accessory to food service in a restaurant.
RESTAURANT, FAST FOOD: An establishment that offers for sale quick food service
and nonalcoholic beverages, accomplished through a limited menu of items
already prepared, or prepared, generally taken at a table. Ordering or pick up
of food may take place from an automobile or drive-through window.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land dedicated or reserved for use as a public
crosswalk, railroad, road, electric transmission line, oil or gas pipeline,
water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, or for other special uses.
ROAD: Any surface right of way which provides vehicular, pedestrian, bicycle or
other access to properties, either through a prescriptive use or the dedication
of which has been officially accepted by the board of county commissioners. The
term "road" also includes the terms street, highway, thoroughfare, parkway,
road, avenue, boulevard, lane, place and other such terms. Types of roads
include, but are not limited to, the following:
   Arterial: A road that is designated for the purpose of carrying fast and/or
heavy volumes of traffic.
   Collector: A road designated on the comprehensive plan for the purpose of
carrying traffic from minor roads to other collectors and/or arterials.
   Frontage: A minor road parallel to and adjacent to an arterial providing
access to abutting properties and protection from through traffic.
   Minor: A road which has the primary purpose of providing access to abutting
properties.
   Private: A road serving more than two (2) permanent dwellings or commercial
or industrial uses which is privately maintained, not dedicated to the public,
not a part of the public highway system, and the beginning of which shall have
a clear point of origin.
ROADSIDE STAND: A temporary or mobile structure designed or used for the
display or sale of products or services.
ROOMING HOUSE: See definition of Boarding House, Rooming House, Dormitory.
SALVAGE YARD: A place where scrap, used tires, waste, discarded or salvaged
materials are bought, sold, exchanged, baled, packed, disassembled, or handled
or stored, including auto wrecking yards, house wrecking yards, used lumber
yards, and places or yards for storage of salvaged house wrecking and
structural materials and equipment; but not including such places where such
uses are conducted entirely within a completely enclosed building, and not
including pawnshops and establishments for the sale, purchase or storage of
used furniture and household equipment, used cars in operable condition, or
salvaged materials incidental to manufacturing operations conducted on the
premises. Farm machinery and equipment in agricultural zones are exempt.
SANITARIUM, SANATORIUM: A private hospital, whether or not such facility is
operated for profit.
SCHOOL: An institution conducting regular academic instruction at elementary,
secondary and college levels.
SCHOOL BUILDING: Any building used by an educational institution or
organization, including public, private, or parochial academic schools
accredited or licensed by the state.
SCHOOL, TRADE OR INDUSTRIAL: An institution or facility conducting instruction
in the technical, commercial or trade skills; businesses such as beauticians,
barbers, electricians, automotive and so forth.
SEPTIC SYSTEM: A subsurface sewage disposal system in accordance with the rules
and regulations of the state of Idaho and Southwest district health department.
SERVICE STATION, GARAGE: See definition of Auto Service Station.
SETBACK: The required distance between each structure and all lot lines on the
lot on which structures are located, the required clear distance between
structures, or the required distance between structures and features such as
water bodies.
SEWER SYSTEM: Sewers and treatment facilities, other than septic systems, used
in connection therewith, which are maintained and operated by a municipality,
privately owned public utility, town, or town sanitary district or sewer
district.
SIGN: Any structure on a natural object, such as a tree, rock, brush and the
ground itself, or part thereof or device attached thereto or painted or
represented thereon, which shall be used to attract attention to any object,
product, place, activity, person, institution, organization or business or
which shall display or include any letter, word, model, flag, banner, pennant,
insignia, device or representation used as, or which is in the nature of, an
announcement, direction or advertisement. For the purpose of this definition,
the word "sign" does not include the flag, pennant or insignia of any nation,
state, county or other political unit, or any political unit, or any political,
educational, charitable, philanthropic, civic, professional, religious or like
campaign, drive, movement or event.
SITE PLAN: A scaled drawing of existing and planned conditions to facilitate
review and approval of an application.
SLAUGHTERHOUSE: See definition of Commercial Slaughterhouse And Meatpacking
Facilities.
SPECIAL USE PERMITS: A special use permit may be granted to an applicant if the
proposed use is otherwise prohibited by the terms of the ordinance, but may be
allowed with conditions under specific provisions of the ordinance and when it
is not in conflict with the comprehensive plan.
STABLE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory building or structure for the keeping of
one or more horses or cows owned and used by the occupant of the premises and
not for remuneration, hire or sale.
STABLE, RIDING: A building or structure used or designed for the boarding or
care of riding horses for remuneration, hire or sale.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the upper surface of the
floor and the upper floor or roof next above. It is measured as the vertical
distance from top to top of two (2) successive tiers of beams or finished floor
surfaces and, for the topmost story, from the top of the floor finish to the
top of the ceiling joists or, where there is not a ceiling, to the top of the
roof rafters.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change in the supporting members of the building
such as the bearing walls, columns, beams, girders or roof.
STRUCTURE: An edifice or building of any kind, or any piece of work
artificially built up or composed of parts joined together in some definite
manner and may include a root cellar or similar structure. Not included are
residential fences, retaining walls, rockeries, decks not exceeding thirty
inches (30") in height above grade and similar improvements of minor character.
SUBDIVIDER: Shall be deemed to be the individual, firm, corporation,
partnership, association, syndicate, trust or other legal entity that executes
the application and initiates proceedings for the subdivision of land in
accordance with the provisions of the subdivision ordinance of Gem County. The
subdivider need not be the owner of the property; however, he shall be an agent
of the owner or have sufficient proprietary rights in the property to represent
the owner.
SUBDIVISION: Shall be defined as set forth in the definition of "subdivision"
in the Gem County subdivision ordinance.
SUBDIVISION, MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME: See definition of Manufactured/Mobile
Home Subdivision.
SURVEYOR: Any person who is licensed by the state as a land surveyor to do
professional land surveying.
TEMPORARY HARDSHIP PERMIT: A use allowed to install a temporary residence
(manufactured home or recreational vehicle only) on a parcel of land to house a
person or persons in need of assistance or care because of medical, disability,
or geriatric needs. Also may be used for the purpose of retaining a caretaker.
See chapter 19 of this title.
TEMPORARY HOUSING: A temporary structure allowed by permit not to exceed one
hundred eighty (180) days but shall conform to the structural strength, fire
safety, means of egress, accessibility, light, ventilation, and sanitary
requirements of this title as necessary to ensure the public health, safety and
general welfare. See chapter 19 of this title.
THEATERS, INDOOR AND OUTDOOR: Facilities devoted primarily to the showing of
moving pictures or theatrical productions on a paid admission basis to patrons.
UNDUE HARDSHIP: Special conditions depriving the applicant of rights commonly
enjoyed by other property owners in the same zone under the terms of this
title, but not merely a matter of convenience and profit.
UNINCORPORATED TERRITORY: All of the territory within the boundaries of Gem
County, Idaho, which lies outside of incorporated cities or villages.
USE: The specific purposes for which land or a building is designated,
arranged, intended, or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained.
USE, EXISTING: Any use legally existing before October 10, 1978.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief from certain provisions of this title when, because
of unique, natural site characteristics of a property as to lot size, lot
coverage, width, depth, front yard, side yard, rear yard, setbacks, parking
space, height of buildings or other ordinance provisions affecting the size or
shape of a structure or the size of lots, compliance would result in undue
hardship upon the owner as distinguished from a mere inconvenience or inability
to receive greater profits, and which would not be contrary to the public
interest. See section
11-13-2 of this title.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a public roadway, excepting devices used exclusively
upon stationary rails or tracks. Any equipment requiring state of Idaho
licensing to be used on public roadways. This would primarily include cars,
trucks, recreation vehicles, all-terrain vehicles, motorcycles, and trailers as
defined in the Idaho Code (title 49, motor vehicles). Motor vehicle does not
include vehicles moved solely by human power, electric personal assistive
mobility devices and motorized wheelchairs or other such vehicles that are
specifically exempt from titling or registration requirements under Idaho Code.
Equipment intended solely for agricultural purposes is exempt.
VEHICLE HOBBYIST, COLLECTOR: An individual who collects or, restores vehicles
for his/her own pleasure. (See section
11-6-5 of this title for performance standards.)
VEHICLE WRECKING YARD: Any use of premises, excluding fully enclosed buildings,
whereon more than two (2) unlicensed, nonoperable vehicles are standing for
more than thirty (30) days, or on which such vehicles are dismantled or stored.
Farm machinery and equipment in agricultural zones are exempt.
VICINITY MAP: A small scale map showing the location of a tract of land in
relation to a larger area.
WETLANDS: Those areas that are within the definitions of wetlands as defined by
the environmental protection agency and within the jurisdiction of the U.S.
army corps of engineers.
YARD, FRONT: The yard across the full width of the lot or plot facing the road
and extending from the front building line of the building to the front
property line.
YARD, INTERIOR SIDE: The yard between the side building line of the building
and the adjacent side property line and extending from the front yard to the
rear yard.
YARD, REAR: The yard across the full width of the lot or plot opposite the
front yard, extending from the rear building line of the building to the rear
property line.
YARD SALE: Yard sales, commonly referred to as garage sales, and/or moving
sales may qualify as a yard sale. The sale of used and/or personal items on
private residential property no more than four (4) times per year.
YARD, STREET SIDE: A yard extending from the principal building to the
secondary road that adjoins the lot between the lines establishing the front
and rear yards.
ZONE: A portion of the unincorporated territory of Gem County defined by this
title and designated on zoning maps, to which the provisions of this title
apply.
ZONING MAP: The zoning map or maps of Gem County, Idaho, incorporated into this
title designating zoning districts together with all amendments subsequently
adopted.
ZONING PERMIT: A document issued by the administrator authorizing the use of
land and structures, and the characteristics of these uses, also referred to as
a certificate of zoning compliance. Also a permit of approval for the
installation of mobile or manufactured homes. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009; amd.
Ord. 2013-01, 1-22-2013; Ord. 2014-05, 7-7-2014; Ord. 2022-06, 7-11-2022; Ord.
2022-07, 8-1-2022; Ord. 2025-06, 3-24-2025)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 67-6508.
CHAPTER 3
ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES
SECTION:
11-3-1: County Divided Into Zones
11-3-2: Zoning Map
11-3-3: Regulations
11-3-4: Boundaries Of Zones
11-3-5: Conformity And General Intent
11-3-6: Nuisance Waiver Requirement
11-3-7: Public Services; New Use Exemption
11-3-1: COUNTY DIVIDED INTO ZONES:
In order to accomplish more fully the objectives and purpose of this title, the
county is hereby divided into zones which shall be known by symbols and/or
names as follows:
A-1 Prime agricultural (PRAG)
A-2 Rural transitional agricultural (RTA)
A-3 Rural agricultural (RA)
R-2 Residential transitional (RT)
R-3 Rural residential (RR)
MR  Multi-family residential
MX  Mixed use development
C-1 Commercial
C-2 Commercial
M-1 Light industrial
M-2 Heavy industrial
HT  High tech
P   Public
 
(Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-3-2: ZONING MAP:
   A.   Incorporation: The location and boundaries of each of the zones are
shown on the Gem County zoning map, and all boundaries, notations and other
data shown thereon are as much a part of this title as if fully described
herein.
   B.   Certification: The zoning map shall be identified by the signature of
the chairman of the board of county commissioners, attested by the clerk of the
district court, and shall bear the following words:
I hereby certify that this is the official Gem County Zoning Map which was
adopted by the Board of County Commissioners of Gem County on the 10th day of
October, 1978. Amended accordingly.
(Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-3-3: REGULATIONS:
Within each of the zones, the height, number of stories, and the size of
buildings and structures, and percentage of lot that may be occupied, the size
of yards, courts and other open spaces, the density of population and the
location and use of buildings, structures and land for trade, industry,
residence or other purposes are hereby regulated and restricted as set forth in
this title or as may be amended. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-3-4: BOUNDARIES OF ZONES:
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of zones, the following
rules shall apply:
   A.   Roads Or Lot Lines: Where any such boundary line is indicated as
following a road, alley or public way, it shall be construed as following the
centerline thereof.
Where a boundary line is indicated as approximately following a lot line or
land survey line, such lot or land survey line shall be construed to be such
boundary line.
   B.   Natural Features: Where the indicated boundaries are approximately
canal, natural streams, watercourses, or other clearly defined natural
features, the centerline of said canal, natural stream, watercourse or natural
feature shall be construed to be the zone boundary.
   C.   Division Of Lots Or Crossing Property: Where a boundary line divides a
lot or crosses property, the location of such boundary shall be indicated upon
the zoning map. The zone in which a majority of the property is located shall
be considered the zone for the whole property.
   D.   Vacation Of Street Or Road: Whenever a street or road is vacated and
that street or road has not been given a zone classification, the land of the
vacated street or road shall have the same zone classification as the land
adjacent, or abutting land owned, or on the same side of the centerline of
former street or road to whom such land reverts, or in whom said land becomes
vested by operation of law or otherwise.
   E.   Excluded Small Parcels: In every case where small parcels of territory
have not been specifically included within a zone through errors in legal
description, or where territory becomes a part of the unincorporated area of
the county by the disincorporation of any city, such territory shall
automatically retain its existing use classification until otherwise classified
but not to exceed a period of six (6) months following discovery.
   F.   Conflict: In case of conflict between the text and the maps of this
title, the maps shall prevail. In case of a conflict between the provisions of
the various sections of the text of this title, the most stringent provisions
shall prevail.
   G.   Interpretation By Administrator: Where other uncertainty exists, the
administrator shall interpret the map. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-3-5: CONFORMITY AND GENERAL INTENT:
Except as otherwise provided herein, land, buildings and premises in any zone
shall hereafter be used only in accordance with the regulations herein
established for that zone and the following general provisions:
   A.   Buildings: No building shall hereafter be erected, constructed,
relocated or structurally altered to have a greater height, proportion of
coverage or smaller yards or open spaces about it than permissible under the
limitations set forth herein for the zone in which such buildings are located.
   B.   Reduction Below Minimum Requirements: No yards, open spaces or off
street parking space or loading space existing or provided hereafter about any
building shall be reduced below the minimum requirements hereinafter set forth
for such open space, parking space or loading space, or further reduced if
already less than said minimum requirements.
   C.   Use To Meet Requirements Of Another Lot: No open space, yard or off
street parking space or loading space existing or hereafter provided for a
building or use and necessary to meet or partially meet the requirements of
this title shall be considered as all or part of the yard, open space, off
street parking space or loading space required for any other building or upon
any other lot.
   D.   Reduction Of Lot: No lot held under one ownership at the effective date
of this title shall be reduced in dimension or area in relation to any building
thereon so as to be smaller than required by this title, and if already less,
the dimension or area of such lot shall not be further reduced.
   E.   Easements: If any development, building or structure shall be over any
recorded easement, a letter of approval from the grantee of said easement must
be submitted with the plan specifying that said development, building or
structure does not infringe upon said easement.
   F.   Residential Area Use: No facilities or use can be permitted in
residential areas unless it is clearly demonstrated that the proposed use will
not result in smoke, dirt, litter, smog, air or water pollution, excessive
noise or offensive odors beyond the limits of the facility.
   G.   Fire Insurance: The ability to obtain fire insurance shall not be a
requirement for obtaining a permit in the county.
   H.   Irrigation Water: Developers must follow proper regulations to ensure
that irrigation water and irrigation return flows are properly conveyed to the
water user. Before any property, which is located partially or wholly within
any irrigation district, may be subdivided, the landowner shall provide to the
administrator a certification from the appropriate irrigation district that the
landowner has made arrangements to provide for the continued delivery of water
to each new parcel.
   I.   Variance: Variances will only be granted in accordance with section
11-13-2  of this title.
   J.   Restroom Facilities: Any construction site that does not have restroom
facilities available must provide on site portable toilets during the
construction period. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009; amd. Ord. 2025-06, 3-24-2025)
11-3-6: NUISANCE WAIVER REQUIREMENT:
   A.   The purpose of agricultural zones is to retain the economic base that
identifies Gem County by protecting the good productive lands for agricultural
purposes by identifying farmlands and farming operations in those
unincorporated portions of the county not likely to undergo intensive urban
development.
   B.   Such farmlands are subject to pertinent regulations of Gem County and
the state of Idaho, provided that the exemptions are complied with, as applied
to agricultural lands, as recited in section 67-6529, Idaho Code:
No power granted hereby shall be construed to empower the Board of County
Commissioners to enact any ordinance or resolution which deprives any owner of
full and complete use of agricultural land for production of any agricultural
product.
   C.   All persons who purchase residential dwellings or other property
located in the unincorporated areas of Gem County subsequent to the date of the
adoption of this section, shall specifically waive any nuisance claim they may
have against any agricultural operation, including animal confinements, at the
time of closing on said property. For the purpose of this section, a nuisance
includes, but is not limited to, flies, odors, and all noises, tractor
operations or other operations which may be found to be annoying, unpleasant,
or obnoxious. This waiver shall not apply to any nuisances which are also a
violation of Idaho state law. The waiver must be signed and recorded with the
Gem County recorder at the time of closing on the property. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-
28-2009)
11-3-7: PUBLIC SERVICES; NEW USE EXEMPTION:
   A.   Applicability: Any new use for a public emergency service, utility or
law enforcement entity. No other public use is eligible for the exemption
outlined in this section. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
   B.   Zone: Said uses are permitted in any A, C, M-1, M-2, or MX zone up to
ten thousand (10,000) square feet gross building size. A special use permit is
required for any structure over ten thousand (10,000) square feet or if the
structure is located within any R zone. (Ord. 2014-03, 2-18-2014)
   C.   Proof Of Legal Interest: The applicable public entity shall be the
legal owner of record at the time of application or shall submit a notarized
agreement between the public entity and current property owner demonstrating
the public entity's interest in the real property. If the latter, the agreement
shall state that the property cannot be sold to a private party or used for
anything other than the allowable emergency service use. Otherwise, the
property, once divided, shall revert to the owner of an adjacent parcel.
   D.   Property Size: The minimum property size for said use is one acre,
excluding any required road right of way dedication. The maximum property size
for said use is three (3) acres, excluding any required road right of way
dedication.
   E.   Record Of Survey: Unless the property is created through the filing of
a subdivision, the new building parcel shall be created through the recording
of a record of survey, prepared by a licensed land surveyor. The land division
shall comply with all other Idaho statutes. If the parcel can be created
through a property boundary adjustment, that method must be exercised first.
   F.   Road Dedication: If the subject parcel is adjacent to a public road,
road right of way dedication is required, as prescribed under the adopted
functional classification map of Gem County. Said dedication is only required
adjacent to the public use parcel and will not apply to any remainder.
   G.   Setbacks: Any building shall be set back from the new property line,
after the road dedication is made. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
CHAPTER 4
ZONE USES
SECTION:
11-4-1: A-1 Prime Agricultural (PRAG)
11-4-2: A-2 Rural Transitional Agricultural (RTA)
11-4-3: A-3 Rural Agricultural (RA)
11-4-4: Residential
11-4-5: MR Multi-Family Residential
11-4-6: MX Mixed Use Development
11-4-7: C-1 Commercial
11-4-8: C-2 Commercial
11-4-9: M-1 Light Industrial
11-4-10: M-2 Heavy Industrial
11-4-11: HT High Tech
11-4-12: P Public
11-4-13: SBIP Shadow Butte Industrial Park Zoning Overlay District
11-4-1: A-1 PRIME AGRICULTURAL (PRAG):
   A.   Description; Purpose: Lands lying in unincorporated portions of Gem
County which should not undergo urban development. The purpose of this zone is
to protect these areas for cultivation, floriculture, horticulture, tree
farming, grazing, greenhouses, vineyards, orchards, general farming, truck
farming, dairying, rabbitry, poultry and stock raising and other agriculture
uses.
   B.   Minimum Size: Forty (40) acre minimum lot size.
   C.   Additional Dwellings: Allow additional dwellings in forty (40) acre
agriculture zones for housing hired help for the operation of the farm upon
approval of the Commission by special use. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009; amd. Ord.
2022-07, 8-1-2022)
11-4-2: A-2 RURAL TRANSITIONAL AGRICULTURAL (RTA):
   A.   Description; Regulations: Lands lying within those unincorporated
portions of Gem County that are likely to undergo a more intensive urban
development. The regulations governing this zone are designed to protect
agricultural pursuits and provide guidelines for conversion to suburban
development.
   B.   Minimum Size: Five (5) acre minimum lot size. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-4-3: A-3 RURAL AGRICULTURAL (RA):
   A.   Description; Regulations: Lands lying within those unincorporated
portions of Gem County that are restrained by topography and/or vehicular
access and are intended to remain rural in nature without urban development.
The regulations governing this zone are designed to protect long term
agricultural pursuits.
   B.   Minimum Size: Five (5) acre minimum lot size. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-4-4: RESIDENTIAL:
   A.   R-2 residential transitional (RT) single-family:
      1.   Purpose: To provide lands for the development of single-family
dwellings, in areas that can be served by individual well and septic systems as
approved by the health department.
      2.   Minimum Lot Size: One acre minimum lot size requirement.
   B.   R-3 rural residential (RR) single-family:
      1.   Purpose: To provide lands for the development of single-family
dwellings, in areas that can be served by individual well and septic systems as
approved by the health department.
      2.   Minimum Lot Size: Two (2) acre minimum lot size requirement. (Ord.
2009-05, 9-28-2009; amd. Ord. 2014-05, 7-7-2014; Ord. 2019-08, 8-26-2019)
11-4-5: MR MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL:
   A.   Purpose: To provide lands for the development of multi-family dwelling
units of two (2) units or more conveniently located as to create an opportunity
for the development of multi-family dwellings, manufactured/mobile home
subdivision, and other types of residential development which creates a high
population density and which would not be compatible with single-family
residential development. Due to the proposed population density, it is
advisable that this zone be confined to areas which have a direct access and
egress to an arterial or collector thoroughfare and shall be served by central
water and by central sewage facilities.
   B.   Minimum Size: One acre minimum lot size requirements in areas that can
be served by individual well and septic systems as approved by the health
department (this may be reduced if lot is on a central water and sewer system).
(Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009; amd. Ord. 2019-08, 8-26-2019)
11-4-6: MX MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Mixed development of residential, offices, commercial and light
industrial along designated corridors of Gem County. Residential will be
allowed in this zone. Office, commercial and light industrial uses will be
allowed by a special use permit only in this zone.
The area of the zone shall be described as follows:
Highway 16 from South Washington Avenue East to Cherry Lane and Sand Hollow
Road, a corridor of 660 feet from the State Highway property line on each side
of the Highway, excluding those areas previously zoned commercial, industrial
and public areas. Highway 52 from South Washington Avenue West to Airport Road,
a corridor of 660 feet from the state property line of each side of the
Highway, excluding those areas previously zoned commercial, industrial and
public areas.
Highway 52 (N. Washington Ave.) North from the Payette River to the
intersection of Highway 52 (N. Washington Ave.) and Black Canyon Hwy, excluding
currently zoned commercial areas. A corridor of 660 feet from the State Highway
centerline on each side of the Highway.
Letha
At the intersection of W. Hwy 52 and Idaho Blvd. running East on Idaho Blvd.
for 8/10's of a mile. A corridor of 330 feet from the center line on both sides
of Idaho Blvd. Berglund Road from Idaho Blvd. to the W. Hwy 52 intersection - a
corridor of 330 feet from the center line of Berglund Road; then West on W. Hwy
52 to the intersection of W. Hwy 52 and Idaho Blvd. - a corridor of 660 feet
from the State Highway center line on the North side of the State Highway.
North on Petersburg Road to the railroad right-of-way - a corridor of 150 feet
from the Petersburg Road centerline on each side of Petersburg Road. Florence
Street from the intersection of Boise Ave. to Pennsylvania Ave. - a corridor of
150 feet from the Florence Street centerline on the North side of Florence
Street.
Sweet
At the Intersection of N. Highway 52 running North on the Sweet - Ola Highway
to Brownlee - Liberty Road a corridor of 330 feet from the Sweet - Ola Highway
centerline on each side of the Sweet - Ola Highway. Knowlton's Subdivision 1 &
3 in the Sweet Township shall have a corridor of 150 feet from the Sweet - Ola
Highway centerline on each side of the Sweet - Ola Highway.
Ola
On the Sweet - Ola Highway North from Perkins Lane to High Valley Road a
corridor 660 feet from the center line to the East side of the Sweet - Ola
Highway, and 330 feet from the center line on the West side of the Sweet - Ola
Highway.
Any division of land in this zone will be regulated by the state of Idaho local
planning act, and the Gem County zoning ordinance.
Any Offices, Light Industrial or Commercial use in this Zone that is adjacent
to any residential area must be compatible with, and be screened from that
residential area by masonry wall or sight obscuring fence that is sightly and
adequate to create a reliable buffer between the two uses and maintained as
such. The Commission shall determine the height of the fence during the Special
Use Permit process.
Single-family dwellings will be an allowed use in this zone. Multi-family
dwellings may only be allowed by special use permit.
   B.   The minimum lot size shall be one acre in areas that can be served by
individual well and septic systems as approved by the health department. (Ord.
2009-05, 9-28-2009; amd. Ord. 2019-08, 8-26-2019; Ord. 2022-07, 8-1-2022)
11-4-7: C-1 COMMERCIAL:
   A.   Purpose: To provide an area for convenience business uses meeting the
needs of nearby residential neighborhoods. To provide an area for commercial
business uses and to restrict incompatible commercial uses which may be better
located in other commercial zones.
   B.   Minimum Size: One acre minimum lot size requirements in areas that can
be served by individual well and septic systems as approved by the health
department (this may be reduced if lot is on a central water and sewer system).
(Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009; amd. Ord. 2019-08, 8-26-2019)
11-4-8: C-2 COMMERCIAL:
   A.   Purpose: To provide an area for business uses larger in scale and more
intensive than the uses allowed in the C-1 commercial zone, uses which provide
general retail and travel needs within the community bordering highways.
   B.   Minimum Size: One acre minimum lot size requirements in areas that can
be served by individual well and septic systems as approved by the health
department (this may be reduced if lot is on a central water and sewer system).
(Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009; amd. Ord. 2019-08, 8-26-2019)
11-4-9: M-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL:
   A.   Purpose: To provide an area where industrial uses of land more
intensive than commercial uses, but not creating undue congestion, noise, odor
or waste, may be located away from industries that do have such effects.
   B.   Performance Standards: Manufacturing, assembling, fabricating,
processing, packaging or storage uses which have not been a nuisance by
statute, resolution or any court of competent jurisdiction and provided these
uses shall not cause:
      1.   Unreasonable dust, smoke, gas, fumes, noise, vibration or odor
beyond the boundaries of the site on which such use is conducted.
      2.   Hazards of fire, explosion or other physical damage to any adjacent
building.
   C.   Minimum Size: One acre minimum lot size requirements in areas that can
be served by individual well and septic systems as approved by the health
department (this may be reduced if lot is on a central water and sewer system).
(Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009; amd. Ord. 2019-08, 8-26-2019)
11-4-10: M-2 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL:
   A.   Purpose: To provide an area for uses of a less desirable nature and
which are needed to serve the needs of a community but in conflict with the
purpose of agricultural, residential, commercial and light industrial zones.
   B.   Minimum Size: One acre minimum lot size requirements in areas that can
be served by individual well and septic systems as approved by the health
department (this may be reduced if lot is on a central water and sewer system).
(Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009; amd. Ord. 2019-08, 8-26-2019)
11-4-11: HT HIGH TECH:
   A.   Purpose: To establish or provide lands for and encourage the
development of well planned, designed technological-industrial parks which
would accommodate certain light industrial, technological, professional offices
and similar activities.
   B.   Minimum Size: One acre minimum lot size requirements in areas that can
be served by individual well and septic systems as approved by the health
department (this may be reduced if lot is on a central water and sewer system).
(Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009; amd. Ord. 2019-08, 8-26-2019)
11-4-12: P PUBLIC:
   A.   Purpose: To provide locations for governmental buildings and land uses,
while enhancing and preserving the character of publicly owned properties.
   B.   Minimum Size: One acre minimum lot size requirements in areas that can
be served by individual well and septic systems as approved by the health
department (this may be reduced if lot is on a central water and sewer system).
(Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009; amd. Ord. 2019-08, 8-26-2019)
11-4-13: SBIP SHADOW BUTTE INDUSTRIAL PARK ZONING OVERLAY DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the Shadow Butte Industrial Park Zoning Overlay
District is to implement land use and design objectives for the Shadow Butte
Industrial Park (hereafter referred to as "SBIP"). Specifically, the purpose of
the SBIP Zoning Overlay District is to specify allowed, prohibited and special
land uses within the SBIP, promote and encourage a growing economy, protect the
natural and existing environment within the SBIP, provide clean industry and
employment for Gem County and its residents, and develop, maintain and enhance
existing commercial and industrial uses and the aesthetic features of the SBIP.
(Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
   B.   Defined: The Shadow Butte Industrial Park Zoning Overlay District shall
encompass the area depicted on exhibit 1 of this section. (Ord. 2018-02, 2-26-
2018)
   C.   Development Standards, Permitted Uses, And Prohibited Uses: There shall
be no development or alteration of the lands, uses, or structures within this
overlay district except as provided for by this section from the date of its
enactment, and other applicable sections of this title and other County
ordinances.
While this section, adopted under the Local Land Use Planning Act, authorizes
and restricts land uses within the overlay district, properties in the overlay
district may be subject to private restrictions, such as recorded covenants,
conditions, and restrictions, and/or agreements for the provision of water and
sewer utility services. Such restrictions and agreements may further restrict
land uses within the overlay district. This section is not intended to and does
not alter such restrictions and agreements.
Development requirements and permitted uses shall be established for this
overlay district as follows:
      1.   Development Standards, All Areas: The following development
standards shall apply to all areas within the SBIP Zoning Overlay District:
 
Minimum lot area/size                 0.92 acre
Minimum front building setback        30 feet
Minimum interior side setback         8 feet
Minimum secondary street side setback 30 feet
Minimum rear setback                  8 feet
Maximum building height               125 feet 1
 
Note:
   1.    Any building over 3 stories must have fire sprinklers installed.
      2.   Permitted Uses: Notwithstanding other zoning regulations or City of
Emmett Public Works Standards to the contrary, the following uses are allowed
by right within the SBIP Zoning Overlay District:
         Agribusiness production, distribution, packaging, and warehousing,
including horticulture, floriculture, vegetable growing, plant propagation,
nursery operations, and other agricultural activities.
         Apparel and related products.
         Assembly of electronic or mechanical parts and equipment.
         Beverage bottling plant.
         Brewery facilities.
         Building materials, manufacturing (e.g., cement block).
         Chemical laboratories and processing.
         Concrete products.
         Contractors (storage, warehouse, accessory office space).
         Electronics manufacturing and repair.
         Fabrication shop.
         Freight house or truck terminal.
         Heavy equipment manufacturing.
         Household appliance repair.
         Manufacturing of consumer goods, including appliances, batteries,
furniture, garments and similar products.
         Medical equipment/products manufacturing.
         Metalwork and machine shops.
         Milled wood products (furniture, fixtures, cabinets, etc.).
         Newspaper, printing shop and distribution of printed material.
         Packaging of consumer goods, including food products, cosmetics,
pharmaceutical, toiletries, etc.
         Paint shops (except auto repair shop).
         Paper and textile products.
         Printing and publishing.
         Processing and manufacture of food products, including bakery goods,
candies, beverages, etc.
         Scientific research laboratory.
         Storage of products, including merchandise, domestic goods, raw
materials.
         Warehouse.
         Wholesale distribution centers.
      3.   Ancillary Uses: Commercial uses allowed in the Gem County C-1 and C-
2 Zones are prohibited as primary uses in the SBIP Zoning Overlay District,
except for those listed in subsection C2 of this section. However, each
approved industrial or manufacturing activity may use up to twenty percent
(20%) of the gross floor area of the building for ancillary commercial purposes
associated with that specific industrial or manufacturing use. These uses may
include, but are not limited to, a sales office, showroom, factory outlet
store, and/or commercial sales of products manufactured, assembled, or housed
on the parcel.
In addition, where an ancillary commercial use principally serves employees
within the SBIP, up to five percent (5%) of the gross acreage of the SBIP may
be authorized for said uses as stand alone businesses.
      4.   Uses Permitted With Special Use Permit: Proposed uses not listed
under subsection C2 or C3 of this section that serve to meet the industrial
employment objectives of the SBIP and are compatible with the permitted uses in
subsection C2 of this section may be allowed as special uses. Under such
authorization, a special use permit application shall be submitted and
subsequently approved in accordance with the Gem County zoning ordinance
provisions prior to issuance of a building permit.
      5.   Prohibited Uses: All uses not listed above as permitted, ancillary
or special uses are prohibited within the SBIP Zoning Overlay District. (Ord.
2009-05, 9-28-2009)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4764d6e064d6cb077faf9e50a7dbd401dea0b7c6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1255.gif]
 
(Ord. 2018-02, 2-26-2018)
CHAPTER 5
REGULATIONS WITHIN ZONES
SECTION:
11-5-1: Compliance With Regulations
11-5-2: Schedule Of Zoning Regulations Adopted
11-5-3: Key To Symbols
11-5-4: Area And Space Requirements
11-5-5: Zoning Matrix
11-5-6: Accessory Buildings Or Uses
11-5-7: Official Height And Area Regulations
11-5-1: COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS:
The regulations of each zone set forth by this title shall be minimum
regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or
land, except as hereinafter provided:
   A.   Compliance Required: No building, structure or land shall be used or
occupied and no building or structure or a part thereof shall be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in conformity
with all the regulations herein specified for the zone in which it is located.
   B.   Prohibited Acts: No building or other structure shall be erected or
altered unless in accordance with this code.
   C.   Reduction Of Lot Or Yard: No yard or lot existing at the time of
passage of the ordinance codified in this title shall be reduced in dimension
or area below the minimum requirements set forth herein. Yards or lots created
after the effective date of this title shall be at least the minimum
requirements set forth herein. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-5-2: SCHEDULE OF ZONING REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The schedule of zoning regulations shall be as set forth in sections
11-5-5 through
11-5-7 of this chapter and in the performance standards, chapter 6 of this
title. To determine in which zone a specific use is allowed, it is necessary to
find the use in one of the groups and read across the schedule until either the
letter "P" or the letters "SUP" appear in one of the columns. If the letter "P"
appears, the use is a permitted use; if a dash ("-") appears, the use is
prohibited and if the letters "SUP" appear, the use is only allowed upon the
issuance of a special use permit. The administrator shall interpret the
appropriate zone for land uses not specifically mentioned by determining a zone
in which similar uses are permitted. When several combined land uses exist, or
are proposed, the most intensive land use shall be considered as the primary
activity.
Numerical indications after the use refer to the North American industry
classification system (NAICS) number and definition as delineated at
www.census.gov/eos/www/naics. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-5-3: KEY TO SYMBOLS:
   A.   Zones:
A-1 Prime agricultural (PRAG)
A-2 Rural transitional agricultural (RTA)
A-3 Rural agricultural (RA)
R-2 Residential transitional (RT)
R-3 Rural residential (RR)
MR  Multi-family residential
MX  Mixed use development
C-1 Commercial
C-2 Commercial
M-1 Light industrial
M-2 Heavy industrial
HT  High tech
P   Public
 
   B.   Zone Regulations:
 
P   Allowed use
-   Prohibited
SUP Special use permit
 
Other uses deemed similar by the administrator or commission to the uses in a
specific zone may be allowed as permitted uses. Uses not specifically listed or
not deemed similar to allowed uses shall require a special use permit. (Ord.
2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-5-4: AREA AND SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Area Requirements And Standards:
      1.   All zones shall comply with the schedule found in section
11-5-7 of this chapter for minimum lot areas per dwelling and the minimum width
and depth per dwelling providing central water and sewage systems and alleys or
easements are provided.
      2.   The area of any lot shall be sufficient to permit the use of sewage
absorption system of a shallow or deep type and be based upon the results of
soil percolation test conducted in accordance with the regulations of the
health department. To be considered for area reduction, plans of a public water
supply to serve a subdivision must also be approved by the health department.
      3.   Additional structures and/or dwellings may not be connected to an
existing septic system serving another dwelling in cases where the system was
not sized to accept the increased load. The size of the system must conform to
the current rules and regulations of the state of Idaho and the health
department.
   B.   Yard And Height Requirements: All zones shall comply with the following
schedule for minimum side yards, minimum rear yards and maximum height of
buildings.
      1.   The minimum side yard along a street or corner lot shall be the same
as the setback requirements for such a zone.
      2.   The minimum rear yard may be measured to the centerline of any alley
where an alley abuts the rear lot lines.
      3.   Accessory buildings will not be located in any front yard area and
not located any closer than eight feet (8') from any interior side or thirty
feet (30') from a street side or any closer than eight feet (8') from rear
property line.
      4.   No side yard required except on the side of a lot adjoining a
residential zone MR (multi-family residential) in which case a side yard of not
less than eight feet (8') shall be provided.
      5.   Any building exceeding three (3) stories in height shall require a
sprinkler system for fire protection.
   C.   Minimum Setbacks: All zones shall comply with the following schedule
for minimum setback of buildings:
      1.   Zones A-1, A-2, A-3, R-2, R-3, MR, and public: Thirty feet (30')
from the front lot line if standard sixty foot (60') right of way is provided;
fifty five feet (55') from the centerline of the street right of way in
existing areas with substandard street right of way; or sixty feet (60') from
the boundary line of any 1/4, 1/4 section or the centerline of any arterial
street; or eighty feet (80') from the centerline of any state or federal
highway, whichever is greater.
      2.   Zones MX, HT, C-1, C-2, M-1 and M-2: Thirty feet (30') from the
front lot line if standard eighty foot (80') right of way is provided; fifty
five feet (55') from the centerline of the street right of way in existing
areas with substandard street right of way; sixty feet (60') from the boundary
line of any 1/4, 1/4 section or the centerline of any arterial street; eighty
feet (80') from the centerline of any state or federal highway, whichever is
greater. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-5-5:ZONING MATRIX:
 
P = Permitted use SUP = Special use permit - (dash) = Prohibited use
 
NAICS Class/Description Zone Classifications
                        P A-1 A-2 A-3 R-2 R-3 MR MX M-1 M-2 C-1 C-2 HT
NAICS Class/Description     Zone Classifications
                            P   A-1 A-2 A-3 R-2 R-3 MR  MX  M-1 M-2 C-1 C-2 HT
Agriculture 11:                                                  
 Crop production 111       -   P   P   P   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
 Dairies 11212*            -   P   SUP SUP -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
 Farms, fur 11293          -   P   SUP SUP -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
 Farms, poultry 1123       -   P   SUP SUP -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
 Feedlots 112112*          -   P   SUP SUP -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
 Fertilizer services and   -   P   SUP SUP -   -   -   -   P   P   -   -   -
  plants 32531
 Fishing activities and    -   P   P   P   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
  related services 1125
 Forestry activities and   -   P   P   P   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
  related services 113
 Fruit and produce 1113    -   P   P   P   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
  and 3114
 Grain and seed processing -   P   SUP P   -   -   -   -   -   P   -   -   -
  115114
 Horticulture and services -   P   P   P   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   SUP
  1114
 Horticulture sales 44422  -   P   P   P   -   -   -   -   -   -   P   P   -
 Kennel 812910*            -   P   SUP SUP -   -   -   SUP -   -   SUP P   -
 Livestock processing and  -   P   SUP SUP -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
  sales 11521
 Stands, commercial        -   P   P   P   SUP SUP SUP P   -   -   P   P   -
  (permanent) 1151
 Vet hospital/services     -   P   P   P   -   -   -   SUP P   -   P   P   -
  541940*
 Agriculture services -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   P   -   -   P   P   -
  equipment sales 115
Mining 21:                                                       
  Mining and extraction
 activities 1 and related  -   SUP SUP SUP -   -   -   SUP SUP SUP -   -   -
  services 2122,2123*
Utilities 22:                                                    
 Aboveground transmission  P   P   P   P   -   -   -   -   P   P   P   P   P
  lines
 Communication, equipment  -   SUP SUP SUP -   -   -   -   SUP P   SUP P   SUP
  buildings
 Radio and television      -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   P   P   SUP P   P
  studios 515112
 Transmitting towers       P   SUP SUP SUP -   -   -   -   SUP SUP SUP SUP SUP
 Utility buildings (over   SUP P   P   P   SUP SUP SUP SUP P   P   P   P   P
  1,200 sq. ft.)
 Utility buildings (under  SUP P   P   P   SUP SUP SUP SUP P   P   P   P   P
  1,200 sq. ft.)
 Utility substation        P   SUP SUP SUP SUP SUP SUP SUP SUP SUP SUP SUP SUP
Manufacturing 31-33:                                             
  Apparel and other
 finished products made    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   SUP P   P   SUP SUP -
  from fabrics, leather,
  and similar materials 315
 Asphalt plant 324121      -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   P   -   -   -
 Concrete plant 327320     -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   P   -   -   -
 Food and kindred products -   SUP -   -   -   -   -   SUP SUP P   -   -   -
  - manufacturing 311
 Furniture and fixtures -  -   SUP SUP SUP -   -   -   SUP P   P   SUP SUP -
  manufacturing 337
  Lumber and wood products
 (except furniture) -      -   SUP -   SUP -   -   -   SUP P   P   -   -   -
  manufacturing 321
 Metal fabrication 331     -   SUP SUP SUP -   -   -   SUP P   P   SUP SUP -
 Minerals, petroleum and   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   SUP P   -   -   -
  related industries 325*
 Paper and allied products -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   SUP P   -   -   -
  - manufacturing 322
 Primary metal industries  -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   SUP P   -   -   -
  331
 Printing, publishing, and -   -   -   -   -   -   -   SUP P   P   SUP SUP -
  allied industries 323
  Professional, scientific,
  and controlling
 instruments, photographic -   -   -   -   -   -   -   SUP SUP P   -   -   SUP
  and optical goods;
  watches and clocks -
  manufacturing 333
  Rubber and miscellaneous
 plastic products -        -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   P   -   -   -
  manufacturing 326 and
  3252
  Stone, clay and glass
 products - manufacturing  -   SUP SUP SUP -   -   -   -   SUP P   SUP P   -
  327
 Textile mill products -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   SUP P   -   -   -
  manufacturing 314
Trade 44:                                                        
 Convenience store/gas 447 -   SUP SUP SUP SUP SUP -   SUP -   -   P   P   -
 Drive-in restaurant 722*  -   -   -   -   -   -   -   SUP -   -   P   P   -
 Irrigation sales 444      -   SUP -   SUP -   -   -   SUP -   -   P   P   -
 Retail trade - apparel    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   P   -   -   P   P   -
  and accessories 448
  Retail trade -
  automotive, marine craft,
 aircraft, and             -   -   -   -   -   -   -   SUP P   SUP P   P   -
  accessories, RV sales
  4413
  Retail trade - building
 materials, hardware, and  -   -   -   -   -   -   -   P   -   -   P   P   -
  farm equipment 444130
 Retail trade - eating and -   -   -   SUP -   -   -   P   SUP -   P   P   P
  drinking 7221
 Retail trade - food       -   -   -   -   -   -   -   P   -   -   P   P   -
  445110
  Retail trade - furniture,
 home furnishings, and     -   -   -   -   -   -   -   P   P   SUP P   P   -
  equipment 442110
 Retail trade - general    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   P   -   -   P   P   -
  merchandise 452990
 Wholesale trade 42        -   SUP -   SUP -   -   -   SUP P   P   P   P   SUP
Transportation 48:                                               
 Aircraft transportation   P   SUP SUP SUP -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
  481
 Automobile parking        P   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   P   P   SUP
 Boat docks or houses      P   SUP SUP SUP -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
  71393*
 Park and ride lots 48     P   SUP SUP SUP SUP SUP SUP SUP -   -   P   P   SUP
  Railroad, rapid rail
 transit, and street       SUP SUP SUP SUP -   -   -   -   SUP SUP SUP SUP SUP
  railway 48
Entertainment and                                                
recreation 71:
 Amusements 7131           SUP -   -   -   -   -   -   SUP -   -   P   P   -
 Botanical gardens and     P   P   P   P   P   -   -   SUP -   -   P   P   -
  arboretums 71213
 Cultural activities and   SUP SUP SUP SUP -   -   -   SUP -   -   P   P   SUP
  nature exhibitions 712
 Fairgrounds               P   SUP SUP SUP -   -   -   SUP -   -   -   P   -
 Golf range/miniature golf P   SUP SUP SUP -   -   -   SUP -   -   P   P   -
  71391
 Health club 71394         -   -   -   -   SUP SUP -   SUP -   -   P   P   P
 Indoor recreational       SUP -   -   -   -   -   -   SUP -   -   P   P   -
  activities 71394
 Libraries, museums, art   P   SUP SUP SUP SUP SUP -   SUP -   -   P   -   -
  galleries 712110
 Parks 924120              P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
 Resorts 721110; group     -   SUP SUP SUP -   -   -   SUP -   -   -   -   -
  camps 721211
 Rifle and pistol range    SUP SUP SUP SUP -   -   -   -   -   -   SUP SUP SUP
  71399
 Schools (commercial) 6114 -   -   SUP SUP -   -   -   -   -   -   P   P   P
 Schools (public) 61       P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   -   -   -   -   -
  Sports arena 711211;
 athletic sports           P   SUP SUP SUP SUP SUP SUP SUP -   -   P   P   SUP
  facilities 711310
 Swimming pools (public)   SUP SUP SUP SUP SUP SUP -   SUP -   -   P   P   SUP
  713940
 Theaters 7111; drive-in   -   SUP SUP SUP -   -   -   SUP -   -   P   P   -
  512132
 Zoos 712130               P   SUP SUP SUP -   -   -   SUP -   -   SUP SUP -
Services 81:                                                     
 Auto and technical repair -   SUP SUP SUP -   -   -   SUP -   -   P   P   -
  811
  Auto and truck repair
 811111; tractor repair    -   SUP SUP SUP -   -   -   SUP -   -   P   P   -
  811310
 Beauty and barber 812     -   SUP SUP SUP -   -   -   SUP -   -   P   P   -
 Car wash 811192           -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   P   P   -
 Cemetery 81222            P   -   -   SUP -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
 Construction services -   -   SUP SUP SUP -   -   -   SUP -   -   P   P   -
  residential 2361
 Contract construction     -   SUP SUP SUP -   -   -   SUP -   -   P   P   -
  services 23*
 Correctional facilities   SUP -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   SUP SUP -
  92
 Daycare facilities 6244   -   SUP SUP SUP SUP SUP SUP SUP -   -   P   P   SUP
 Educational services 68   P   -   -   -   -   -   -   SUP -   -   P   P   SUP
 Finance, insurance, and   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   SUP -   -   P   P   SUP
  real estate services 541
 Funeral/mortuary 81221    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   P   P   -
 Government services 92    P   SUP SUP SUP SUP SUP SUP SUP -   -   P   P   P
 Hospitals/clinics 62      -   -   -   -   SUP SUP -   SUP -   -   P   P   -
 Laundromats 81232         -   -   -   -   -   -   -   SUP -   -   P   P   -
  Professional offices
 (attorney, doctor, real   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   P   -   -   P   P   P
  estate, etc.) 54
 Professional services 54  SUP -   -   -   -   -   -   P   -   -   P   P   P
 Recycling center          -   SUP SUP SUP -   -   -   -   SUP SUP P   P   -
 Salvage yards*            -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   SUP P   -   -   -
 Sanitary landfill 562212  SUP SUP -   SUP -   -   -   -   -   SUP -   -   -
 Sewage lagoon - public    SUP SUP SUP SUP -   -   -   -   -   SUP -   -   -
  237110
 Small engine repair 81141 -   SUP SUP SUP -   -   -   SUP P   P   P   P   -
 Tire shop/storage 811198  -   -   -   -   -   -   -   SUP P   P   P   P   -
Housing 72 and 81:                                               
 Bed and breakfast 721191  -   SUP SUP SUP SUP SUP SUP SUP -   -   P   P   -
  Group quarters (less than
 8 residents per section   -   P   P   P   P   P   P   SUP -   -   -   -   -
  11-2-2 of this title) 814
 Group quarters (over 8    -   SUP SUP SUP SUP SUP SUP SUP -   -   P   P   -
  residents) 814
 Halfway house 623220      -   SUP SUP SUP -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
 Household units - duplex  -   -   -   -   P   P   P   SUP -   -   -   -   -
  814
 Household units - multi   -   -   -   -   P   P   P   SUP -   -   -   -   -
  814
 Household units - single  -   P   P   P   P   P   P   SUP -   -   -   -   -
  814
 Manufactured home parks   -   SUP SUP SUP P   SUP SUP SUP -   -   -   -   -
  531190*
 Planned unit development  -   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
 Recreational vehicle      -   SUP SUP SUP -   -   SUP SUP -   -   SUP -   -
  parks 721211
 Transient lodgings,       -   -   -   -   -   SUP SUP SUP -   -   P   P   -
  motels 72111
 
Notes:
     1.    See mineral extraction overlay map and other mineral extraction
standards in subsection
11-6-5O of this title.
     *    See section
11-6-5 of this title for special standards that apply.
(Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009; amd. Ord. 2013-01, 1-22-2013)
11-5-6: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS OR USES:
   A.   Defined: See section
11-2-2 of this title.
   B.   General: An "accessory building or use" as defined and regulated
herein, is permitted in any zone where the principal use to which it is
accessory is permitted.
   C.   Permitted Accessory Uses:
      1.   Accessory uses are permitted if constructed either at the same time
or subsequent to the main building.
         a.   Agricultural Zones: Accessory agricultural buildings not intended
for human habitation and for agricultural use only shall be exempt from these
regulations. If the building is intended for human habitation it shall not be
considered an accessory building.
         b.   Residential Zones: Such uses shall be limited to one and one-
half (11/2) stories in height and shall not encroach upon the required setbacks
in residential zones as set forth in subsection
11-5-4C of this chapter. A building permit will be required for any accessory
building over one hundred twenty (120) square feet in size.
         c.   Commercial And Industrial Zones: Such uses shall be limited to
two (2) stories in height and shall not encroach upon required setback areas in
commercial and industrial zones as set forth in subsection
11-5-4C of this chapter. A building permit will be required for any accessory
building over one hundred twenty (120) square feet in size. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-
28-2009)
11-5-7: OFFICIAL HEIGHT AND AREA REGULATIONS:
   MINIMUM YARD SETBACK REQUIREMENTS
     Maximum Front 9 Rear  Interior Street Minimum Lot   Minimum
Zone Height  (Ft.)   (Ft.) Side     Side   Area Per      Lot Width
     (Ft.)                 (Ft.)    (Ft.)  Dwelling Unit (Ft.)
       Maximum Front 9 Rear  Interior Street Minimum Lot   Minimum
Zone   Height  (Ft.)   (Ft.) Side     Side   Area Per      Lot Width
       (Ft.)                 (Ft.)    (Ft.)  Dwelling Unit (Ft.)
   A351     30      8     8        304    40 acres8     None
   A351     30      8     8        304    5 acres7      None
   A35      30      8     8        304    5 acres7      None
   R302     302     82    82       302,4  1 acre8       150
   R302     302     82    82       302,4  2 acres       150
   M302     302     82    82       302,4  1 acre6       150
   M302     302     82,5  82,5     302,4  1 acre6       None
   C1253    30      82,5  82,5     302,4  1 acre6       None
   C1253    30      82,5  82,5     302,4  1 acre6       None
   H1253    30      82,5  82,5     302,4  1 acre6       None
   M1253    30      82,5  82,5     302,4  1 acre6       None
   M1253    30      82,5  82,5     302,4  1 acre6       None
   P1253    30      82,5  82,5     302,4  1 acre6       None
 
Notes:
    1.    Except barns, silos, and windmills.
    2.    Unless addressed in covenants. However, private covenants that are
less restrictive than this code will not be recognized.
    3.    Any building over 3 stories must have fire sprinklers installed.
    4.    Subject to building code requirements.
    5.    May be reduced if on central water and sewer.
    6.    May be reduced to minimum of 75 feet if on central water and sewer.
    7.    If all lots are more than 2 acres in size, individual wells may be
allowed by applying for a waiver through the board and health department.
    8.    Cornices, canopies, eaves or other projections which do not increase
the volume of the space enclosed by the building and do not project into any
required yard more than 2 feet; provided that an unroofed stair and landing
together with a railing may project not more than 3 feet into a front yard or 6
feet into the rear.
    9.    The front building setback for landlocked parcels shall be the
property line that the main entry of a dwelling or front of a structure faces.
(Ord. 2014-03, 2-18-2014)
CHAPTER 6
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-6-1: Purpose
11-6-2: Supplemental Yard And Height Regulations
11-6-3: Supplemental General Provisions
11-6-4: Provisions For Commercial And Industrial Uses
11-6-5: Provisions For Unique Land Uses
11-6-6: Landscaping
11-6-7: Wireless Telecommunications Towers And Antennas
11-6-8: Manufactured And Mobile Homes Standards
11-6-9: Recreational Vehicles (RV); Living Quarters
11-6-10: Manufactured Home/Recreational Vehicle Park Improvements
11-6-11: Stormwater Drainage Standards
11-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of performance standards is to set specific conditions for various
uses, classifications of uses or areas where problems are frequently
encountered. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-6-2: SUPPLEMENTAL YARD AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
In addition to all yard regulations specified in the schedule of zoning
regulations and in other sections of this title, the following provisions shall
be adhered to:
   A.   Visibility At Intersections: On a corner lot in any zone, nothing shall
be erected, placed, planted or allowed to grow in such a manner as to
materially impede vision between a height of four feet (4') and ten feet (10')
above the centerline grades of the intersection streets in the area bounded by
the right of way lines of such corner lots and a line adjoining points along
said street right of way lines forty feet (40') from the point of intersection.
   B.   Yard Requirements For Multi-Family Dwellings: Multi-family dwellings
shall be considered as one building for the purpose of determining front, side
and rear yard requirements. The entire group as a unit shall require one front,
one rear, and two (2) side yards as specified for dwellings in the appropriate
zone.
   C.   Side And Yard Requirements For Nonresidential Uses Abutting Residential
Zones: Nonresidential buildings or uses shall not be located nor conducted
closer than forty feet (40') to any lot line of a residential zone, except that
the minimum yard requirements may be reduced to fifty percent (50%) of the
requirement if acceptable landscaping or screening approved by the commission
is provided. Such screening shall be masonry or solid fence between four feet
(4') and eight feet (8') in height, maintained in good condition and free of
all advertising or other signs. Landscaping provided in lieu of such wall or
fence shall consist of a strip of land not less than twenty feet (20') in width
planted with an evergreen hedge or dense planting of evergreen shrubs not less
than four feet (4') in height at the time of planting.
   D.   Architectural Projections: Open structures such as porches, canopies,
balconies, platforms, carports, covered patios and similar architectural
projections shall be considered part of the building to which attached and
shall not project into the required minimum front, side or rear yard.
   E.   Exceptions To Height Regulations: The height limitations contained in
the official height and area regulations found in section
11-5-7 of this title do not apply to spires, belfries, cupolas, antennas, water
tanks, ventilators, chimneys, smokestacks or other appurtenances usually
required to be placed above the roof level and not intended for human
occupancy, except where the height of such structures will constitute a hazard
to the safe landing and takeoff of aircraft at an established airport. However,
if the height of such structures is proposed to exceed six (6) stories then a
special use permit will be required.
   F.   Swimming Pools: Requirements for fencing of swimming pools shall meet
the international residential code, section AG 105, barrier requirements.
   G.   Fence And Wall Restrictions In Yards: In any front yard, or other yard
bordering a public roadway, no obstruction shall be permitted which materially
impedes vision across such yard between the height of three feet (3') and ten
feet (10'), and in no instance can be constructed so as to create a traffic or
visual hazard. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-6-3: SUPPLEMENTAL GENERAL PROVISIONS:
In addition to all other regulations as specified in this title, the following
provisions shall be adhered to:
   A.   Conversion Of Dwelling Into More Units: A residence may not be
converted to accommodate an increased number of dwelling units unless:
      1.   Yard Dimensions: The yard dimensions still meet the yard dimensions
required by the zoning regulations for new structures in that zone;
      2.   Lot Area: The lot area per family equals the lot area requirements
for new structures in that zone;
      3.   Floor Area: The floor area per dwelling unit is not reduced to less
than that which is required for new construction in that zone;
      4.   Compliance: The conversion is in compliance with all other relevant
codes and ordinances; and
      5.   Detached Secondary Dwelling: The second dwelling complies with
subsection
11-6-5 L of this chapter.
   B.   Required Trash Areas: All trash and/or garbage collection areas for
commercial, industrial and multi-family residential uses shall be enclosed on
at least three (3) sides by a solid wall or fence of at least four feet (4') in
height or within an enclosed building or structure. Adequate vehicular access
to and from such area or areas for collection of trash and/or garbage, as
determined by the administrator, shall be provided.
   C.   Development Close To An Airport: The location, building height and
lighting of residential and commercial development shall be restricted within
airport approach areas as required by the state department of transportation,
division of aeronautics, and public transportation and federal aviation
administration.
   D.   Hazardous Or Solid Waste Site Cleanup Provision: Hazardous or solid
waste site cleanup expense on any property within the county shall be the
responsibility of the owner of record at the time of the finding of the
problem.
   E.   Air Pollution: Air pollution shall be subject to the requirements and
regulations established by the health authority.
   F.   Permits For Private Septic Tanks Required: All persons putting in
private septic tanks and drainfields shall first obtain a sewer permit from the
health department. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009; amd. Ord. 2022-06, 7-11-2022; Ord.
2025-06, 3-24-2025)
11-6-4: PROVISIONS FOR COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL USES:
No land or building in any zone shall be used or occupied in any manner
creating dangerous, injurious, noxious or otherwise objectionable conditions
which could adversely affect the surrounding areas or adjoining premises
without a special use permit, except that any use permitted by this title may
be undertaken and maintained if acceptable measures and safeguards to reduce
dangerous and objectionable conditions to acceptable limits as established by
the following performance requirements:
   A.   Fire Hazards: Any activity involving the use or storage of flammable or
explosive materials shall be protected by adequate firefighting and fire
prevention equipment and by such safety devices as are normally used in the
handling of any such material. Such hazards shall be kept removed from adjacent
activities to a distance which is compatible with the potential danger
involved, as specified in the international fire code and the National Safety
Foundation publications;
   B.   Radioactivity Or Electrical Disturbance: No activity shall emit harmful
radioactivity at any point, or electrical disturbance adversely affecting the
operation of any equipment at any point other than that of the creator of such
disturbance;
   C.   Noise: Objectionable noise which is due to volume, frequency or beat
shall be muffled or otherwise controlled. Air raid sirens and related apparatus
used solely for public purposes are exempt from this requirement;
   D.   Vibration: No vibration shall be permitted which is discernible without
instruments on any adjoining lot or property;
   E.   Air Pollution: Air pollution shall be subject to the requirements and
regulations established by the authorized public health authority;
   F.   Glare: No direct or reflected glare shall be permitted which is visible
from any property outside an industrial zone or from any public street;
   G.   Erosion: No erosion, by man, wind, or water, shall be permitted which
will carry objectionable substances onto neighboring properties;
   H.   Solid Waste: Refer to title 4, chapter 1 of this code;
   I.   Water Pollution: Water pollution shall be subject to the requirements
and regulations established by the health authority;
   J.   Enforcement Provisions: The administrator, prior to the issuance of a
zoning permit, may require the submission of statements and plans indicating
the manner in which dangerous and objectionable elements involved in processing
and in equipment operations are to be eliminated or reduced to acceptable
limits and tolerances; and
   K.   Measurement Procedures: Methods and procedures for the determination of
the existence of any dangerous and objectionable elements shall conform to
applicable standard measurement procedures published by the American National
Standards Institute (ANSI), New York; the United States bureau of mines and the
health authority. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-6-5: PROVISIONS FOR UNIQUE LAND USES:
Certain unique land uses pose special problems that may have detrimental
influences on surrounding land uses. The following performance standards for
such unique land uses shall be adhered to in addition to all other provisions
of this title. All distance requirements hereinbelow enumerated shall be
reciprocal, e.g., commercial feedlots shall not be located closer than one
thousand feet (1,000') from any residence except the owner's and all residences
except the owner's shall not be located closer than one thousand feet (1,000')
from commercial feedlots.
   A.   Accessory Buildings: Refer to section
11-5-6 of this title for provisions.
   B.   Agricultural Buildings: The agricultural building must be placed in an
agricultural zone and must be placed on five (5) acres or more.
   C.   Animal Clinic, Animal Hospital, Veterinary Office And Kennel: Will be
located at least three hundred feet (300') from any residence including motels
and hotels, except for an owner's residence. The administrator may modify these
requirements if the animals are completely housed in soundproof structures that
completely screen them from view of the abutting residential property. (Ord.
2009-05, 9-28-2009)
   D.   Animal Commercial Feedlots, Meatpacking, Processing Plant And
Slaughterhouse Facilities:
      1.   See chapter 20 of this title for approval procedures and design
standards for confined animal feeding operations. (Ord. 2014-03, 2-18-2014)
      2.   Will be designed and located with full consideration to their
proximity to adjacent uses, their effect upon adjacent and surrounding
properties, and to the reduction of such nuisance factors as odor.
      3.   Will be adequately maintained with housekeeping practices to prevent
the creation of a nuisance, and shall also be subject to the health authority
requirements as to the elimination of waste materials and the maintenance of
water quality control.
      4.   Gem County will comply with the requirements of Idaho Code 67-6529,
subsection (2) regarding the siting of new confined animal feeding operations.
Specifically, the Commission And Board shall each hold at least one public
hearing affording the public an opportunity to comment on each proposed site
before the siting of such facility. Several sites may be considered at any one
public hearing. Only members of the public with their primary residence within
a one mile radius of a proposed site may provide comment at the hearing.
   E.   Vehicle Hobbyist, Collector: Vehicles will be kept out of sight from
all public rights of way and public spaces and stored in an orderly manner. The
following standards shall apply:
      1.   A vehicle hobbyist/collector permit is required and must be obtained
through the development services department prior to using the property for
hobby vehicle storage.
      2.   Only incidental buying/selling of vehicle components is allowed.
      3.   The owner/applicant is responsible to comply with Idaho department
of environmental quality (DEQ) requirements for preventing ground penetration
of hazardous liquids.
      4.   The owner/applicant must prevent vehicles from becoming a rodent
habitat or any other public health nuisance.
      5.   The owner/applicant must immediately remove any vehicles that exceed
the permitted number shown in subsection E7 of this section.
      6.   Mobile and manufactured homes shall not be allowed as hobby
vehicles.
      7.   The maximum number of vehicles allowed per parcel (or contiguous
parcels if under the same ownership), based on conforming parcels within each
zone, is set forth in the following table:
Zone Number Allowed Comment
Zone            Number Allowed Comment
A-1             No maximum     See note 1
A-2, A-3        10             See note 1
R-2             3              See note 1
R-3             6              See note 1
MR              None           See note 1
MX              10             See note 2
C-1, C-2        None           See note 1
M-1, M-2, HT, P None           See note 1
 
   Notes:
      1.    Must be a legal conforming parcel or limited to the next lowest
number allowed.
      2.    The maximum number of hobby vehicles in the MX zone is dependent
upon the primary use of the property. For example, if the primary use is
equivalent to R-2, the maximum number allowed is 3.
   (Ord. 2014-05, 7-7-2014)
   F.   Boathouse:
      1.   Will be located within a shore lot.
      2.   Will be set back a minimum of one hundred feet (100') from the
normal high water elevation of a lake, pond, river or stream, or ten feet (10')
from the high water mark.
      3.   Will not be more than one boathouse on the premises for each shore
lot.
      4.   Will not exceed a height of fifteen feet (15').
      5.   Will not exceed three hundred (300) square feet in horizontal area
covered.
      6.   Will not be located any closer than ten feet (10') to any property
line.
   G.   Bulk Storage Of Flammable Liquids And Gases, Aboveground And For
Resale:
      1.   Will be located at least three hundred feet (300') from a
residential zone, a residence, motel, hotel, except for an owner's residence.
      2.   Will be erected subject to the approval of the fire chief.
      3.   Will have suitable loading and unloading spaces and off street
parking facilities subject to the approval of the fire chief.
   H.   Chemicals, Pesticide And Fertilizer Storage And Manufacturing: Will
have adequate fire protection, storage area, handling and disposal as approved
by the fire chief and the state fire marshal.
   I.   Contractor's Yard:
      1.   Will be located a minimum distance of three hundred feet (300') from
any residence except for an owner's residence.
      2.   Will have a screening fence around areas utilized for storage of
equipment.
   J.   Daycare:
      1.   Daycares shall meet all local and state regulations and licensing
requirements.
      2.   In Gem County, an operator or employee of any daycare center shall
submit to the Gem County sheriff's office for criminal background
investigation.
   K.   Drive-In Restaurant:
      1.   Will be enclosed on the property line with landscaping and fencing,
except for ingress and egress, to prevent trash from moving onto other
properties.
      2.   Will have a six foot (6') high sight obscuring fence along the
property lines that adjoin a residence.
      3.   Will provide for adequate trash receptacles.
      4.   Will avoid the direction of night lighting toward any residence.
   L.   Dwelling, Secondary:
      1.   Purpose: The intent of this subsection is to provide an opportunity
for the development of permanent, single-family, independent living dwellings
for Gem County citizens; to provide a type of affordable housing alternative;
to provide economic support for resident families through small rental units;
and to implement policies in the housing and land use chapters of the
comprehensive plan that call for a diversity of housing types. The purpose is
to provide such development opportunities while still maintaining the
residential character of the surrounding neighborhood. To ensure that no
avoidable adverse impacts on the public health, safety and general welfare
result from the creation of a secondary dwelling, the county prescribes
standards for the approval of such units.
      2.   Permitted: One permanent secondary dwelling is permitted on the same
property in conjunction with and clearly subordinate to an existing single-
family dwelling, in accordance with the standards listed in this section.
Secondary dwellings are only allowed in A districts.
      3.   Recorded Restrictions: Before a building permit for a secondary
dwelling unit is issued, the property owner shall file with the county
recorder's office and submit to development services department a declaration
or agreement of restrictions containing a reference to the deed under which the
property was acquired by the owner and stating that:
         a.   The secondary dwelling unit shall not be sold separate from the
primary dwelling unit;
         b.   The secondary dwelling unit is restricted to the maximum size
allowed per the development standards;
         c.   The restrictions shall be binding upon any successor in ownership
of the property and lack of compliance shall result in legal action against the
property owner.
      4.   Owner Occupancy: To create and maintain a secondary dwelling, the
property owner shall reside on the property. The applicant for a secondary
dwelling shall demonstrate at the time of building permit application that
either the primary dwelling or the secondary dwelling is occupied by the
property owner. Owner occupancy is demonstrated by title records, vehicle
registration, voter registration or other similar means.
      5.   Subdivision: Secondary dwelling units shall not be subdivided or
otherwise segregated in ownership from the primary dwelling unit.
      6.   Maximum Size: Secondary dwelling units shall be limited to a maximum
gross floor area of one thousand one hundred (1,100) square feet, not including
the garage.
      7.   Septic And Well: The secondary dwelling unit shall be hooked to a
wastewater system approved by the health department and shall share the same
domestic water source as the primary dwelling unit. Modifying the existing
water source to accommodate both dwellings is permitted.
      8.   Location: The secondary dwelling may be: located within or attached
to the primary dwelling; a detached structure; or above or beside a detached
structure, such as a garage. Detached secondary dwelling units shall be located
to the side or rear of a primary dwelling and no closer than ten feet (10'). No
portion of the secondary dwelling shall be located in front of the primary
dwelling. It shall not be allowed where it would create adverse effects on
essential public services and/or natural features. These include, but are not
limited to, water supply, stormwater, roadways, unsuitable soil types and
hillsides.
      9.   Driveway And Address: The driveway serving the secondary dwelling
shall be shared with the primary dwelling. If combining driveways is prohibited
by a physical site constraint or some other barrier beyond the owner's control,
a separate driveway permit may be allowed as authorized by the road and bridge
department. A separate address shall be issued for the secondary dwelling.
      10.   Design: The secondary dwelling shall be similar in design to the
primary single-family dwelling, including roof pitch, siding, color, materials,
and window treatments. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
      11.   Prohibitions:
         a.   Manufactured and mobile homes, trailers, and recreation vehicles
shall be prohibited for use as a secondary dwelling. However, when the primary
dwelling is a "manufactured home", as defined in section
11-2-2 of this title and possessing a valid certificate of occupancy, a
manufactured home may be allowed as the secondary dwelling, subject to
compliance with all other standards listed in this section.
         b.   A secondary dwelling is not permitted on parcels where more than
one dwelling already exists or on parcels already approved for a temporary
dwelling under chapter 19 of this title.
         c.   A secondary dwelling is not permitted on any parcel less than
five (5) acres in size.
         d.   A secondary dwelling is not permitted on an illegal parcel. (Ord.
2014-03, 2-18-2014)
      12.   Code Compliance: In cases where an existing garage, shop, or
single-family dwelling is to be converted to a secondary dwelling, the area
designated for the secondary dwelling must be brought into compliance with
current international residential code standards, as determined by the building
official.
   M.   Electricity Generating Facilities: Certain types of electricity
generating facilities are permitted in agricultural and industrial zones if all
conditions are met below:
      1.   The facility must only use natural gas, biomass, solar cells or wind
power to produce electricity for sale. The use of diesel fuel is allowed only
for emergency generation or electricity for fire suppression or winding down
turbines.
      2.   The owner or operator of the facility must show compliance with
applicable Idaho public utility and federal energy regulatory commission rules
and regulations before receiving a zoning permit and must operate the facility
in conformance with those same regulations.
      3.   Facility improvements must be at least two thousand five hundred
feet (2,500') from any residence existing at the time of the application for
permit. This distance shall be measured from the centerline of the power
producing turbine to the closest edge of the residence. The distance may be
shortened if the applicant applies for and is granted a variance using the
standards and procedures contained in chapter 13 of this title. Provided
however, that the owner of any affected residence may waive, in writing, the
setback requirement for that residence. If such waiver is submitted to the
development services office no variance is required.
      4.   Operation of the facility shall not create or cause any dangerous,
injurious, noxious or otherwise objectionable condition that could adversely
affect the surrounding area or adjoining premises. Operation of the facility
shall not result in any noise louder than fifty eight (58) decibels on the A-
weighted decibel scale as measured from seven hundred fifty feet (750') from
the centerline of the power producing turbine. A higher decibel reading would
require a variance. The administrator shall cause the applicant to provide
information detailing possible adverse impacts and require mitigation of the
same as set forth in chapter 13 of this title.
      5.   The applicant, with its zoning permit application, shall submit and
thereafter follow a landscaping, screening and noise control plan to comply
with subsection M4 of this section. The plan's ability to comply with
subsection M4 of this section shall be certified by a licensed engineer
employed by the applicant. All improvements on the facility shall be enclosed
by an appropriate security fence.
      6.   The applicant shall demonstrate and maintain an adequate fire
protection and fire suppression capacity, including entering into an agreement
with a public firefighting agency when the property is within the jurisdiction
of such agency. Said agreement must be submitted with the building permit
application and be recorded prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
      7.   Before a zoning permit is granted, the applicant shall hold at least
two (2) public meetings. Notice of those meetings shall be by publication in a
local newspaper and by mail to property owners within one mile of the proposed
facility.
   N.   Filling, Grading, Lagooning, Dredging, Or Other Earthmoving Activity:
      1.   Will result in the smallest amount of bare ground exposed for the
shortest time feasible.
      2.   Will provide temporary ground cover, such as mulch.
      3.   Will use diversions, silting basins, terraces and other methods to
trap sediment.
      4.   Will provide lagooning in such a manner as to avoid creation of fish
trap conditions.
      5.   Will not result in a floodway, channel or natural drainage.
      6.   Will construct and stabilize sides and bottom of cuts, fills,
channels and artificial watercourses to prevent erosion or soil failure.
      7.   Will not have below grade excavation except for drainageways within
fifty feet (50') of any lot line or public right of way.
      8.   Will restore topsoil or loam to a depth of not less than four inches
(4").
      9.   All state or federal regulations and permits must be complied with.
      10.   Compliance with ordinance 2007-21. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
   O.   Gravel Extraction, Rock Quarries, Sand And Clay Extraction And Other
Natural Resources Of Commercial Value:
      1.   Prohibited Areas:
         a.   Mineral Extraction Overlay: No new mineral extraction operations
shall be located within the areas identified on the "mineral extraction"
overlay map on file with the county.
         b.   Zones: See section
11-5-5 of this title for zones where mineral extraction uses are a prohibited
use or a special use.
      2.   Mineral Extraction Permit Classifications: A permit, as defined
below, shall be required before commencing any mineral extraction operation,
unless otherwise exempted by this chapter.
         a.   Class 1 Permit: This is a permit to meet the needs of small,
short term excavation and/or construction projects. It applies to operations
that will not exceed five (5) acres of excavated area to a maximum depth of
twenty feet (20') and will be active for no more than twenty four (24) months.
Class 1 permits are not eligible for time extensions. On site crushing is not
permitted as part of a class 1 permit.
         b.   Class 2 Permit: This permit applies to operations that will be
active for more than twenty four (24) months and will not exceed ten (10) acres
of excavated area.
         c.   Class 3 Permit: This permit applies to all operations that do not
fall under class 1 or class 2 above.
      3.   Exceptions: A mineral extraction permit shall not be required for
any of the following:
         a.   Excavation or grading for agricultural or noncommercial purposes;
         b.   Excavation or removal of three hundred (300) cubic yards or less
of material per year for use on the owner's property; or
         c.   Excavation conducted directly by federal or state authorities in
connection with construction or maintenance of roads, highways or utilities or
excavation conducted by a local jurisdiction during an emergency as declared by
the governing board.
      4.   Required Findings For Mineral Extraction Permit: In lieu of the
special use permit (SUP) general standards in section
11-7-3 of this title, the commission shall use the following findings to review
mineral extraction operation permits. The commission shall review the
particular facts and circumstances of each proposed use in terms of the
following standards and shall find adequate evidence showing that such use is
able to meet each finding:
         a.   The use must not create significant negative impact on public
health, safety and welfare in the immediate vicinity.
         b.   The use must not create unsafe conditions to or an excessive
burden on existing parks, schools, roads and other public facilities and
utilities that serve or are proposed to serve the area.
         c.   The use must be sufficiently compatible or separated by distance
or screening from adjacent lands so that existing uses will not be hindered in
the enjoyment of their property and there will be no deterrence to the legal
development of vacant land.
         d.   The structure and site must have an appearance that will not
unreasonably create an adverse effect upon adjacent properties.
         e.   The use must be consistent with the purposes of the zoning
ordinance and the purposes of the zoning district in which the applicant
intends to locate the proposed use.
         f.   The use must be in conformance with the comprehensive plan.
         g.   The use must not cause a traffic hazard or congestion.
         h.   Existing land uses nearby must not be adversely affected
unreasonably by intrusion of noise, glare, dust, vibration or general
unsightliness.
         i.   The use must not cause significant adverse impact to surface or
ground water resources.
      5.   Preapplication And Application Submittal Requirements:
         a.   Prior to the submittal of any special use permit application for
a class 2 or class 3 mineral extraction use, the applicant shall have completed
a preapplication conference with the administrator. An applicant seeking a
preapplication conference shall submit one copy of a legible concept plan to
the administrator that includes all properties of record within one- half (1/2)
mile of the site, existing buildings, roads, irrigation facilities and other
key natural features on the site.
         b.   Upon receipt of a notice to proceed, the applicant shall submit
an application form, provided by the development services department, filled
out completely and signed by the property owner.
         c.   Submit a list of all documented wells (e.g., domestic,
irrigation, injection) located within one-half (1/2) mile of the subject
property boundary.
         d.   Submit a baseline groundwater depth taken from the proposed
excavation area. The data source must be provided and it must be no more than
one year old. Depending upon the time of year and the size of the future
excavated area, the administrator may request additional data.
         e.   If explosives are intended for use in the excavation operation,
the application shall include the estimated time frames, amounts and impacts of
said explosives.
         f.   Submit proposed commencement and completion dates for the
commercial extraction operation.
         g.   Submit a traffic plan showing mitigation of any potential
hazards.
      6.   General Requirements (Applicable To All Class 1 Through 3 Permits):
         a.   The owner/operator shall comply with all relevant sections of
subsection N of this section regarding grading, earthmoving and gravel pit
operations.
         b.   All mineral extraction operations shall be considered a temporary
use of land.
         c.   Mineral extraction permits are nontransferable to another
property and only valid at the location specified in the application. Permits
may be transferred to a new owner. All terms and conditions of the original
permit remain in effect and in full force upon any transfer to a new owner.
         d.   Proposed hours of operation for both extraction and crushing
shall be disclosed in the special use permit application and may be limited by
the county in the permit to protect the public welfare.
         e.   All permits shall be subject to an on site review at the
discretion of the development services department to ensure compliance.
         f.   Unless otherwise approved by the commission during the SUP
process, any new signs shall comply with chapter 10 of this title.
         g.   Prior to the start of operations, the owner/operator shall
provide the development services department with a letter from the appropriate
fire district approving the vehicular access to the site.
         h.   Prior to the start of operations, the owner/operator shall
provide the development services department with a copy of the reclamation plan
approved by the Idaho department of lands.
         i.   The owner/operator shall comply with all Idaho department of
lands, Idaho department of environmental quality, Idaho department of water
resources, Idaho transportation department, occupational safety and health
administration, mining safety and health administration, environmental
protection agency and any other applicable state or federal regulations.
         j.   All costs incurred to comply with the conditions of approval
shall be borne by the owner/operator.
         k.   All public notices for extraction operations shall be done in
accordance with section
11-7-6 of this title except that the public mailing shall be provided to
property owners and residents up to one-half (1/2) mile beyond the external
boundaries of the land being considered for all permits.
         l.   Outdoor site lighting, if used, shall be downcast lighting
compatible with dark sky protection standards.
         m.   The owner/operator shall comply with all relevant sections of
title 13 of this code regarding property located within the 100-year
floodplain.
      7.   Extraction And Operating Standards:
         a.   No extraction, movement or stockpiling is allowed within the
minimum yard setback areas as defined in section
11-5-7 of this title except where ponds are contiguous and the county
encourages the potential joining of ponds. The tops and toes of cut and fill
slopes shall remain outside the setback areas.
         b.   Unless waived by the commission or board, safety fencing, at a
minimum of six feet (6') in height, shall be erected around any active
extraction areas.
      8.   Mineral Processing Standards (Postextraction Activities):
         a.   Any rock crusher associated with a class 2 or class 3 operation
shall be placed in a location as determined during the public hearing and sited
to minimize noise impacts in compliance with all federal and state regulations
(class 1 permits do not allow on site rock crushing).
         b.   The crusher shall be operated in accordance with dust abatement
standards of the Idaho department of environmental quality.
         c.   Upon depletion of the area, all temporary buildings and
structures except property line fences and structures for the loading,
measuring or weighing of salable material in storage, shall be entirely removed
from the property.
         d.   For any mineral extraction operation that results in a permanent
pond, the following standards shall apply:
            (1)   For the purpose of this section, a "pond" shall be defined as
any pit, mine or quarry area where the reclamation plan results in an area
designed to contain standing water year round that is greater than three feet
(3') in depth;
            (2)   The pond shall be designed to create a meandering edge around
the full perimeter;
            (3)   If the pond will be a public access pond and stocked with
fish or other aquatic species regulated by Idaho fish and game, the applicant
shall provide documentation from Idaho fish and game's regional office to the
development services department that the proposed pond is designed to create
viable fish and/or wildlife habitat;
            (4)   If applicable, the applicant shall provide documentation from
Southwest district health that the proposed pond shall not cause septic leach
fields on adjacent properties to fail;
            (5)   The applicant shall comply with all requirements of the
publication, "Best Management Practices For Mining In Idaho", published by the
Idaho department of lands.
      9.   Roads And Access:
         a.   The owner/operator shall comply with subsections 11-6-3I and J of
this chapter regarding construction of an all weather driveway that meets the
applicable fire authority standards.
         b.   When determined appropriate by the road and bridge department,
the owner/operator shall enter into a road mitigation agreement with Gem County
to address the impacts on the public road system. Said agreement shall be
signed and executed prior to the start of operation.
         c.   No gate serving the property shall be located within one hundred
feet (100') of a public road right of way to allow for adequate turnout
distance for emergency vehicles and other trucks.
         d.   All haul roads shall have a durable surface and shall be graded
to drain all surface water from the road driving surface.
      10.   Groundwater, Dewatering And Wells:
         a.   The zoning commission, based on information presented in the
public record, may require an on site groundwater monitoring system to be
installed to help provide information regarding potential impacts and drawdowns
of off site domestic wells in the vicinity of the excavation.
         b.   If dewatering of the on site monitoring well(s) or domestic wells
in the vicinity occurs, the county shall have the authority to place a stop
work order on the operation until the problem is resolved to the satisfaction
of the county engineer.
         c.   If site dewatering creates a public nuisance to property in the
vicinity (e.g., flooding, standing water for long periods of time, etc.), the
county shall have the authority to place a stop work order on the operation
until the problem is resolved to the satisfaction of the county.
      11.   Permit Time Frames, Phasing And Extensions:
         a.   Commencement: The land use time limitations outlined in section
11-7-11 of this title shall apply to all class 2 and class 3 permits. These
time frames apply only to the required improvements outlined in the permit and
do not apply to the extraction operation itself.
         b.   Phasing:
            (1)   A phasing plan shall be submitted with the special use permit
application for all class 2 and class 3 permits. Said plan shall be reviewed as
part of the public hearing and become an operation plan of the permit.
            (2)   The zoning commission shall review the status of every permit
after the completion of any phase or at the five (5) year anniversary of
issuance of the permit, whichever period is shorter. Said review shall be held
in a public meeting but not require a public hearing. If the commission makes a
determination that full compliance with the terms of the permit is not met, the
commission shall give the owner/operator an appropriate time period in which to
bring the site into compliance. If, at the end of said period, there is still
no compliance, the commission may begin permit revocation proceedings.
            (3)   As each phase is completed, it shall be reclaimed in
accordance with the state approved reclamation plan and any applicable county
reclamation conditions prior to commencement of the next phase.
         c.   Permit Duration And Time Extensions:
            (1)   The county shall have the authority to establish operation
durations on each permit based upon site specific and neighborhood specific
factors. Relevant factors include, but are not limited to, proximity to
residential, education or commercial uses, the zoning district, length of
operating season, and similar factors. However, in no case shall a class 2
permit be less than two (2) years or a class 3 permit be less than three (3)
years. Neither a class 2 or class 3 permit shall be greater than ten (10)
years. This does not preclude the ability to apply for a time extension.
            (2)   All class 2 and class 3 permits are eligible to apply for a
time extension to the permit. Time extensions require submittal of an
application and a public hearing. Public notice for a time extension shall be
done in accordance with the same noticing process used for the original special
use permit. The commission shall base its decision upon the original record,
relevant code enforcement records, public complaints of record, other
regulatory agency records and testimony from the owner/operator, affected
parties and staff.
      12.   Performance Guarantees And Bonding: As a condition of approval, the
zoning commission may require the owner/operator post a financial guarantee for
improvements not already required by the Idaho department of lands.
      SUMMARY OF CLASS 1, 2 AND 3 PERMIT STANDARDS
Standard Class 1 Class 2 Class 3
Standard                                         Class 1   Class 2  Class 3
Maximum excavated area                           5 acres   10 acres No maximum
Maximum pit depth                                20 feet   None     None
Maximum period of permit/operation               24 months None     None
Time extension allowed                           No        Yes      Yes
Requires preapplication conference               No        Yes      Yes
On site rock crushing allowed                    No        Yes      Yes
Phasing plan required                            No        Yes      Yes
Prohibited on the mineral extraction overlay map No        Yes      Yes
 
(Ord. 2013-01, 1-22-2013)
   P.   Home Occupation:
      1.   Up to three (3) employees, other than members of the family residing
on the premises, shall be engaged in such occupation.
      2.   The use of the dwelling unit or other structure on the property for
the home occupation shall be clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for
residential purposes by its occupants, and does not exceed fifty percent (50%)
of the floor area of the dwelling unit shall be used in the conduct of the home
occupation.
      3.   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building
or premises or other visible evidence of the conduct of such home occupation
other than one sign, not exceeding four (4) square feet in area, nonilluminated
and mounted flat against the wall of the principal building. A freestanding
sign that does not exceed six (6) square feet in size will be allowed unless
the property lies within the area of city impact. For said properties, no
freestanding sign is permitted. All other sign requirements as delineated in
chapter 10 of this title must be followed.
      4.   No significant traffic shall be generated by such home occupation
and any need for parking generated by the conduct of such home occupation shall
meet the off street parking requirements as specified in this title, and shall
not be located in a required front yard.
      5.   No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical interference
detectable to the normal senses off the lot, if the occupation is conducted in
a single-family residence, or outside the dwelling unit if conducted in other
than a single-family residence. In the case of electrical interference, no
equipment or process shall be used which creates visual or audible interference
in any radio or television receivers off the premises, or causes fluctuations
in line voltage off the premises.
      6.   A notice of the home occupation use shall be given to the county
assessor by the property owner within thirty (30) days of implementing the use.
   Q.   Outdoor Storage Of Commercial And Industrial Materials:
      1.   Will be screened from view from any existing adjoining residence or
residentially zoned area, whether or not such property is separated by an
alleyway or street.
      2.   Will not be located in any front yard setback area.
   R.   Riding Stables And Schools:
      1.   Will locate all stables or loafing sheds not nearer than three
hundred feet (300') from any residence, except for owner's residence. All
facilities shall be set back a distance of thirty feet (30') from any property
lines.
      2.   Will be designed and located with full consideration being given to
their proximity to adjacent uses and their effect upon adjacent and surrounding
properties as to the storage of horse trailers and the factors of noise and
odor.
      3.   Will require that the owner or operator of such use shall have a
continuous obligation to maintain adequate housekeeping practices to prevent
the creation of a nuisance.
   S.   Rifle And Pistol Range:
      1.   Will be designed with a backstop.
      2.   Will be designed to avoid a line of fire that is directed toward any
residence or business within one mile.
      3.   Will incorporate landscaping that is compatible with the surrounding
landscaping.
      4.   Will provide supervision and security measures during periods of
use.
   T.   Roadside Stand:
      1.   Such stand shall not be located within any right of way.
      2.   Operation of the stand must be seasonal. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
      3.   A roadside stand will only be allowed in an A-1, A-2, A-3, C-1, C-2,
M-1 and MX zone. (Ord. 2014-03, 2-18-2014)
   U.   Sanitary Landfill:
      1.   Will conform to time limits for daily operation as defined by the
board.
      2.   Will provide a bond for privately owned sites to ensure compliance
with the provisions of the zoning certificate.
      3.   Will provide for a paved street to the facility.
      4.   Will be supervised during the hours of operation.
      5.   Will be regulated by any state or federal laws.
   V.   Wrecking Yard:
      1.   Will be completely enclosed by a solid eight foot (8') high site
obscuring fence.
      2.   Will not result in the storage of automobile, junk or salvage
material that is visible from any public right of way.
      3.   Will not result in the storage of automobiles that exceed the height
of fence.
      4.   Will have such landscaping that is appropriate with the surrounding
area.
      5.   Will not be allowed in any residential zone.
   W.   Yard Sales:
      1.   Property owners may combine goods for the sale providing that the
sale is conducted on property owned by one of the participants.
      2.   No more than four (4) yard sales in one calendar year may be held on
property the parcel owner(s) retain(s) in his/her possession.
      3.   The yard sale duration shall not exceed three (3) calendar days per
event.
      4.   Any participant (seller) involved in a yard sale shall not be
engaged in a commercial business of regularly selling the same or similar
property as that which is offered for sale at the yard sale. Public nuisance
ordinance standards shall apply.
      5.   Yard sales may be conducted in all zones within the unincorporated
parts of the county.
   X.   Building Adjacent To Payette River Within A Flood Hazard Area: Will
adhere to title 13 of this code. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009; amd. Ord. 2022-07,
8-1-2022)
11-6-6: LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Purpose: To promote landscaping in unincorporated Gem County that will
improve community livability, preserve the quality of life, and enhance the
aesthetic quality, economic viability, and environmental health and safety of
the county.
   B.   Costs To Developers And Property Owners: Gem County recognizes that
landscaping can be a significant expense to businesses, developers, and
residents. At the same time, landscaping improves the livability of residential
neighborhoods, enhances the appearance and customer attraction of commercial
areas, increases property values, improves the compatibility of adjacent uses,
screens undesirable views, and can reduce air and noise pollution. The intent
of these regulations is to achieve a balance between the right of individuals
to develop and maintain their property in a manner they prefer and the right of
county residents to live, work, shop, and recreate in pleasant, healthy, and
attractive surroundings.
   C.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them below:
    BERM: An earthen mound designed to provide visual interest, screen
undesirable view, and/or decrease noise.
   BUFFER: A combination of physical space and vertical elements, including,
but not limited to, trees, shrubs, berms, fences and/or walls that separate and
screen incompatible land uses from one another.
   CALIPER: A measurement of the diameter of the trunk of a deciduous tree. The
caliper of the trunk shall be measured six inches (6") above the ground for all
trees up to and including four inch (4") caliper size and twelve inches (12")
above the ground for larger sizes.
   CASH ESCROW: Cash or certified check submitted to the clerk of the district
court for incomplete landscape improvements to secure a temporary certificate
of occupancy. The money will be refunded when the improvements are deemed to be
in accordance with the approved landscape plan.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY: Official certification that a building and site
conform to the provisions of county ordinance and any other appropriate
conditions such as a development agreement, and/or special use permit. A
structure cannot be occupied without issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
   CLASS I, II, III TREES: The classes of trees are defined for the purposes of
this section by the publication "Tree Selection Guide For Streets And
Landscapes Throughout Idaho" by urban forestry unit of Boise parks and
recreation department (by the most recent publication). In general, class I
trees are smaller ornamental trees, class II trees are medium/large trees
appropriate for street tree planting, and class III trees are very large.
   ENTRYWAY CORRIDORS: Arterial roadways that introduce both visitors and
residents to Gem County as defined by the Gem County comprehensive plan.
   GIRDLING: Damaging or removing the bark and cambium layer around a tree
trunk in a manner that usually kills the tree.
   GROSS LAND AREA: The total area of the land being developed, exclusive of
required street buffers and buffers between incompatible land uses. The
calculation for required open space in residential subdivisions and multi-
family residential development is based on the gross land area of the land
being developed.
   HARDSHIP: An unusual situation on the part of an individual property owner
which will not permit that owner to enjoy the full utilization of their
property as is enjoyed by others in the community. A hardship can exist only
when it is not self-created.
   HEAD TO HEAD SPACING: Placement of sprinkler heads in a rectangular pattern
such that one sprinkler head sprays to the next (spacing is 50 percent of the
sprinkler's spray diameter). For design flexibility, maximum spacing is up to
sixty percent (60%) of the sprinkler's spray diameter. Where winds are a
threat, spacing up to forty percent (40%) may be desirable.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: A surface that has been compacted or covered with a
layer of material so that it is highly resistant to infiltration of absorption
by water. It includes surfaces such as compacted sand or clay as well as most
conventionally surfaced streets, roofs, sidewalks and parking lots.
   INFILL: Any vacant lot or parcel within developed area of the county, where
at least eighty percent (80%) of the land within a three hundred foot (300')
radius of the site has been developed, and where water, sewer, streets, schools
and fire protection have already been developed and are provided.
   LETTER OF CREDIT: A letter issued by a bank or other guaranteed financial
institution authorizing Gem County to draw a stated amount of money from the
issuing bank under specific, stated conditions.
   MATCH LINES: A heavy line shown on a plan when it is separated onto two (2)
or more sheets. The lines are labeled the same on each sheet to depict where
the sheets join.
   MATCHED PRECIPITATION RATES: Sprinklers that are designed to work together
on the same irrigation valve to deliver an equivalent rate of water
application, regardless of the arc of the nozzle being used.
   MICROPATH: A pathway providing access by way of a short travel link between
points of destination. The length of a micropath is less than two hundred fifty
feet (250'), or two (2) lot depths, and must have a minimum of ten feet (10')
width of paved surface.
   MITIGATION: An action that will moderate or alleviate the actual or
potential loss of benefits provided to a site and its immediate vicinity by
existing trees and landscaping.
   MULCH: A protective covering placed around plants to prevent the evaporation
of moisture, the freezing of roots, and the growth of weeds.
   PARKING LOT OVERLAY: Any resurfacing of existing parking lot areas with
asphalt or other permanent material. No increase in the square footage of the
parking area may result.
   PARKING LOT REPLACEMENT: Removal of the existing parking surface done for
the purpose of improvement or repair.
   PARKWAY: Landscaped area located between the edge of a street section or
curb and a sidewalk dedicated to separate pedestrian and vehicular traffic. The
intent is to increase pedestrian use and safety and to improve the visual
aesthetics and environmental quality of roadways.
   RESTRIPING (PARKING LOT): Any change in the configuration, size or
distribution of existing painted stripes designed to create spaces for
motorized vehicles.
   SIGHT TRIANGLE: The area on either side of an accessway at its junction with
a street forming a triangle within which clear visibility of approaching
vehicular or pedestrian traffic shall be maintained.
   SOIL STABILIZATION: The state of having sufficient vegetation and gradual
slopes to prevent soil erosion and sedimentation onto adjacent features such as
sidewalks, driveways, parking areas, lawns, or water bodies.
   STORMWATER SWALE: A broad, shallow channel covered with erosion resistant
vegetation and used to conduct, infiltrate, and pretreat surface runoff.
Maximum slopes are three to one (3:1).
   TOPPING: Severely cutting back limbs to stubs within the tree's crown to
such a degree as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Good
pruning practices rarely remove more than one-fourth (1/4) to one-third (1/3)
of a tree's crown. Topping starves the tree of needed nutrients produced by
leaves in the crown, increases vulnerability to insects and disease, creates
weak limbs, rapid new growth, and disfigures the natural shape of the tree.
Other common terms for topping include "stubbing", "heading", "heading back",
"stubbing off", "tipping", "lopping", or "round over". All forms of topping are
prohibited by this section.
   TRIANGULAR SPACING: Placement of sprinkler heads in an equilateral
triangular pattern. The distance between heads in each row must be "head to
head spacing" as per the definition in this section. The distance between rows
is 0.866 times the spacing within the row.
   UNIMPROVED NATURAL FEATURES: Existing wetlands, rock outcroppings, groves of
trees, and other naturally occurring features may be left undeveloped in their
natural state and may be counted as open space with approval of the
administrator.
   D.   Landscape Plan:
      1.   Applicability: A landscape plan and landscape improvements are
required for all commercial, industrial, office, and multi-family development,
redevelopment, additions, or changes in use. A landscape plan and landscape
improvements are also required for all common lots in all R zone residential
subdivisions within the area of city impact on all applications for preliminary
plats (PP) and final plats (FP). A landscape plan may also be required for uses
that vary from the intended character of the surrounding properties as part of
the special use permit (SUP) application process. The landscape plan may be on
the same site plan used to show parking layout, setback compliance, etc. A
preliminary landscape plan review is recommended prior to submission for all
developments, but is not required.
      2.   Submittal Requirements: All landscape plans shall comply with the
requirements for size, scale, number of copies, and contents as detailed in the
application form.
      3.   Landscape Plan Preparation: Preparing a landscape plan requires
special skills. Landscaping involves more than a simple arrangement of plants
with irrigation; plants are not haphazardly placed in a way that fills up
leftover space. Landscape plans should be artfully and technically organized in
a way that conveys coherence, design, and organization. The landscaping should
enhance the physical environment as well as the project's aesthetic character.
Also, requiring plans prepared by a landscape professional minimizes the
likelihood of trees dying or interfering with other adjacent site features.
Therefore, all landscape plans proposed for a large scale development or along
any entryway corridor shall be prepared by a landscape architect, landscape
designer, or qualified nurseryman.
      4.   Landscape Plan Modification: The approved landscape plan shall not
be altered without prior approval of the administrator. No significant field
changes to the plan are permitted. Prior written approval of all material
changes is required. All approved changes to the landscape plan must be
documented prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
   E.   Minimum Design Standards And Installation:
      1.   Approved Plant Material: The publication titled "Tree Selection
Guide For Streets And Landscapes Throughout Idaho" by the urban forestry unit
of the Boise parks and recreation department (latest edition) is hereby adopted
by this reference as the Gem County list of approved and prohibited plant
material. The publication categorizes the trees by size as class I, class II,
or class III trees. The county recognizes that new plant varieties are being
produced every year and will consider other species not listed in the
publication. Copies of the publication will be available at the planning and
zoning department.
      2.   Prohibited Plant Material: The plants listed under "trees not
permitted for rights of way property planting" are prohibited from being
planted along any street or within any parking lot regulated by this section.
The only exception is that conifers may be planted in street buffers around
residential subdivisions, and in buffers along Highway 16 and Highway 52.
      3.   Minimum Plant Sizes: The following are minimum plant sizes for all
required landscape areas:
 
Shade trees      1 1/2 inch caliper minimum
Ornamental trees 11/4 inch caliper minimum
Evergreen trees  4 - 5 foot height minimum
Woody shrubs     2 gallon pot minimum
 
      4.   Tree Species Mix: When five (5) or more trees are to be planted to
meet the requirements of any portion of this section, including street trees,
street buffers, parking lot landscaping and other landscape guidelines, a mix
of species shall be provided. The number of species to be planted shall vary
according to the overall number of trees required to be planted. See table
below:
 
Required Number Of Trees Minimum Number Of Species
   5 – 10           2
   11 – 30          3
   31 – 50          4
   50+                5
 
      5.   Plant Quality: All plant material installed pursuant to this section
shall meet or exceed the minimum federal standards as regulated by ANSI Z60.1,
American standard for nursery stock.
      6.   Planting Standards: All trees, shrubs, and other plant material
shall be planted using accepted nursery standards as published by the American
Association Of Nurserymen (latest edition) including hole size, backfilling,
and fertilization.
      7.   Staking: Tree staking may be used in areas with high winds or other
situations that make staking desirable. When trees are staked, the stakes must
be removed within twelve (12) months to prevent damage to the tree.
      8.   Mulch: An organic mulch such as bark or soil aid shall be applied to
all planting areas for moisture retention, weed control, and moderation of soil
temperatures. Impermeable plastic weed barrier is prohibited under the mulch,
because it restricts water and oxygen to the roots. Gravel/rock mulch is
prohibited in required landscape areas as per subsection E13b of this section.
      9.   Curbing: All planting areas that border driveways, parking lots, and
other vehicular use areas shall be protected by street curbing, wheel stops, or
other approved protective devices. Such devices shall be a minimum of thirty
inches (30") from all tree trunks to prevent cars from damaging tree trunks.
      10.   Utilities: The following standards apply to the planting of trees
near existing utilities and to trenching for new utilities near existing trees:
         a.   Overhead Utilities: Only class I trees in the recommended plant
list may be planted under or within ten (10) lateral feet of any overhead
utility wires.
         b.   Underground Utilities: All trees shall be planted outside of any
easement that contains a power, water or sewer main, unless written approval is
obtained from the county engineer. If any utility easement precludes trees
required by this section, the width of the required buffer shall be increased
to accommodate the required trees.
         c.   Trenching: New underground utilities shall stay outside of the
drip line of existing trees if trenched, or be tunneled a minimum of three feet
(3') below existing grade within the tree's drip line. The guiding principle is
that no root two inches (2") or larger shall be cut. Note: This requirement is
for placement of new utilities and does not affect the property owner's ability
to access existing utilities for repair and maintenance.
      11.   Erosion Control: Soil and slope stabilization shall result from the
landscape installation.
      12.   Berms: Berm slopes shall not exceed three to one (3:1) (horizontal
to vertical). Three to one (3:1) maximum slopes are recommended. Grass that
requires mowing shall not be used on slopes steeper than three to one (3:1).
      13.   Water Efficiency: The landscape plan shall provide for water
efficient landscaping as follows:
         a.   Lawn Areas: Where appropriate, and on sites where other landscape
options can be incorporated, large expanses of lawn are discouraged due to its
high water consumption.
         b.   Mulch: Mulches shall be organic and broad uses of gravel/rock
mulch are restricted as per subsection E8 of this section. Gravel does not
retain water, reflects heat, and causes greater stress on trees and shrubs.
Organic mulch retains water for a longer period of time for plants.
         c.   Irrigation: Irrigation systems shall be designed for water
efficiency as regulated by subsection F of this section.
         d.   Native Plants: Native and other low water use plants are
encouraged. The approved plant list as per subsection E1 of this section shows
the general water requirements of the trees.
   F.   Irrigation:
      1.   Irrigation Required: All landscape areas regulated by this section
shall be served with an approved irrigation system.
      2.   Performance Specifications: Three (3) copies of detailed irrigation
performance specifications shall be submitted with the landscape plan for all
final plats and certificates of zoning compliance. Performance specifications
shall state design requirements, materials, and construction methods. At a
minimum, the performance specifications shall address the following
requirements:
         a.   Required Information: Specifications for the irrigation system
shall include:
            (1)   Available gallons per minute;
            (2)   Available water pressure; and
            (3)   Point of connection.
         b.   Backflow Prevention: Provide an appropriate backflow prevention
device.
         c.   Coverage: The irrigation system shall be designed to provide one
hundred percent (100%) coverage with head to head spacing or triangular spacing
as appropriate.
         d.   Matched Precipitation Rates: Sprinkler heads shall have matched
precipitation rates within each control valve circuit.
         e.   Irrigation Zones: Sprinkler heads irrigating lawn or other high
water demand areas shall be circuited so that they are on a separate zone or
zones from those irrigating trees, shrubs, or other reduced water demand areas.
         f.   Overspray: Sprinkler heads shall be adjusted to reduce overspray
onto impervious surfaces such as sidewalks, driveways, and parking areas.
      3.   Subdivision Irrigation Systems: If the irrigation system is part of
a residential, commercial, or industrial subdivision, any irrigation pump
station shall be on a common lot. Also, the irrigation system must be owned and
maintained by an irrigation district or a homeowners' (or business owners')
association.
   G.   Sight Triangles:
      1.   Sight Triangles: The following standards shall be observed within
all sight triangles, both at controlled and uncontrolled intersections. In all
cases, Idaho transportation department (ITD) and Gem County road department
standards shall apply in addition to city of Emmett standards.
      2.   Road/Road Intersections: The boundaries of a sight triangle at the
intersection of two (2) roads are defined by measuring from the projected
intersection of the roadway edge a distance of forty feet (40') along each
roadway edge and connecting the two (2) points with a straight line. (See
diagram below.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4764d6e064d6cb077faf9e50a7dbd401dea0b7c6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1257.gif]
 
      3.   Road/Driveway Intersections: The boundaries of a sight triangle at
the intersection of a road and a driveway are defined by measuring from the
intersection of the property line and the edge of the driveway twenty feet
(20') along the roadway and ten feet (10') along the driveway and connecting
the two (2) points with a straight line. (See diagram below.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4764d6e064d6cb077faf9e50a7dbd401dea0b7c6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1259.gif]
 
      4.   Road/Railroad Intersections: The sight triangle at road/road
intersections (see subsection G2 of this section) is also applicable to
railroad/street crossings with the vision triangle defined by measuring forty
feet (40') along the railroad property line and forty feet (40') along the
roadway edge and connecting the two (2) points with a straight line.
      5.   Planting And Development Standards:
         a.   Any trees planted within sight triangles (class I or II) shall be
pruned to a minimum height of eight feet (8') above the ground or sidewalk
surface and fourteen feet (14') above the adjacent roadway surface.
         b.   No evergreen trees shall be planted within any sight triangle.
         c.   No class III trees shall be planted within any sight triangle.
         d.   The maximum height of any berm or vegetative ground cover at
maturity within the sight triangle is three feet (3').
         e.   No fences higher than three feet (3') are permitted in the sight
triangle.
         f.   No signs taller than three feet (3') are permitted in the sight
triangle, except for street/stop signs approved by the Gem County road
department.
      6.   Public Safety And Enforcement: When the county determines that a
sight obstruction exists, it shall notify the owner of the property upon which
the obstruction is located and order that the obstruction be removed within
thirty (30) days. The failure of the owner to remove the obstruction shall be
punishable as a misdemeanor, and every day the owner fails to remove the
obstruction shall be a separate and distinct offense.
   H.   Street Buffers:
      1.   Purpose: Landscape buffers along streets are required in order to
improve the visual quality of the streetscape, to soften the impact of parking
lots, to unify diverse architecture, and to carry out the comprehensive plan
policies related to promoting attractive roadways and street beautification.
      2.   Location: All required buffers shall be located beyond any street
right of way and shall be maintained by the property owner, at the property
owner's expense, upon which the buffer lies. All street buffers with attached
sidewalks shall be measured from the property line and not from the sidewalk or
curb. If detached sidewalks are provided as per subsection H8 of this section,
the buffer may be measured from the back of curb when it can be demonstrated
that there is no opportunity for expansion of the street section within the
right of way; the buffer width must exclude the width of the sidewalk. No
fences are permitted within required street buffers.
      3.   Applicability: Street buffers shall be required at all subdivision
boundaries (i.e., commercial, industrial, high tech, and residential) and all
commercial, industrial and high tech developments. Single-family residential,
and duplex lots interior to or outside of a subdivision are exempt from
required street buffers. Minor subdivisions shall not be required to provide
buffers except those located in the area of city impact. All subdivision street
buffers must be either on a common lot or within a landscape easement,
maintained by a homeowners' or business owners' association, as applicable.
      4.   Buffer Size: The required width of the landscape buffer is
calculated as follows: Note: Residential collectors do not have a required
street buffer.
 
Street Type                                                     Buffer Width
Local road and minor collector (except in residential areas per 10 feet
subsection H3 of this section)
Major collector                                                 20 feet
State highway                                                   25 feet
 
      5.   Width Reduction: In a development where the required street buffer
width results in an otherwise unavoidable hardship to the property, a written
request for a reduction may be submitted to the administrator. The request must
demonstrate evidence of the hardship caused by the required street buffer and
propose a specific alternative width. In no case shall the width be reduced to
less than ten percent (10%) of the depth of the lot without a variance.
      6.   Street Trees: All required landscape street buffers shall be planted
with trees and shrubs, lawn, or other vegetative ground cover, with a minimum
density of one tree per thirty five (35) linear feet. If this calculation
results in a fraction 0.5 or greater, round up to an additional tree. If the
calculation results in a fraction less than 0.5, round the number down.
      7.   Tree Spacing: For design flexibility, trees may be grouped together
or spaced evenly as desired. However, trees shall be spaced no closer than
eighty percent (80%) of the average mature width of the trees, as demonstrated
in the following examples:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4764d6e064d6cb077faf9e50a7dbd401dea0b7c6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1261.gif]
 
      8.   Parkways And Detached Sidewalks: Sidewalks are required along all
arterial streets in new developments at the edge (abutting) of existing city
limits. The minimum width of the parkway area between the curb and the sidewalk
is five feet (5'). Tree plantings within parkways less than ten feet (10') wide
are restricted to class II trees. Existing developments and infill projects may
waive the requirement for detached sidewalks to match surrounding conditions.
If detached sidewalks are provided on local streets in residential
subdivisions, the minimum sidewalk width may be reduced to four feet (4').
      9.   Impervious Surfaces: Allowed impervious surfaces include driveways,
signs and walkways. Vehicle display pads and other related impervious surfaces
are prohibited in the required street buffer.
      10.   Berms In Street Buffers: Berm design is subject to the provisions
of subsections E12 and G5d of this section.
      11.   Stormwater Detention: Stormwater swales may be incorporated into
the buffer as provided for in subsection L of this section. Other stormwater
detention and retention facilities shall not be permitted in the street buffer.
   I.   Parking Lots:
      1.   Right Of Way Landscaping: A landscape buffer is required between all
parking lots and adjacent streets as regulated by subsection H of this section.
      2.   Perimeter Landscaping: The following standards apply to all interior
lot lines, side or rear, adjacent to parking lots or other vehicular use areas,
including driveways:
         a.   Purpose: Perimeter landscaping defines parking, loading, and
other vehicular use areas and prevents two (2) adjacent lots from becoming one
large expanse of paving. This requirement does not hinder the ability to
provide vehicular access between lots, nor does it prohibit commercial or
industrial developments with back to back truck docks from sharing paved
loading areas.
         b.   Size And Location: Provide a five foot (5') minimum perimeter
landscape strip along all interior lot lines that are adjacent to parking,
loading, or other paved vehicular use areas, including driveways, vehicle sales
areas, truck parking areas, bus parking areas, and vehicle storage areas.
         c.   Landscaping: The perimeter landscape strip shall be planted with
one tree per thirty five (35) linear feet and shrubs, lawn, or other vegetative
ground cover.
      3.   Internal Landscaping: Interior parking lot landscaping shall be
required on any parking lot with more than twelve (12) spaces.
         a.   Required Percentage: The required amount of landscaping is based
on a sliding scale as follows:
 
Total Number Of Parking Spaces Percent Of Total Area Of A Parking Lot That Must
                               Be An Interior Landscaped Area
   13 – 100               4
   101 – 200              6
   201+                     8
 
         b.   Planter Size: Landscape planters shall contain a minimum of fifty
(50) square feet and the planting area shall not be less than five feet (5') in
any dimension, measured inside curbs. The only exception to the five foot (5')
minimum dimension is at the tip of triangular planters located at the end of
rows of angled parking.
         c.   Parking Spaces: No linear grouping of parking spaces shall exceed
fifteen (15) in a row, without an internal planter island.
         d.   Parking Lot Layout: Interior landscaping shall, insofar as
possible, be used to delineate and guide major traffic movement within the
parking area so as to prevent cross space driving. Interior landscape planters
shall be spaced as evenly as feasible and at the ends of rows of parking
throughout the lot to consistently reduce the visual impact of long rows of
parked cars.
         e.   Trees Required: Each interior planter that serves a single row of
parking spaces shall be landscaped with at least one tree and shall be covered
with low shrubs, lawn, or other vegetative ground cover. Each interior planter
that serves a double row of parking spaces shall have at least two (2) trees
and shall be covered with low shrubs, lawn, or other vegetative ground cover.
Deciduous shade trees must be pruned to a minimum height of eight feet (8')
above the adjacent parking areas. Evergreen trees and class III trees are
prohibited in interior planters.
         f.   Design Flexibility: In parking areas where the strict application
of subsection I3a of this section will seriously limit the function and
circulation of the lot, up to fifty percent (50%) of the required landscaping
may be located near the perimeter of the paved area to emphasize entrance
corridors or special landscape areas within the general parking area. Such
required interior landscaping which is relocated shall be in addition to
perimeter landscape and right of way screening requirements.
         g.   Industrial Exclusion: Industrial parking, storage, and loading
areas are specifically excluded from the interior landscape requirements, but
shall still be required to meet all perimeter and right of way landscape and
screening requirements.
      4.   Existing Parking Lot Applicability: Existing parking lots shall be
required to conform to this section based upon the following guidelines:
         a.   For restriping, parking lot overlays, or parking lot replacement
less than twenty five percent (25%), no additional landscaping shall be
required.
         b.   For parking lot replacement that is twenty five percent (25%) to
fifty percent (50%) of the parking area, perimeter and right of way landscaping
as required by this section shall be installed.
         c.   For parking lot replacement that is greater than fifty percent
(50%) of the parking area, all current landscape standards of this section
shall be met.
         d.   If the location of existing buildings or other structures
prevents conformance with the requirements of this section, or if its
implementation would create a nonconformity with parking standards, the
administrator shall determine how the code is to be applied.
   J.   Buffers Between Different Land Uses:
      1.   Purpose: The landscape requirements in this subsection are intended
to ensure incompatible, adjoining land uses are adequately protected and are
provided an appropriate amount of land separation to conduct permitted uses
without causing adverse impact. An "incompatible land use" is defined as one
that is more intensely developed than its neighbor (as defined in subsection J4
of this section) and typically involves minimizing potential nuisances such as
noise, dirt, litter, glare of lights, or other objectionable activities. The
buffers are required along the entire contiguous property line.
      2.   Responsibility For Buffer Construction: The required buffer between
different land uses shall be provided by the higher intensity use and shall be
located on the building site of the higher intensity use, except as determined
otherwise by the administrator after written request. If a lower intensity use
is proposed adjacent to an existing higher intensity use with no buffer, the
lower intensity use must provide the required buffer.
      3.   Buffer Material: The materials within the required buffer between
incompatible land uses are regulated as follows:
         a.   Mix Of Materials: All buffer areas shall be comprised of, but not
limited to, a mix of evergreen and deciduous trees, shrubs, lawn, or other
vegetative ground cover. Fences, walls and berms may also be incorporated into
the buffer area.
         b.   Barrier Effectiveness: The required buffer area shall result in
an effective barrier within three (3) years and be maintained such that sixty
percent (60%) or more of the vertical surface is closed and prevents the
passage of vision through it. Trees may be spaced closer, as necessary, to
achieve this goal.
         c.   Buffer Walls: Where existing or proposed adjacent land uses
cannot be adequately buffered with plant material(s), the county may require
inclusion of a wall, fence, or other type of screen that mitigates noise and/or
unsightly uses. If a wall or fence at least six feet (6') tall is provided, the
planting requirement may be reduced to at least one tree per thirty five (35)
linear feet, plus shrubs, lawn, or other vegetative ground cover must be
provided within the buffer area, in lieu of the requirements of subsection J3b
of this section.
         d.   Chainlink Fencing: Chainlink or cyclone fencing, with or without
slats, is prohibited within required buffers between different land uses.
Chainlink may be used beyond the required buffer. Chainlink fencing does not
qualify as a screening material; therefore, the buffer must still be landscaped
as per subsection J3b of this section, even if a chainlink fence is provided.
      4.   Land Use Intensity Classifications: The table below is intended to
provide a general classification of land use intensities for commonly proposed
developments and is not a comprehensive list. If a land use is not listed, the
intensity classification shall be determined by the administrator based upon
the nearest use listed.
Class I Class II Class III Class IV Class V
Class I       Class II       Class III      Class IV          Class V
Single-family Multi-family   Offices        Restaurants       Heavy
homes         dwellings                                       manufacturing
Duplexes      Childcare      Neighborhood   Hotel/motel       Contractor yards
              facilities     community
Golf courses  Libraries      Middle schools General retail    Processing plants
Cemeteries    Senior centers High schools   Grocery stores    Recycling
Parks         Elementary     Personal       Parking garages    
              schools        services
                           Quasi-public   Warehouses        Vacant land zoned
                             uses                             M-1, M-2
Vacant land                 Clinics        Storage            
zoned R                                     facilities
             Vacant land                  Indoor             
              zoned MR                      manufacturing
                           Vacant land                      
                             zoned C-1
                                         Vacant land zoned  
                                            C-2
 
      5.   Minimum Buffer Widths: The minimum buffer width between incompatible
land uses is based on the following table:
 
Intensity Class Intensity Class Of Adjacent Use
Of Proposed Use I  II III IV V
   I                   
   II        20         
   III       20 20       
   IV        25 20 20     
   V         35 30 25  20  
 
   Notes:
       1.    Buffer widths are shown in feet.
       2.    No buffer is required for blank cells, unless an existing,
adjacent and higher intensity use has not provided a buffer. In such cases, the
lower intensity use must provide the buffer as per subsection J2 of this
section.
       3.    The buffers between land uses are required only along contiguous
lot lines. If incompatible land uses are across a public street from one
another, the street buffer requirements of subsection H of this section apply.
      6.   Pedestrian Access: Landscaping and screens shall not eliminate
pedestrian access from residential development to abutting commercial zones and
vice versa.
      7.   Existing Partial Buffers: If all or any part of the buffer has been
provided on the adjacent property, the proposed use must provide only that
amount of the buffer which has not been provided on the adjacent property.
      8.   Relationship To Parking Lot Perimeter Requirements: All buffers
between different land uses may include any required perimeter parking lot
landscape strips (see subsection I2 of this section) when calculating the
minimum width of the buffer.
   K.   Preservation Of Existing Trees:
      1.   Purpose: This subsection is intended to preserve existing trees four
inch (4") caliper or greater from destruction during the development process.
      2.   Site Design: Site plans shall make all feasible attempts to
accommodate existing trees four inch (4") caliper or greater within their
design.
      3.   Landscape Plan: All existing trees greater than four inch (4")
caliper shall be shown on the landscape plan as required by this subsection.
Indicate whether each tree is to be retained or removed. Include on the plan a
description of how existing trees to be retained are to be protected during
construction as required by this subsection.
      4.   Protection During Construction: Existing trees that are retained
shall be protected from damage to bark, branches, and roots during
construction. Construction, excavation, or fill occurring within the drip line
of any existing tree may severely damage it. Any severely damaged tree shall be
replaced in accordance with subsection K6 of this section.
      5.   Construction Within Drip Line Of Existing Trees: Specific
requirements for construction within the drip line of existing trees are as
follows:
         a.   Paving: Whenever possible, impervious paving surfaces shall
remain outside of the drip line of existing trees. When it is not possible,
impervious surfaces shall be allowed at a distance from the trunk of a retained
tree equal to the diameter of the tree trunk plus five feet (5').
         b.   Grade Changes: Grade changes greater than six inches (6") are
prohibited within the drip line of existing trees.
         c.   Compaction: Most of the damage to trees caused by machinery
occurs to the root system from compaction of the soil. A simple fence or
barrier that encloses the entire area beneath the tree canopy shall be in place
prior to construction.
         d.   Utilities: New underground utilities to be placed within the drip
line of existing trees shall be installed as per subsection E10c of this
section.
      6.   Mitigation Trees: Mitigation is required for all existing trees four
inch (4") caliper or greater that are removed from the site with equal
replacement of the total calipers lost on site. Example: Two (2) 10-inch
caliper trees removed may be mitigated with four (4) 5-inch caliper trees, five
(5) 4-inch caliper trees, or seven (7) 3-inch caliper trees. Existing
prohibited trees within the street buffer or parking lot need not be mitigated
for if they are removed. Existing dead, dying, or hazard trees need not be
mitigated for if they are removed. Trees that are required to be removed by
another governmental agency having jurisdiction over the project need not be
mitigated for.
      7.   Required Landscaping: Existing trees that are retained or relocated
on site may count toward the required landscaping. Mitigation trees are in
addition to all other landscaping required by this section.
      8.   Incentives: The administrator may allow a reduction up to ten
percent (10%) of the required parking spaces to accommodate existing trees.
Approval of the reduction in required parking must be obtained in writing prior
to submittal of plans.
   L.   Stormwater Integration:
      1.   Purpose: The county encourages the incorporation of vegetated, well
designed stormwater filtration swales into required landscape areas where
topography and hydrologic features allow. Such integrated site designs can
improve water quality and provide a natural, effective form of flood and water
pollution control.
      2.   Design Guidelines: Below are requirements for designing a landscape
area that integrates stormwater facilities. The planning and zoning and Gem
County road department should be involved in the initial design and determining
the appropriateness of any site.
         a.   Stormwater swales incorporated into required landscape areas
shall be vegetated with grass or other appropriate plant materials. They shall
also be designed to accommodate the required number of trees as per this
section if located in a street buffer or other required landscape area.
         b.   A rock sump may be incorporated into a vegetated swale to
facilitate drainage. The rock sump inlet may not exceed more than five feet
(5') in any horizontal dimension. Grates for sand/grease interceptors may also
be incorporated, but the inlet structures may not exceed two feet (2') in any
horizontal dimension.
         c.   Gravel, rock, or cobble stormwater facilities are not permitted
on the surface of required landscape areas. Cobble may be incorporated into
required landscape areas if designed as a dry creek bed or other design
feature.
         d.   Plant materials shall be a species that are able to withstand the
anticipated changes in soil wetness and moisture levels.
         e.   Organic mulch shall not be used against drainage catch basins due
to potential sediment clogging.
         f.   Open water ponds and holding areas with a permanent water level
are not permitted in required landscape or buffer areas. However, ponds that
are aesthetically designed with special grading and vegetative features may be
approved as provided for in subsection P of this section.
         g.   Slopes must be less than three to one (3:1) (horizontal to
vertical) for accessibility and maintenance.
         h.   The stormwater facility must be designed free draining with no
standing water within twenty four (24) hours of the completion of a storm
event.
   M.   Micropath Landscaping:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of this subsection is to promote trees and
other landscaping along micropaths developed within the county. The required
landscaping will provide shade and visual interest along the micropaths.
      2.   Applicability: Whenever micropaths are developed within a
subdivision or connecting from a subdivision to another subdivision or other
destinations, the landscaping standards within this subsection shall apply.
         a.   Planter Width: A landscape strip a minimum of five feet (5') wide
shall be provided along both sides of the path. Additional width is encouraged
to allow trees to be planted further from the pathway and prevent root damage
to the path.
         b.   Required Plants: The landscape strips shall be planted with a
minimum of one deciduous tree per thirty five (35) linear feet and shrubs,
lawn, or other vegetative ground cover.
         c.   Tree Branching Height: Trees along the pathway shall be pruned
with a clear branching height of at least eight feet (8') above the path
surface.
         d.   Shrub Height: Shrubs are limited to three feet (3') high or less
at mature size to allow for safety provisions and sight distance.
         e.   Mulch: The solitary use of mulches such as bark alone without
vegetative ground covers is prohibited. Mulch under the trees and shrubs is
required as per subsection E8 of this section.
         f.   Prohibited Trees: No evergreen trees or class III trees shall be
planted within the required landscape strip due to safety, sight distance, and
maintenance concerns.
         g.   Fences: Fences adjacent to a micropath landscape strip are
recommended to be "see through" as it provides better visibility from adjacent
homes or buildings. If solid fencing is used, it shall not exceed six feet (6')
in height. The developer is responsible for the construction of the fences
adjacent to all micropaths. The fence restrictions shall be included as a note
on all final plats that include a micropath.
   N.   Residential Common Open Space:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of this subsection is to provide common open
space in all new residential subdivisions and multi-family developments located
within the area of city impact.
      2.   Open Space Requirement: The total land area of all common open space
shall equal or exceed five percent (5%) of the gross land area of the
subdivision. This requirement shall apply to all single-family residential
subdivisions of five (5) acres or more. Multi-family developments shall provide
common open space that equals or exceeds ten percent (10%) of the gross land
area of the development.
      3.   Common Open Space Defined: "Common open space" shall mean land area
exclusive of street rights of way and street buffers, except for right of way
specifically dedicated for landscaping within a subdivision. Street buffers
wider than the required minimum dimension may count fifty percent (50%) of the
additional area as open space. Stormwater detention facilities must be designed
in accordance with subsection L2 of this section in order to count toward the
open space requirement. Open space may be active or passive in its intended
use, and must be accessible by all residents of the subdivision.
      4.   Location: The common open spaces shall be located on a common lot.
Common open space shall be grouped contiguously with open space from adjacent
subdivisions or phases whenever feasible.
      5.   Required Improvements And Landscaping: Common open space shall be
suitably improved for its intended use, except that natural features such as
wetlands, rock outcroppings, ponds, creeks, etc., may be left unimproved. At a
minimum, common open space lots shall include: a) one deciduous shade tree per
eight thousand (8,000) square feet; and b) lawn, either seed or sod.
      6.   Pathways: Pedestrian pathway linkages from the subdivision to
adjacent existing or planned trails shall be provided.
      7.   Maintenance: Land shown on the final plat as common open space may
be conveyed to any entity that agrees to accept conveyance. In lieu of entity
dedication, it must be conveyed to an owners' association for the purpose of
owning and maintaining the common area and improvements thereon.
   O.   Landscape Maintenance:
      1.   Purpose: All required landscaping must be maintained in a healthy,
growing condition at all times.
      2.   Responsibility: The property owner is responsible for the
maintenance of all landscaping and screening devices required by this section.
      3.   Maintenance Defined: "Maintenance" shall include watering, weeding,
pruning, mowing, litter removal, pest control, and removal/repair of vandalism,
as needed, to maintain a neat and orderly appearance.
      4.   Topping Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to top any street tree
required by this section. "Topping" is defined as severely cutting back limbs
to stubs within the tree's crown to such a degree as to remove the normal
canopy and disfigure the tree.
      5.   Tree Grates: Tree grates must be widened to accommodate the growing
tree trunk and prevent girdling of any trees planted in tree wells within
sidewalks or other public rights of way.
      6.   Dead And Diseased Plant Materials: Plant materials which exhibit
evidence of insect pests, disease and/or damage shall be appropriately treated
to correct the problem. Dead plant materials shall be replaced.
      7.   Open Ponds And Waterways: Open ponds and waterways when used as part
of the landscape plan are required to develop a pest control abatement program
approved by the Gem County mosquito abatement district and develop a water
filtering maintenance program.
      8.   Inspections: All landscaping required by this section will be
subject to periodic inspections by county officials to determine compliance or
to investigate complaints made against the property.
      9.   Enforcement: Where any property owner to which this section applies
fails to maintain the required trees, landscaping, or screening devices, the
county may issue a written notice requiring the owner to: a) replace any dead
or dying trees or other plant materials that were required by their approved
landscape plan or by this section; b) repair or replace any required screening
devices that have been destroyed, removed, or are in a state of disrepair; c)
remove weeds; or d) perform any other action necessary to comply with the
requirements of this section.
      10.   Penalty: The owner shall comply with the provisions of the written
notice within sixty (60) days of the issuance of the notice. Failure of the
owner to comply with the notice within the specified time frame shall be
punishable as a misdemeanor, and every day the owner fails to comply shall be a
separate and distinct offense.
      11.   Extension: The administrator may grant an extension of time beyond
the required sixty (60) day period due to seasonal or adverse weather
conditions which make replanting or replacement impractical. In no case shall
the extension exceed six (6) months.
      12.   Contract Options: If the site is not maintained as required, Gem
County has the right to declare the property a nuisance and contract
maintenance at the expense of the property owner.
   P.   Alternative Compliance:
      1.   Purpose: The intent of this subsection is to encourage creative
solutions to land use problems. The county recognizes that the specific
requirements of this section cannot and do not anticipate all possible
landscape situations. In addition, Gem County recognizes that there may be
landscape proposals which conform to the purpose, intent, and objectives of the
landscape regulations but were not anticipated in the specific regulations.
Therefore, the administrator may allow for a method of alternative compliance
in the event of these situations.
      2.   Conditions: Requests for alternative compliance are allowed only
when one or more of the following conditions are met:
         a.   Topography, soil, vegetation, or other site conditions are such
that full compliance is impossible or impractical.
         b.   The site involves space limitations or an unusually shaped lot.
         c.   Due to a change of use on an existing site, the required
landscape buffer is larger than can be provided.
         d.   Additional environmental quality improvements would result from
the alternative compliance.
         e.   Safety considerations make alternative compliance desirable.
         f.   Other regulatory agencies or departments having jurisdiction are
requiring design standards that conflict with the requirements of this section.
         g.   The applicant is proposing a pond with a permanent water level in
a required landscape area.
      3.   Submittal Requirements: The following items are required to apply
for alternative compliance. Note: If a project is being submitted as a planned
development, a separate application for alternative compliance is not required.
         a.   A written request for alternative compliance shall be submitted
to the planning and zoning department prior to submittal of the development
application. The request shall state:
            (1)   The ordinance requirements that are proposed to be modified;
            (2)   The project conditions in subsection P2 of this section which
justify the proposed alternative; and
            (3)   How the proposed alternative meets or exceeds the intent of
said requirement.
         b.   A conceptual site plan and other information as necessary to
illustrate the proposed method of alternative compliance.
         c.   An application fee as set by the Gem County board of
commissioners.
      4.   Design Flexibility: The administrator or the administrator's
designee shall have authority to vary on a case by case basis the required
landscaping where an alternative requirement would address unique site
conditions and allow design flexibility while still serving the intent of this
section.
      5.   Variance: If compliance with this section is not possible and there
is no feasible proposal for alternative compliance which is, in the judgment of
the administrator, equal or better than normal compliance, the applicant must
apply for a variance in accordance with the provisions of chapter 13 of this
title. The applicant may also appeal the decision to the Gem County
commissioners by filing an appeal with the clerk of the district court's
office.
      6.   Precedent: Alternative compliance shall not be limited to the
specific project under consideration and shall not establish precedent for
acceptance in other cases.
      7.   Time Line: The administrator or the administrator's designee shall
respond to the applicant within fifteen (15) working days regarding acceptance
or denial of the proposed alternative.
   Q.   Certificate Of Occupancy:
      1.   Issuance Of Certificate Of Occupancy: All required landscaping and
site features must be installed according to the approved landscape plan prior
to issuance of a final certificate of occupancy. Private site improvements that
are above and beyond the requirements placed on the application do not require
completion prior to occupancy; for example, a clubhouse in a residential
subdivision need not be completed prior to occupancy of residences in the
subdivision.
      2.   Extension Of Time For Compliance: The administrator may issue a
temporary certificate of occupancy for a specified time period, not to exceed
six (6) months when, due to weather or other circumstances, the landscaping or
other required site amenities cannot be completed. Whenever a temporary
certificate of occupancy is issued, the following shall apply:
         a.   Letter Of Credit Or Cash Escrow: A letter of credit or cash
escrow for one hundred ten percent (110%) of the cost of installation must be
filed with the clerk of the district court prior to issuance of a temporary
certificate of occupancy. A formal bid must accompany the letter of credit or
cash escrow. The letter of credit or cash escrow shall be effective for a
minimum of twelve (12) months. The letter of credit or cash escrow will not be
released until all landscaping and other site amenities are completed as shown
on the approved site plan.
         b.   Permission To Enter Property: Any property owner wishing to make
arrangements with the county for a temporary certificate of occupancy must also
allow the county to enter upon the land for the purposes of installing the
required landscaping and other site amenities in the event that the landscaping
is not in place when the temporary certificate of occupancy expires.
   R.   Landscape Plan Submittal Requirements:
      1.   Applicability: All applications for a final plat (FP) must comply
with all requirements of subsection R3, "Contents", of this section for a
detailed landscape plan. Applications for special use permit (SUP) and
preliminary plat (PP) are exempt from subsections R3m, R3n, R3o and R3p of this
section and may instead show conceptual landscaping with tree locations only
and conceptual screening structures; all other subsections of this section
still apply.
      2.   Plan Size And Scale: The landscape plan must have a scale no smaller
than one inch equals fifty feet (1" = 50') (1 inch = 20 feet is preferred) and
be on a standard drawing sheet, not to exceed thirty six inches by forty eight
inches (36" x 48") (24 inches x 36 inches is preferred). A plan which cannot be
drawn in its entirety on a single sheet must be drawn with appropriate match
lines on two (2) or more sheets.
      3.   Contents: The landscape plan shall comply with the provisions of
this section and shall include the following elements:
         a.   Date, scale, north arrow, and title of the project.
         b.   Names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the developer and the
person/firm preparing the plan.
         c.   Existing boundaries, property lines, and dimensions of the lot.
         d.   Relationship to adjacent properties, streets, and private lanes.
         e.   Easements and right of way lines on or adjacent to the lot.
         f.   Existing/proposed zoning of the lot, and the zoning and land use
of all adjacent properties.
         g.   Existing natural features such as canals, creeks, drains, ponds,
wetlands, floodplains, high groundwater areas, and rock outcroppings.
         h.   Locations, size, and species of all existing trees on site with
trunks four inches (4") or greater in diameter, measured six inches (6") above
the ground. Indicate whether the tree will be retained or removed.
         i.   A statement of how existing healthy trees proposed to be retained
will be protected from damage during construction.
         j.   Existing buildings, structures, planting areas, light poles,
power poles, walls, fences, berms, parking and loading areas, vehicular drives,
trash areas, sidewalks, pathways, stormwater detention areas, signs, street
furniture, and other manmade elements.
         k.   Existing and proposed contours for all areas steeper than twenty
percent (20%) slope. Berms shall be shown with one foot (1') contours.
         l.   "Sight triangles" as defined in subsection C of this section.
         m.   Location and labels for all proposed plants, including trees,
shrubs, and ground covers.
         n.   A plant list that shows the plant symbol, quantity, botanical
name, common name, minimum planting size and container, and comments (for
spacing, staking, and installation, as appropriate).
         o.   Planting and installation details, as necessary, to ensure
conformance with all required standards.
         p.   Design drawings of all required structures for screening
purposes.
         q.   Calculations of project components to demonstrate compliance with
the requirements of this section, including:
            (1)   Special use permit applications:
               (A)   Number of street trees and linear feet of street frontage.
               (B)   Width of street buffers.
               (C)   Width of parking lot perimeter landscape strip.
               (D)   Buffer width between different land uses.
               (E)   Number of parking stalls and percent of parking area with
internal landscaping.
               (F)   Total number of trees and tree species mix.
               (G)   Mitigation for removal of existing trees.
            (2)   PP and FP applications:
               (A)   Width of street buffer, linear feet of street frontage,
and number of street trees.
               (B)   Residential subdivision trees.
               (C)   Acreage dedicated for common open space.
               (D)   Number of trees provided on common lot(s).
               (E)   Mitigation for removal of existing trees.
      4.   Landscape Plan Preparation: Preparing a landscape plan requires
special skills. Landscaping involves more than a simple arrangement of plants
with irrigation; plants are not haphazardly placed in a way that fills up
leftover space. Landscape plans should be artfully and technically organized in
a way that conveys coherence, design, and organization. The landscaping should
enhance the physical environment as well as the project's aesthetic character.
Also, requiring plans prepared by a landscape professional minimizes the
likelihood of trees dying or interfering with other adjacent site features.
Therefore, all landscape plans proposed for a large scale development or along
any entryway corridor shall be prepared by a landscape architect, landscape
designer, or qualified nurseryman. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-6-7: WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS AND ANTENNAS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to establish general guidelines
for the siting of wireless communications towers and antennas. The goals of
this section are to:
      1.   Protect residential areas and land uses from potential adverse
impacts of towers and antennas;
      2.   Encourage the location of towers in nonresidential areas;
      3.   Minimize the total number of towers throughout the community;
      4.   Strongly encourage the joint use of new and existing tower sites as
a primary option rather than construction of additional single use towers;
      5.   Encourage users of towers and antennas to locate them, to the extent
possible, in areas where the adverse impact on the community is minimal;
      6.   Encourage users of towers and antennas to configure them in a way
that minimizes the adverse visual impact of the towers and antennas through
careful design, siting, landscape screening, and innovative camouflaging
techniques;
      7.   Enhance the ability of the providers of telecommunications services
to provide such services to the community quickly, effectively, and
efficiently;
      8.   Consider the public health and safety of communication towers; and
      9.   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from tower failure
through engineering and careful siting of tower structures.
   B.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them below:
    ALTERNATIVE TOWER STRUCTURE: Manmade trees, clock towers, bell steeples,
light poles and similar alternative design mounting structures that camouflage
or conceal the presence of antennas or towers.
   ANTENNA: Any exterior transmitting or receiving apparatus mounted on a
tower, building or structure and used in communications that radiate or capture
electromagnetic waves, digital signals, analog signals, radio frequencies
(excluding radar signals), wireless telecommunications signals or other
communication signals.
   ANTENNA HEIGHT: When referring to a tower or other structure, the distance
measured from the finished grade of the parcel to the highest point on the
tower or other structure, including the base pad and any antenna.
   CAMOUFLAGED: A telecommunication facility that is disguised, hidden, or
integrated with the existing environment and trees so as to be significantly
screened from view.
   CELL SITE OR SITE: A tract or parcel of land that contains
telecommunications facilities, including any antenna, support structure,
accessory buildings, and parking, and may include other uses associated with
and ancillary to personal wireless service.
   COLLOCATION: The use of a telecommunication facility or cell site by more
than one personal wireless service provider.
   DESIGN: The appearance of telecommunications facilities, including such
features as their materials, colors, and shape.
   EQUIPMENT ENCLOSURE: A structure, shelter, cabinet, or vault used to house
and protect the electronic equipment necessary for processing wireless
communication signals. Associated equipment may include air conditioning,
backup power supplies and emergency generators.
   FAA: The federal aviation administration.
   FCC: The federal communications commission.
   GOVERNING AUTHORITY: The governing authority of Gem County, namely the board
of commissioners.
   PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE, PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE FACILITIES AND
FACILITIES: Used in this chapter, shall be defined in the same manner as in
title 47, United States Code, section 332(c)(7)(C), as they may be amended now
or in the future, and includes facilities for the transmission and reception of
radio or microwave signals used for communication, cellular phone, personal
communications services, enhanced specialized mobile radio, and other wireless
services licensed by the FCC and unlicensed wireless services.
   PREEXISTING TOWERS AND PREEXISTING ANTENNAS: Any tower or antenna for which
a building permit or special use permit has been properly issued prior to the
effective date hereof, including permitted towers or antennas that have not yet
been constructed, so long as such approval is current and not expired.
   PROVIDER: A corporation, company, association, joint stock company, firm,
partnership, sole proprietorship, limited liability company, other entity or
individual which provides telecommunications facilities.
   SECURITY BARRIER: A wall, fence, or berm that has the purpose of securing a
telecommunication facility from unauthorized entry or trespass.
   TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY: A facility, site, or location that contains one
or more antennas, telecommunication towers, alternative support structures,
satellite dish antennas, other similar communication devices, and support
equipment which is used for transmitting, receiving, or relaying
telecommunications signals.
   TOWER: Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the
purpose of supporting one or more antennas, including self-supporting lattice
towers, guy towers, or monopole towers. The term encompasses telecommunications
facilities including radio and television transmission towers, microwave
towers, common carrier towers, cellular telephone towers or personal
communications services towers, alternative tower structures, and the like.
   C.   Applicability:
      1.   The following regulations shall apply to tower structures and
associated equipment for the purpose of commercial radio, television,
telephone, paging, or satellite reception and/or transmission.
      2.   A facility that meets one of the following standards shall be
reviewed as an accessory use. Any other facility shall be reviewed as a special
use.
         a.   The proposed facility is located on an existing structure or on
the ground and the proposed facility does not exceed ten feet (10') in height.
         b.   The tower or antenna structure does not exceed ten feet (10') in
height, is accessory to a permitted or approved use, and the proposed facility
meets all conditions of the previously approved use.
   D.   General Standards For Commercial Tower Structures And Associated
Equipment:
      1.   The facility shall comply with FCC standards regarding radio
frequency (RF) emissions.
      2.   The facility shall have approval from the federal aviation
administration and the chief of the Idaho bureau of aeronautics prior to
operation.
      3.   The applicant or owner shall be required to obtain all necessary
permits, as may be required under federal, state or local statutes, regulations
or ordinances including, but not limited to, building permits.
      4.   The facility shall be maintained in compliance with all federal,
state and local regulations and the construction standards set forth in this
subsection.
      5.   The owners, or owner's agent, of the facility shall have a
continuous obligation to ensure the maintenance and upkeep and to prevent the
creation of a public nuisance.
      6.   For any facility requiring special use approval, the administrator
shall notify all property owners within a minimum of three hundred feet (300')
of any property boundary (or lease boundary lines, if applicable) of the
proposed site.
      7.   The tower and associated facilities shall be removed within sixty
(60) days of cessation of use.
      8.   Tower construction, setback, and fall zone standards:
         a.   The tower shall be constructed to the Telecommunications Industry
Association/Electronic Industries Association (TIA/EIA) 222 revision F standard
entitled "Structural Standards For Steel Antenna Supporting Structures", or as
hereinafter may be amended.
         b.   Within the Emmett airport influence areas overlay zone, the
height limit on the tower or antenna structure shall be as required by the code
of federal regulations 14 CFR 77.
         c.   Towers over twenty feet (20') in height must be designed to allow
for future placement of additional antennas upon the tower. Such towers must
also be designed to accept antennas mounted at varying heights.
         d.   If the tower does not exceed the height limitations of the
applicable zone, the tower shall meet the setback requirements of the zone. If
the tower exceeds the height limitation of the applicable zone, the tower shall
meet the setback requirements of the zone or it shall be set back one foot (1')
for every ten feet (10') of total tower height from all property lines,
whichever is greater.
         e.   In addition to the setback requirement noted in subsection D8d of
this section, a fall zone for each tower shall be delineated and permanently
restricted from future development, as follows:
            (1)   The fall zone shall consist of the land area centered beneath
the tower and circumscribed by a circle with a radius equal to a length of one
foot (1') for every ten feet (10') of tower height.
            (2)   If the fall zone does not lie completely within the subject
property, the applicant must obtain an irrevocable easement from all owners of
property within the fall zone that prohibits the construction or placement of
new structures within the fall zone, except as may be specifically permitted
through the special use process. If an easement is utilized, a copy of the
fully executed easement agreement shall be submitted as part of the
application.
         f.   Towers shall be architecturally and visually compatible with the
existing structures, vegetation, and/or uses in the area or likely to exist in
the area under the terms of the applicable zone and/or comprehensive plan. The
decision making body shall consider, but shall not be limited to, the following
factors: similar height, color, bulk, and/or shape, or camouflage techniques to
disguise the facility. This shall not preclude towers requiring FAA painting
and marking from meeting those standards.
   E.   Application Requirements: The application materials shall include the
following written documentation:
      1.   Suitability analysis of the proposed site. The analysis shall
include, but is not limited to, the following:
         a.   Description of the surrounding area within one mile of the
subject site including topography;
         b.   Propagation charts showing existing and proposed transmission
coverage at the subject site and within an area large enough to provide an
understanding of why the facility needs to be placed at the chosen location.
      2.   If applicable, relevant portions of a signed lease agreement that
requires the applicant to remove the tower and/or associated facilities upon
cessation of use.
   F.   Additional Application Requirements For Facilities That Require Special
Use Approval:
      1.   Engineering data showing that the tower is designed structurally,
electrically, and in all other respects to accommodate both the applicant's
equipment and comparable equipment for a minimum of one additional user if the
tower is over twenty feet (20') in height. If the tower is over one hundred ten
feet (110') in height, it shall be designed structurally, electrically, and in
all other respects to accommodate both the applicant's equipment and comparable
equipment for a minimum of two (2) additional users.
      2.   A report from a qualified and licensed professional engineer that:
a) describes the facility height and design (including a cross section and
elevation); b) documents the height above grade for the recommended mounting
position for collocated antennas and the minimum separation distances between
antennas; c) describes the facility's capacity; and d) any other information
necessary to evaluate the request. The report must include the engineer's stamp
and registration number.
      3.   A letter of intent committing the facility owner and successors to
allow the shared use of the facility, as required by this section, if
additional users agree in writing to meet reasonable terms and conditions for
shared use.
      4.   Written analysis demonstrating that the facility cannot be
accommodated on an existing or approved tower within:
         a.   A two (2) mile radius for towers with a height over one hundred
feet (100');
         b.   A one mile radius for towers with a height over eighty feet
(80'), but not more than one hundred ten feet (110');
         c.   A one-half (1/2) mile radius for towers with a height over fifty
feet (50'), but not more than eighty feet (80'); or
         d.   A one-fourth (1/4) mile radius for towers with a height of fifty
feet (50') or less.
      5.   It shall be the burden of the applicant to demonstrate that the
proposed facility cannot be accommodated on an approved tower or structure
within the required search radius due to one or more of the following reasons:
         a.   Unwillingness of a property owner, or tower or facility owner to
allow shared use.
         b.   The planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity of the
existing tower or structure, as documented by a qualified and licensed
professional engineer, and the existing tower or facility structure cannot be
reinforced, modified, or replaced to accommodate planned or equivalent
equipment at a reasonable cost.
         c.   The planned equipment would cause radio interference with
material impacting the usability of other existing or planned equipment at the
tower or structure, and the interference cannot be prevented at a reasonable
cost as documented by a qualified and licensed professional engineer or other
professional qualified to provide necessary documentation.
         d.   Existing or approved towers or other structures within the search
radius cannot accommodate the planned equipment at a height necessary to be
commercially functional as documented by a qualified and licensed professional
engineer or other professional qualified to provide necessary documentation.
         e.   The proposed collocation with an existing tower or structure
would be in violation of local, state or federal law.
         f.   Any other unforeseen reasons that make it unfeasible to collocate
upon an existing or approved tower or structure as documented by a qualified
and licensed professional engineer, or other professional qualified to provide
necessary documentation.
   G.   Tower Or Antenna Structure, Private:
      1.   Applicability: The following regulations shall apply to tower
structures for the purpose of private radio, television, or satellite reception
and antennas for amateur radio. Towers shall not be subject to the accessory
structure regulations of this section.
         a.   Amateur radio station operators/receive only antennas. This
section shall not govern any tower, or the installation of any antenna, that is
under seventy feet (70') in height and is owned and operated by a federally
licensed amateur radio station operator or is used exclusively for receive only
antennas.
         b.   Accessory structures shall not be located in any required yard or
on any publicly dedicated easement.
         c.   An accessory structure located in the rear yard shall not exceed
a height of twenty four feet (24').
         d.   Accessory structures in a residential base zone shall be
architecturally compatible (as defined in this subsection) with the principal
permitted dwelling.
         e.   An accessory structure in a rural base zone shall be
architecturally compatible (as defined in this subsection) with the principal
permitted dwelling if:
            (1)   The accessory structure is located in the side yard, or
portion thereof; or
            (2)   The square footage of the footprint of the accessory
structure is greater than the square footage of the footprint of the principal
permitted dwelling.
      2.   General Standards:
         a.   The tower or antenna structure is only for private, not
commercial, use.
         b.   The tower or antenna structure is accessory to a permitted or
approved use. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-6-8: MANUFACTURED AND MOBILE HOMES STANDARDS:
   A.   Siting Of Manufactured Homes: Manufactured homes are allowed on
individual lots zoned for single-family residential uses in addition to
manufactured homes on lots within designated mobile home parks or manufactured
home subdivisions. This subsection shall not be construed as abrogating a
recorded restrictive covenant.
      1.   In all agriculture zones, both singlewide and multisectional
manufactured homes are allowed. In all residential zones, outside manufactured
home parks, only multisectional manufactured housing shall be allowed. In
manufactured home rental communities, the singlewide manufactured home shall
enclose a space of not less than four hundred (400) square feet;
      2.   The manufactured home shall be placed on an excavated and backfilled
foundation and enclosed;
         a.   Exception: Manufactured homes allowed under a temporary use
permit per standards in chapter 19 of this title shall not be placed on
permanent foundation.
      3.   All manufactured homes must bear the insignia of approval of the
U.S. department of housing and urban development certifying that it was built
subsequent to June 15, 1976, in compliance with federal mobile home
construction and safety standards; or
      4.   Manufactured homes shall be rehabilitated pursuant to Idaho
statutes, title 44, chapter 25.
   B.   Permanent Occupancy For Manufactured Or Mobile Homes Not Considered
Real Property (Not On A Foundation):
      1.   Must be approved by a special use permit.
      2.   Structures may not be used for storage purposes only.
      3.   If unoccupied for a period of three (3) months or more, the
structure must be removed from the property.
   C.   Temporary Occupancy: See chapter 19 of this title.
   D.   Demolition: If any manufactured/mobile home is proposed to be
demolished, a permit from the county building official shall be required. (Ord.
2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-6-9: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES (RV); LIVING QUARTERS:
   A.   Purpose: The intent of this section is to provide a temporary,
affordable, transitional housing alternative to Gem County residents through
the use of RVs that is sanitary, safe and maintains the residential character
of the surrounding neighborhood. The county encourages primary residency to be
within permanent structures but recognizes the need for independent, temporary
living quarters within our community. The county also encourages the use of RVs
within RV or manufactured home parks where possible. For those residents who
require the use of RVs as their residence, the county prescribes standards for
the approval of such units.
   B.   Applicability: These standards pertain to the use of an RV as primary
living quarters on property outside of a legal RV or manufactured home park for
more than thirty (30) days in a one year period. The standards do not apply to
the storage of RVs or temporary dwellings permitted under chapter 19 of this
title.
   C.   Number Allowed: One RV used as primary living quarters is permitted on
a legal parcel that is one acre or greater in size, in accordance with the
standards listed in this section.
   D.   Time Period/Time Extensions: RVs may be used as the primary living
quarters for up to one year on the same property. A one year time extension may
be granted by the administrator if the RV is appropriately screened from public
view. This section shall not apply to RVs used as living quarters on the same
property for thirty (30) days or less within a one year period.
   E.   Inspections: A six (6) month, on site inspection to ensure compliance
with these standards shall be conducted by the administrator or designee.
   F.   Permit Required: All property owners siting an RV under this section
are required to obtain an RV residency permit and pay the established fee prior
to use of the RV as living quarters.
   G.   Addressing: If the RV is sited on a property with an existing address,
no new address shall be issued for the RV. If there is no existing address, a
new address shall be issued (unless the RV is on site for 30 days or less).
   H.   Wastewater: The RV shall utilize a wastewater system approved by and/or
acceptable to the health department.
   I.   Location: The RV shall be located to the side or rear of a primary
dwelling if one exists on the property. If the RV is located on bare ground, it
shall comply with all setbacks as established in section
11-5-7 of this title. No RV used as primary living quarters shall be located
within an enclosed building.
   J.   Skirting: The RV shall have adequate skirting material around the base,
as approved by the building official.
   K.   Prohibitions:
      1.   Two (2) or more RVs used as living quarters on the same property;
      2.   RVs used as living quarters on parcels already approved for a
temporary dwelling under chapter 19 of this title;
      3.   Parcels less than one acre in size;
      4.   RVs used as living quarters on an illegal parcel. (Ord. 2009-07, 11-
23-2009)
11-6-10: MANUFACTURED HOME/RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK IMPROVEMENTS:
The following improvements shall be provided in all manufactured home and
recreational vehicle parks:
   A.   Site Selection:
      1.   Topography: The topography must be favorable to good site drainage,
minimum grading, manufactured/mobile home/recreational vehicle placement, and
ease of maintenance.
      2.   Availability Of Utilities: The site must be readily accessible to
public utilities, including water, sewerage, and electricity. All utilities
within the park must be constructed underground.
      3.   Necessary Land Area: The area of the manufactured home/recreational
vehicle park must be sufficient in size to accommodate:
         a.   The number of manufactured/mobile home/recreational vehicle
spaces desired;
         b.   Roads and parking areas for motor vehicles;
         c.   Service areas, buildings and playgrounds;
         d.   On site utilities where public utilities are not available.
   B.   Site Improvements:
      1.   The physical improvements of the site must be arranged to provide:
         a.   A convenient means of pedestrian and vehicular access to each
manufactured/mobile home/recreational vehicle space, parking areas, and
accessory buildings;
         b.   An adequate supply of potable water;
         c.   A safe method of sewage disposal;
         d.   Electrical service for lighting and power; and
         e.   Diversion of surface water away from buildings, manufactured/
mobile home/recreational vehicle spaces, service and recreational areas, and
its disposal from the site.
   C.   Site Planning: A plan of the proposed manufactured home park must be
developed for approval of the county indicating the layout of manufactured/
mobile home/recreational vehicle spaces, roads, walks, service buildings,
service areas, utilities, and necessary grading.
Determination must be made in the initial planning stage on the number of
manufactured/mobile homes/recreational vehicles to be accommodated.
      1.   Manufactured/Mobile Home/Recreational Vehicle Space Sizes: Each
manufactured/mobile home/recreational vehicle space must be not less than one
thousand two hundred fifty (1,250) square feet in area and should be at least
twenty five feet (25') wide.
      2.   Spacing Of Manufactured/Mobile Home/Recreational Vehicle: The
minimum spacing between manufactured/mobile homes/recreational vehicles and
between manufactured/mobile homes and buildings must be:
         a.   Side to side spacing: Fifteen feet (15');
         b.   End to end spacing: Ten feet (10') from the manufactured home
park property line.
      3.   Roads, Walks And Parking Areas:
         a.   General Circulation: Safety and convenience must be a major
consideration in the layout of roads, walks, and parking areas within the
manufactured home park. All roads must be continuous.
         b.   Servicing: Suitable vehicular access for firefighting equipment,
delivery of fuel, removal of garbage and refuse, and for other necessary
services must be provided.
         c.   Width Of Roads And Parking Areas: Main access roads, excluding
parking must be two (2) lanes and at least twenty four feet (24') wide.
         d.   Parking Area: The same number of motor vehicle parking spaces
must be provided as the number of manufactured/recreational vehicle spaces.
These must be provided in special parking areas.
         e.   Walks: The manufactured/recreational vehicle park walk system
must include a walk from the entrance of each manufactured/mobile home to
service facilities.
         f.   Width Of Walks:
            (1)   Public walks: Minimum four feet (4').
            (2)   Entrance walks (from public walk to manufactured/recreational
vehicle door): Minimum three feet (3').
   D.   Service Buildings: Each manufactured home/recreational vehicle park
that is planning on serving recreational vehicles must be provided with one or
more service buildings containing the requisite number of plumbing fixtures and
other service equipment. The service buildings must conform in general to the
following requirements:
      1.   Construction: The materials and methods used in the construction of
service buildings must conform to local building codes for buildings of this
nature. It must have an interior finish which is moisture resistant and can be
easily cleaned. All rooms of service buildings must be ventilated and all
exterior openings provided with screens.
      2.   Facilities (Recreational Vehicle Park Only): Separate men's and
women's toilet rooms must be provided and distinctly marked. These rooms must
be separated by a sound resistant wall. A vestibule or screen wall must be
provided to prevent direct view into the toilet rooms when exterior doors are
open.
      3.   Plumbing Fixtures: Every manufactured home/recreational vehicle park
must provide adequate toilet and laundry facilities. In no instances should
there be less than a minimum of one laundry unit (laundry or washing machine);
one toilet room, one lavatory and one shower for women; and one toilet room,
one lavatory and one shower for men.
The facilities listed above will accommodate the planned number of recreational
vehicle spaces. One water closet must be provided for each sex for every ten
(10) additional recreational vehicles. (Urinals for men may be substituted for
1/3 of these water closets.)
One lavatory must be provided for each sex for every ten (10) additional
recreational vehicles; and one shower or bathtub for each sex for every twenty
(20) additional recreational vehicles. A laundry unit must be provided for
every twenty (20) additional spaces.
   E.   Fire Prevention:
      1.   The court area shall be subject to the rules and regulations of the
fire prevention authority.
   F.   Regulations:
      1.   No permanent additions of any kind shall be built onto, nor become a
part of, any manufactured/mobile home/recreational vehicle. Skirting of
manufactured/mobile home or recreational vehicle is permissible, but such
skirting shall not permanently attach the manufactured/mobile home or
recreational vehicle to the ground, provide a harborage for rodents, or create
a fire hazard. The wheels of a manufactured/mobile home or recreational vehicle
shall not be removed, except temporarily when necessary for repairs. Jacks or
stabilizers may be placed under the frame of the manufactured/mobile home or
recreational vehicle to prevent movement on the springs while the manufactured/
mobile home or recreational vehicle is parked and occupied. No owner or person
in charge of a dog, cat, or other pet animal shall permit it to run at large,
or to commit any nuisance within the limits of any manufactured home park.
(Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-6-11: STORMWATER DRAINAGE STANDARDS:
   A.   Applicability: The following standards shall apply to all development
and subdivisions where one or more acres of land is disturbed by development
activity.
   B.   Drainage Facilities: The applicant shall provide suitable drainage
facilities for any surface runoff from within or upstream of the development.
Natural drainage channels shall be used whenever possible. Where drainage in
natural channels may negatively impact an irrigation or drainage district's
ability to comply with the clean water act, alternative drainage methods as
approved by said district shall be used. To avoid soil erosion and manage
nutrients, sediment catchment basins may be required.
   C.   Easement: Where a development contains a stream, watercourse,
drainageway, channel or ditch, an easement shall be provided adequate to
contain that watercourse and any further width necessary for maintenance or
reconstruction.
   D.   Discharge: Drainage systems shall not discharge into any sanitary sewer
facility.
   E.   Mosquito Abatement District: When the proposed development or any part
thereof falls within the boundaries of a mosquito abatement district, all
drainage plans and systems shall follow the guidelines of such district.
   F.   Design: All drainage features for the development shall be designed by
an Idaho registered professional engineer. Stormwater drainage systems shall be
designed so stormwater runoff from the site does not exceed the water quality
nor water discharge rate that existed prior to the proposed development.
      1.   Hydrologic Procedures: The rational method shall be used for
drainage areas up to fifty (50) acres. For other drainage areas, the SCS TR-55
method shall be used.
      2.   Design Storm: The following design storm return periods shall be
used:
 
Facility Type                                                   Return Period
Conveyance system (ditches, pipes, inlets, and curb and gutter) 25-year
Detention basins                                                25-year
Retention basins/subsurface disposal systems                    100-year
 
      3.   Peak Runoff: The peak runoff rate (Qp) when determined by the
rational method.
The intensity shall be determined from the Idaho transportation department's
intensity-duration-frequency curves for zone A based on the time of
concentration (duration) and frequency (return period).
      4.   Runoff Volume: Runoff volume (V) shall be determined using the
triangular SCS unit hydrograph.
The runoff volume shall be analyzed using the calculated Tc and sixty (60)
minutes (and corresponding Qp values) and whichever produces the greater volume
shall be used for design. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
CHAPTER 7
SPECIAL USES
SECTION:
11-7-1: General
11-7-2: Application; Fee
11-7-3: General Standards
11-7-4: Public Sites; Open Spaces
11-7-5: Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards
11-7-6: Procedure For Hearing Notice
11-7-7: Action By Commission
11-7-8: Notification To Applicant
11-7-9: Appeal To Board
11-7-10: Violations Of Conditions
11-7-11: Land Use Time Limitations
11-7-12: Request For Extension
11-7-1: GENERAL:
   A.   Individual Consideration: It is recognized that an increasing number of
new kinds of uses are appearing daily, and that many of these and some other
conventional uses possess characteristics of such unique and special nature
relative to location, design, size, method of operation, circulation and public
facilities that each specific use must be considered individually.
   B.   Hearing: The commission shall hold a public hearing on each special use
permit application as specified in this chapter. The commission may approve,
conditionally approve or deny a special use permit under the conditions as
herein specified and considering such additional safeguards as will uphold the
intent of this title. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-7-2: APPLICATION; FEE:
   A.   Contents Of Application: An application for special use permit shall be
filed with the administrator by at least one owner or lessee of property for
which such special use is proposed. At a minimum, the application shall contain
the following:
      1.   Name, address and phone number of applicant;
      2.   Legal description of property;
      3.   Description of existing use;
      4.   Zoning district;
      5.   Description of proposed special use;
      6.   A plan of the proposed site for the special use showing the location
of all buildings, parking and loading area, traffic access and traffic
circulation, open spaces, landscaping, refuse and service areas, utilities,
signs, yards and such other information as the commission may require to
determine if the proposed special use meets the intent and requirements of this
title; and
      7.   A narrative statement evaluating the effects on adjoining property:
a) the effect of such elements as noise, glare, odor, fumes and vibration on
adjoining property; b) a discussion of the general compatibility with adjacent
and other properties in the zone; and c) the relationship of the proposed use
to the comprehensive plan.
   B.   Fee: Payment of a filing fee in an amount as set by the Gem County
board of commissioners by resolution. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-7-3: GENERAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Special Use: The commission shall review the particular facts and
circumstances of each proposed special use in terms of the following standards
and shall find adequate evidence showing that such use at the proposed
location:
      1.   Will in fact, constitute a special use as established in the
schedule of zoning regulations as adopted in section
11-5-2 of this title for the zoning district involved;
      2.   Will be harmonious with and in accordance with the general
objectives or with any specific objective of the comprehensive plan and/or this
title;
      3.   Will be designed, constructed, operated and maintained to be
harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended
character of the general vicinity and that such use will not change the
essential character of the same area;
      4.   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future
neighboring uses;
      5.   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and
services such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage
structures, refuse disposal, water and sewer and schools; or that the persons
or agencies responsible for the establishment of the proposed use shall be able
to provide adequately any such services;
      6.   Will not create excessive additional requirements at public cost for
public facilities and services and will not be detrimental to the economic
welfare of the community;
      7.   Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment
and conditions or operation that will be detrimental to any person, property or
the general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic, noise, smoke,
fumes, glare or odors;
      8.   Will have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be so
designed as not to create an interference with traffic on surrounding public
thoroughfares; and
      9.   Will not result in the destruction, loss or damage of natural,
scenic or historic features of major importance.
   B.   Mineral Extraction: Special use permits for mineral extraction uses are
required to follow a separate set of standards. See subsection 11-6-5O of this
title for a list of findings and standards for mineral extraction uses. (Ord.
2013-01, 1-22-2013)
11-7-4: PUBLIC SITES; OPEN SPACES:
Public sites and open spaces shall conform to the following:
   A.   Public Uses: Where it is determined that a proposed park, playground,
school or other public use as shown on the future acquisition map, as
authorized in section 67-6517, Idaho Code, is located in whole or in part
within a proposed development, the commission shall notify the appropriate
public agency concerning the land proposed to be acquired. Within thirty (30)
days of the date of notice, the public agency may request the governing body to
suspend consideration on the permit for sixty (60) days from the date of the
request; however, if an agreement is not reached within sixty (60) days the
commission shall resume consideration of the special use application;
   B.   Natural Features: Existing natural features which add value to
residential development and enhance the attractiveness of the community (such
as trees, watercourses, historic spots and similar irreplaceable assets) shall
be preserved in the design of the development; and
   C.   Special Developments: In the case of planned unit developments and
large scale developments, the commission may require sufficient park or open
space facilities of acceptable size, location and site characteristics that may
be suitable for the proposed development. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-7-5: SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS:
In granting any special use, the commission may prescribe appropriate
conditions, bonds and safeguards in conformity with this title. Violations of
such conditions, bonds or safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which
the special use is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this title. (Ord.
2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-7-6: PROCEDURE FOR HEARING NOTICE:
   A.   Hearing Required: Prior to granting a special use permit, at least one
public hearing in which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be
heard shall be held.
   B.   Notice Of Hearing:
      1.   Publication: At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice
of the time and place and a summary of the proposal shall be published in the
official newspaper or paper of general circulation within the jurisdiction.
      2.   Additional Media: Notice may also be made available to other
newspapers, radio and television stations serving the jurisdiction for use as a
public service announcement.
      3.   Property Owners Or Residents:
         a.   Mailing: Notice shall also be provided to property owners and
residents within the land being considered, three hundred feet (300') beyond
the external boundaries of the land being considered, and any additional area
that may be substantially impacted by the proposed special use as determined by
the commission.
         b.   Over Two Hundred: When notice is required to two hundred (200) or
more property owners or residents, in lieu of mailing notification, three (3)
notices in the newspaper or paper of general circulation is sufficient,
provided the second notice to appear ten (10) days prior to the public hearing.
(Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-7-7: ACTION BY COMMISSION:
   A.   Approval/Denial Of Application: Within thirty (30) days after the
public hearing, the commission shall either approve, conditionally approve, or
disapprove the application as presented. If the application is approved, or
disapproved with modifications, the commission shall direct the administrator
to issue a special use permit listing the specific conditions specified by the
commission for approval.
   B.   Attach Special Conditions: Upon granting of a special use permit,
conditions may be attached to the special use permit including, but not limited
to, those:
      1.   Minimizing adverse impact on other development;
      2.   Controlling the sequence and timing of development;
      3.   Controlling the duration of development;
      4.   Assuring that development is maintained properly;
      5.   Designating the exact location and nature of development;
      6.   Requiring the provision for on site public facilities or services;
and
      7.   Requiring more restrictive standards than those generally required
in this title.
   C.   Studies: Prior to granting a special use permit, the commission may
request studies from the planning staff or public agencies concerning social,
economic, fiscal and environmental effects of the proposed special use.
   D.   Transferability Of Permit: A special use permit is not transferable
from one parcel of land to another.
   E.   Specifications Of Commission Response: Upon granting or denying an
application, the commission shall specify:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit.
   F.   Right Of Appeal: The applicant or any affected person who appears in
person or in writing before the commission may appeal the decision of the
commission to the board, provided the appeal is submitted to the board within
twenty (20) days from the commission's action. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-7-8: NOTIFICATION TO APPLICANT:
Within ten (10) days after a decision has been rendered, the administrator
shall provide the applicant with written notice of the action on the request.
(Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-7-9: APPEAL TO BOARD:
Upon receipt of a written notice of appeal from the action of the commission
and payment of a filing fee in an amount established by the board of
commissioners by resolution, the clerk of the district court shall set a
hearing date to consider all information, testimony and commission's minutes of
the public hearing to reach a decision to uphold, conditionally uphold, or
overrule the decision of the commission. The board shall only overrule the
commission by a favorable vote of a simple majority of the full board. (Ord.
2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-7-10: VIOLATIONS OF CONDITIONS:
If any person, including staff or a member of the commission, files a written
notice presenting sufficient evidence, as determined by the administrator, that
the conditions of the special use permit have been violated, the body that made
the final decision, after due process, may revoke the permit or allow a
specific period of time for correction of the conditions. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-
2009)
11-7-11: LAND USE TIME LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Commencement: When a special use permit is granted, the land use or
construction of its facility proposed in the application must have commenced
within one year of the date of the final decision by the commission, or the
board or a court of appropriate jurisdiction (if appealed) and completed within
two (2) years of the same date. Upon expiration of the use or the approval of
that use as provided by this section, the applicant can seek approval of the
use only by filing a new initial application for review by the commission.
   B.   Expiration: After the one year period has expired, if any person,
including staff or member of the commission, files a written notice presenting
sufficient evidence, as determined by the administrator, to establish that the
land use or construction of its facility provided for in the special use
permit, has not commenced, or after the two (2) year period that said use has
been abandoned or has ended, the commission may find that the use has not been
implemented or has been abandoned or has ended. If so, the commission shall set
aside the prior approval and order the property to revert to its prior status.
An aggrieved person may appeal any commission decision made under this section
to the board pursuant to section
11-7-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-7-12: REQUEST FOR EXTENSION:
   A.   Request: An applicant may request extension of the time period provided
by this section by filing an application for extension with the administrator.
Such application must be filed at least sixty (60) calendar days prior to
expiration of the one year period for commencement of the land use or sixty
(60) calendar days prior to the expiration of the two (2) year period for
completion of the project. The matter shall be heard at a public hearing before
the commission or the board, whichever made the final decision, in accordance
with the notice and hearing procedures of this chapter. If the application is
not timely filed, it shall be denied. A renewal extension, if granted, may be
limited to three hundred sixty five (365) calendar days, which shall commence
at the expiration of either period.
   B.   Decision: The commission or the board may extend the commencement
period or the completion period as provided above upon proof of good cause by
the applicant. The burden of proof as to the showing of good cause for the
extension shall be on the applicant, and good cause shall be determined at the
discretion of the commission or the board. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
CHAPTER 8
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS (PUD)
SECTION:
11-8-1: Purpose
11-8-2: Governing Provisions
11-8-3: Minimum Area
11-8-4: Permitted Uses
11-8-5: Ownership Requirements
11-8-6: Common Open Space
11-8-7: Utility Requirements
11-8-8: Increased Residential Density
11-8-9: Arrangement Of Commercial Uses
11-8-10: Arrangement Of Industrial Uses
11-8-11: Procedure For Approval
11-8-12: Preapplication Meeting
11-8-13: Application For Approval Of Final Development Plan
11-8-14: Recommendations By Commission
11-8-15: Action By Board
11-8-16: Expiration And Extension Of Approval Period
11-8-17: Planned Community Based District
11-8-17-1: Purpose
11-8-17-2: Applicability
11-8-17-3: Preapplication Requirements
11-8-17-4: Application Requirements
11-8-17-5: Process
11-8-17-6: Process For Subsequent Development
11-8-17-7: Required Findings
11-8-1: PURPOSE:
It shall be the policy to guide a major development of land and construction by
encouraging planned unit developments (PUD) to achieve the following:
   A.   A minimum choice of living environments by allowing a variety of
housing and building types and permitting an increased density per acre and a
reduction in lot dimensions, yards, building setbacks and acre requirements;
   B.   A more useful pattern of open space and recreation areas and, if
permitted as part of the project, more convenience in the location of accessory
commercial uses, industrial uses and services;
   C.   A development pattern which preserves and utilizes natural topography
and geologic features, scenic vistas, trees and other vegetation and prevents
the disruption of natural drainage patterns;
   D.   A more efficient use of land than is generally achieved through
conventional development resulting in substantial savings through shorter
utilities and streets; and
   E.   A development pattern in harmony with land use density, transportation
and community facilities objectives of the comprehensive plan. (Ord. 2009-05,
9-28-2009)
11-8-2: GOVERNING PROVISIONS:
Whenever there is a conflict or difference between the provisions of this
chapter and those of other chapters of this title, the provisions of this
chapter shall prevail. Subjects not covered by this chapter shall be governed
by the respective provisions found elsewhere in this title. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-
28-2009)
11-8-3: MINIMUM AREA:
A PUD for the following principal uses shall contain an area of not less than:
   A.   Residential: Three (3) acres for residential development (gross land
area of PUD);
   B.   Residential With Commercial Or Industrial: Five (5) acres for
residential use with subordinate commercial or industrial uses;
   C.   Commercial: Ten (10) acres for commercial use; and
   D.   Industrial: Ten (10) acres for industrial use. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-
2009)
11-8-4: PERMITTED USES:
All uses that may be allowed within the land use zone are permitted within a
PUD. Also, up to ten percent (10%) of the gross land area may be directed to
other commercial, industrial, public and quasi-public uses that are not allowed
within the land use zone; provided, there is a favorable finding by the
commission:
   A.   The uses are appropriate with the residential uses;
   B.   The uses are intended to serve principally the residents of the PUD;
   C.   The uses are planned as an integral part of the PUD;
   D.   The uses be located and so designed as to provide direct access to a
collector or an arterial street without creating congestion or traffic hazards;
and
   E.   A minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the residential development occurs
prior to the development of the related commercial or industrial land uses.
(Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-8-5: OWNERSHIP REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Time Of Filing: An application for approval of a PUD may be filed by a
property owner or a person having an existing interest in the property to be
included in the PUD. The PUD application shall be filed in the name or names of
the recorded owner or owners of property included in the development. However,
the application may be filed by the holder(s) of an equitable interest in such
property.
   B.   Time Of Approval: Before approval is granted to the final development
plan, the entire project shall be under single ownership or control and legal
title must be presented with the final development plan. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-
2009)
11-8-6: COMMON OPEN SPACE:
   A.   Minimum Requirement: A minimum of ten percent (10%) of the gross land
area developed in any residential PUD project shall be reserved for common open
space and recreational facilities for the residents or users of the area being
developed.
   B.   Ownership: The required amount of common open space land reserved under
a PUD shall either be held in corporate ownership by owners of the project area
for the use of each owner who buys property within the development or be
dedicated to the public and retained as common open space for parks, recreation
and related uses.
   C.   Easements; Rights Of Way: Public utility and similar easements and
rights of way for watercourses and other similar channels are not acceptable
for common open space dedication unless such land or right of way is usable as
a trail or other similar purpose and approved by the commission.
   D.   Maintenance: The responsibility for the maintenance of all open space
shall be specified by the developer before approval of the final development
plan.
   E.   Abutment Required: Every property developed under the PUD approach
should be designated to abut upon common open space or similar areas. A
clustering of dwellings is encouraged. In areas where townhouses are used,
there shall be no more than eight (8) townhouse units in any contiguous group.
(Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-8-7: UTILITY REQUIREMENTS:
Underground utilities, including telephone and electrical systems, are required
within the limits of all PUDs. Appurtenances to these systems which can be
effectively screened may be excepted from this requirement if the commission
finds that such exemption will not violate the intent or character of the
proposed PUD. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-8-8: INCREASED RESIDENTIAL DENSITY:
To provide for an incentive for quality PUD, the commission may authorize an
increased residential density of the allowable number of dwelling units.
Character, identity and architectural and siting variation incorporated in a
development shall be considered cause for density increases, provided these
factors make a substantial contribution to the objectives of the PUD which are
as follows:
   A.   Landscaping: Landscaping (a maximum increase of 5 percent),
streetscape, open spaces and plazas, use of existing landscaping, pedestrianway
treatment and recreational areas;
   B.   Siting: Siting (a maximum increase of 5 percent), visual focal points,
use of existing physical features such as topography, view, sun and wind
orientation, circulation pattern, physical environment, variation in building
setbacks and building grouping (such as clustering); and
   C.   Design Features: Design features (a maximum increase of 5 percent),
street sections, architectural styles, harmonious use of materials, parking
areas broken by landscaping features and varied use of housing types. (Ord.
2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-8-9: ARRANGEMENT OF COMMERCIAL USES:
   A.   Parking Areas; Ingress And Egress: When PUDs include commercial uses,
commercial buildings and establishments shall be planned as groups having
common parking areas and common ingress and egress points in order to reduce
the number of potential accident locations at intersections. Planting screens
or fences shall be provided on the perimeter of the commercial areas abutting
residential areas.
   B.   Design: The plan of the project shall provide for the integrated and
harmonious design of buildings, and for adequate and properly arranged
facilities for internal traffic circulation, landscaping and such other
features and facilities as may be necessary to make the project attractive and
efficient from the standpoint of the adjoining and surrounding noncommercial
areas.
   C.   Areas For Future Expansion: All areas designed for future expansion or
not intended for immediate improvement or development shall be landscaped or
otherwise maintained in a neat and orderly manner. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-8-10: ARRANGEMENT OF INDUSTRIAL USES:
   A.   Industrial Uses Allowed: PUDs may include industrial uses if it can be
shown that the development results in a more efficient and desirable use of
land.
   B.   Design: Industrial uses and parcels shall be developed in parklike
surroundings utilizing landscaping and existing woodlands as buffers to screen
lighting, parking areas, loading areas or docks and/or outdoor storage of raw
materials or products. A planned industrial area shall provide for the harmony
of buildings and a compact grouping in order to economize in the provision of
such utility services as are required. Thoroughfares shall be kept to a minimum
throughout a planned industrial area in order to reduce through traffic.
   C.   Side And Rear Yards; Intervening Spaces: Project side yards of forty
feet (40') and a rear yard of fifty feet (50') shall be required if the project
is located adjacent to any residential uses. All intervening spaces between the
right of way line and project building line and intervening spaces between
buildings, drives, parking areas and improved areas shall be landscaped with
trees and plantings and properly maintained at all times. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-
2009)
11-8-11: PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL:
When the PUD also qualifies as a subdivision, the processing of the special use
permit and subdivision application shall occur at the same time. The granting
of a special use permit for a PUD shall require a preapplication, the
submission of a final development plan, and approval by the board of a final
development plan, as specified within this title. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-8-12: PREAPPLICATION MEETING:
The developer shall meet with the administrator prior to the submission of the
final development plan. The purpose of this meeting is to discuss early and
informally the purpose and effect of this title and the criteria and standards
contained herein, and to familiarize the developer with the comprehensive plan,
this title and title 12 of this code, and such other plans and ordinances as
deemed appropriate. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-8-13: APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
   A.   Filing: An application for approval of the final development plan may
be filed with the administrator by at least one property owner or person having
a presently existing interest in the property for which the PUD is proposed;
   B.   Required Signature: Each application shall be signed by the owner or
lessee, attesting to the truth and exactness of all information supplied on the
application for final development plan;
   C.   Expiration/Revocation Of Approval: Each application shall clearly state
that the approval shall expire and may be revoked if construction on the
project has not begun within two (2) years from the date of issuance of the
approval;
   D.   Required Information: At a minimum, the application shall contain the
following information:
      1.   Survey: A survey of the proposed development site, showing the
dimensions and bearings of the property lines, area in acres, topography,
existing features of the development site; including major wooded areas,
structures, streets, easements, utility lines and land uses;
      2.   Additional Information: All the information required on the
preliminary development plan; the location of lots, location and proposed
density of dwelling units, nonresidential building intensity and land use
considered suitable for adjacent properties;
      3.   Schedule Of Development: A schedule for the development of units to
be constructed in progression and a description of the design principles for
buildings and streetscapes; tabulation of the number of acres in the proposed
project for various uses; the number of housing units proposed by type;
estimated residential population by type of housing; estimated nonresidential
population; anticipated timing for each unit and standards for height, open
space, building density, parking areas, population density and public
improvements proposed for each unit of the development whenever the applicant
proposes an exception from standard zoning districts or other ordinances
governing development;
   E.   Feasibility Studies And Plans: Engineering feasibility studies and
plans showing, as necessary, water, sewer, drainage, electricity, telephone and
natural gas installations; waste disposal facilities; street improvements and
nature and extent of earthwork required for site preparation and development;
   F.   Site Plan: Site plan showing building(s), various functional use areas,
circulation and their relationship;
   G.   Preliminary Building Plans: Preliminary building plans, including floor
plans and exterior elevations;
   H.   Landscaping Plans: Landscaping plans; and
   I.   Deed Restrictions; Protective Covenants: Deed restrictions, protective
covenants and other legal statements or devices to be used to control the use,
development and maintenance of the land, and the improvements thereon,
including those areas which are to be commonly owned and maintained.
   J.   Economic Impact Analysis: The applicant shall submit, if deemed
appropriate by the administrator or commission, a detailed economic impact
analysis evaluating the impacts of the planned unit development upon existing
infrastructure and any cost of new infrastructure that may be required to serve
the planned unit development including, but not limited to, roads, schools,
fire protection, water systems, wastewater collection and treatment systems,
air quality programs, water quality programs, solid waste disposal, law
enforcement, parks and open space, irrigation delivery systems, libraries and
emergency medical services. Written statements shall be solicited by the
applicant from affected municipalities, agencies and/or districts, and other
service providers commenting on the impact of the planned community upon
existing infrastructure and the costs of providing new infrastructure needed to
serve the project. All responses received by the applicant shall be submitted
to the administrator along with the required economic impact analysis. (Ord.
2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-8-14: RECOMMENDATIONS BY COMMISSION:
   A.   Transmittal To Board: Within sixty (60) days after receipt of the final
development plan, the commission shall recommend to the board that the final
development plan be approved as presented, approved with supplementary
conditions, or disapproved. The commission shall then transmit all papers
constituting the record and the recommendations to the board.
   B.   Facts Required To Be Established: The commission shall find that the
facts submitted with the application and presented to them establish that:
      1.   Initiation Of Development: The proposed development can be initiated
within two (2) years of the date of approval;
      2.   Independent Units; Uses: Each individual unit of the development, as
well as the total development, can exist as an independent unit capable of
creating an environment of sustained desirability and stability or that
adequate assurance will be provided that such objective will be attained; the
uses proposed will not be detrimental to present or potential surrounding uses,
but will have a beneficial effect which would not be achieved under standard
zone regulations;
      3.   Streets; Thoroughfares: The streets and thoroughfares proposed are
suitable and adequate to carry anticipated traffic, and increased densities
will not generate traffic in such amounts as to overload the street network
outside the PUD;
      4.   Commercial Development: Any proposed commercial development can be
justified at the locations proposed;
      5.   Exception From Zone Requirements: Any exception from standard zone
requirements is warranted by the design and other amenities incorporated in the
final development plan in accordance with the PUD and the adopted policy of the
board;
      6.   Surrounding Area: The area surrounding said development can be
planned and zoned in coordination and substantial comparability with the
proposed development;
      7.   Conformance With Comprehensive Plan: The PUD is in general
conformance with the comprehensive plan; and
      8.   Utility Services: The existing and proposed utility services are
adequate for the population densities and nonresidential uses proposed. (Ord.
2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-8-15: ACTION BY BOARD:
   A.   Approval/Denial: Within sixty (60) days after receipt of the final
recommendation of the commission, the board shall either approve, approve with
supplementary conditions or disapprove the application as presented. Upon
granting or denying the application the board shall specify:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reason for approval or denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit.
   B.   Issuance Of Permits: If the application is either approved or approved
with conditions, the board shall direct the administrator to issue zoning
permits only in accordance with the approved final development plan and the
supplementary conditions attached thereto. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-8-16: EXPIRATION AND EXTENSION OF APPROVAL PERIOD:
The approval of a final development plan for a PUD shall be for a period not to
exceed two (2) years to allow for preparation and recording of the required
subdivision plat and the development of the project. If no construction has
begun within two (2) years after approval is granted, the approved final
development plan shall be void. An extension of the time limit or modification
of the approved final development plan may be approved if the commission finds
that such extension or modification is not in conflict with the public
interest. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-8-17: PLANNED COMMUNITY BASED DISTRICT:
11-8-17-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this section
11-8-17 is to provide standards for the review of planned communities and to
implement the planned community goals and policies of the Gem County
comprehensive plan. Specific planned community regulations shall be adopted by
the board of commissioners. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-8-17-2: APPLICABILITY:
These regulations shall apply to applications for planned communities that meet
the following minimum size and location standards:
   A.   The planned community is a minimum of three hundred twenty (320) acres.
   B.   The planned community site is located outside existing areas of city
impact.
   C.   The planned community has a boundary that enhances the area's ability
to incorporate or be annexed. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-8-17-3: PREAPPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
The applicant shall complete a series of preapplication conferences prior to
submittal of an application for a planned community. The purpose of these
conferences is to develop a common understanding between staff and the
applicant regarding existing site conditions, project design, proposed zoning
regulations, potential environmental impacts and mitigation measures, general
consistency with local, state, and federal regulations and the Gem County
comprehensive plan, and any other relevant issues of the proposed project.
(Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-8-17-4: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
An application for a planned community shall be submitted to the administrator
and shall contain the elements required by this chapter. The administrator
shall determine the number of copies of the application required for submittal.
   A.   The applicant or owner shall submit the fee, as set forth by the Gem
County board of commissioners by resolution, for the planned community.
   B.   The applicant shall submit a detailed plan that includes the elements
required by this subsection, hereafter referred to as the specific plan. These
documents and drawings shall provide sufficient information to evaluate future
development applications to ensure that the planned services and amenities
shall be provided for the anticipated population.
      1.   A vision statement for the use and design of the subject site.
      2.   A list of coordinated goals, objectives, and policies implementing
the vision statement and addressing applicable residential, commercial, and
industrial development, schools, air and water quality, recreation facilities,
special or sensitive areas, the provision of essential public services and
utilities, and irrigation delivery systems.
      3.   General land use patterns on site and within a minimum of one mile
of the planned community perimeter.
      4.   A natural features analysis including a description of the impact of
the project on area groundwater quality.
      5.   A description of the density and/or intensity of land uses proposed
within the planned community.
      6.   A general land use map designating land use categories for the
entire planned community area.
      7.   Anticipated population of the planned community at completion.
      8.   An assessment of development and population trends documenting the
justification of development of a planned community outside of existing areas
of city impact.
      9.   Public services and utilities plan describing and depicting the
location and type of electric service, natural gas service, storm drainage and
flood control systems, wastewater treatment and collection, water service,
irrigation, telecommunications and television cable service, public safety
service, and schools.
      10.   Circulation plan depicting location, design, and dimensions for the
various types of streets, trails, and paths.
      11.   Dedicated open space plan depicting both active and passive
recreation areas and pedestrian, equestrian, and bicycle trails.
      12.   Essential public services and anticipated financing plan
describing: a phased implementation program; the steps necessary to initiate
and maintain each phase of development; the financial assurances provided,
including costs of providing utilities, circulation, open space, landscaping,
and any other public improvements; and mitigation of negative economic impacts
beyond the normally expected incremental impacts of development on affected
municipalities and other agencies and/or districts. Each phase shall include
sufficient essential public services to serve the anticipated population of
that phase, as well as provide for integration into the planned community.
      13.   Description of central design concepts that create themes to guide
land use development and to integrate a mixture of land uses. These concepts
shall consider predevelopment site conditions, careful placement of public and
quasi-public land uses, ample open space areas interconnecting all phases of
development with appropriate landscaping, and provision of specific guidelines
for construction and placement of improvements.
      14.   A phasing plan indicating the sequence of development, general land
uses, and anticipated commencement and completion times of each phase shall be
provided, indicating land use types, total area contained, anticipated
population levels, and essential public services. Essential public services
adequate for the anticipated level of use of that phase shall be provided. The
applicant shall also provide a written explanation of why phases should be
developed in the proposed sequence and how the progress of each phase shall be
measured and monitored by the administrator and the applicant and/or owner.
Phasing shall be accomplished so that the integrity of the planned community is
maintained at the end of any single phase.
   C.   The applicant shall submit a zoning ordinance amendment, as specified
in chapter 15 of this title, to amend the official zoning map to identify the
planned community boundaries and designation of the area as a planned
community.
   D.   The applicant shall submit a zoning ordinance amendment, as specified
in chapter 15 of this title, containing the following regulations for the
development and administration of the planned community:
      1.   Purpose statement.
      2.   Applicability (regulations apply in areas identified on official
zoning map and specific plan land use map).
      3.   Principal permitted, accessory, conditional, and prohibited uses.
      4.   Setback areas.
      5.   Structure height and bulk.
      6.   Structure and impervious coverage.
      7.   Property size.
      8.   Landscaping requirements.
      9.   Open space requirements.
      10.   Street frontage and access requirements.
      11.   Sign requirements.
      12.   On and off street parking requirements.
      13.   Standards for energy and water conservation.
      14.   Grading requirements.
      15.   Design standards for structures and site improvements.
      16.   Administrative regulations for the implementation and/or revision
of the specific plan, as well as subsequent development approvals required
prior to construction.
      17.   Any other regulations necessary to implement the specific plan,
including applicable fee schedules and amendments.
   E.   The applicant shall submit a detailed economic impact analysis
evaluating the impacts of the planned community upon existing infrastructure
and any cost of new infrastructure that may be required to serve the planned
community including, but not limited to, streets, schools, fire protection,
water systems, wastewater collection and treatment systems, air quality
programs, water quality programs, solid waste disposal, law enforcement, parks
and open space, irrigation delivery systems, libraries and emergency medical
services. Written statements shall be solicited by the applicant from affected
municipalities, agencies and/or districts, and other service providers
commenting on the impact of the planned community upon existing infrastructure
and the costs of providing new infrastructure needed to serve the project. All
responses received by the applicant shall be submitted to the administrator
along with the required economic impact analysis.
   F.   The Gem County Commission and the Board will make a determination on
whether the proposed planned community, or annexation to an existing planned
community, shall necessitate an update to the Gem County transportation plan.
The Board may require the applicant to fund the cost of any necessary update to
the transportation plan as a regulation of approval.
   G.   The applicant shall submit any other information necessary to support
the purposes of this chapter, as determined by the administrator, commission,
or board, as applicable.
   H.   The administrator, commission, or board may make a determination that
material changes in conditions have occurred that may require updating, new
analysis, or studies of specific issues. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009; amd. Ord.
2022-07, 8-1-2022)
11-8-17-5: PROCESS:
   A.   Specific Plan: The specific plan for a planned community shall be
adopted by resolution of the board subsequent to a recommendation from the
commission. The administrator shall maintain two (2) complete copies of the
adopted specific plan in the files of the Gem County development services
department.
   B.   Text And Map Amendments: The zoning ordinance text and map amendments
shall be adopted by ordinance and shall be consistent with the regulations of
this section
11-8-17.
   C.   Street Names: The applicant will submit street names for the planned
community for approval.
   D.   Amendments:
      1.   Applications for amendments to the specific plan, or to add
additional property into boundaries of a planned community, shall be processed
substantially in the same manner as an original application and as provided in
the original zoning ordinance amendment.
      2.   An amendment to the specific plan of a planned community may be
initiated by one of the following:
         a.   The original applicant, owner, or the owner's successors and
assigns.
         b.   Property owners owning eighty percent (80%) or more of the land
area within the planned community.
         c.   The board.
      3.   An owner of property who wishes to include their lands in an
existing planned community shall submit written approval of one of the
following:
         a.   The original applicant, owner, or owner's successors and assigns.
         b.   Property owners owning eighty percent (80%) or more of the land
area within the planned community.
   E.   Periodic Evaluation:
      1.   The administrator shall monitor the development of planned
communities and report to the commission and the board every two (2) years
after the recordation of the first final plat in the planned community as to
the progress and anticipated long term viability of the planned community. The
review shall continue until recordation of the final phase. The administrator
shall consult with the applicant and property owners within the planned
community prior to preparing the report.
      2.   In the event that the board determines, based on reliable
information and evidence contained in the administrator's report and the
recommendation of the commission, that the planned community has not developed
in substantial accord with the specific plan or has caused undue adverse
economic impacts on affected municipalities or other agencies and/or districts,
the board may initiate hearings to investigate such matters and may, at the
conclusion of such hearings, adopt changes to the specific plan to mitigate
such undue adverse economic impacts. All such public hearings shall be
scheduled and conducted in conformance with the Idaho Code and the Gem County
ordinance.
      3.   Any incorporation, annexation, or inclusion of a planned community
within an area of city impact shall be processed in accord with applicable
state law, the Gem County comprehensive plan, and Gem County ordinance. It is
the intent of this chapter to continue the implementation of the approved
specific plan as a part of any inclusion of a planned community within an area
of city impact. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-8-17-6: PROCESS FOR SUBSEQUENT DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Development within an approved planned community shall be governed by
the regulations and requirements of the approved specific zoning ordinance
amendment. Where zoning issues arise that are not addressed in the zoning
ordinance amendment, this chapter shall apply and govern.
   B.   Despite any other regulations to the contrary, each phase of the
planned community shall comply with the general requirements of the approved
specific plan and the specific regulations for that phase.
   C.   Each phase shall not be approved unless the necessary essential public
services for said phase, as specified in the approved specific plan and related
documents, are provided to support the development as it proceeds.
   D.   No development shall be allowed prior to application, review, and
approval of the phase in which the development is located. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-
2009)
11-8-17-7: REQUIRED FINDINGS:
In order to approve a planned community application, the board shall make the
findings for a zoning ordinance amendment specified in this section
11-8-17 and shall make the following additional findings:
   A.   The proposal complies with all applicable local, state, and federal
plans and regulations;
   B.   The proposed planned community provides a land development tool to
accommodate population growth outside of existing areas of city impact; and
   C.   The proposal sets forth sufficient and adequate mitigation for the
identified economic impacts beyond the normally expected incremental impacts on
municipalities and other agencies and/or districts. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
CHAPTER 9
NONCONFORMING USES AND LANDS PREVIOUSLY DIVIDED
SECTION:
11-9-1: Intent
11-9-2: Incompatibility Of Nonconforming Uses
11-9-3: Avoidance Of Undue Hardship
11-9-4: Single Nonconforming Lots Of Record
11-9-5: Nonconforming Lots Of Record In Combination
11-9-6: Nonconforming Use Of Structures Or Of Structures And Land In
Combination
11-9-7: Repairs And Maintenance
11-9-8: Land Previously Divided
11-9-1: INTENT:
It is the intent of this title to permit nonconforming uses to continue until
they are removed, but not to encourage their survival. It is further the intent
of this title that nonconforming uses shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or
extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited
elsewhere in the same zone. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-9-2: INCOMPATIBILITY OF NONCONFORMING USES:
Nonconforming uses are declared by this title to be incompatible with permitted
uses in the zones in which such use is located. A nonconforming use shall not
be extended or enlarged after passage of this title by attachment on a building
or premises of additional signs intended to be seen from off the premises, or
by the addition of other uses of a nature which would be generally prohibited
in the zone in which such use is located. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-9-3: AVOIDANCE OF UNDUE HARDSHIP:
To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this title shall be deemed to require a
change in the plans, construction or designated use of any building on which
actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of adoption
or amendment of this title and upon which actual building construction has been
carried on diligently. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-9-4: SINGLE NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD:
In any zone in which single-family dwellings are permitted, a single-family
dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any single lot of
record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this title,
notwithstanding limitations imposed by the other provisions of this title. Such
lot must be in separate ownership and not of contiguous frontage with other
lots in the same ownership. This provision shall apply even though such lot
fails to meet the requirements for area or width, or both, that are generally
applicable in the zone; provided, that yard dimensions and requirements other
than those applying to area or width, or both, of the lot shall conform to the
regulation for the zone in which such lot is located. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-9-5: NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD IN COMBINATION:
If two (2) or more lots or a combination of lots and portions of lots with
continuous frontage in single ownership are of record at the time of passage or
amendment of this title and if all or part of the lots with no buildings do not
meet the requirements established for lot width and area, the lands involved
shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for the purpose of this title,
and no portion of said parcel shall be used or sold in a manner which
diminishes compliance with lot width and area requirements established by this
title, nor shall any division of any parcel be made which creates a lot with a
width or area below the requirements stated in this title. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-
2009)
11-9-6: NONCONFORMING USE OF STRUCTURES OR OF STRUCTURES AND LAND IN
COMBINATION:
If a lawful use involving individual structures, or of a structure and land in
combination, exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
title that would not be allowed in the zone under the terms of this title, the
lawful use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful subject to
the following provisions:
   A.   No Alteration Unless Changing To A Permitted Use; Exception: No
existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this title in the zone in
which it is located shall be enlarged, extended, constructed, reconstructed,
moved or structurally altered except in changing the use of the structure to a
use permitted in the zone in which it is located unless the structure is a
personal residence and will continue to be used as such;
   B.   No Extension To Occupy Additional Land Area: No nonconforming use shall
be extended to occupy any additional land area;
   C.   Change Of Nonconforming Use To Another Nonconforming Use: If no
structural alterations are made, any nonconforming use of a structure or
structure and land may, upon the issuance of a special use permit by the
commission, be changed to another nonconforming use provided that the
commission shall find that the proposed use is equally appropriate to the zone
as the existing nonconforming use. In permitting such change, the commission
may require appropriate conditions and safeguards in accord with other
provisions of this title;
   D.   Former Nonconforming Use Not To Be Resumed: Any structure, or structure
and land in combination, in or on which a nonconforming use is superseded by a
permitted use shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the zone, and the
nonconforming use may not thereafter be resumed;
   E.   Discontinuance Or Abandonment: When a nonconforming use of a structure,
or structure and land in combination, is discontinued or abandoned for more
than one year (except when government action impedes access to the premises),
the structure, or structure and land in combination, shall not thereafter be
used except in conformity with the regulations of the zone in which it is
located;
   F.   Continuance Of Nonconforming Use:
      1.   If the nonuse continues for a period of one year or longer, the
county shall, by written request, require that the owner declare his intention
with respect to the continued nonuse of the improvements in writing within
twenty eight (28) days of receipt of the request. If the owner elects to
continue the nonuse, they shall notify the county in writing of their intention
and shall post the property with notice of their intent to continue the nonuse
of the improvements. They shall also publish notice of their intent to continue
the nonuse in the county's officially designated newspaper. If the property
owner complies with the requirements of this subsection, their right to use
such improvements in the future for their designed purpose shall continue,
notwithstanding any change in the zoning of the property.
      2.   The property owner may voluntarily elect to withdraw the use by
filing with the clerk of the county an affidavit of withdrawn use. If the
property is redesigned for a different use, the property owner shall be deemed
to have abandoned any grandfather right to the prior use of the property.
      3.   For purposes of this section "designed purpose" means the use for
which the improvements were originally intended, designed and approved pursuant
to any applicable planning and zoning ordinances.
      4.   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to prohibit
the county from passing or enforcing any other law or ordinance for the
protection of the public health, safety and welfare;
   G.   Removal Or Destruction: Where nonconforming use status applies to a
structure and land in combination, removal or destruction of the structure
shall eliminate the nonconforming status of the land;
   H.   Property Boundary Adjustment: Where two (2) nonconforming lots are
contiguous and a property boundary adjustment is necessary, as determined by
the administrator, to accommodate infrastructure or physical limitations such
adjustment may be made if it does not impact any other properties or expand any
nonconforming uses. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-9-7: REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE:
On any nonconforming structure, or portion of a structure containing a
nonconforming use, work may be done on ordinary repairs or on repair or
replacement of nonbearing walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing; provided, that
the cubic content existing when it became nonconforming shall not be increased.
Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or
restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be
unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety upon order of
such official. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-9-8: LAND PREVIOUSLY DIVIDED:
   A.   Purpose: The intent of this section is to establish a process and
standards for allowing building permits on certain parcels that have been
classified as nonbuildable and to define the types of parcels that are eligible
to apply.
   B.   Standards:
      1.   A parcel shall be deemed legal nonconforming and shall be eligible
for a building permit if it meets one of the following standards:
         a.   The parcel met the dimensional standards for the applicable zone
at the time it was created;
         b.   A deed (as defined in subsection C of this section) and
accompanying legal description for the property was recorded with the Gem
County recorder's office prior to June 21, 2006;
         c.   A dwelling, as defined by the international residential code, was
constructed or placed on the parcel prior to June 21, 2006; provided, in the
event that the dwelling is subsequently damaged or destroyed by fire, flood,
explosion, wind, earthquake, war, riot, calamity or other catastrophic event
after June 21, 2006, the parcel remains eligible for a building permit.
      2.   Under no circumstance shall a property be deemed eligible for a
building permit if:
         a.   Minimum requirements of Southwest district health for a sewage
disposal system cannot be met;
         b.   The parcel has no approved vehicular access to a public road;
         c.   The parcel cannot provide minimum fire suppression as required by
the fire authority having jurisdiction; or
         d.   There is any type of pending legal action on the property.
      3.   Prior to recognizing an illegal parcel as a legal nonconforming
parcel, the property owner shall submit a legal description compliant with
Idaho Code and Idaho tax commission rules and acceptable to the county
assessor, which shall be recorded with the county clerk.
   C.   Applicability:
      1.   The regulations in subsection B of this section shall apply to all
properties that were recorded by conveyance of a warranty deed, quitclaim deed
or other legal form of property conveyance (excluding deeds of trust and
similar documents used solely for security of debt) and that were of record in
the Gem County recorder's office prior to June 21, 2006. In the instance of an
unrecorded deed or involuntary transfer under foreclosure of a deed of trust,
the applicant may request a waiver to this subsection C1 from the board of
county commissioners.
      2.   The boundaries of a parcel being considered under this section shall
not have changed except for the following:
         a.   Property boundary adjustments done in accordance with this code
in effect at the time of execution;
         b.   Divisions made as the result of the exercise of the powers of
eminent domain as defined and allowed for by Idaho Code;
         c.   Divisions made for the expansion or acquisition of road rights of
way by a public agency;
         d.   Divisions for conveyance of land to Gem County, a public entity,
homeowners' association or public utility for a public or common purpose (well
site, drainage site, fire station, school site, park site, etc.); or
         e.   Division of land into quarter-quarter sections or into parcels
equal to or more than forty (40) acres without development (building permit)
capacity. Division of up to four (4) parcels equal to or more than forty (40)
acres is also exempt. (Ord. 2015-01, 11-3-2014)
CHAPTER 10
SIGNS
SECTION:
11-10-1: Intent
11-10-2: Scope
11-10-3: Definitions
11-10-4: Exemptions
11-10-5: Procedures
11-10-6: Standards
11-10-7: Land Use Standard For Signage
11-10-8: Enforcement
11-10-1: INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote and protect the public health,
welfare and safety by regulating existing and proposed outdoor advertising
signs and outdoor signs of all types. It is intended to protect property
rights, create a more attractive economic and business climate, enhance and
protect the physical appearance of the community and preserve the scenic and
natural beauty of designated areas. It is further intended to reduce sign or
advertising distractions and obstructions that may contribute to traffic
accidents, reduce hazards that may be caused by signs overhanging or projecting
over public rights of way, provide more open space, curb the deterioration of
the natural environment and enhance community development. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-
2009)
11-10-2: SCOPE:
   A.   Policies And Procedures: The scope of this chapter is to adopt policies
and procedures to review signs in the unincorporated portions of Gem County.
This document will enable staff to review the erection, design and materials of
signs and to promote quality and safety and avoid confusion on the roadway.
   B.   Safe Construction: Compliance with this chapter will ensure the safe
construction of sign structures by regulating the design, quality, construction
methods, locations, electrification and maintenance of signs and sign
structures not located within a building. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-10-3: DEFINITIONS:
NONCONFORMING SIGNS: Any sign, sign structure or use of sign existing before
enactment of this chapter that does not conform to the standards cited by this
chapter.
OFF PREMISES OR OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGNS: Any sign that directs attention to
the use, name, business, commodity, service, entertainment or land use
conducted, sold, or offered elsewhere than the sign location.
ON PREMISES SIGNS: Any sign or advertising structure that the message
identifies the property on which the sign is located, its owner or tenant, or
directs attention to an offer for sale, lease or rent of said property, or
warns the public as to danger, or trespassing thereon, or directs the public
upon said property, or informs the public as to current or proposed use of the
property, or recites the name of the land use, business, proprietor or nature
of products or services provided or manufactured upon said property. (Ord.
2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-10-4: EXEMPTIONS:
Signs exempted from county permit requirements are as follows:
   A.   Directional Or Information Signs: Directional or information signs that
are no larger than three (3) square feet per face, which help direct on
premises land uses or activities, and do not display an advertising message
(for example: public convenience signs identifying restrooms, public
telephones, walkways and similar features or facilities, parking directions,
etc.).
   B.   Memorial Signs Or Tablets: Memorial signs or tablets displaying names
of buildings and dates of erection when cut into the surface or facade of the
building.
   C.   Signs Required By Law: Signs required by law or that serve the public
interest such as traffic signs, railroad crossing signs, legal notices, warning
of temporary emergencies, construction zones, presence of underground cable,
utility signs, and similar signs installed on public property and are owned and
maintained by county, state, or federal agencies or a public utility company.
   D.   Nonprofit Community Or Civic Events: Signs or banners that bear no
product advertising and announce nonprofit community or civic events. Such
signs or banners shall be removed within seven (7) days following the event.
   E.   Visible Only Within Parcel: A sign that is visible only from within the
parcel on which it is found.
   F.   Signs Built Within Municipality: Signs to be built within the limits of
a municipality.
   G.   Identification Signs: Signs that identify the architects, engineers,
contractors, lenders, government agencies or programs (for instance: FHA, HUD,
FMHA, low cost housing, senior citizen center, etc.) and other individuals or
firms involved with the construction. This shall not include any advertisement
of any product, or signs announcing the character of the building enterprise or
the purpose for which the building is intended, or use of the project. The
signs shall be confined to the site of the construction and shall be removed
within fourteen (14) days after the beginning of the intended use of the
project.
   H.   Sale, Rent Or Lease Of Real Property: Signs advertising the sale,
rental, or lease of real property or part of the real property on which the
signs are displayed up to a total area of thirty two (32) square feet per face.
The number of signs shall be limited to one sign per every four hundred feet
(400'), or one sign per parcel plus one sign on the homesite, including forty
(40) acre parcels. Such signs shall be removed within three (3) days after the
sale, rental or lease to conform to Idaho statute. Any off premises advertising
signs may not exceed two (2) square feet and must be placed out of the county
road and state highway right of way.
   I.   Political Signs: Signs announcing candidates seeking public political
office and other data pertinent thereto, up to an area of thirty two (32)
square feet for each premises. Such signs shall be confined to private property
and not placed prior to sixty (60) days before an election and removed within
three (3) days after the election for which they were intended.
   J.   Show Window Signs: Show window signs in a window display of merchandise
when incorporated with such a display.
   K.   Temporary Signs: Temporary signs such as auction, open house, yard sale
signs may remain a total of seven (7) days. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-10-5: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Permit Required: A permit is required before any sign regulated by
these provisions is displayed or built on any premises in this jurisdiction.
   B.   Application Form: Applications shall be made on forms provided by the
Gem County planning and zoning department. The content of the application shall
be as required herein and shall include all of the information needed to
complete the application form, supplementary drawings of the sign plan, and any
other information needed to complete the application review. The application
shall be accompanied by a fee in an amount as established by the Gem County
board of commissioners by resolution.
   C.   Sign Plan:
      1.   A sign plan shall be included with the application and shall contain
at least the following information:
         a.   Materials to be used in manufacturing and constructing the sign.
         b.   Sign size, message size or field of lettering, and proportions.
         c.   Lettering size or graphic style.
         d.   Design features other than lettering such as symbols, logos, etc.
         e.   Colors scheme.
         f.   Lighting, if proposed.
         g.   Location of each sign on the building(s) and/or property.
      2.   The sign plan shall be drawn neatly to scale to present a clear and
accurate picture of the proposal. More than one drawing and drawings at various
scale may be used.
      3.   The sign plan shall be a simple layout reviewed for compliance with
standards.
   D.   Application Review: The sign permit application will be accepted when
the completed forms, including a sign plan and fee are submitted to the
Planning and Zoning Office. The application will be reviewed by the
Administrator within seven (7) working days of acceptance. The permit will be
either approved or denied based upon compliance with provisions herein. If the
application is denied, the Administrator will include a written statement of
the specific reasons for denial. The applicant may correct the application and
request another review by the Administrator. The applicant may appeal any
action of the Administrator regarding the review of an application to the
Commission.
   E.   Permit Issued: When the administrator has completed the review of the
application and has found that the proposal complies with the provisions
herein, the administrator will promptly approve the permit. The administrator
will notify the applicant by phone or mail. The applicant may then construct,
build and display the sign and shall notify the administrator that the work
approved by the permit has been completed. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009; amd. Ord.
2022-07, 8-1-2022)
11-10-6: STANDARDS:
   A.   Regulation By County: Gem County will regulate the size, amount and
location of signage as provided by this chapter.
   B.   Comprehensive Plan: Signs are also discussed in the comprehensive plan
under the community design section of the plan.
   C.   Requirements: All signs within the unincorporated areas of Gem County
shall conform to the following requirements:
      1.   No rotating beam, beacon or flashing illumination that may resemble
an emergency light shall be used with any sign display. No blinking, rotating
or moving parts or components on temporary or permanent signs. Signs shall not
have pennants, balloons on portable signs or wheeled trailers. Signs may be
lighted by shielded or directed light sources.
      2.   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of the property and/or
improvements to remove any sign or signs where the associated land use has been
discontinued for more than ninety (90) days. If a onetime event, the removal of
signs shall take place within seven (7) days after the event closure.
      3.   If a preview sign has been erected for a future use it shall be a
business that has received a special use permit to operate and meets the
provisions of the sign ordinance. If the use is permitted, the preview sign
must also meet the sign ordinance requirements.
      4.   The size shall be not greater than thirty two (32) square feet per
face; for example: that of four feet by eight feet (4' x 8'). Cut out or molded
letters, or advertising when applied to buildings, shall be not greater than a
thirty two (32) square foot field on the building.
      5.   The design shall incorporate a well thought out, layout design with
clean lines and an uncluttered appearance.
      6.   The sign construction shall be completed in a workmanlike quality
manner.
      7.   The message may include service, business, owner name, address,
telephone number, a logo, or graphic illustration of the product(s) or service
(s) offered.
      8.   On ground mounted sign structures, the top of the signs shall be
mounted not more than ten feet (10') off the ground. If the street/road
elevation is greater than the elevation of the mounting site, street/road
elevation may be used to determine the height. The total height of the mounting
structure shall be no greater than twelve feet (12'). The intent is to keep the
sign within the vision triangle of the motor vehicles. Special attention must
be given to the placement of signs near intersecting roads to ensure there is
no obstruction of vision from any vehicle.
      9.   No more than three (3) permanent signs may be placed at a given land
use. One sign is allowed on the building. One two-way sign or two (2) one-way
signs facing each direction is allowed in the land use area.
      10.   For commercial malls or planned unit developments (industrial or
commercial or a combination of land use) not more than one ground mounted sign
structure shall be allowed on each road or street frontage. The sign may be
used as land use and occupant identification sign. Projecting or a swinging
sign is not allowed. One sign shall be allowed to be mounted flat to the
building front of each shop, store or land use.
      11.   No sign or sign structure, for any purpose other than approved
county, state and federal signs shall be placed upon any county road or highway
right of way. At no time shall any sign be mounted or affixed to any utility
pole or structure other than as may be required by the utility owner or law.
      12.   In Gem County, in a mixed use zone, signage must be applied for as
part of the special use permit process.
      13.   If placed inside a window, flashing signs must be not less than
three hundred feet (300') from any residentially zoned lot. Distance shall
refer to the linear measurement in any direction with relation to the road that
the sign faces.
      14.   At no time shall a sign or portions of it be allowed to project
above the roofline of the building on which the sign is mounted.
      15.   Outdoor advertising signs are prohibited in the unincorporated
areas of Gem County.
      16.   An application for any sign or advertising display or structure for
which no specific regulation appears in this chapter shall receive appropriate
planning and zoning and building department staff review as outlined in this
chapter and by this title and title 12 of this code, if not exempt.
      17.   Any signs placed along State Highway 16 or Highway 52 must meet the
standards of the department of transportation and Gem County. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-
28-2009)
11-10-7: LAND USE STANDARD FOR SIGNAGE:
   A.   Agricultural Use: One two-way or two (2) one-way identification signs
each not to exceed thirty two (32) square feet per face.
   B.   Residential Subdivision Entry(ies): One identification sign at two (2)
entries not to exceed thirty two (32) square feet per face.
   C.   Commercial Businesses: One two-way or two (2) one-way identification
signs each not to exceed thirty two (32) square feet per face.
   D.   Recreation Or Forestry Use: One identification sign, not to exceed
thirty two (32) square feet per face.
   E.   Residential Use: One identification sign, not to exceed six (6) square
feet per face, and shall be exempt from permit requirements. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-
28-2009)
11-10-8: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Authority To Enforce: The administrator and the building official are
hereby authorized and furthermore directed to enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Enforcement provided for sign ordinance violations shall be as
provided for in chapter 14 of this title. The procedure for handling a
violation of this chapter will be the same as any planning and zoning
violation.
   B.   Abandoned Use Signs: A sign shall be removed by the owner or lessee of
the premises upon which the sign is located when the business it identifies is
no longer conducted on the premises. The owner shall be notified by mail to
remove the sign within thirty (30) days or shall be subject to chapter 14 of
this title. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
CHAPTER 11
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES
SECTION:
11-11-1: General Requirements
11-11-2: Standards
11-11-3: Off Street Parking Design And Dimensional Tables
11-11-4: Parking Space Requirements
11-11-5: General Interpretations
11-11-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Compliance Required: No building or structure shall be erected,
substantially altered or its use changed unless permanently maintained off
street parking and loading spaces have been provided in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Existing Buildings, Structures: The provisions of this title, except
where there is a change of use, shall not apply to any existing building or
structure. Where the new use involves no additions or enlargements, there shall
be provided as many such spaces as may be required by this chapter.
   C.   Change; Enlargement:
      1.   Increase Less Than Fifty Percent: Whenever a building or structure
constructed after the effective date hereof is changed or enlarged to the
extent of less than fifty percent (50%) in floor area, number of employees,
number of dwelling units, seating capacity or otherwise, to create a need for
an increase in the number of existing parking spaces, additional parking spaces
shall be provided on the basis of the enlargement or change.
      2.   Increase Fifty Percent Or More: Whenever a building or structure
existing prior to the effective date hereof is enlarged to the extent of fifty
percent (50%) or more in floor area, number of employees, number of housing
units, seating capacity or otherwise, said building or structure shall then and
thereafter comply with the full parking requirements set forth herein. (Ord.
2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-11-2: STANDARDS:
   A.   Location Of Parking Spaces: The following regulations shall govern the
location of off street parking spaces and areas:
      1.   Detached Residential: Parking spaces for all detached residential
uses shall be located on the same lot as the use which they are intended to
serve;
      2.   Commercial, Industrial, Institutional: Parking spaces for
commercial, industrial or institutional uses shall be located not more than
five hundred feet (500') from the principal use; and
      3.   Apartments, Dormitories, Similar Uses: Parking spaces for
apartments, dormitories or similar residential uses shall be located not more
than three hundred feet (300') from the principal use.
   B.   Loading Space Requirements And Dimensions: Off street loading spaces
for commercial uses shall be provided in accordance with the following table:
 
Gross Floor Area (Square Feet)1 Quantity And Type2,3
   14,000 - 36,000              1 B
   36,001 - 60,000              2 B
   60,001 - 100,000             2 B plus 1 A
 
   Notes:
      1.    For each additional 75,000 square feet or fraction thereof, an
additional type A space will be provided.
      2.    Type B spaces are 35 feet in length.
      3.    Type A spaces are 65 feet in length.
      1.   Size: The size of an off street loading space shall be not less than
the following, exclusive of access platform and loading area:
         a.   Width: Twelve feet (12').
         b.   Length: Thirty five feet (35') or sixty five feet (65') (see
above).
      2.   Access: Convenient access to loading spaces from road/street or
alleys shall be provided. They shall not be less than twelve feet (12') in
width.
      3.   Location Of Required Loading Facilities: The off street loading
facilities required for the uses mentioned shall not project into the public
right of way or setback area. In no case shall the required off street loading
berths be part of the area used to satisfy the off street parking requirements.
      4.   Entrances; Exits: Design and location of entrances and exits for
required off street loading areas shall be subject to review of the
administrator.
   C.   Maintenance: The owner of property used for parking and/or loading
shall maintain such area in good condition without holes and free of all dust,
trash and other debris.
   D.   Paving: The required number of parking and loading spaces as set forth
in section
11-11-4, "Parking Space Requirements", of this chapter, together with
driveways, aisles and other circulation areas, shall be improved with such
material to provide a durable and dust free surface.
   E.   Drainage: All parking and loading areas shall provide for proper
drainage of surface water, but not onto adjacent properties or walkways.
   F.   Lighting: Any parking area which is intended to be used during
nondaylight hours shall be properly illuminated to avoid accidents. Any lights
used to illuminate a parking lot shall be so arranged as to reflect the light
away from the adjoining property.
   G.   Access: Any parking area shall be designed in such a manner that any
vehicle leaving or entering the parking area for or onto a public or private
road shall be traveling in a forward motion. Access driveways for parking areas
or loading spaces shall be located in such a way that any vehicle entering or
leaving such area shall be clearly visible by a pedestrian or motorist
approaching the access or driveway from a public or private road.
   H.   Screening And/Or Landscaping: Whenever a parking area is located in or
adjacent to a residential zone, it shall be effectively screened on all sides
which adjoin or face any property used for residential purposes by an
acceptably designed wall, fence or planting screen. Such fence, wall or
planting screen shall be not less than four feet (4') nor more than six feet
(6') in height and shall be maintained in good condition. In the event that
terrain or other natural features are such that the erection of such fence,
wall or planting screen will not serve the intended purpose, then no such
fence, wall or planting screen and landscaping shall be required.
   I.   Wheel Blocks: Whenever a parking lot extends to a property line, wheel
blocks or other suitable devices shall be installed to prevent any part of a
parked vehicle from extending beyond the property line.
   J.   Minimum Distance And Setbacks: No part of any parking area for more
than ten (10) vehicles shall be closer than twenty feet (20') to any dwelling
unit, school, hospital or other institution for human care located on an
adjoining lot, unless separated by an acceptably designed screen. If on the
same lot with a one- family residence, the parking area shall not be located
within the front yard required for such building. In no case shall any part of
a parking area be closer than four feet (4') to any established road or alley
right of way.
   K.   Disabled Vehicles: The parking of a disabled vehicle within a
residential or commercial zone for a period of more than two (2) weeks shall be
prohibited, unless such vehicle is stored in an enclosed garage or other
accessory building.
   L.   Joint Use: Two (2) or more nonresidential uses may jointly provide and
use parking spaces when their hours of operation do not normally overlap;
provided, that a written agreement approved by the administrator shall be filed
with the application for a zoning permit. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-11-3: OFF STREET PARKING DESIGN AND DIMENSIONAL TABLES:
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4764d6e064d6cb077faf9e50a7dbd401dea0b7c6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1263.gif]
 
 
                        45°60°90°Parallel
A Width of parking space  13' 10' 9'  9'
B Length of parking space 15' 18' 19' 23'
C Width of driveway aisle 13' 17' 25' 12'
 
(Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-11-4: PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
For the purpose of this title the following parking space requirements shall
apply:
Type Of Use Parking Spaces Required
Type Of Use                              Parking Spaces Required
Residential:                              
 Apartments or multi-family dwelling    11/2 for each unit
  Boarding houses, rooming houses,       1 for each sleeping room or 1 for each
 dormitories and fraternity houses      permanent occupant
  which have sleeping rooms
 Mobile home park                       1 for each unit, plus 1 additional
                                         space for each 5 units
 Single-family or two-family dwelling   2 for each unit
Commercial:                               
 Automobile service garages which also  1 for each 2 gasoline pumps and 2 for
  provide repair                         each service bay
 Banks, financial institutions and      1 for each 200 square feet of area
  similar uses
  Funeral parlors, mortuaries, and       1 for each 100 square feet of floor
 similar type uses                      area in slumber rooms, parlors or
                                         service rooms
 Hotels, motels                         1 per each sleeping room plus 1 space
                                         for each 2 employees
 Offices, public or professional        1 for each 400 square feet of floor
  administration or service buildings    area
 Retail stores                          1 for each 250 square foot area
  All other types of business or         1 for each 300 square feet of floor
 commercial uses permitted in any       area
  business district
Recreational or entertainment:            
 Auditoriums, sports arenas, theaters   1 for each 4 seats
  and similar uses
                                         4 for each alley or lane, plus 1
 Bowling alleys                         additional space for each 100 square
                                         feet of the area used for restaurant,
                                         cocktail lounge or similar use
 Dance floors, skating rinks            1 for each 100 square feet of floor
                                         area used for the activity
 Dining rooms, restaurants, taverns,    1 for each 200 square feet of floor
  nightclubs, etc.                       area
                                         1 for each 5 persons' capacity, plus 1
  Outdoor swimming pools, public or      additional for each 4 seats or 1 for
 community or club                      each 30 square feet of floor area used
                                         for seating purposes, whichever is
                                         greater
Institutional:                            
 Churches and other places of religious 1 for each 5 seats
  assembly
 Hospitals                              1 for each bed
 Libraries, museums and art galleries   1 for each 400 square feet of floor
                                         area
                                         1 for every 200 square feet of floor
 Medical and dental clinics             area of examination, treating room,
                                         office and waiting room
  Sanatoriums, homes for the aged,
 nursing homes, children's homes,       1 for each 2 beds
  asylums and similar uses
Schools (public, parochial or private):   
 Business, technical and trade schools  1 for each 2 students
 Colleges, universities                 1 for each 4 students
 Elementary and junior high schools     2 for each classroom and 1 for every 8
                                         seats in auditoriums or assembly halls
 High schools                           1 for every 10 students and 1 for each
                                         teacher and employee
 Kindergartens, daycare centers,        2 for each classroom but not less than
  nursery schools and similar uses       6 for the building
Manufacturing:                            
                                         1 for every 2 employees (on the
  All types of manufacturing, storage    largest shift for which the building
 and wholesale uses permitted in any    is designed), plus 1 additional for
  manufacturing district                 each motor vehicle used in the
                                         business
                                         1 for every 2 employees (on the
 Express, parcel delivery and freight   largest shift for which the building
  terminal                               is designed) and 1 for each motor
                                         vehicle maintained on the premises
 
(Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-11-5: GENERAL INTERPRETATIONS:
In the interpretation of this chapter, the following shall govern:
   A.   Uses Not Listed: Parking spaces for other permitted or conditional uses
not listed in this chapter shall be determined by the administrator;
   B.   Fractional Numbers: Fractional numbers shall be increased to the next
whole number; and
   C.   Reduction Of Requirements: Where there is an adequate public transit
system or where for any other reason parking demand is unusually low, then the
parking space provisions cited above may be reduced proportionately by the
commission. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
CHAPTER 12
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
11-12-1: General
11-12-2: Administrator
11-12-3: Planning And Zoning Commission
11-12-4: Conflict Of Interest
11-12-1: GENERAL:
For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this title, an Administrator
and Planning and Zoning Commission have been created. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009;
amd. Ord. 2022-07, 8-1-2022)
11-12-2: ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Appointment: The Board shall appoint an Administrator to administer
this title.
   B.   Assistants: The Administrator may be provided with the assistance of
such other persons as the Board may direct.
   C.   Duties: For the purpose of this title, the Administrator shall have the
following duties:
      1.   Advise interested persons of the provisions of this title;
      2.   Notify the news media regarding matters of public interest;
      3.   Aid applicants in the preparation and expedition of required
applications;
      4.   Issue zoning permits and building permits, notifications and such
similar administrative duties;
      5.   Investigate all violations of this title and notify in writing the
person responsible for such violations(s), ordering the action necessary to
correct such violation; and
      6.   Assist the Commission and Board in carrying out the provisions of
this title. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009; amd. Ord. 2022-07, 8-1-2022)
11-12-3: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
   A.   Membership:
      1.   Number; Appointment; Confirmation: The Planning and Zoning
Commission shall consist of not less than three (3) nor more than twelve (12)
voting members. The members shall be appointed by the chairman of the board of
commissioners and confirmed by majority vote of the board.
      2.   Residency: Members must have resided in Gem County for at least two
(2) years prior to the date of their appointment and must remain a resident of
the county during their time as a member. Not more than one-third (1/3) of the
members may reside within an incorporated city in Gem County. At least one-half
(½) of the members must reside outside the boundaries of the area of impact of
any city.
      3.   Term: The term of office for each member shall be four (4) years. No
member shall serve more than two (2) full consecutive terms.
      4.   Vacancies: Vacancies on the Planning and Zoning Commission occurring
otherwise than through expiration of terms shall be filled in the same manner
as the original appointment. Replacement members shall be selected without
respect to political affiliation.
      5.   Removal: Members may be removed for cause by majority vote of the
board of commissioners.
      6.   Compensation: Members shall be entitled to receive reimbursement for
mileage and per diem if approved by resolution of the Gem County board of
commissioners.
   B.   Organization:
      1.   Chairman: The Planning and Zoning Commission shall elect a chairman
and officers that it may deem necessary.
      2.   Committees; Advisory Groups: The Planning and Zoning Commission may
establish subcommittees, advisory committees, hearing examiners, or
neighborhood groups to advise and assist in carrying out the responsibilities
set out in subsection E of this section.
      3.   Ex Officio Advisors: The Planning and Zoning Commission may appoint
nonvoting ex officio advisors as may be deemed necessary.
   C.   Rules, Records And Meetings:
      1.   Bylaws: The Planning and Zoning Commission shall develop and adopt
written bylaws consistent with this title and other laws of the state governing
the transaction of business of the commission.
      2.   Records; Open To Public: The Planning and Zoning Commission shall
provide for the keeping and maintaining of records of meetings, hearings,
resolutions, studies, findings, permits and actions taken, which records shall
be open to the public.
      3.   Meetings: The Planning and Zoning Commission shall meet in at least
one regular meeting each month for not less than nine (9) months in a calendar
year. The meeting agenda and notice of any meetings shall comply with the Idaho
open meetings act as set out in Idaho Code section 74-1 et seq.
      4.   Quorum: A majority of the appointed members shall constitute a
quorum.
   D.   Expenditures And Staff: With approval of the Board of Commissioners,
the Planning and Zoning Commission may receive and expend funds, goods and
services from the federal government or agencies and instrumentalities of state
or local government or from civic and private sources and may contract with
these entities and provide information and reports as necessary to secure aid.
Expenditures by the commission shall be within the amounts appropriated by the
board. Within such limits, the commission is authorized to hire employees and
technical advisors, including, but not limited to, planners, engineers,
architects and legal assistants.
   E.   Duties Of Planning and Zoning Commission: For the purposes of this
title, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall have the following duties:
      1.   Initiate Proposed Amendments; Annual Review: Initiate proposed
amendments to this title and conduct an annual review of this title;
      2.   Review Proposed Amendments: Review all proposed amendments to this
title and make recommendations to the board;
      3.   Planned Unit Developments; Subdivisions: Review all planned unit
developments and subdivisions and make recommendations to the board;
      4.   Special Use Permits: Grant special use permits as specified in the
official schedule of zoning regulations and under the conditions as herein
specified with such additional safeguards as will uphold the intent of this
title;
      5.   Appeals: Hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an
error in any order, requirement, decision, interpretation or determination made
by the administrator;
      6.   Variances: Authorize such variances from the terms of this title as
will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to the special
conditions, a literal enforcement of this title will result in unnecessary
hardship, and so that the spirit of this title shall be observed and
substantial justice done;
      7.   Temporary Hardship Permits: Hear requests for temporary hardship
permits when the administrative application receives public opposition;
      8.   Rezones: Hear all requests for rezones and make recommendations to
the Board;
      9.   Development Agreements: Review and consider all development
agreements provided by the applicant or staff and make recommendations to the
Board;
      10.   Make recommendations to the Board concerning the Comprehensive
Plan, planning process, or implementation of the comprehensive plan;
      11.   In accordance with Idaho Code 67-6508 and 67-6509, hold public
hearings on any amendments to the Comprehensive Plan, whether initiated by the
Commission or a private party, and make written recommendations on said
hearings to the Board. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009; amd. Ord. 2014-03, 2-18-2014;
Ord. 2022-07, 8-1-2022)
11-12-4: CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
A member or employee of the Board of Commissioners or the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall not participate in any proceeding or action when the member or
employee or his employer, business partner, business associate, or any person
related to him by affinity or consanguinity within the second degree, has an
economic interest in the procedure or action. Any actual or potential interest
in any proceeding shall be disclosed at or before any meeting at which the
action is being heard or considered. A knowing violation of this section shall
be a misdemeanor. Any member removing themselves from any proceeding shall not
affect the status of a constituted quorum. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009; amd. Ord.
2022-07, 8-1-2022)
CHAPTER 13
APPEAL, VARIANCE AND ACTION BY AFFECTED PERSONS
SECTION:
11-13-1: Appeals
11-13-2: Variance
11-13-3: Request For Hearing By Affected Persons
11-13-1: APPEALS:
   A.   Administrative Appeals: Appeals to the Commission concerning
interpretation or administration of this title may be filed by any affected
person aggrieved by a written decision of the administrator. Such appeal shall
be filed within twenty (20) days after the written decision of the
administrator by filing with the administrator and with the commission a notice
of appeal specifying the grounds upon which the appeal is based. The
administrator shall transmit to the commission all the documents and other
evidence constituting the record upon which the appeal is based. If the
administrator’s decision was in any degree based upon information presented in
a hearing, the appealing party shall, at its own expense, provide to the
commission a professionally transcribed verbatim written record of the hearing.
   B.   Appeal To Board: Any person having an interest in real property
adversely affected by a written decision of the commission interpreting,
applying, or administering this title, or by the issuance or denial of an
amendment, rezone, special use permit or variance, may appeal the written
decision to the board of county commissioners within twenty (20) days from its
rendering.
      1.   Appeal Procedure:
         a.   Filing Notice: An appeal challenging the decision of the
commission is taken by filing a notice of appeal with the clerk of the board of
county commissioners and with the development services department
administrator. The notice of appeal shall clearly specify the grounds for the
appeal, including the particular portion of the written decision the appealing
party believes the commission rendered in error. The party appealing a decision
by the commission shall, at its own expense, provide to the board a
professionally transcribed verbatim written record of the hearing upon which
the commission's decision was based.
         b.   Effect Of Appeal: The filing of a notice of appeal stays all
proceedings in furtherance of the decision made by the Commission until the
appeal is finally disposed of.
         c.   Presentation: The notice of appeal shall be presented to the
board of county commissioners at its next regular meeting.
         d.   Action By Board Of County Commissioners: Upon presentation of a
notice of appeal, the board of county commissioners shall set the appeal for a
hearing and shall notify the appellant in writing of the time and place for
oral argument on the appeal. Within thirty (30) days after the hearing, the
board shall render a decision, upholding in whole or in part, or overruling,
the decision of the commission.
         e.   Content Of Decision: The decision of the board of commissioners
shall specify in writing:
            (1)   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the appeal;
            (2)   The reasons for approval or denial; and
            (3)   The action, if any, that the appellant could take to obtain a
favorable decision.
         f.   Public Hearing Required: The board shall not approve an amendment
or rezone, grant a special use permit or variance previously rejected by the
Commission unless the board first holds a public hearing preceded by providing
notice as required by section
11-7-6  of this title. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009; amd. Ord. 2022-07, 8-1-2022)
11-13-2: VARIANCE:
The commission may authorize in specific cases such variance from the terms of
this title as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to
special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this title would
result in unnecessary hardship. No nonconforming use of lands, structures or
buildings in other zones shall be considered grounds for issuance of a
variance. Variances shall not be granted on the grounds of convenience or
profit.
   A.   Application And Standards For Variances: A variance from the terms of
this title shall not be granted by the commission unless and until a written
application for a variance is submitted to the administrator and the commission
containing:
      1.   Name, address and phone number of applicant(s);
      2.   Legal description of property;
      3.   Description of nature of variance requested; and
      4.   A narrative statement demonstrating that the requested variance
conforms to the following standards:
         a.   That special conditions and circumstances exist which are not
applicable to other lands, structures or buildings in the same zone;
         b.   That a literal interpretation of the provisions of this title
would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in
the same zone under the terms of this title;
         c.   That special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant;
         d.   That granting the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this title to other lands,
structures or buildings in the same zone; and
         e.   Payment of a filing fee in an amount as set by the Gem County
board of commissioners by resolution.
A variance shall not be granted unless the commission makes specific findings
of fact based directly on the particular evidence presented to it which support
conclusions that the above mentioned standards and conditions have been met by
the applicant.
   B.   Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards: Under no circumstances shall
the commission grant a variance to allow a use not permissible under the terms
of this title in the zone involved, or any use expressly or by implication
prohibited by the terms of this title in said zone. In granting any variance,
the commission may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards in
conformity with this title. Violation of such conditions and safeguards, when
made a part of the terms under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a
violation of this title.
   C.   Public Hearing: Upon receipt of the application for a variance, the
commission shall hold a public hearing, publish notice in a newspaper and give
written notice to all parties as required for special use permits.
   D.   Action By The Commission: Within thirty (30) days after the public
hearing the commission shall either approve, conditionally approve or
disapprove the request for a variance.
Upon granting or denying an application the commission shall specify:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
variance.
   E.   Notification Of Applicant: Within ten (10) days after a decision has
been rendered, the administrator shall provide the applicant with written
notice of the action on the requested variance. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-13-3: REQUEST FOR HEARING BY AFFECTED PERSONS:
An "affected person" shall mean one having an interest in real property which
may be adversely affected by the issuance or denial of a permit authorizing the
development.
Any affected person may at any time prior to final action on rezone, special
use, or variance permit, if no hearing has been held on the application,
petition the commission or board in writing to hold a hearing pursuant to Idaho
Code section 67-6512; provided, however, that if twenty (20) affected persons
petition for a hearing, the hearing shall be held.
After a hearing, the commission or board may:
   A.   Grant or deny a permit; or
   B.   Delay such a decision for a definite period of time for further study
or hearing.
An affected person aggrieved by a decision may within twenty eight (28) days
after all remedies have been exhausted under local ordinances seek judicial
review under the procedures provided by title 67, chapter 52, Idaho Code. (Ord.
2009-05, 9-28-2009)
CHAPTER 14
ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-14-1: Building Permit Required
11-14-2: Application
11-14-3: Approval Of Building Permit
11-14-4: Expiration Of Building Permit
11-14-5: Certificate Of Occupancy
11-14-6: Temporary Certificate Of Occupancy
11-14-7: Record Of Building Permits And Certificate Of Occupancy
11-14-8: Failure To Obtain
11-14-9: Construction And Use
11-14-10: Complaints Regarding Violations
11-14-11: Penalty
11-14-12: Enforcement
11-14-13: Schedule Of Fees, Charges And Expenses
11-14-1: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
No building or other structure shall be erected, moved, added to or
structurally altered, nor shall any building, structure, or land be established
or changed in use without a permit therefor issued by the administrator. Zoning
permits shall be issued only in conformity with the provisions of this title.
(Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-14-2: APPLICATION:
   A.   Signature Required: The application for a building permit shall be
signed by the owner or applicant attesting to the truth and exactness of all
information supplied on the application.
   B.   Expiration: Each application shall clearly state that the permit shall
expire and be considered revoked if work has not begun within one hundred
twenty (120) days from the date the permit was issued.
   C.   Contents Of Application: At a minimum, the application shall contain
the following information:
      1.   Name, address and phone number of applicant;
      2.   Legal description of property;
      3.   Existing use;
      4.   Proposed use;
      5.   Zoning district;
      6.   Plan, drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions and the shape of
the lot to be built upon; the exact size and location of existing buildings on
the lot, if any; and the location and dimensions of the proposed building(s) or
alteration;
      7.   Building heights;
      8.   Number of off street parking spaces or loading berths;
      9.   Number of dwelling units;
      10.   Proposed sewer and water facilities; and
      11.   Such other matters as may be necessary to determine conformance
with, and provide for, the enforcement of this title. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-14-3: APPROVAL OF BUILDING PERMIT:
   A.   Approval/Disapproval: Within thirty (30) days after the receipt of an
application, the administrator shall either approve or disapprove the
application in conformance with the provisions of this title.
   B.   Condition Of Approval: All building permits shall, however, be
conditional upon the commencement of work within one hundred twenty (120) days.
   C.   Approved Plans: One copy of the plans shall be returned to the
applicant by the administrator after the administrator shall have marked such
copy either as approved or disapproved and attested to same by his signature on
such copy. One copy of plans, similarly marked, shall be retained by the
administrator.
   D.   Placard: The administrator shall issue a placard, to be posted in a
conspicuous place on the property in question, attesting to the fact that the
use or alteration is in conformance with the provisions of this title. (Ord.
2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-14-4: EXPIRATION OF BUILDING PERMIT:
If the work described in any building permit has not begun within one hundred
twenty (120) days from the date of issuance thereof, said permit shall expire
and be considered revoked by the administrator. No written notice of expiration
or revocation need be given to the persons affected. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-14-5: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
It shall be unlawful to use or occupy or permit the use or occupancy of any
building or premises, or both, or part thereof thereafter created, erected,
changed, converted or wholly or partly altered or enlarged in its use or
structure until a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued therefor by
the administrator stating that the proposed use of the building or land
conforms to the requirements of this title and with all conditional provisions
that may have been imposed. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-14-6: TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
A temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued by the administrator for a
period not exceeding six (6) months during alterations or partial occupancy of
a building pending its completion. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-14-7: RECORD OF BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
The administrator shall maintain a record of all zoning permits, building
permits and certificates of occupancy and copies shall be furnished upon
request to any person. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-14-8: FAILURE TO OBTAIN:
Failure to obtain a zoning permit, building permit or certificate of occupancy
shall be a violation of this title. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-14-9: CONSTRUCTION AND USE:
Building permits or certificates of occupancy issued on the basis of plans and
applications approved by the administrator shall authorize only the use, and
arrangement, set forth in such approved plans and applications or amendments
thereto, and no other use, arrangement or construction. Use, arrangement or
construction contrary to that authorized shall be deemed a violation of this
title. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-14-10: COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS:
Whenever a violation of this title occurs, or is alleged to have occurred, any
person may file a written complaint. Such complaint, stating fully the causes
and basis thereof, shall be filed with the administrator. The administrator
shall properly record such complaint, immediately investigate and take action
thereon as provided by this title. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-14-11: PENALTY:
   A.   Violation: Violation of any of the provisions of this title, or failure
to comply with any of its requirements shall be subject to the general
penalties outlined in Title 1, Chapter 4 of this code.
   B.   Penalty: Each violation shall subject the violator to punishment as set
forth in Idaho Code 18-113.
   C.   Injury Or Damage: Further, any person who violates this title and as a
result of that violation causes injury or damage to another person or property
shall pay full restitution to the injured or damaged person.
   D.   Separate Offense: The landowner, tenant, subdivider, builder, public
official or any other person who commits, participates in, assists in, or
maintains such violation may be found guilty of a separate offense.
   E.   Additional Remedies: Nothing herein contained shall prevent the board
or any other public official or private citizen from taking such lawful action
as is necessary to restrain or prevent any violation of this title or of the
Idaho Code. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009; amd. Ord. 2022-05, 6- -2022)
11-14-12: ENFORCEMENT:
The prosecuting attorney shall make the determination as to whether an
individual shall be charged for a violation of the terms of this title. In
addition, the prosecuting attorney, after consultation and agreement by the
board of commissioners, shall have the authority to take any actions available
at law or in equity to civilly address any violations of this title. Such
actions might include, but are not limited to, injunctions, restraining orders,
or other forms of relief. Nothing in this title shall require the prosecuting
attorney or the board of commissioners to proceed either criminally or civilly
against a person alleged to have violated this title. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009;
amd. Ord. 2022-05, 6- -2022)
11-14-13: SCHEDULE OF FEES, CHARGES AND EXPENSES:
   A.   Established: The board shall establish a schedule of fees, charges and
expenses and a collection procedure for zoning and building permits,
amendments, appeals, variances, special use permits, plan approvals and other
matters pertaining to the administration and enforcement of this title
requiring investigations, inspections, legal advertising, postage and other
expenses.
   B.   Posting; Amendment: The schedule of fees shall be posted in the office
of the administrator, and may be altered or amended only by the board.
   C.   Payment Required: Until all applicable fees, charges and expenses have
been paid in full, no action shall be taken on any application or appeal. (Ord.
2009-05, 9-28-2009)
CHAPTER 15
AMENDMENT OR REZONE
SECTION:
11-15-1: General
11-15-2: Initiation Of Zoning Ordinance Text Or Map Amendments
11-15-3: Contents Of Application
11-15-4: Transmittal To Commission
11-15-5: Commission To Conduct Public Hearing
11-15-6: Recommendation By Commission
11-15-7: Action By Board
11-15-8: Development Agreements
11-15-9: Resubmission Of Application
11-15-1: GENERAL:
Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare or good zoning
practices require, the board may, by ordinance after receipt of recommendation
thereon from the commission and subject to procedures provided by law, amend,
supplement, change or repeal the regulations, restrictions and boundaries or
classification of property. Zoning ordinance amendments may consist of text or
map revisions. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-15-2: INITIATION OF ZONING ORDINANCE TEXT OR MAP AMENDMENTS:
Amendments to this title may be initiated in one of the following ways:
   A.   By adoption of a motion by the commission;
   B.   By adoption of a motion by the board; and
   C.   By the filing of an application by a property owner or a person who has
existing interest in property within the area proposed to be changed or
affected by said amendment or rezone. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-15-3: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION:
   A.   Applications for amendments to the official zoning map adopted as part
of this title shall contain at least the following information:
      1.   Name, address and phone number of applicant;
      2.   Proposed amending ordinance, approved as to form by the board;
      3.   Present land use;
      4.   Present zoning district;
      5.   Proposed use;
      6.   Proposed zoning district;
      7.   A vicinity map at a scale approved by the administrator showing
property lines, thoroughfares, existing and proposed zoning and such other
items as the administrator may require;
      8.   A statement on how the proposed amendment relates to the
comprehensive plan, availability of public facilities and compatibility with
the surrounding area and quantifiable data that will verify that rezoning would
not cause economic, social or physical stress on existing uses of surrounding
areas; and
      9.   A fee as established by the board.
   B.   Applications for amendments to the text of this title shall contain at
least the following information:
      1.   Name, address and phone number of applicant;
      2.   Proposed amending ordinance showing the existing ordinance language
with changes indicated by strike through and new language indicated by
underlining;
      3.   A statement demonstrating that the proposed amendment complies with
and implements the comprehensive plan; and
      4.   A fee as established by the board. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-15-4: TRANSMITTAL TO COMMISSION:
The zoning ordinance text or map shall be amended in the following manner:
   A.   Requests; Submittal: Requests for an amendment to the zoning ordinance
text or map or a rezone shall be submitted to the commission, which shall
evaluate the request to determine the extent and nature of the requested
amendment;
   B.   Standards For Granting Of Zoning Ordinance Text Or Map Amendments: No
zoning ordinance text or map amendment shall be recommended for approval by the
commission or granted by the board of commissioners unless the following
findings are made by the commission or board:
      1.   The requested amendment complies with the comprehensive plan text
and future land use map; and
      2.   The requested amendment is not materially detrimental to the public
health, safety, or welfare; and
      3.   For zoning ordinance map amendments:
         a.   The subject property meets the minimum dimensional standards of
the proposed zoning district; and
         b.   The uses allowed under the proposed zoning district would be
harmonious with and appropriate for the existing or intended character of the
general vicinity and that such uses would not change the essential character of
the same area; and
         c.   The effects of the proposed zone change upon the delivery of
services by any political subdivision providing public services, including
school districts, within Gem County's planning jurisdiction have been
considered and no unmitigated adverse impacts upon those services will impose
additional costs upon current residents of Gem County's planning jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-15-5: COMMISSION TO CONDUCT PUBLIC HEARING:
The commission shall hold a public hearing and make recommendations on proposed
zoning ordinance text or map amendments. The commission, prior to recommending
a zoning ordinance text or map amendment to the board, shall conduct at least
one public hearing in which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be
heard. Notice of the public hearing shall comply with the notice requirements
in Idaho Code section 67-6511. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-15-6: RECOMMENDATION BY COMMISSION:
Within sixty (60) days from the conclusion of the hearing on the proposed
amendment, the commission shall transmit its recommendation to the board. The
commission may recommend that the amendment be granted as requested, or it may
recommend a modification of the amendment requested, or it may recommend that
the amendment be denied. The commission shall ensure that any favorable
recommendations for amendments are in accordance with the comprehensive plan
and established goals and objectives and comply with the standards of
subsection 11-15-4B of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-15-7: ACTION BY BOARD:
The board, prior to adopting or rejecting the amendment to the zoning ordinance
text or map as recommended by the commission, shall conduct at least one public
hearing using the same notice and hearing procedures as the commission.
Following the board hearing, if the board makes a material change from what was
presented at the public hearing, further notice and hearing shall be provided
before the board adopts the amendment.
Upon granting, conditionally granting, partially granting, or denying an
application to amend the zoning ordinance text or map, the board shall specify:
   A.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
   B.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
   C.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a permit
favorable ruling.
In the event the board shall approve a zoning ordinance text or map amendment,
such shall thereafter be made a part of this title upon adoption and
publication. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-15-8: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS:
   A.   Applicability:
      1.   All applications for a zoning ordinance map amendment to a planned
community based district shall require a concurrent submission of a development
agreement application.
      2.   Approval of all other applications for zoning ordinance map
amendments may be conditioned upon the applicant's entry into a development
agreement.
   B.   Process: An application and fees shall be submitted to the
administrator on forms provided by the development services department. The
application shall include the following materials:
      1.   An affidavit by the property owner agreeing to the submission of the
development agreement.
      2.   A listing of any proposed modifications to the standards imposed by
other regulations of this title.
      3.   A legal description for the property subject to the development
agreement.
      4.   A project description of the uses proposed for the property subject
to the development agreement describing the following:
         a.   The specific uses proposed for the property.
         b.   The form, and name if available, of the organization proposed to
own and maintain any dedicated open space.
         c.   The proposed systems for water supply, sewage systems, and
stormwater management.
   C.   General Regulations:
      1.   The allowed uses, densities and standards shall be those in effect
at the time the development agreement is effective.
      2.   A development agreement shall not prevent the board, in subsequent
actions applicable to the property, from adopting new ordinances, resolutions,
and regulations that conflict with those ordinances, resolutions and
regulations in effect at the time the agreement is made, except that any
subsequent action by the board shall not prevent the development of the
property as set forth in the approved development agreement.
      3.   The board may suspend the issuance of any permits after a noticed
public hearing if it finds that a clear and imminent danger to the public
health, safety, or welfare requires the suspension.
      4.   In the event that state or federal laws or regulations, enacted
after a development agreement has been entered into, prevent or preclude
compliance with one or more regulations of the development agreement, such
agreement may be amended or terminated pursuant to subsection F of this section
as may be necessary to comply with the new state or federal laws or
regulations.
   D.   Required Finding: In order to approve the application, the board shall
find that the proposed development agreement complies with the regulations of
this section.
   E.   Periodic Review: The administrator shall monitor the terms and
conditions of the final development agreement as set forth in the final
development agreement. A more frequent review may be undertaken at the
administrator's discretion or at the direction of the board.
      1.   As part of the review, the applicant, owner, or successor in
interest shall be required to demonstrate good faith compliance with the final
development agreement.
      2.   If the administrator finds that the applicant or owner has failed to
perform or comply with the terms of this agreement, the administrator shall
notify the applicant or owner of the failure of performance or compliance. If
after ninety (90) days, the applicant or owner has not made a good faith effort
toward compliance with the terms of this agreement, the administrator shall
forward the development agreement to the board for review and action.
      3.   If the board finds and determines, on the basis of substantial
evidence, that the applicant, owner, or successor in interest has not complied
in good faith with the terms and/or conditions of the final development
agreement, action may be taken to terminate the agreement by the board.
   F.   Amendment Or Termination Of Final Development Agreement: A final
development agreement may be amended or terminated in whole or in part, by
either a request of the parties to the agreement, or their successors in
interest, with approval by the board or by action initiated by the board as set
forth in this section.
      1.   Notice of intention to amend or terminate any portion of the final
development agreement shall be in accord with this section.
      2.   To amend a development agreement, the board shall make the required
finding as specified in subsection D of this section for approval of an
amendment to the final development agreement.
      3.   The board may terminate a final development agreement if one of the
following applies:
         a.   The termination is requested by the parties to the agreement or
their successors in interest, and the board determines that the termination
would not be materially detrimental to the general public, health, safety, and
welfare of the county.
         b.   The board determines that the parties to the agreement, or their
successors in interest, have failed to comply with the terms of the development
agreement.
      4.   The termination of a development agreement shall result in the
reversal of the zoning ordinance map amendment approval and applicable
development approval for any undeveloped portion of property subject to the
development agreement. The undeveloped property subject to the development
agreement shall be rezoned to the zoning district classification in effect
prior to approval of the development agreement.
      5.   Any action by the board to amend or terminate a previously recorded
development agreement shall be recorded in the office of the Gem County
recorder by the clerk to the board. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-15-9: RESUBMISSION OF APPLICATION:
No application for a reclassification of any property which has been denied by
the board, shall be resubmitted in either substantially the same form or with
reference to substantially the same premises for the same purpose within a
period of one year from the date of such final action; unless there is an
amendment in the comprehensive plan which resulted from a change in conditions
as applying to the specific property under consideration. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-
2009)
CHAPTER 16
PROPERTY BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENTS
SECTION:
11-16-1: Purpose
11-16-2: Applicability
11-16-3: Process
11-16-4: Standards
11-16-5: Required Finding
11-16-6: Nonconforming Properties
11-16-1: PURPOSE:
The regulations of this chapter allow for the adjustment of parcel lines or
platted lot lines between existing legal or nonconforming properties. It is the
intent of this chapter to allow for primarily minor changes to property
boundaries and not to substantially modify recorded plats or parcels. A
property boundary adjustment does not vacate the platted lot lines of a
recorded subdivision. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-16-2: APPLICABILITY:
These regulations apply to existing and future parcels and lots located within
the unincorporated area of Gem County. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-16-3: PROCESS:
   A.   Application: An application and fees, as set forth in this title, shall
be submitted to the administrator on forms provided by the development services
department. Said application shall require notarized consent from all property
owners affected by the proposed adjustment(s).
   B.   Department/Agency Review: The administrator shall transmit the
application to the Gem County assessor, Gem County surveyor and any other
applicable departments or agencies for review and comment. Said parties shall
have at least ten (10) days to reply to the administrator.
   C.   Tentative Approval; Requirements: Upon tentative approval of the
application by the administrator subject to any applicable conditions of
approval and the regulations of this title, the applicant or owner shall have a
maximum of six (6) months to complete the following tasks:
      1.   Cause the property to be surveyed by a licensed land surveyor. Said
survey shall clearly label existing and new property boundary lines and follow
other standard survey practices;
      2.   Have the necessary deeds prepared to accomplish the property
boundary adjustments as tentatively approved;
      3.   Submit the record of survey on mylar with three (3) full size paper
copies along with a reduced eight and one-half by eleven inch (81/2 x 11") copy
and the executable deeds to the administrator for final approval;
   D.   Final Approval: Upon determination by the administrator that the final
property boundary adjustment is in conformance with this chapter, the
administrator shall sign the survey. The applicant shall then file the survey
and deeds with the Gem County recorder's office and obtain new tax parcel
numbers from the Gem County assessor's office. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-16-4: STANDARDS:
   A.   A property boundary adjustment shall not reduce the property size below
the minimum dimensional standards prescribed by the Gem County zoning ordinance
including regulations for individual wastewater treatment systems and wells.
   B.   A property boundary adjustment shall not increase the original number
of properties.
   C.   A property boundary adjustment shall not change or move any public
roads, private lanes, easements, or publicly dedicated areas in any manner. If
any such area is to be vacated to necessitate the adjustment, a vacation
application must be approved prior to applying for a property boundary
adjustment.
   D.   The property boundary adjustment shall not constitute a relocation of a
property.
   E.   For platted lots, the property boundary adjustment shall be in
substantial conformance to the recorded plat. This shall be interpreted to mean
no more than ten percent (10%) of the total number of lots within the recorded
plat may be affected by the adjustment.
   F.   No permanent structures or other encroachments are allowed over platted
lot lines which have existing easements, regardless of any property boundary
line adjustment being approved.
   G.   All current taxes must be paid in full on any property affected by the
adjustment prior to the administrator's tentative approval being issued.
   H.   If one or more of the parcels affected by an adjustment is greater than
forty (40) acres after the adjustment, then a record of survey is not required
on the full boundary of the resulting parcel. However, a survey is required on
any portion of the parcel(s) that is adjusted and new legal descriptions are
required that describe the full boundary of all affected parcels, including
remainder parcels. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-16-5: REQUIRED FINDING:
In order to approve the application, the decision making body shall find that
the proposed property boundary adjustment complies with the standards in
section
11-16-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-16-6: NONCONFORMING PROPERTIES:
If one or more of the properties affected by an adjustment is nonconforming as
to the minimum dimensional standards prescribed by the zoning ordinance
(including, but not limited to, the size and road frontage), the property
boundary adjustment shall not increase the nonconformity except as allowed
under section
11-9-6 of this title. However, where two (2) nonconforming properties are
contiguous and a property boundary adjustment is necessary, as determined by
the administrator, to accommodate infrastructure or physical limitations, such
adjustment may be made if it does not impact any other properties or expand any
nonconforming uses. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
CHAPTER 17
HEARING EXAMINERS
SECTION:
11-17-1: Purpose
11-17-2: Applicability
11-17-3: General Regulations
11-17-4: Written Recommendation
11-17-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to authorize appointment of hearing examiners
for hearing applications for subdivision, special use and variance permits, and
requests for zoning district boundary changes. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-17-2: APPLICABILITY:
Any hearing required by the local land use and planning act and Gem County
ordinances for subdivision, special use and variance permits, and requests for
zoning district boundary changes, may be conducted by hearing examiners. (Ord.
2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-17-3: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
Hearing examiners shall include professionally trained or licensed staff
planners, engineers, or architects.
Hearing Examiners may be appointed by the Board of County Commissioners or by
the Commission for hearing applications.
Notice, hearing, and records before the examiner shall be as provided in the
local land use and planning act and the particular ordinances under which an
application is to be determined, including any ordinance governing land use
hearing procedures. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009; amd. Ord. 2022-07, 8-1-2022)
11-17-4: WRITTEN RECOMMENDATION:
Whenever a hearing examiner hears an application, he/she shall submit a written
recommendation to the board or the commission. The hearing examiner's
recommendation shall specify:
   A.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
   B.   The reasons for the recommendation; and
   C.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a permit
or zoning district boundary change in accordance with the comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
CHAPTER 18
LAND USE APPLICATION HEARING PROCEDURES
SECTION:
11-18-1: Purpose
11-18-2: Procedures
11-18-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted to establish procedures for the conduct of land use
application hearings. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-18-2: PROCEDURES:
Land use application hearings shall be conducted in general conformance with
the following procedures:
   A.   Generally: The body or individual conducting the hearing may limit
testimony and the scope of the hearing as necessary and may at any time during
the hearing freely inquire of anyone at the hearing, including staff.
   B.   Applicant/Appellant Comments: Hearings shall commence with the
presentation of the applicant/appellant case by the applicant/appellant.
Thereafter, those favoring the applicant/appellant's position shall be allowed
an opportunity to present testimony, documents, and other evidence which
supports his or her position. An applicant/appellant may be represented by an
attorney or other representative.
   C.   Report: At the conclusion of the presentation of the applicant's/
appellant's case, and the comments or evidence presented by those in favor, if
any, a report from staff shall be given. The report may be written or oral, at
the pleasure of the body or individual conducting the hearing, and may include
testimony from witnesses. The report shall contain recommendations and a
proposed decision for review by the body or individual conducting the hearing,
including a proposed reasoned decision and order in a form directed by the body
or individual conducting the hearing if any. The body or individual conducting
the hearing shall not be bound by the recommendations of staff.
   D.   Opponent And General Comments: When the applicant/appellant has
concluded his or her comments, those opposing the applicant/appellant's
position or having general questions shall be provided an opportunity to
present testimony, documents, or other evidence refuting the evidence presented
on behalf of the applicant/appellant.
   E.   Applicant/Appellant Rebuttal: When the opponents, if any, have all
concluded their comments, the applicant/appellant shall be allowed a brief
period for rebuttal.
   F.   Rules Governing Hearings: In order to conduct hearings in an efficient
manner, the body or individual conducting the hearing may establish rules
limiting the amount of time any person may take to present comments, argument,
testimony, or other evidence. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
CHAPTER 19
TEMPORARY USES
SECTION:
11-19-1: Permit Required
11-19-2: Application And Notification
11-19-3: Decision Of Administrator
11-19-4: Appeal
11-19-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   A property owner may apply for a temporary use permit for placement of
a manufactured/mobile home or recreational vehicle (RV) for any of the four (4)
reasons listed below. Under none of these circumstances shall the temporary
dwelling be placed on a permanent foundation.
      1.   For agricultural workers engaged in performing a substantial amount
of the operation of the property owner's agricultural activities within the
prime agriculture (A-1) zone. Proof of payroll activity and/or legal
compensation shall be provided with the application. One dwelling unit is
permitted through the administrator. More than one dwelling unit per parcel may
be allowed if approved by the commission.
      2.   While a permanent dwelling is being constructed. A recreational
vehicle/manufactured home to be used as temporary housing shall require a
permit and a time limit will be set for the construction of a permanent
residence of one hundred eighty (180) days, unless excluded by covenants. If
the building construction is not complete within this time period and the
building permit is extended, an extension for the temporary dwelling may be
requested for an additional one hundred eighty (180) days. Further extensions
may be granted by the board under extenuating circumstances only. The temporary
dwelling shall either be removed from the property or no longer be used as a
dwelling within sixty (60) days from the issuance of a certificate of occupancy
for the permanent dwelling.
      3.   Temporary hardship permit for substantiated healthcare needs for any
member of the property owner's family. Proof of the healthcare need as
evidenced through written and signed authorization from a medical professional
is required.
      4.   Construction trailer intended for residential or security purposes
on a construction site. Construction trailers, equipment and materials used in
conjunction with construction work only may be permitted in any zone during the
period construction work is in progress. Such temporary facilities shall be
removed within sixty (60) days of completion of the construction work.
   B.   In zones allowing a temporary use, a landowner of the subject property
may apply for a temporary use permit for any of the following reasons:
      1.   Roadside or fruit stands (see conditions in section
11-6-5 of this title).
      2.   Yard sales (see conditions in section
11-6-5 of this title) occurring more than four (4) times a year. (Ord. 2009-05,
9-28-2009)
11-19-2: APPLICATION AND NOTIFICATION:
The application for a temporary use permit shall be filed with the
administrator and the applicant shall pay the required fee provided for in
section
11-14-13 of this title prior to the issuance of any temporary use permit. For
temporary use permits for healthcare needs (per subsection 11-19-1A3 of this
chapter), the administrator shall give written notice of the pending
application to those property owners and/or purchasers of record within three
hundred feet (300') of the exterior boundary of the subject property. Notified
property owners have twenty one (21) days from the date of mailing to respond
to the notice. If an affected party is opposed to the application, a public
hearing shall be held before the commission. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-19-3: DECISION OF ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   The granting of a temporary use permit shall be within the sole
discretion of the administrator following a full review of the facts as stated
on the application and as received as a result of the required notification
process. The administrator, at his or her discretion, may refer the application
to the commission for action.
   B.   An approved temporary use permit expires upon failure to obtain a
certificate of zoning compliance within ninety (90) calendar days from the date
of approval of the temporary use permit unless a onetime extension of time up
to sixty (60) days is granted.
   C.   The administrator shall give notice of the decision granting or denying
the application to those previously notified of the temporary use application.
(Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
11-19-4: APPEAL:
   A.   Any person aggrieved by the administrator's decision may file a written
request that the commission review the administrator's decision. At its next
regularly scheduled meeting, the commission shall review the administrative
record and may take one of the following actions:
      1.   Affirm the administrator's decision without hearing;
      2.   Reverse the administrator's decision without hearing;
      3.   Modify the administrator's decision without hearing;
      4.   Set a formal public hearing for review of the administrator's
decision. Said hearing shall be noticed pursuant to section
11-7-6 of this title and conducted in accordance with the procedures
established in chapter 18 of this title. The aggrieved person shall pay the
appropriate hearing fee as set forth in section
11-14-13 of this title.
   B.   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the commission made after a
formal public hearing may file with the administrator a written request
appealing the decision to the board. The board shall hold a public hearing
after following the notice and hearing procedures set forth in section
11-7-6 of this title. The aggrieved person shall pay the appropriate hearing
fee as set forth in section
11-14-13 of this title. (Ord. 2009-05, 9-28-2009)
CHAPTER 20
CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATIONS (CAFO)
SECTION:
11-20-1: Purpose
11-20-2: Definitions
11-20-3: Existing Confined Animal Feeding Operations
11-20-4: Areas Allowing Confined Animal Feeding Operations
11-20-5: Areas Prohibiting New Confined Animal Feeding Operations
11-20-6: Outdoor Lighting
11-20-7: CAFO Siting Permits
11-20-8: Application Process, Notice Of Hearing And Public Hearing Procedure
11-20-9: Application Criteria For New CAFO Permit
11-20-10: Required Findings For Approval
11-20-11: Appeals
11-20-12: Transfer Of A Siting Permit
11-20-13: Construction
11-20-14: Nutrient Management Plans
11-20-15: Enforcement
11-20-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide regulations and standards for the
creation of confined animal feeding operations in Gem County, as required by
the state of Idaho in Idaho Code 67-6529(2). The regulations contained herein
are designed to protect and promote the public health, safety and community
welfare of the county and to encourage and promote managed development of new
and existing confined animal feeding operations. (Ord. 2010-01, 5-24-2010)
11-20-2: DEFINITIONS:
ADMINISTRATOR: The administrator of the Gem County development services
department, his or her designee, or another official expressly appointed by the
Gem County board to administer the Gem County zoning ordinance.
AFFECTED PERSON: One having a legal ownership interest in real property within
a one mile radius of the CAFO, which may be adversely affected by the issuance
or denial of a permit.
APPLICANT: An owner of land or an authorized representative who files an
application for a permit, variance or appeal in accordance with this chapter.
BOARD: The board of county commissioners of Gem County, Idaho.
BUILDING INSPECTOR: The official appointed by the Gem County board to
administer Gem County building codes.
CAFO SITING PERMIT: Permit required before a CAFO can be created.
CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: The official designated by Gem County to enforce the
Gem County zoning and nuisance ordinances.
CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION (CAFO): The use of a contiguous area, lot,
facility or parcel of land, upon which there are confined or stabled livestock,
swine, poultry or other animals defined as follows:
   A.   Animals have been, are, or will be stabled or confined and fed or
maintained for a total of forty five (45) days or more in any twelve (12) month
period on the same facility; and
   B.   Crops, vegetation, forage growth or postharvest residues are not
sustained in the normal growing season over any portion of the lot or facility;
and
   C.   The minimum number of animals at the facility to be defined as a CAFO
shall be:
      1. Seven hundred (700) mature dairy cows, whether milked or dry;
      2. One thousand (1,000) veal calves;
      3. One thousand (1,000) beef cattle. Cattle includes, but is not limited
to: heifers, steers, bulls and cow/calf pairs;
      4. Two thousand five hundred (2,500) swine, each weighing fifty five (55)
pounds or more;
      5. Ten thousand (10,000) swine, each weighing less than fifty five (55)
pounds;
      6. Five hundred (500) horses;
      7. Ten thousand (10,000) sheep or lambs;
      8. Fifty five thousand (55,000) turkeys;
      9. Thirty thousand (30,000) laying hens or broilers, if the CAFO uses a
liquid manure handling system;
      10. One hundred twenty five thousand (125,000) chickens (other than
laying hens), if the CAFO uses a liquid manure handling system;
      11. Eighty two thousand (82,000) laying hens, if the CAFO uses a system
other than a liquid manure handling system;
      12. Thirty thousand (30,000) ducks, if the CAFO uses a system other than
a liquid manure handling system;
      13. Five thousand (5,000) ducks, if the CAFO uses a liquid manure
handling system.
All acreage within the contiguous confined animal feeding operation is subject
to the setback limitations as defined in this chapter.
CORRAL: A confined area typically used actively for sorting, loading, unloading
and similar activities associated with an operation.
EXPANSION PERMIT: A permit obtained by a registered CAFO to expand animal
numbers.
LAGOON: A facility (e.g., pond sealed with a liner) constructed and designed to
minimum state and federal standards that is used to store animal waste.
LAND APPLICATION AREA: Parcels of land owned or controlled by the confined
animal feeding operation used for land application of waste (liquid or solid)
as authorized under an Idaho state department of agriculture approved nutrient
management plan.
LIQUID WASTE: A liquid substance containing any of the following separately or
in any combination: wastewater, waste, other waste products or effluent.
MAJOR CHANGES/MODIFICATIONS: Any change involving an increase in animal numbers
(per the approved nutrient management plan), structural design, waste
management, storm runoff containment, lagoon design, corrals and building
location, and landscaping improvements if applicable.
NONCONFORMING CAFO: A CAFO which lawfully existed prior to the enactment of
this chapter and which is not registered and is operated after the effective
date hereof. Nonconforming CAFOs may not be expanded or materially improved
except as provided for in this chapter.
PASTURE: Land where crops, vegetation, or forage growth are sustained in the
normal growing season.
PERMITTEE (OR REGISTRANT): One who holds a siting permit or who succeeds to a
permitted CAFO.
RESIDENCE: Includes dwelling, church, school, or other building used for human
occupancy and includes subdivisions and planned unit developments.
STORMWATER CONTAINMENT: The containment area that intercepts and holds
precipitation runoff from a corral or other confined animal enclosures. Sizing
shall be based on the correct sizing the Idaho state department of agriculture
has approved for this facility.
WASTE: A byproduct normally associated with a confined animal feeding
operation, which may include manure, sludge, sediment, mud, silt, dung, urine
or feces, waste products, wastewater, feed residues, and effluent.
WASTE TREATMENT SYSTEM: The process, area, or mechanism employed for the
retention, storage and treatment of liquid or solid wastes.
WASTEWATER: Water that has been used for washing, flushing, or in a
manufacturing process, which may also contain waste products. (Ord. 2010-01, 5-
24-2010)
11-20-3: EXISTING CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATIONS:
   A.   General:
      1.   Nonregistered CAFOs; Compliance: This chapter does not relieve any
nonregistered confined animal feeding operation from any obligation or penalty
for noncompliance with this chapter.
      2.   Reapplication; Registration: A confined animal feeding operation,
which has previously received a special use permit from the county, need not
reapply under this chapter.
Any CAFO existing as of the effective date of June 9, 2010, which has not
previously received a special use permit from the county, shall have one year
after the effective date hereof to register with the administrator. The owner
must provide proof that the operation has been active at some time in the last
five (5) years and is in compliance with the requirement of all appropriate
state or federal agencies. If the county has animal unit equivalency on file
prior to the effective date hereof, that number shall be transferred to an
animal number. If the CAFO is under the jurisdiction of the Idaho state
department of agriculture, it will have to provide a letter of compliance as to
the conformity to ISDA regulations applicable to this type of CAFO (including
compliance with their nutrient management plan). CAFOs not registering during
the allotted time will be listed as a nonconforming CAFO but will have the
right to operate under the previous conditions.
      3.   Nonrecognition/Nontransferability Of CAFOs Not Registered Within
Time Allowed: Any existing CAFO as of the effective date hereof which has not
registered after the allotted time allowed and has not previously received a
special use permit will not be recognized as a CAFO and will have no right
which could be transferred to subsequent owners.
      4.   Siting Permits: All existing CAFOs in Gem County as of the effective
date hereof shall be granted a CAFO siting permit if requested, unless it is
determined that they are not in compliance with state and federal regulations
at the time of the request. Issuance of a siting permit accepts the facilities
in an "as is" condition in regards to setbacks.
      5.   Pastured Animal Exemption: Pastured animals are not considered to be
a confined animal operation and, therefore, they do not need a permit, nor are
they regulated as to the number of animals that an owner can have on their
property. (See the definition of "pasture" in section
11-20-2 of this chapter.)
   B.   Expansion Of Existing Or Nonconforming CAFOs: A nonregistered CAFO
shall not make improvements, increase the CAFO acreage, or increase animal
number capacity (beyond that allowed in the nutrient management plan) prior to
going through the new CAFO application process if they have failed to register
during the time allotted.
Existing CAFOs that have chosen to register for a CAFO siting permit shall be
able to expand to the animal number able to be controlled under the nutrient
management plan specifically designed and approved for it or any amendment made
thereafter to remain compliant with state and federal regulations.
Included in the application for an animal number or nonconforming expansion
permit:
      1.   The name, address, and telephone number of the applicant.
      2.   Legal address and description of the existing CAFO.
      3.   Total acreage owned by the CAFO and zoning district.
      4.   Written notification from the governing agencies as to compliance
with state and federal regulations.
      5.   The existing animal number of the CAFO and type of animals.
      6.   Proposed animal number (able to be reached within 10 years).
      7.   Detailed site plan showing the following information which occurs
within a one mile radius (minimum size of 18 inches x 24 inches and minimum
scale of 1 inch = 100 feet):
         a.   Building locations (existing and proposed).
         b.   Public water supply wells.
         c.   Irrigation wells.
         d.   Existing monitoring or injection wells.
         e.   Irrigation canals and laterals.
         f.   Rivers, streams, springs, reservoirs and wetlands.
         g.   Any proposed improvements, including, but not limited to, wells,
corrals, roads, etc.
         h.   Traffic access.
         i.   Location of residences not owned by the CAFO.
         j.   Outdoor lighting plan.
         k.   Setbacks of proposed improvements.
         l.   Approximate time frame to complete construction or stages
construction will be completed.
         m.   Natural drainages on the property.
      8.   All Idaho state department of agriculture, department of
environmental quality, Idaho department of water resources, environmental
protection agency and Southwest district health public records for the
operator, operator facility(ies) and owners or owners of leased land for the
existing CAFO including, but not limited to:
         a.   Violations and fines.
         b.   Water rights for wells and irrigation.
         c.   Water test including nitrates, phosphorus and coliform.
Any fees necessary to furnish the above mentioned records shall be paid by the
applicant.
      9.   The applicant shall submit with the application a fee in the amount
set by resolution of the board.
   C.   Expansion Permit Application Process And Decision:
      1.   All applications for expansion of existing or nonconforming CAFOs
shall be filed with the administrator and a public hearing held before the
board.
      2.   Landscaping, architectural and/or screening improvements may be made
conditions of the approval.
      3.   If the existing CAFO is in violation or noncompliance with any state
or federal regulation at the time of the application, as evidenced by a written
statement from an authorized representative of said state or federal agency, it
may be used as grounds for denial of the expansion permit.
      4.   The board shall approve or deny the application within thirty (30)
days of closing the public hearing. Written notification from the county shall
be mailed to the applicant.
      5.   Any major modifications made after the board's decision will require
the applicant to resubmit the application with the necessary changes made.
      6.   All decisions made by the board may be appealed in accordance with
the process described in subsection 11-13-1A of this title.
All existing registered CAFOs applying for an animal number expansion permit
will adhere to the setbacks stated in this chapter for new CAFOs for any new
improvements made. However, waivers can be approved by the board if the
existing facility cannot realistically accommodate these setbacks. The
administrator may seek the advice of any regulating state or federal agency as
to their opinion on the matter and if compliance would still be possible with
the proposed waiver. Any application including a waiver shall include an
additional fee set by the board to cover the additional time and costs
incurred. (Ord. 2010-01, 5-24-2010)
11-20-4: AREAS ALLOWING CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATIONS:
CAFOs are permitted one mile outside the designated county residential area, as
defined on the future land use map of the Gem community comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 2010-01, 5-24-2010)
11-20-5: AREAS PROHIBITING NEW CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATIONS:
No new CAFOs shall be permitted in the following zones or areas:
   A.   Any residential zone.
   B.   Any commercial, industrial, or mixed use zone.
   C.   Historic sites, as defined by state and/or federal regulation.
   D.   Wetlands, as defined by state and/or federal regulation.
   E.   100-year flood zone (except existing CAFOs applying for animal number
expansion permits).
   F.   Within one mile of the county residential future land use map area as
defined in the Gem County comprehensive plan. (Ord. 2010-01, 5-24-2010)
11-20-6: OUTDOOR LIGHTING:
All outdoor lighting systems and/or fixtures shall be installed in such a way
that the light will be contained within the CAFO property boundaries. (Ord.
2010-01, 5-24-2010)
11-20-7: CAFO SITING PERMITS:
This application is for new CAFOs or those not in existence or registered
within one year of the effective date hereof.
   A.   Permit Required; Application: A CAFO siting permit and required
building permits are required prior to commencing any construction of the new
CAFO facility, its waste treatment system, or any improvement made to the site
to aid in the construction of the new facility.
Application for a siting permit shall contain the following information:
      1.   A site plan containing the items listed in subsection 11-20-3B7 of
this chapter;
      2.   A valid water right or a copy of an application to appropriate water
or an application to change the point of diversion, place, or nature of use of
an existing water right that has been filed with the Idaho department of water
resources, which, if approved, will provide an adequate supply for the
operation; and
      3.   A fee in the amount set by resolution of the board.
   B.   CAFO Site Advisory Team: Upon receiving the application requirements
set forth, the application will then be sent to the CAFO site advisory team for
their review and report.
      1.   Members Of The CAFO Site Advisory Team:
         a.   A representative from the Idaho state department of agriculture;
         b.   A representative from the Idaho department of water resources;
         c.   A representative from the Idaho department of environmental
quality;
         d.   A county employee, as appointed by the board; and
         e.   A representative from the type of animal industry being proposed,
as appointed by the board.
Within approximately thirty (30) working days from receiving the application,
the CAFO site advisory team will complete their report at which time the
application may then proceed to the next stage of the application process.
By law, the CAFO site advisory team will review any application if it meets the
definition of a CAFO, per section
11-20-2 of this chapter. However, if time allows they will also look at
applications for lesser animal numbers at the request of the board, per IDAPA
02.04.18.
   C.   Vacancy Of Use: If the CAFO is vacant for one year or longer, the
permittee or registrant of the CAFO siting permit shall notify the county no
later than thirty (30) days of the one year time frame. The county may, by
written request, require that the owner declare their intentions with respect
to the continued nonuse of the CAFO. If the permittee elects to continue
nonuse, they shall be required to follow the process outlined in Idaho Code 67-
6538. Failure to do so will render the CAFO in violation and subject to the
revocation of their CAFO siting permit. A CAFO will lose its permit if the
operation is vacant for ten (10) years. (Ord. 2010-01, 5-24-2010)
11-20-8: APPLICATION PROCESS, NOTICE OF HEARING AND PUBLIC HEARING PROCEDURE:
All new CAFOs as defined by this chapter shall apply for and receive a siting
permit prior to commencing construction or operation (see section
11-20-7 of this chapter).
   A.   Application Review: The administrator shall review the application for
completeness. (See application requirements in section
11-20-9 of this chapter.)
   B.   Public Hearing: The administrator shall set the matter for public
hearing before the zoning commission, who shall make a recommendation to
approve or deny the application to the board. After receipt of the
recommendation, the board shall hold a second public hearing on the
application, following the same hearing procedures as the zoning commission.
   C.   Notice: Notice of time, place and purpose of the public hearing shall
be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the county at least
fifteen (15) days prior to such hearing. The property shall be physically
posted with a public hearing sign. The applicant shall provide the
administrator with the names and addresses of all landowners within one mile of
the affected site. The administrator shall then send a notice of the public
hearing by first class mail to all property owner(s) within one mile of the
proposed location. Proof of service shall be made public record.
   D.   Notice To CAFO Owner/Operator: All applicants for comprehensive plan
amendments, subdivision permits or rezone applications located within one mile
of an existing or proposed CAFO shall send notice of the public hearing to the
CAFO owner/operator by first class mail. Proof of service shall be made a part
of the public record.
   E.   Public Hearing Procedure:
      1.   The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
chapter 7 of this title and per the hearing procedures used by the Commission
and Board. The hearing shall be recorded.
      2.   At the completion of the hearing, the administrator shall produce a
written, reasoned statement as described by Idaho Code 67-6535 and a final
order granting or denying the permit.
      3.   Such decision shall be filed at the county clerk’s office and
development services department. It will be available to the applicant and the
public within sixty (60) working days after the close of the hearing. (Ord.
2010-01, 5-24-2010; amd. Ord. 2022-07, 8-1-2022)
11-20-9: APPLICATION CRITERIA FOR NEW CAFO PERMIT:
Prior to approval of a siting permit for a new CAFO application, the applicant
shall meet the following application requirements:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   The name, address, and telephone number of the applicant.
      2.   Legal address and description of the CAFO including latitude and
longitude coordinates.
      3.   Total acreage of land covered in the CAFO application.
      4.   Zoning district.
      5.   Maximum number of proposed animals on site.
      6.   Detailed site plan showing the boundaries of the real property
comprising the CAFO, including any real property within one mile of any
external boundary of the CAFO. The plan, which must be drawn to a scale of not
less than eight inches (8") to the mile, must show the following:
         a.   Building locations (existing and proposed).
         b.   Public water supply wells.
         c.   Irrigation wells.
         d.   Existing monitoring or injection wells.
         e.   Irrigation canals and laterals.
         f.   Rivers, streams, springs, reservoirs and wetlands.
         g.   Any proposed improvements, including, but not limited to, wells,
corrals, roads, etc.
         h.   Traffic access.
         i.   Location of residences not owned by the CAFO.
         j.   Outdoor lighting plan.
         k.   Setbacks of proposed improvements.
         l.   Approximate time frame to complete construction or stages
construction will be completed.
         m.   Natural drainages on the property.
      7.   The applicant's plan must be in compliance with and not be in
violation of any federal, state or local law or ordinance.
      8.   The applicant must not have begun construction of new improvements
for a CAFO at the proposed location. If it is determined that the construction
has commenced, penalties will be imposed in accordance with the provisions of
chapter 14 of this title.
      9.   Applicant's plan must meet the setback and lighting requirements of
this chapter. Waivers may be requested if submitted with the application and
made a part of the public hearing.
      10.   A copy of the CAFO site advisory team's final report and
recommendations shall be submitted with the CAFO application.
   B.   New CAFO Minimum Setbacks And Other Design Standards:
      1.   The closest edge of lagoons, stormwater containment, or waste
treatment systems shall be located at least five hundred feet (500') from any
exterior property line or one thousand feet (1,000') away from any residence,
whichever is greater.
      2.   The closest inside edge of the retaining wall of any storm runoff
containment or corral shall be located at least one hundred feet (100') from a
domestic well.
      3.   The closest inside edge of the retaining wall of any lagoon, storm
runoff containment or corral shall be located at least one thousand feet
(1,000') from a public drinking water supply.
      4.   The closest edge of corrals and feed storage areas shall set back a
minimum of fifty feet (50') from public road rights of way, including
prescriptive right of way easements.
      5.   The closest edge of corrals shall be located at least five hundred
feet (500') away from any residence not belonging to the permittee of the
animal feed operation.
      6.   The closest edge of silage, haylage, potatoes or any other feed
product resulting from the ensilage process which is stored in the open air
shall be located at least five hundred feet (500') from any existing residence
not belonging to the permittee of the CAFO and/or county/city impact area and/
or residential zone.
      7.   No new CAFO shall be located within one thousand three hundred
twenty feet (1,320') of the ordinary high water mark of any perennial tributary
of the Payette River or the exterior boundary of a zone A designation on the
adopted FEMA flood insurance rate maps, whichever is greater. This setback is
measured from the closest edge of any structure, lagoon, storm runoff
containment, corral, feed storage, or waste treatment system.
      8.   If, during the course of the public hearing before either the
Commission or Board, it is determined that additional buffering of the CAFO is
needed to protect neighboring properties, screening may be made conditions of
approval. (Ord. 2010-01, 5-24-2010; amd. Ord. 2022-07, 8-1-2022)
11-20-10: REQUIRED FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL:
Prior to approval of a new CAFO application, the Commission and Board must find
that the proposed CAFO meets all requirements of this chapter (except where a
waiver has been otherwise approved), including the following findings:
   A.   The application complies with all recommendations of the site advisory
team; and
   B.   The CAFO applicant must comply with and not be in violation of any
federal, state or county law or with the requirements of an affected canal/
ditch company, local fire district or road authority which directly applies to
the location or operation of a CAFO; and
   C.   If required by a state of Idaho agency having jurisdiction, the CAFO
shall follow and be in compliance with a nutrient management plan approved by
said agency; and
   D.   The CAFO owns adequate potable water rights to operate. This must be
evidenced by a permit or license from Idaho department of water resources, or
that the CAFO is in the process of obtaining the permit or license from the
state of Idaho, in which case issuance of the siting permit will be contingent
upon obtaining the appropriate permit or license. (Ord. 2010-01, 5-24-2010;
amd. Ord. 2022-07, 8-1-2022)
11-20-11: APPEALS:
   A.   Appeals of a decision of the board shall be directed to the district
court.
   B.   The court will evaluate appeals for standing. Only affected persons may
file an appeal.
   C.   Appeals must be filed within twenty (20) working days after issuance of
the written decision. (Ord. 2010-01, 5-24-2010)
11-20-12: TRANSFER OF A SITING PERMIT:
Siting permits may be transferred provided that:
   A.   The new permittee shall file a transfer statement form with the
administrator within thirty (30) days from the date of purchase, lease or
transfer. The transfer statement form shall include the date of transfer, names
and mailing addresses of both the transferor and transferee.
   B.   The previous permittee shall provide a signed statement, stating that
the CAFO is in compliance with all terms of the original permit and all local,
state and federal rules and regulations. (Ord. 2010-01, 5-24-2010)
11-20-13: CONSTRUCTION:
A building permit shall be required before construction shall commence on any
new or expanding facility, where applicable. (See chapter 14 of this title for
building permit and certificate of occupancy regulations.)
   A.   Construction:
      1.   Construction of the CAFO must be commenced within two (2) years of
the issuance of the permit and completed within five (5) years, or it shall
expire, unless other phasing and/or time frames were approved in the original
application.
      2.   All human habitable structures require compliance with the
international building code, per section
9-1-1 of this code.
   B.   Change Orders:
      1.   If the permittee desires to make major changes to the proposed
facilities authorized under the permit, the permittee shall present a written
change order request to the development services department. The request shall
clearly specify any of the proposed changes being requested; including an
explanation and justification for such changes along with such other
documentation as will be necessary for a decision. If the proposed change
involves the relocation of major improvements such as, but not limited to, the
waste treatment system, free stall barns and corrals, the permittee will have
to adhere to the setbacks found herein.
      2.   The administrator shall then make a decision and provide written
notification to the permittee of the decision.
      3.   Any appeals of the decision shall go through the available means for
appeal as stated in section
11-13-1 of this title. (Ord. 2010-01, 5-24-2010)
11-20-14: NUTRIENT MANAGEMENT PLANS:
All CAFOs required to have a nutrient management plan per the Idaho department
of agriculture shall follow and be in compliance with the approved nutrient
management plan. Nutrient management plans prepared utilizing the "Idaho
OnePlan" are to be kept confidential or as required by the Idaho state
department of agriculture. (Ord. 2010-01, 5-24-2010)
11-20-15: ENFORCEMENT:
The administrator or authorized agent shall have the authority to enforce the
provisions of this chapter. All departments, officials and employees of Gem
County vested with the authority to issue permits shall conform to the
provisions of this chapter.
   A.   General Procedure:
      1.   Whenever the administrator shall determine that a violation of this
chapter has occurred, the administrator shall take action in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter or any applicable section of this code.
      2.   Complaints made by individuals in relation to the provisions of this
chapter shall be in writing and contain the nature of the complaint(s), the
name and address of the CAFO, time(s) and date(s) of the occurrence, the name,
address and phone number of the complainant. The complainant must reside within
a one mile radius of the CAFO site.
      3.   Upon receipt of a written complaint, the administrator will
determine if a violation exists. If a violation does not exist the
administrator will notify the complainant within twenty (20) working days of no
violation existing. If a violation does exist, the administrator will notify
the complainant and permittee in writing within twenty (20) working days and
enforcement action will take place according to the provisions of this chapter.
      4.   The permittee/operator shall be notified by either hand delivery or
first class mail. Three (3) days after date of mailing or the date of hand
delivery, the notice shall become effective.
      5.   If a violation does exist, the permittee/operator shall respond in
writing to the administrator within ten (10) working days.
         a.   If the violation can be corrected in twenty (20) working days or
less the response will contain a description of the corrective action(s) and
estimated time necessary to complete it.
         b.   If the violation is such that it will require additional time to
correct the permittee will submit in writing within ten (10) working days of
the above described notice a proposed compliance schedule for review and
approval by the administrator. The compliance schedule will explain in detail
what actions will be taken to correct the violation and a time schedule for
completion.
      6.   The administrator will review the proposed compliance schedule and
determine if the time requested is reasonable. The permittee shall be required
to schedule and attend a meeting with the administrator within twenty (20)
working days of submittal of the proposed compliance schedule.
      7.   In the event that a compliance schedule is not agreed upon the
administrator will then send the proposal to the board for their review. The
board will review the proposal and recommendations of the administrator and
render a decision within twenty (20) working days.
      8.   Failure to meet the requirements shall result in enforcement action.
   B.   Enforcement Action:
      1.   Violations of any of the provisions of this chapter or failure to
comply with any of its requirements may be dealt with in the following manner:
A civil forfeiture set by resolution by the board per day per violation; each
day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. If the
violation continues for more than one hundred eighty (180) days, without
following an agreed upon improvement plan, the county may revoke the siting
permit.
   C.   General Provisions:
      1.   A copy of the CAFO regulations shall be given to all new applicants
and any existing CAFOs who choose to register. (Ord. 2010-01, 5-24-2010)
CHAPTER 21
ROAD STANDARDS GENERALLY
SECTION:
11-21-1: Purpose
11-21-2: Applicability
11-21-1:   PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of these standards is to promote a safe, efficient, and
effective road system within Gem County with unobstructed access to address
life safety issues. (Ord. 2025-06, 3-24-2025)
11-21-2:   APPLICABILITY:
   A.   The standards contained within sections
11-21  through
11-26  provide minimum criteria for procedures, design, permitting, and
maintenance for all new public roads, new private roads, driveways, extensions
to existing roads or driveways, expansion of road use due to addition of
properties or uses requiring a development application, pedestrian access,
school bus stops, and road naming.
   B.   Classification of roads. Gem County roads can be classified as one of
the following five (5) types with applicable standards located in sections
11-22  through
11-24.
      1.   Driveway. Access provided to two (2) or less buildable lots. When a
driveway expands to provide access to more than two (2) buildable lots it shall
be deemed a road and be brought into conformance with the standards of a
private or public road as applicable.
      2.   Type A Private Roads. Any previously approved private road, existing
as of the effective date of this chapter.
      3.   Type B Private Roads. Any new private road or expansion of an
existing private road.
      4.   Type C Private Roads. Any new private road that could be dedicated
to the county for public use for connectivity in the future. Potential
connectivity will be identified by the Gem County road and bridge department,
as determined at the pre-application meeting.
      5.   Public Roads. A public road shall be any road accepted for
dedication by the county. Dedication or other provision for future access to
surrounding public land shall be required. (Ord. 2025-06, 3-24-2025)
CHAPTER 22
ROAD STANDARD APPLICATION PROCEDURES
SECTION:
11-22-1: Applicability
11-22-2: Process To Construct Or Expand A Driveway
11-22-3: Process To Construct A New Road
11-22-4; Process To Change The Use Of A Road
11-22-5: Process To Dedicate A Private Road To The County
11-22-6: Required Findings For Approval Of Driveway And Road Applications
11-22-1:   APPLICABILITY:
   A.   This section shall apply to the following:
      1.   The application for new or expanded driveways.
      2.   The application for new private and public roads.
      3.   The change of use of existing private roads.
   B.   Exemptions.
      1.   Application for a new road shall not be required when an existing
road has had prior written approval and provides access for the additional lots
being proposed. Documents demonstrating approval and access must be submitted
as part of the development application.
      2.   When the expansion of a driveway includes lots that were established
prior to the effective date of this chapter but never constructed, the required
approval of the new driveway or road shall not be required to follow the change
of use process per section
11-22-4 . (Ord. 2025-06, 3-24-2025)
11-22-2:   PROCESS TO CONSTRUCT OR EXPAND A DRIVEWAY:
   A.   All new or expanded driveways shall require a driveway permit through
the Gem County road and bridge department, regardless of the type of road being
accessed.
      1.   Access from a state highway shall submit proof of access permit from
Idaho transportation department (ITD) and does not need a secondary permit from
the county.
   2.   Any work within the county right-of-way requires a permit, including
new road connection, utility work, drainage, mailboxes, signage, trails,
sidewalks, or any other above or below surface work in the right-of-way. (Ord.
2025-06, 3-24-2025)
11-22-3:   PROCESS TO CONSTRUCT A NEW ROAD:
   A.   Application for a new private or public road shall be submitted on
forms provided by the development services department and include the
associated application review fees.
      1.   Roads associated with a major subdivision shall demonstrate
compliance within the required construction drawings.
      2.   Roads associated with minor subdivisions shall demonstrate
compliance through supplementary materials to the final plat such as a site
plan with notes specific to the design and construction of the road.
      3.   All site plans and plats, as applicable, shall show the location of
all existing and proposed roads, alleys or highways by clear delineation of the
centerlines, edge of roadway, and rights of way.
      4.   A circulation plan shall be submitted with all proposed new private
roads to ensure that the new road will not interrupt access to existing or
future potential lots or subdivisions.
      5.   A traffic impact study shall be submitted as applicable. Refer to
the public Gem County road and bridge standards for traffic thresholds that
require a traffic impact study (TIS) and the associated requirements of a TIS.
Additional circumstances may occur that require a TIS at the county engineer's
discretion.
   B.   Following approval of the following permits shall be acquired prior to
construction of any road.
      1.   All new or upgraded points of access to county roads, including
private roads, shall obtain an approach permit through the Gem County road and
bridge department which could include a right-of-way permit per Gem County road
and bridge standards.
         a.   Right-of- way permits shall not be issued for a proposed
development until the construction drawings have been approved. For the
purposes of this requirement, road construction includes road cuts, road,
bridge, culvert, or drainage work related to roads, wetlands, or changes to the
flow of streams, ditches or runoff.
      2.   Any work within the county right-of-way requires a permit, including
new road connection, utility work, drainage, mailboxes, signage, trails,
sidewalks, or any other above or below surface work in the right-of-way.
      3.   Access from a state highway shall submit proof of access permit from
Idaho transportation department (ITD) and does not need a secondary permit from
the county.
      4.   All private roads and driveways shall be required to complete the
fire district permit process prior to construction.
      5.   All roads accepted as a public road, shall submit an approved
instrument of dedication showing right-of-way dedication to the county for
recording. If a subdivision plat is being approved, the plat dedication may be
incorporated into the final plat.
   C.   During the subdivision process, if the requirement by a governmental
entity to dedicate public right of way reduces the property to be developed in
such a manner that lot layout, in minimum sizes as required by that zone,
cannot be accomplished without creating one substandard sized lot, then one
such lot may be created as long as its size is not less than eighty percent
(80%) of the size required in that zone and meets southwest district health
standards for a septic system. Such lot shall be considered a legal
nonconforming lot and development may occur as if it were sized to meet minimum
lot size for purposes of development. The dedicated right-of-way would be
exempt from this provision as it does not create a buildable lot. (Ord. 2025-
06, 3-24-2025)
11-22-4:   PROCESS TO CHANGE THE USE OF A ROAD:
   A.   The party requesting the change of road use per Section
11-24-5  shall file an application with the county development services
department. The application shall contain the following:
      1.   A completed application form as provided by the county development
services department.
      2.   A map or plan which accurately depicts the location of all the
properties and roads for which the request is being made and includes all
properties with access from the private road or roads.
      3.   A list of the names and addresses of all property owners with access
from the private road or roads.
      4.   Perpetual access easement agreement and associated maintenance
agreement with record of county approval.
      5.   The application shall be reviewed by the county development services
department and included with the subdivision or site plan application for which
the change of roadway use applies to be processed according to these
regulations. (Ord. 2025-06, 3-24-2025)
11-22-5:   PROCESS TO DEDICATE A PRIVATE ROAD TO THE COUNTY:
   A.   For roads to be accepted by the county for public dedication outside of
the subdivision process the following process shall be followed:
      1.   Submit a letter of intent including a preliminary site layout to the
road and bridge director for initial review against state statutes and Gem
County road and bridge standards.
      2.   Upon recommendation by the road and bridge director, the proposal
shall be forwarded to the board of county commissioners for final acceptance of
dedication.
      3.   The board of county commissioners shall have the explicit option of
accepting or rejecting the road for dedication to the county.
   B.   Public Dedication Approval Criteria. The following criteria shall be
considered in determining acceptance of roads by the county for public
dedication:
      1.   The road meets the design criteria in the Gem County road and bridge
standards at a minimum.
      2.   Acceptance of the road will provide a necessary connection between
existing public roads. (Ord. 2025-06, 3-24-2025)
11-22-6:   REQUIRED FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL OF DRIVEWAY AND ROAD APPLICATIONS:
   A.   In order to approve the application, the director of development
services shall find the following:
      1.   The design of the driveway or road meets the applicable requirements
of sections
11-23 ,
11-24 , and
11-25 ;
      2.   Granting approval of the driveway or road would not cause damage,
hazard, or nuisance, or other detriment to persons, property, or uses in the
vicinity; and
      3.   The use and location of the driveway or road shall not conflict with
the applicable comprehensive plan and/or the regional transportation plan.
(Ord. 2025-06, 3-24-2025)
CHAPTER 23
DRIVEWAY STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-23-1: Driveway Standards
11-23-1:   DRIVEWAY STANDARDS:
   A.   Applicability. All new or expanded driveways shall demonstrate
compliance with the following design standards.
   B.   Design Standards. Driveways shall be constructed to standard
engineering specifications for an all-weather driveway that meets Gem County
fire district standards.
      1.   Driveways shall not exceed seven (7) percent grade. Exception to
this standard may be granted by the Fire District, however, the County will not
accept roads in excess of seven (7) percent grade for public dedication.
      2.   Driveways shall have a minimum driving surface width of twenty (20)
feet.
      3.   Driveways shall meet all fire district standards for length and
turnarounds.
      4.   All shared driveways connecting to a paved roadway shall include a
paved approach to the driveway per county road and bridge standards.
      5.   Existing ditch or canal roads shall not be utilized as access.
      6.   Driveways may cross ditch or canal roads with a crossing license or
agreement that includes the provision of a culvert or bridge as approved by the
ditch or canal company and fire district to ensure existing water flow is not
inhibited. Culvert or bridge shall be per Gem County road and bridge standards
if within the county right-of-way.
      7.   All road intersections shall comply with sight triangle requirements
per the Gem County road and bridge standards.
   C.   Access to a parcel of land to be used as a building site that does not
have contiguous road frontage shall include a minimum forty (40) foot wide
recorded easement, right of way, or deeded strip of land for driveway access.
(Ord. 2025- 06, 3-24-2025)
CHAPTER 24
PRIVATE ROAD STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-24-1: Design Standards Applicable To Type A Private Roads
11-24-2: Design Standards Applicable To Type B Private Roads
11-24-3: Design Standards Applicable To Type C Private Roads
11-24-4: Design Standards Applicable To All Private Roads
11-24-5: Change Of Private Road Use Standards
11-24-6: Maintenance Provisions Applicable To All New Private Roads And
Extensions Or Expansion Of Existing Private Roads
11-24-1:   DESIGN STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO TYPE A PRIVATE ROADS:
   A.   Design Standards. All previously approved private roads, existing as of
the effective date of this chapter, shall demonstrate compliance with any
applicable maintenance agreements and standards in existence at the time the
road was approved. (Ord. 2025-06, 3-24-2025)
11-24-2:   DESIGN STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO TYPE B PRIVATE ROADS:
   A.   Design Standards. All new private roads shall demonstrate compliance
with the following design standards within the required subdivision plat or
development application.
      1.   All Type B private roads shall be entirely located within a minimum
forty (40) foot wide perpetual access easement, tract, or lot.
         a.   Where a non-buildable lot is established for location of a
private road, the minimum lot size requirements designated for each zone
district shall not apply to the non-buildable lot and said lot shall be
designated as non-buildable. Shared driveways shall be excluded from this
provision.
         b.   Type B roads shall be designed at a minimum per Idaho Standards
for public works construction (ISPWC) standards consisting of twelve (12)
inches of compacted pit run aggregate base course and four (4) inches of
compacted road mix leveling. (Ord. 2025-06, 3-24-2025)
11-24-3:   DESIGN STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO TYPE C PRIVATE ROADS:
   A.   Design Standards. All private roads that could be dedicated to the
county for public use for connectivity in the future shall demonstrate
compliance with the following design standards within the required subdivision
plat or development application.
      1.   Type C private roads shall be located within a minimum sixty (60)
foot tract or lot and paved per Idaho standards for public works construction
(ISPWC).
         a.   Where a non-buildable lot is established for location of a
private road, the minimum lot size requirements designated for each zone
district shall not apply to the non-buildable lot and said lot shall be
designated as non-buildable. Shared driveways shall be excluded from this
provision.
         b.   Once full road connection is complete, the tract(s) or lot(s)
would be dedicated to the county as public-right-of-way.
      2.   Creation of, or conversion to, a Type C private road requires a
development agreement, recorded with the county clerk and recorder, stating
maintenance and transfer of ownership requirements for the eventual public
dedication. (Ord. 2025-06, 3-24-2025)
11-24-4:   DESIGN STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ALL PRIVATE ROADS:
   A.   All new private roads and extensions or expansions of existing private
roads shall consist of a minimum improved surface width of twenty-four (24)
feet with borrow ditches on either side for drainage. Borrow ditches shall be
per the Gem County road and bridge standards.
   B.   Underground conduit for utilities shall be coordinated with all utility
providers before they are completed to prevent future disruption for
installation and to determine easement locations.
   C.   The fire district may require secondary access to a lot or subdivision
if it is determined that there is not adequate accessibility to the lot for
emergency management.
   D.   Gravel private roads connecting to a paved public or private roadway
shall include a paved approach to the new or expanded private road or road
addition per County road and bridge standards.
   E.   Private roads shall not exceed seven (7) percent grade. Exception to
this standard may be granted by the fire district, however, the county will not
accept roads in excess of seven (7) percent grade for public dedication.
   F.   No more than two (2) roads shall intersect at one point.
   G.   All gates on private roads shall comply with fire district standards
and be placed no closer than fifty feet (50') from the right-of-way of the
connecting road to allow for adequate pull off and turnaround distance for
emergency vehicles.
   H.   All road intersections shall comply with sight triangle requirements
per the Gem County road and bridge standards.
   I.   Roads shall be constructed with turnarounds and pull-outs to meet the
minimum size and length as set forth in the Gem County road and bridge
standards and applicable fire district standards.
   J.   Provision for future roads planned to connect to undeveloped parcels
shall be made by the applicant. Roads that are a continuation of established
roads shall be aligned so that the centerlines align within no more than ten
(10) feet of each other. Easements to protect future connections shall be shown
on the document of record.
   K.   Provision for future pedestrian connections planned within a
subdivision shall be made by the applicant per section
11-26-3 .
   L.   All roads within an area of city Impact (AOCI) shall be constructed to
the city's public street standard for an urban local.
   M.   Existing ditch or canal roads shall not be utilized as access.
   N.   Roads may cross ditch or canal roads with a crossing license or
agreement that includes the provision of a culvert or bridge as approved by the
ditch or canal company and fire district to ensure existing water flow is not
inhibited. Culvert or bridge shall be per Gem County road and bridge standards
if within the county right-of-way. (Ord. 2025-06, 3-24-2025)
11-24-5:   CHANGE OF PRIVATE ROAD USE STANDARDS:
   A.   The following shall apply to any change or expansion of road use due to
the addition of lots or uses requiring a development application.
      1.   When an existing private road has prior written approval and
provides access for the additional lots or use being proposed, the previously
approved private road may be expanded upon demonstrating approval and adequate
access as part of the property development application. Submitted documents
shall include:
         a.   A copy of the recorded perpetual access easement that
demonstrates the easement is appurtenant to the additional lots or uses;
         b.   The recorded maintenance agreement that demonstrates it is
applicable to the additional lots or uses.
      2.   When the existing private road does not provide for access for the
additional lots or use as described in paragraph 1 above, all easements and
agreements associated with the private road for expansion, as measured from the
point of origin, shall be amended or created to include the additional lots or
use per the following:
         a.   The proportion of property owners required for modification
pursuant to the applicable existing perpetual access easement or maintenance
agreements; or
         b.   Approval of two thirds (2/3) of the property owners associated
with the perpetual access easement or maintenance agreement; and.
         c.   The amended perpetual access easement and maintenance agreement
shall include the new properties or use and, as applicable, acknowledgment of
other agreements along the same road, as measured from the point of origin. If
no maintenance agreement exists, one shall be established at this time; and
         d.   New accessory uses, including accessory dwelling units and home
occupation permits, that are indicated as a permitted use in title 11, section
5, Zoning Matrix, associated with an existing property are exempt from this
provision.
      3.   Extended or expanded portions of a private road shall be constructed
per the following:
         a.   Idaho standards for public works construction (ISPWC) standards
consisting of twelve (12) inches of compacted pit run aggregate base course and
four (4) inches of compacted road mix leveling.
         b.   If the existing road is substandard, then the new extended
portion of the road shall be built with a smooth transition between roads.
(Ord. 2025-06, 3-24-2025)
11-24-6:   MAINTENANCE PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL NEW PRIVATE ROADS AND
EXTENSIONS OR EXPANSION OF EXISTING PRIVATE ROADS:
   A.   A binding agreement shall be recorded for all private roads that
minimally:
      1.   Provides for the perpetual maintenance of the private road,
      2.   Provides that said agreement shall run with the land,
      3.   Acknowledges that the maintenance agreement may be amended with
future subdivision of land along the private road that results in additional
lots, and
      4.   Be binding on all successors, heirs, and assigns.
   B.   Duty To Maintain Access. Any person or group who is responsible for the
maintenance of private roads which are necessary for access by residents or for
public utility services, vehicles, or equipment, or by emergency personnel,
vehicles, or equipment, shall continuously maintain such roads in an
unobstructed condition.
   C.   All private roads shall be continuously maintained in conformance with
the standards of this section.
   D.   Failure To Maintain. If the responsible party fails to maintain the
road per the approved agreement, they shall be penalized per section
12-1-8 : Enforcement and Penalties.
      1.   Whenever a failure to maintain exists which cannot be abated or
removed because the person or persons responsible therefore cannot be found, or
when the party or parties responsible for the failure to maintain has, on at
least one occasion failed and/or refused to abate or remove said maintenance
failure, any duly authorized representative of the county shall be empowered to
take steps necessary to maintain or abate the failure when such failure has
reason to cause harm to people or property, and retains the right to cause the
same to be done by abatement action with courts against the said responsible
party or parties. (Ord. 2025-06, 3-24-2025)
CHAPTER 25
PUBLIC ROAD STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-25-1 :   Design Standards Applicable To All Public Roads
11-25-1:   DESIGN STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ALL PUBLIC ROADS:
   A.   All public roads shall be designed and constructed per the Gem County
road and bridge standards.
      1.   Right-of-way shall be dedicated to the county.
         a.   Acceptance of dedication of roads or other public areas or
facilities shall be by the board of county commissioners after review and
recommendation by the county engineer.
         b.   Any dedications for property and/or public improvements shall be
free and clear of all liens and encumbrances.
      2.   No more than two (2) roads shall intersect at one point.
      3.   Roads for industrial and commercial subdivisions and accessory
parking shall be planned to connect with arterial roads so as not to generate
traffic on local or minor roads.
      4.   Provision for future roads planned to connect to undeveloped parcels
shall be made by the applicant. Roads that are a continuation of established
roads shall be aligned so that the centerlines align within no more than ten
(10) feet of each other. Easements to protect future connections shall be shown
on the document of record.
      5.   Provision for future pedestrian connections planned within a
subdivision shall be made by the applicant per section
11-26-3 .
      6.   All roads within an area of city impact (AOCI) shall be constructed
to the city's public street standard for an urban local.
      7.   Existing ditch or canal roads shall not be utilized as access.
      8.   Roads may cross ditch or canal roads with a crossing license or
agreement that includes the provision of a culvert or bridge as approved by the
ditch or canal company and fire district to ensure existing water flow is not
inhibited. Culvert or bridge shall be per Gem County road and bridge standards
if within the county right-of-way.
      9.   New public roads that will serve as a continuation of an existing
public road shall be built to the same width, material, and right-of-way
standards as the existing road.
      10.   If the existing road is substandard, then the new road shall be
built to the minimum standards of this chapter with a smooth transition between
roads.
      11.   New public roads connecting to a state highway shall obtain all
necessary permits from, Idaho transportation department (ITD).
      12.   New public roads require an approach permit from the county road
and bridge department.
      13.   New public roads are required to complete the fire district
permitting process.
      14.   All new or upgraded points of access to County Roads shall obtain
an approach permit through the Gem County Road and Bridge Department which
could include a right-of-way permit.
      15.   All road intersections shall comply with sight triangle
requirements per the Gem County road and bridge standards.
      16.   Access to a parcel of land to be used as a building site that does
not have contiguous road frontage shall include a minimum forty (40) foot wide
recorded easement, right of way, or deeded strip of land for driveway access.
      17.   Spacing of access points shall be in conformance with Gem County
road and bridge standards.
      18.   Underground conduit for utilities shall be coordinated with all
utility providers before they are completed to prevent future disruption for
installation and to determine easement locations. (Ord. 2025-06, 3-24-2025)
CHAPTER 26
SUPPLEMENTARY STANDARDS APPLICABLE
TO ALL ROADS
SECTION:
11-26-1: Road Naming
11-26-2: Bus Stops
11-26-3: Pedestrian Access
11-26-1:   ROAD NAMING:
   A.   Authority. The director of development services shall have authority to
approve road names.
   B.   Approvals Required. Approval shall be obtained from the director of
development services according to the requirements of this chapter for the
right to use a road name and its accompanying predirection and post type. No
sign designating any road may be erected until such approval is obtained and
address assigned.
   C.   Road Naming Application Procedure.
      1.   Applications to name new roads or existing unnamed roads may only be
submitted by the property owner or their authorized representative in
conjunction with a development application such as for a subdivision or private
road.
      2.   An application to name a new road shall contain the following:
         a.   A completed application form.
         b.   A map or plan which accurately depicts the location and names of
existing and proposed roads. If the application is associated with a proposed
subdivision, a copy of the preliminary plat must be submitted.
      3.   Road Naming Application Review.
         a.   The director of development services shall review proposed road
names for conformance with the requirements fo this chapter and shall grant
tentative approval for applications that are found to be in compliance.
         b.   A property owners having frontage on the affected private road
shall be notified by mail of the proposed naming of the private road and
provided a copy of the application.
         c.   Property owners have fourteen (14) business days from the mailing
of the application notice to provide written comments to the director of
development services regarding the proposed name.
         d.   The director of development services shall not make a final
approval pursuant to the procedures provided in this chapter until the
fourteenth (14) business day period has expired.
         e.   As part of the review process, the director of development
services shall forward the application to relevant referral agencies for
review, and those agencies shall be given ten (10) business days to provide
comment on the application’s compliance with this chapter and the agency’s
standards. The director of development services shall consider these comments
in determining whether to approve or deny the application. Application must be
sent to the designated committee for review.
         f.   The director of development services shall notify the applicant
of the results of the review. If an applicant is denied, the reasons for denial
shall be provided.
      4.   Tentative Approval.
         a.   Upon granting tentative approval for a proposed road name, the
director of development services shall reserve the road name for the exclusive
use of the applicant, pending final approval of the associated development
application.
         b.   Tentative approval shall be rescinded for the following reasons,
in which case the applicant must reapply to use the road name:
            (1)   The applicant changes the layout of the proposed road after
tentative approval.
            (2)   Final development approval is not obtained within twenty-
four (24) months of the tentative approval.
            (3)   Another development and the development’s road names or
layout cause the applicant proposed names to be out of compliance with this
chapter.
      5.   Final Approval.
         a.   If no exceptions are taken to the tentative approval then final
approval of the road name shall be granted automatically with final approval of
the associated development application.
   D.   Changing Existing Road Names.
      1.   Existing road names may only be changed by an affirmative action of
the board of county commissioners at a public hearing, except for the
correction of scrivener’s errors as provided in this section.
      2.   Initiation Of Change.
         a.   The director of development services or another public agency may
request a road name change if the current name is no tin compliance with this
chapter and/or the current name negatively impacts public safety or the
delivery of public services.
         b.   An owner of property along a road may request that the road name
be changed by filing an application with the director of development services.
In order for the application to be considered, the property owner must first
obtain approval for the change form two thirds (2/3) of the property owners
along the subject road.
      3.   Application. A road name change application shall contain the
following:
         a.   A completed application form.
         b.   A map or plan which accurately depicts the location and names of
existing and proposed roads.
         c.   An explanation of the reason for the requested name change.
         d.   A list of the names and addresses of all property owners along
the road or with access from the private road.
         e.   A signed petition exhibiting consent from a minimum of two thirds
(2/3) of the property owners along the road or with access from the private
road for which the name change is being requested.
      4.   Application Review.
         a.   The director of development services shall review proposed road
names for conformance with the requirements of this chapter and shall schedule
a board of county commissioners hearing for applications that are found to be
in compliance.
         b.   As part of the review process, the director of development
services shall forward the application to applicable referral agencies for
review, and those agencies shall be given ten (10) business days to provide
comment on the application’s compliance with this chapter and the agency’s
standards. The director of development services shall forward such comments to
the board of county commissioners for consideration. Applications must be sent
to the designated committee for review.
         c.   The director of development services shall notify the applicant
of the results of the review. If an application is denied, the reasons for
denial shall be provided.
      5.   Notice Of Public Hearing: All owners of property along the subject
road shall be notified by mail of the public hearing at least fifteen (15) days
before the hearing. The notice shall include the reason for the change and
information about the board of county commissioners hearing.
      6.   Effective Date: Upon an affirmative action by the board of county
commissioners, a road name change shall become effective sixty (60) days after
the date of the board of county commissioners decision.
      7.   Notice Of Change: The director of development services shall mail
notices of a road name change to affected property owners within seven (7) days
of the board of county commissioners decision. The director of development
services shall notify certain public agencies of a road name change within
thirty (30) days of the board of county commissioners decision. Notice shall be
provided to affected agencies, as determined by the director of development
services, including public health and safety agencies, the United States Postal
Services and utility companies.
      8.   Subsequent Address Changes: After a road name change, the director
of development services and the county assessor shall change the addresses of
any affected structures or properties to reflect the new road name, according
to the requirement of this chapter.
      9.   The applicant is responsible for all costs and fees related to the
new sign and placement.
      10.   If the road is part of a subdivision, and recorded as such on a
plat, a subdivision re-plat shall be required to update the road name on the
plat. All costs associated with the re-plat, including recording, shall be the
responsibility of the applicant.
      11.   Corrective Scrivener’s Errors.
         a.   In the event a plat is recorded with a scrivener’s error,
including, but not limited to, a misspelled road name or an incorrect or
missing predirectional or posttype, the director of development services may
correct the road name by filing an affidavit of read name change with the
county recorder.
         b.   The director of development services shall mail a notice of the
road name affidavit to all owners of property along the subject road at least
fourteen (14) business days prior to recordation.
         c.   If, as determined by the director of development services, the
incorrect road name is significantly different in spelling or pronunciation
from the correct name and the incorrect name is already in public use, the road
name change affidavit must be approved by the board of county commissioners at
a public hearing prior to recordation.
   E.   Road Naming Standards. Roads names shall conform to the following
standards:
      1.   Any road, whether public or private, that provides access to three
(3) or more addressed structures or properties must be officially named
accoridng to the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   Road names shall not be more than thirteen (13) letters in length,
including spaces, except for when an existing road with a nonconforming name is
to be extended.
      3.   Road names shall not contain the words North, South, East, or West
or any combination thereof. These shall only be used as predirectionals.
      4.   Proposed road names shall not duplicate existing names in spelling
or pronunciation. Differentiation between existing and proposed names shall not
be accomplished by changes in spelling or by the use of different
predirectionals or posttypes.
      5.   Proposed road names shall not sound alike or be easily confused with
existing road names as determined by the director of the development services.
      6.   Proposed road names shall not be vulgar or profane as determined by
the director of development services.
      7.   Where a proposed road is in general alignment with an existing road
and is determined by the director of development services to be a continuation
of that road, the existing road’s name shall be continued to the proposed road.
   F.   Variances And Appeals:
      1.   Variance: The requirements of this chapter may be varied by the
board where their enforcement will result in extraordinary individual hardship,
provided the public interest is served. An applicant for such a variance must
specifically state the hardship caused by these regulations and adequately
prove that the variance will not cause an adverse effect to the health, safety
and welfare of the public. In granting any variance, the board may impose
conditions, as necessary, to ensure substantial compliance with the general
principles of this chapter.
      2.   Appeal: Any person, firm or corporation may appeal a decision of the
director of development services to the board by filing a written notice of
appeal within twenty (20) days after the decision. The notice of appeal shall
specifically state where the director of development services erred in the
interpretation or application of this chapter; failure to do so shall be
grounds of dismissal of the appeal. Copies of the notice shall also be
submitted to the director of development services and county clerk. (Ord. 2025-
06, 3-24-2025)
11-26-2:   BUS STOPS:
   A.   Applicability. This section shall apply to all official school bus stop
lications on public and private roads.
   B.   Design Standards. All school bus stops shall be designed to the
following standards:
      1.   The bus stop shall be located so that the school bus stops in the
far- right lane of traffic.
      2.   A concrete pad with minimum dimensions of ten (10) feet wide by ten
(10) feet long shall be located adjacent to the roadway abutting the edge of
pavement or edge of the road’s travelway.
         a.   Bus stops shall be located within the right-of-way and shall not
interfere with roadside drainage.
   C.   A minimum of one (1) pedestrian light shall be provided which fully
illuminates the concrete pad to meet the following minimum standards:
      1.   Light pole shall be a minimum of ten (10) feet in height;
      2.   Light shall be solar operated; and
      3.   Light fixture shall be downward directed and shielded.
   D.   Signage shall be installed which clearly designates the dedicated space
as a school bus stop.
   E.   Sidewalks or pathways connecting to the bus stop or in the vicinity of
the bus stop shall be located separate from and adjacent to the concrete pad
with clear and safe physical and visual access to the bus stop area per the
Americans with disabilities act (ADA) requirements.
Figure 1. Bus Stop Standards Illustrated
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4764d6e064d6cb077faf9e50a7dbd401dea0b7c6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1561.png]
(Ord. 2025-06, 3-24-2025)
11-26-3:   PEDESTRIAN ACCESS:
   A.   Applicability. This section shall apply to all pathways associated with
public and private roads.
      1.   All major subdivisions shall include a pedestrian pathway per the
design standards below.
      2.   All minor subdivisions shall include an easement for future
potential development of a pedestrian pathway to provide access to bus stops
and connect to adjacent pathways as additional subdivision occurs expanding the
collective development beyond the scope of a minor subdivision.
      3.   All subdivisions that meet the definition of hillside development
per this code shall be exempt from meeting these pedestrian access
requirements.
   B.   Design Standards. All pathways shall be designed to the following
standards:
         a.   Pathways shall be located in one of the following:
         b.   Within the right-of-way which may be expanded to accommodate the
pedestrian improvements as necessary;
         c.   Within a minimum ten (10) foot wide pedestrian pathway easement
adjacent to the right-of-way; or
         d.   Within a minimum ten (10) foot wide pedestrian pathway easement
elsewhere on the property that connects at major roadway intersections.
Figure 2. Pedestrian Pathway Standards Illustrated
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4764d6e064d6cb077faf9e50a7dbd401dea0b7c6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1563.png]
   C.   All pathways shall be a minimum of five (5) feet in width.
   D.   Pathways along paved roads shall be paved per Gem County road and
bridge standards.
   E.   Pathways along unpaved roads shall be constructed of materials approved
for Americans with disabilities act (ADA) accessibility.
   F.   All pathways shall maintain grades to meet ADA accessibility standards.
(Ord. 2025-06, 3-24-2025)
TITLE 12
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
AUTHORITY, APPLICABILITY AND AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Title
12-1-2: Authority
12-1-3: Applicability And Jurisdiction
12-1-4: Purposes
12-1-5: Enactment
12-1-6: Amendments
12-1-7: Fees
12-1-8: Enforcement And Penalties
12-1-9: Interpretation, Conflict, And Separability
12-1-10: Savings Provision
12-1-11: Reservations And Repeals
12-1-12: Exceptions
12-1-13: Time Limits
12-1-1: TITLE:
These regulations shall officially be known, cited, and referred to as the
SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE OF GEM COUNTY, IDAHO. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-1-2: AUTHORITY:
This title is adopted pursuant to the authority delegated to Gem County
pursuant to article 12, section 2 of the Idaho constitution, and Idaho Code
title 67, chapter 65 and title 50, chapter 13.
The provisions of this title shall be administered to ensure orderly growth and
development and shall supplement and implement provisions of the Comprehensive
Plan applicable to Gem County and of this code. In accordance with this title,
the Board of County Commissioners of Gem County, the Gem County Planning and
Zoning Commission, and the Gem County Development Services Department are
vested with the authority to review, approve, approve with conditions, or
disapprove applications for the creation of subdivisions as set forth in this
title. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009; amd. Ord. 2022-07, 8-1-2022)
12-1-3: APPLICABILITY AND JURISDICTION:
These regulations shall apply to the creation of subdivisions, as defined by
this title, within the unincorporated territory of Gem County. In accordance
with the Emmett area of city impact agreement between Gem County and the city
of Emmett (set forth in Gem County ordinance 2007-18), these regulations shall
apply within the Emmett area of city impact, except that all applications for
the creation of a subdivision within one mile of the city limits of the city of
Emmett shall be governed by the subdivision ordinance of the city of Emmett.
It shall be unlawful for any person to create a subdivision without first
complying with the provisions of this title and any other applicable provisions
of this code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to transfer ownership of lots created by
the subdivision of land before a plat has been prepared and recorded pursuant
to Idaho Code, title 50, chapter 13. No plat shall be recorded until all
improvements required by the provisions of this title and this code have been
constructed and accepted by Gem County or have been suitably guaranteed in
accordance with the provisions of this title.
No subdivision permit application shall be accepted by the department when the
property sought to be subdivided is not in compliance with all applicable local
land use ordinances or is the subject of unresolved local land use ordinance
violations. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-1-4: PURPOSES:
Lands proposed for subdivision must be suitable and safe for building without
danger from flood, or other natural or manmade hazard. Proposed improvements/
infrastructure shall conform to and not be in conflict with the goals and
policies set forth in the comprehensive plan applicable to Gem County. It is
intended that these regulations shall complement and implement provisions and
standards contained in building codes, zoning ordinances, and the comprehensive
plan.
These provisions are adopted to provide for the orderly division of land within
the unincorporated areas of Gem County, and:
   A.   To protect and provide for the public health, safety, and general
welfare of Gem County.
   B.   To guide the future growth and development of Gem County in accordance
with the comprehensive plan.
   C.   To protect the character and the social and economic stability of all
parts of Gem County.
   D.   To provide adequate and efficient roads, water, sewerage, drainage,
parks, and other public services and facilities.
   E.   To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivisions in order to further the orderly layout and use of land, and to
ensure proper legal description and monumentation of subdivided land.
   F.   To ensure that Gem County and its residents will bear no more than
their fair share of any cost of providing services by requiring the applicant
to pay fees, furnish land, or undertake measures to mitigate impacts on
services generated by the creation of subdivisions.
   G.   To assure the adequacy of drainage facilities, to safeguard the water
table, aquifers and other drinking water sources, and to encourage the wise use
and management of natural resources in order to preserve the stability, beauty,
and value of land in Gem County.
   H.   To provide open space through the most efficient design and layout of
the land, while preserving the density of development as established in the
zoning ordinance of Gem County and the comprehensive plan. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-
2009)
12-1-5: ENACTMENT:
In order that subdivisions are created in accordance with these purposes and
policies, this title is hereby adopted and shall become effective upon its
passage and publication according to law. All applications for a subdivision
permit pending on the effective date of these regulations shall be reviewed
pursuant to the ordinance in effect at the time the original complete
application was accepted for processing by the department. Applications that
have been filed prior to adoption hereof but that have lapsed due to inaction
by the applicant for a period of one hundred twenty (120) days shall be
governed by this title if and when the application is refiled. Every
subdivision shall conform to all local land use regulations applicable at the
official submission date. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-1-6: AMENDMENTS:
When necessary to further its purposes, this title may be amended in the manner
prescribed by Idaho law. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-1-7: FEES:
Gem County may charge reasonable fees sufficient to recover costs incurred by
Gem County in administering this title. Such fees shall be set forth by
resolution adopted by the board.
Gem County may, as a condition of approval of a subdivision, require mitigation
of the effects of the proposed subdivision on the ability of Gem County, and
other political subdivisions, to deliver services without compromising quality
or imposing substantial additional costs to current residents. Such conditions
may not exceed the impact of the proposed subdivision unless the applicant
agrees to such conditions. In lieu of such mitigation or as a complement
thereto, the applicant may agree in writing to pay fees that will be used by
Gem County to mitigate such impacts. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-1-8: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
It shall be the duty of the administrator or his/her designees to enforce the
provisions of this title.
No owner or agent of the owner of any parcel of land located in a proposed
subdivision shall transfer or sell any part of the parcel before a final plat
of the subdivision has been approved by the board and filed with the Gem County
recorder in accordance with this title and Idaho Code title 50, chapter 13.
No building permit shall be issued for the construction of any building or
structure on a lot or plat that has been created or sold in violation of the
provisions of this title, nor shall Gem County have any obligation to issue
certificates of occupancy to any parcel created or established in violation of
this title.
Violations of the provisions of this title shall be subject to the general
penalties outlined in Title 1, Chapter 4 of this code. Gem County shall have
recourse to such civil remedies in law and equity as may be necessary to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this title. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009; amd.
Ord. 2022-05, 6- -2022)
12-1-9: INTERPRETATION, CONFLICT, AND SEPARABILITY:
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title shall be
held to be the minimum requirements. More stringent provisions may be required
if it is demonstrated that such standards are necessary to protect the public
health, safety and welfare.
These regulations are not intended to interfere with, abrogate, or annul any
other ordinance, rule, regulation, statute, or other provision of law except as
provided in these regulations. Where any provision of these regulations imposes
restrictions different from those imposed by any other provision of these
regulations or any other ordinance, rule, regulation, or other provision of
law, the provision that is more restrictive or imposes the standards most
likely to protect the public health, safety and general welfare shall control.
These regulations are not intended to abrogate any easement, private covenant,
or any other private agreement or restriction, provided that where the
provisions of these regulations are more restrictive or impose higher standards
or regulations, the requirements of these regulations shall govern irrespective
of private contractual provision.
The provisions of this title are separable. If any section, sentence, clause,
or phrase of this title is adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
invalid, the decision shall not affect the remaining portions of this title.
The remainder shall be interpreted to further the purposes of this title.
The provisions of this title serve to supersede prior ordinances regulating the
creation of subdivisions in Gem County. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-1-10: SAVINGS PROVISION:
The adoption of these regulations shall not abate any action now pending under
prior subdivision regulations or abate, modify, or alter any penalty accruing
or about to accrue.
These regulations shall not waive any right of Gem County under any section or
provision existing at the time of adoption, or vacate or annul any rights
obtained by any person, firm, or corporation by lawful action of Gem County
except as expressly provided for herein. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-1-11: RESERVATIONS AND REPEALS:
Upon the adoption of these regulations according to law, the subdivision
ordinance of Gem County, as previously adopted and amended, is hereby repealed.
(Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-1-12: EXCEPTIONS:
Where strict compliance with these regulations and/or the purposes of these
regulations may be better served by an alternative proposal, the board may
approve exceptions to these regulations. An "exception" is any alternative
design, or proposed change to these subdivision ordinance requirements that is
requested by the applicant. The exception requested must be reviewed as an
integral part of the overall review process as outlined in this title.
A request for an exception shall be submitted in writing by the applicant at
the time the subdivision permit application is filed and shall be reviewed
along with the subdivision permit application. The request shall specify the
ordinance provisions for which the applicant is requesting the exception, along
with the proposed changes and the reasons why the changes are necessary. The
commission shall make a recommendation to the board specific to the exception
requested. A final decision on the exception shall be made by the board at the
time it issues its final decision on the subdivision permit application.
The granting of an exception shall not have the effect of nullifying the intent
and purpose of these regulations. The board shall not permit exceptions unless
it finds, based upon the evidence presented to it in each specific case, that:
   A.   The granting of the exception will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health, or welfare or injurious to other property, and
   B.   The conditions upon which the request is based are unique to the
property for which the relief is sought and are not applicable generally to
other property, and
   C.   Because of the shape, or topographical conditions of the specific
property involved, a particular and unnecessary hardship to the owner would
result if the strict application of these regulations is applied, and
   D.   The change sought will not vary the provisions of the zoning ordinance
or comprehensive plan, except that those documents may be amended in the manner
prescribed by law.
In approving exceptions, the board may require conditions that will secure the
purposes of this title. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-1-13: TIME LIMITS:
Time limits contained within this title are directory. Violation of time limits
established in this title shall not be the basis for damages and shall have no
effect on the approval or disapproval of a subdivision. Time limits provided
herein may be extended for good cause. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITION OF TERMS
SECTION:
12-2-1: Definitions; General Requirements
12-2-2: Definitions
12-2-1: DEFINITIONS; GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
For the purposes of this title, the following terms, phrases, and words shall
have the meanings given below. When inconsistent with the context, words in the
plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely
directory. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
ADT (AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC): The average number of cars per day that pass by or
through a given location.
ACCESS: A clear and unobstructed means of ingress and egress.
ADMINISTRATOR: The administrator of the Gem County development services
department, his or her designee, or another official expressly appointed by the
board of county commissioners to administer the subdivision ordinance.
AFFECTED PERSON: One having an interest in real property that may be adversely
affected by the issuance or denial of a subdivision permit, as set forth in
title 67, chapter 65, Idaho Code.
ALLEY: A right of way designed to serve as secondary access to the side or rear
of those properties whose principal frontage is on some other road.
APPLICANT: The individual or entity that has filed, or intends to file, an
application for a subdivision permit or a final plat pursuant to this title.
The legal or beneficial owner or owners of a lot or of any land included in a
proposed subdivision may file an application for the creation of a subdivision.
An application may also be filed by the holder of an option or contract to
purchase, or any other person having enforceable proprietary interest in such
land with a signed consent from the property owner. An applicant as defined
herein may be represented by an agent. When the applicant is not an owner, a
signed consent from the property owner granting authority to act on such
application must be submitted to the development services department.
APPROACH: The location at which an access intersects with a public road.
ARTERIAL, MINOR: The second highest level of road as defined by the Gem County
road and bridge department and designated on the functional classification map
of Gem County.
ARTERIAL, PRINCIPAL: The highest level of road as defined by the Gem County
road and bridge department and designated on the functional classification map
of Gem County.
BICYCLE LANE: A lane at the edge of a roadway reserved and marked for the
exclusive use of bicycles.
BICYCLE PATH OR PATHWAY: A pathway, either separated from the roadway, or as
its own lane within the roadway, designed to be used by nonmotorized vehicles.
BLOCK: A tract of land containing a lot or lots in a subdivision completely
surrounded by public rights of way or boundaries of the subdivision.
BOARD: The board of county commissioners of Gem County, Idaho.
CENTRAL WATER SYSTEM: Any water delivery system, other than an individual well,
used to provide domestic water.
COLLECTOR ROAD: A road which carries traffic from minor roads to arterial
roads, including the principal entrance roads of a residential development and
roads for circulation within such a development.
COMMISSION, PLANNING AND ZONING: The Planning and Zoning Commission of Gem
County as appointed by the Board of County Commissioners. Primary
responsibilities will be to make zoning decisions and to make long term
planning recommendations for the County. The use of the term “Commission” in
this ordinance shall refer to the Planning and Zoning Commission unless
otherwise noted.
CONCEPT PLAN: A preliminary presentation and attendant documentation of a
proposed subdivision of sufficient accuracy to be used for the purpose of
discussion and classification. The concept plan shall include, but is not
limited to:
   A.   Vicinity map, including all properties of record within one-half (1/2)
mile of the site;
   B.   Adjacent property map showing existing buildings, roads, irrigation
facilities, and other key natural features;
   C.   Plat map showing proposed lots, roads, open space, general utilities/
services, topography, existing trees over four inch (4") caliper in size,
existing buildings, and all waterways (including floodplain, wetlands, etc.).
CONDOMINIUM: An estate consisting of an undivided interest in common real
property, in an interest or interests in real property, or in any combination
thereof, together with a separate interest in real property, in an interest or
interests in real property, or in any combination thereof.
CONDOMINIUM PLAN: A plat of the ground in a condominium project along with the
legal description of the individual ownership(s) within the project.
CONDOMINIUM PLAT: The drawing of a division of real property into individual
interests in common together with a separate interest in the real property for
the purpose of establishing condominium ownership together with the declaration
that is filed according to law with the county recorder.
CONTIGUOUS: Sharing a common boundary.
CONVEYANCE: The transfer of an interest in real property from one person or
entity to another.
COUNTY: Gem County, Idaho, and its governing board.
CUL-DE-SAC: A local road with only one outlet and having the other end for the
reversal of traffic movement.
DAY(S): Calendar day(s).
DEDICATION: The setting apart of land or interest in land for use by the
public. Land becomes dedicated only when accepted by the board of county
commissioners as a public dedication, either through the recording of a
subdivision plat, by the passage of a county ordinance or by entry of a
resolution of approval in the official minute book of the meeting of the board
of commissioners.
DENSITY: The permitted number of dwelling units per gross acre of land to be
developed.
DEPARTMENT: The Gem County development services department.
DEVELOPMENT: Any grading, vegetation removal, construction activity, or any
other activity, excluding maintenance, which changes the existing character or
use of the land or has any impact on adjoining properties.
EXCEPTION: Any requested alternative design or change in subdivision ordinance
requirements.
EXPANSION OF USE: An increase in the scope, intensity, or areas of an existing
land use on a property.
FINAL PLAT: The final map of all or a portion of a subdivision that is
presented for final approval (see also definition of Plat).
FINAL PLAT APPROVAL: The official action of the board taken on an approved
subdivision after all conditions, engineering plans, and other requirements
have been completed or fulfilled and the required improvements have been
installed, or guarantees properly posted for their completion.
FLOODPLAIN: The relatively flat area or lowland adjoining the channel of a
river, stream, lake or other body of water which has been or may be covered by
water of a flood on 100-year frequency, as established pursuant to title 13 of
this code. The floodplain includes the channel floodway and floodway fringe, as
follows:
Channel: A natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible extent, with
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct continuously or periodically
flowing water.
Flood: The temporary inundation of land adjacent to and inundated by overflow
from a river, stream, lake or other body of water.
Flood On 100-Year Frequency: A flood magnitude, which has a one percent (1%)
chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
Floodway: The channel of a watercourse and those portions of the floodplain
adjoining the channel that are reasonably required to carry and discharge the
floodwater of any watercourse.
Floodway Fringe: That part of the floodplain that is beyond the floodway. Such
areas will include those portions of the floodplain that will be inundated by a
flood on 100-year frequency.
GENERAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN: A plan outlining general, rather than detailed,
development intentions. It describes the basic parameters of a development
proposal; rather than giving full engineering details. As such, it allows
general intentions to be proposed and discussed without the extensive costs
involved in submitting a detailed proposal.
GUARANTEE: See definition of Performance Guarantee or Warranty Guarantee.
HEARING EXAMINER: Appointment by the county commissioners of an individual to
hear applications for subdivision, special use and variance permits, and
requests for zone boundary changes.
HILLSIDE: Parcel, lot, tract or other defined area of land that has at least
thirty percent (30%) of its total area containing an average slope of ten
percent (10%) or more. The slope determinations are based upon U.S. geological
survey (USGS) datum or other acceptable topographic maps prior to any
development occurring on the property.
INFRASTRUCTURE: Roads, sidewalks, pavement, pathways, sanitary and stormwater
facilities, wastewater systems, water systems, electric power, gas lines,
telephone lines and appurtenances, irrigation canals and other such items as
may be required to serve each proposed subdivision and comply with the intent
and findings of the subdivision ordinance.
LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT: A land division consisting of fifty (50) or more
dwelling units.
LOT: A parcel of land of sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements
for use, coverage and area, and to provide such yards and other open spaces as
are herein required, and may consist of:
   A.   A single lot of record:
   B.   A portion of a lot of record; and
   C.   A combination of complete lots of record, or of portions of lots of
record.
LOT, BUILDABLE: A parcel of land that meets the Gem County zoning and
subdivision regulations for building allowing it to be developed for its
intended use.
LOT LINE: A line of record bounding a lot that divides one lot from another lot
or from a public or private road or any other public space in a platted or
proposed subdivision.
LOT, NON- BUILDABLE: A parcel of land that cannot be developed due to its
failure to meet the requirements for legal, physical, or regulatory compliance
as specified the Gen County zoning and subdivision regulations.
MEDIAN: That portion of a divided road separating lanes of traffic proceeding
in opposite directions.
MINOR SUBDIVISION: A subdivision of four (4) or fewer building lots resulting
from the minor subdivision process as set forth in this title.
NO ACCESS STRIP: Physical space that separates a frontage road from the main
arterial or collector and limits traffic access to specific points for safety
and aesthetic reasons.
OFF SITE: Not located on the property that is the subject of a subdivision
permit application or on a contiguous portion of a road or right of way.
ON SITE: Located on the lot in question or on the property proposed for
subdivision.
OPEN SPACE: An area substantially open to the sky which may be on the same lot
with a building. The area may include, along with the natural environmental
features, water areas, swimming pools, tennis courts, picnic areas, and other
recreational facilities that the commission deems permissive. Roads, parking
areas, structures for habitation and the like shall not be included.
ORIGINAL PARCEL: A lot or tract of land as described in the instrument of
conveyance (recorded deed or contract in escrow, etc.) which was recorded prior
to October 10, 1978.
PARCEL: A tract of unplatted land or contiguous land, in single ownership,
considered a unit for purposes of development.
PARKING LANE: A lane usually located on the side of roads, designed to provide
on road parking.
PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE: Security in a form that serves as a guarantee that the
public or identified common improvements required as part of the approval of a
subdivision are satisfactorily completed.
PLAT: The reproducible and permanent drawing of a subdivision and dedications
and easements, prepared for filing and recording with the county recorder in
accordance with state law and this title.
POINT OF ORIGIN: For the purpose of this chapter, point of origin shall mean
the point where the private road or roads intersect with a public road.
PREAPPLICATION CONFERENCE: A meeting among the applicant, department staff, and
other representatives that affords the applicant an opportunity to present the
proposed subdivision informally.
PRIVATE ROAD: A road serving more than two (2) permanent dwellings or
commercial or industrial uses which privately maintained, not dedicated to the
public, not a part of the public highway system, and the beginning of which
shall have a clear point of orgin.
PROPERTY BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT: A realignment of boundary lines between adjoining
lots or parcels where no additional lots or parcels are created and all new
properties meet the minimum zoning requirements for the applicable zone as set
forth in the Gem County zoning ordinance.
PUBLIC OPEN SPACE: A parcel of land or right of use conveyed or otherwise
dedicated to the state or county agency, or other public body for recreational
or conservation uses by the public.
RESIDENTIAL DENSITY: The number of dwelling units per gross acre of residential
land area including roads, easements, and open space portions of a development.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land dedicated or reserved for use as a public
crosswalk, railroad, road, electric transmission line, oil or gas pipeline,
water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, or for other special uses.
STANDARD SUBDIVISION: A subdivision of five (5) or more lots resulting from the
standard subdivision procedures set forth in this title. The standard
subdivision procedures apply to all proposed subdivisions not entitled to use
the minor subdivision process.
SUBDIVIDER: Shall be deemed to be the individual, firm, corporation,
partnership, association, syndicate, trust or other legal entity that executes
the application and initiates proceedings for the subdivision of land in
accordance with the provisions of the subdivision ordinance of Gem County. The
subdivider need not be the owner of the property; however, he shall be an agent
of the owner or have sufficient proprietary rights in the property to represent
the owner.
SUBDIVISION: A tract of land that has been divided into two (2) or more lots,
for the purpose of sale or building development, whether immediate or future;
provided, that this definition shall not include a bona fide division or
partition of agricultural land for agricultural purposes. A "bona fide division
or partition of agricultural land for agricultural purposes" shall mean the
division of land into lots, all of which are five (5) acres or larger, and
maintained as agricultural lands without development (building permit)
capability. If a division of an original parcel is for development purposes and
each parcel is forty (40) acres or greater, than this title shall also apply
upon the fifth division from the original parcel. All divisions of land must be
accomplished in accordance with the standard or minor subdivision processes set
forth in this title unless exempted by the provisions of this title. The term
subdivision also refers to the act of dividing a tract of land into two (2) or
more lots or parcels as set forth above.
The following land divisions do not constitute a subdivision for the purposes
of this title:
   A.   Divisions made for the purpose of property boundary adjustments, as
defined herein, and filed with the county recorder where no additional parcels
are created and where all parcels comply with the requirements of the
underlying zoning classification. Property boundary adjustments shall be
governed by separate ordinance 1 .
   B.   Divisions made as the result of the exercise of the powers of eminent
domain as defined and allowed for by Idaho Code.
   C.   Divisions made for the expansion or acquisition of road rights of way
by a public agency.
   D.   Divisions for conveyance of land to Gem County, a public entity,
homeowners' association or public utility for a public or common purpose (well
site, drainage site, fire station, school site, park site, etc.).
   E.   Division of land into quarter-quarter sections or into parcels equal to
or more than forty (40) acres without development (building permit) capacity.
Division of up to four (4) parcels equal to or more than forty (40) acres is
also exempt.
SUBDIVISION PERMIT: A permit approved by the board that authorizes development
of a subdivision in accordance with this title. Also commonly referred to as an
approved preliminary plat.
SUBDIVISION PERMIT APPROVAL: The approval status of a subdivision permit
application prior to final plat approval but after specific elements of a
subdivision plan have been approved by the board.
SUBDIVISION PLAN: A drawing indicating the proposed layout of a proposed
subdivision showing locations of rights of way and lots and blocks and related
information that is submitted for subdivision permit approval.
TRIP: A single or one-way vehicle movement to or from a property or study area.
"Trips" can be added together to calculate the total number of vehicles
expected to enter and leave a specific land use or site over a designated
period of time.
UNPLATTED: A property that is not included in any subdivision of record in Gem
County.
UTILITIES: Installations or facilities, underground or overhead, furnished for
use by the public, including, but not limited to, electricity, gas, steam,
communications, water, drainage, irrigation, sewage disposal or flood control,
owned and operated by any person, firm, corporation, municipal department or
board duly authorized by state or municipal regulations. Utility or utilities
as used herein may also refer to such persons, firms, corporations, departments
or boards, as applicable herein.
WARRANTY GUARANTEE: A percentage of the cost of public subdivision improvements
provided as cash in escrow, bond, or irrevocable letter of credit to warrant
the design, construction materials, and workmanship of the improvements for a
specified period of time. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009; amd. Ord. 2022-07, 8-1-
2022; Ord. 2025-06, 3-24-2025)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 11, chapter 16 of this code.
CHAPTER 3
SUBDIVISION APPLICATION, REVIEW AND APPROVAL
SECTION:
12-3-1: Purpose And General Process
12-3-2: Sketch Plat Specifications (Rep. by Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-3-3: Preapplication
12-3-4: Neighborhood Meeting
12-3-5: Application
12-3-6: Application Submittal
12-3-7: Minor Subdivision Review And Approval
12-3-7-1: Review Date
12-3-7-2: Notice
12-3-7-3: Review
12-3-7-4: Action
12-3-7-5: Required Findings For Approval Of Minor Subdivision Applications
12-3-7-6: Effective Period Of Minor Subdivision Approval
12-3-7-7: Extension Of The Effective Period
12-3-7-8: Amendments To Approved Minor Subdivision
12-3-8: Standard Subdivision Review And Approval
12-3-8-1: Official Submission Date
12-3-8-2: Public Hearing Date, Notice
12-3-8-3: Staff Report And Recommendation
12-3-8-4: Planning And Zoning Commission Recommendation
12-3-8-5: Board Action
12-3-8-6: Required Findings For Approval Of Standard Subdivision Applications
12-3-8-7: Effective Period Of Standard Subdivision Approval
12-3-8-8: Extension Of The Effective Period
12-3-8-9: Amendments To Approved Standard Subdivision Before Final Plat
Approval
12-3-8-10: Phasing Or Sectionalizing Subdivisions
12-3-9: Construction Plans
12-3-9-1: Effect Of Approval
12-3-10: Further Subdivision In A Recorded, Platted Subdivision; Amending A
Recorded Subdivision Plat
12-3-1: PURPOSE AND GENERAL PROCESS:
All individuals and/or entities desiring to create a subdivision must apply for
a subdivision permit following either the minor or standard subdivision
processes set forth in this chapter, unless otherwise exempted by the
provisions of this title. The purpose of this chapter is to establish the
procedures for review and action on applications for subdivision permits. The
procedures are intended to provide orderly and expeditious processing of
applications for subdivision permits.
Once a subdivision permit is obtained, the applicant must obtain approval of
the final plat prior to its recording. The process for obtaining approval of
the final plat is described in a later chapter of this title. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-
28-2009)
12-3-2: SKETCH PLAT SPECIFICATION:
(Rep. by Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-3-3: PREAPPLICATION:
Prior to the submittal of any minor or standard subdivision permit application,
the applicant shall have completed a preapplication conference.
An applicant seeking a preapplication conference shall submit one copy, on
eleven by seventeen inch (11 x 17") paper, of a concept plan to the
administrator.
The concept plan shall include, but is not limited to, vicinity map, including
all properties of record within one-half (1/2) mile of the site; adjacent
property map showing existing buildings, roads, irrigation facilities, and
other key natural features; and plat map showing proposed lots, roads, open
space, general utilities/services, existing trees over four inch (4") caliper
in size, existing buildings, and all waterways (including floodplain, wetlands,
etc.). The concept plan shall show all parcels under forty (40) acres that are
contiguous to the parcel to be subdivided and are under the same ownership. For
a minor subdivision, the administrator determines which elements of a concept
plan are required and which may be omitted.
The administrator shall schedule and hold the preapplication conference within
thirty (30) days from the submittal date unless the applicant agrees to
additional time.
A preapplication conference allows the applicant an opportunity to meet with
the administrator and other agency/department representatives deemed
appropriate by the administrator. Members of the board and of the commission
shall not participate in the preapplication conference. Items to be reviewed
shall include, but are not limited to:
   A.   The subdivision process.
   B.   Overall design, lot sizes, and road layout.
   C.   Preliminary utility design.
   D.   Conformity with the comprehensive plan and the Gem County zoning
ordinance.
   E.   Potential on site and off site impacts/mitigation.
   F.   Off site/on site improvements.
The administrator may require additional preapplication conferences when the
proposed subdivision is extraordinarily complex, proposes large impacts to Gem
County public services, or requires extraordinary department staff time.
The administrator shall provide the applicant with a written notice to proceed,
which includes a statement of issues, concerns, and recommendations deemed
important by department staff and participating agencies/departments. The
notice to proceed shall be mailed to the applicant within fourteen (14) days of
the completion of the preapplication conference.
The notice to proceed allows the applicant to submit an application for
subdivision review. A notice to proceed states that the proposed subdivision
has been reviewed by appropriate staff and agencies and that the applicant is
eligible to submit an application. It does not constitute an approval in any
way.
A notice to proceed is valid for a period of one hundred twenty (120) days. The
administrator may extend the duration of the notice to proceed for an
additional ninety (90) days if conditions of the preapplication review have not
materially changed. After expiration of a notice to proceed, the applicant
shall be required to resubmit the application for a preapplication conference.
(Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-3-4: NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING:
After receiving a notice to proceed, and prior to submitting an application, an
applicant desiring to submit an application for a subdivision permit for a
subdivision of ten (10) or more proposed lots must conduct a neighborhood
meeting.
Notice of the neighborhood meeting shall be provided to all property owners of
record within three hundred feet (300') of the exterior boundary of the
proposed subdivision property. Notice of the meeting shall be either hand
delivered or mailed to the property owners and shall set forth the time and
place for the meeting.
Notice of the meeting shall be provided at least ten (10) days prior to the
meeting. The meeting shall be held not more than ninety (90) days nor less than
five (5) days prior to the submittal of an application.
The neighborhood meeting shall be conducted by the applicant at a public place
where the applicant shall present the concept plan and allow for comment and
questions by the above specified property owners. The meeting shall not be held
on official holidays or on weekdays between the hours of seven thirty o'clock
(7:30) A.M. and five thirty o'clock (5:30) P.M., unless a written consent
agreeing to the day and time, signed by at least fifty one percent (51%) of the
property owners within three hundred feet (300'), is filed with the department
prior to the neighborhood meeting.
At the time of submitting an application, the applicant shall be required to
demonstrate that a neighborhood meeting was conducted in accordance with this
section by filing a copy of the meeting sign up sheet and a copy of the meeting
notice. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-3-5: APPLICATION:
Applications for any subdivision permit shall be submitted and accepted prior
to the date of the public hearing or the minor subdivision review at which the
subdivision permit application is to be reviewed. No application for any
subdivision permit shall be accepted until a preapplication review has been
completed and a written notice to proceed has been issued by the administrator.
The applicant shall have the option of seeking the direction of the
administrator as to which approvals are required and the appropriate review
process, or of filing an application the applicant believes to be appropriate.
(Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-3-6: APPLICATION SUBMITTAL:
The documents submitted are intended to provide the approving authority with
sufficient information and data to assure compliance with all Gem County
ordinances and specifications and ensure that the proposed subdivision meets
the design and improvement standards contained in this title.
Documents to be submitted are listed and described in this section. In specific
cases and for documented reasons, the administrator may waive the submission of
a particular document. An applicant may request that an incomplete application
be accepted by submitting a letter stating which items are missing and giving a
detailed explanation and rationale for the incomplete submission. The
administrator must determine that the information is not necessary to establish
conformance with the required findings. If so, he/she may deem the application
complete and allow it to be processed. All documents must be submitted, unless
waived in writing, before an application is accepted and processed.
An application for any subdivision permit shall include the following:
   A.   Application Form: An application form, provided by the department,
filled out completely and signed by the applicant.
   B.   Names; Addresses: The names and addresses of the owners of real
property within three hundred feet (300') of the exterior boundaries of the
proposed subdivision. The names and addresses shall be prepared by either the
Gem County assessor's office or by the department.
   C.   Subdivision Plans; Copies: Plans of the proposed subdivision. The
administrator will determine the number of copies. In addition to the paper
plans, a digital copy of the subdivision plat shall be submitted in a format
acceptable to the assessor's office. A reduced copy, eleven inches by seventeen
inches (11" x 17") in dimension, shall also be provided.
   D.   Plan Elements: Plans submitted shall include the elements listed in
table 3-1, "Subdivision Plan Elements", of this section.
   E.   Construction Plans:
      1.   Standard Subdivision: Preliminary construction plans shall be
submitted for all required improvements including sanitary sewer, water supply,
stormwater collection and disposal, roads, and any other elements determined to
be necessary during the preapplication conference. A civil engineer licensed in
Idaho shall prepare preliminary construction plans. Listed elements may be
waived, or additional items added, by the Gem County engineer at the
preapplication conference. The waiving or the addition of elements to the plans
shall be in writing and made a part of the notice to proceed. A list of
elements to be included on preliminary construction plans is found in table 3-
2, "Preliminary Construction Plan Elements", of this section.
   F.   Water Rights Statement: If all or any parts of a proposed subdivision
are located within the boundaries of an existing irrigation district or other
canal company, ditch association, or like irrigation water delivery entity, the
applicant shall submit a statement demonstrating how the applicant is or will
be in compliance with Idaho Code 31-3805 relating to delivery of water.
In addition, if the property has existing surface and/or ground water rights,
the applicant shall include a summary of said rights in this statement and
whether or not the existing water quantity is adequate to meet the proposed
agricultural, domestic, and landscape needs, or whether additional rights will
be sought.
   G.   Neighborhood Meeting Statement: If applicable, a statement of the date,
time and place the meeting was held and a list of the meeting participants.
Include a list of any unresolved issues between the participants and the
developer that were discussed at the meeting.
   H.   Request For Exception: If any exceptions as set forth in this title are
proposed, a statement complying with section
12-1-12 of this title shall be submitted with the application.
   TABLE 3-1
   SUBDIVISION PLAN ELEMENTS
Elements Required Standard Subdivision Minor Subdivision
Elements Required                        Standard Subdivision Minor Subdivision
1. Name of subdivision, name and address X                    X
of the applicant.
2. A vicinity map.                       X                    X
3. Existing or proposed zoning.          X                    X
4. North arrow and scale (1:40           X                    X
preferred).
5. Metes and bounds description with     X                    X
dimensions of the site.
6. Acreage of the tract to the nearest   X                    X
tenth of an acre.
7. Location of existing structures and   X                    X
setbacks from proposed lot lines.
8. Location, width, and names of all
existing or platted roads or other
public ways within or immediately        X                    X
adjacent to the tract, including curbs,
sidewalks and swales.
9. Location, sizes, elevations, and
slopes of existing sewers and/or
septics, water mains and/or wells,       X                    X
culverts, and other underground
structures within the tract and adjacent
thereto.
10. Location and size of proposed sewer
lines and/or community septic systems    X                    X
and water mains and/or wells.
11. Location of existing and proposed    X                     
streetlights.
12. All proposed roads (private and
public); show right of way width,        X                    X
sections, curbs, swales, and sidewalks.
13. Location, dimensions, and area of
all parcels of land to be set aside for
parks, pathways, open space, or other    X                     
public use or for the use of property
owners in the proposed subdivision.
14. Location and size of proposed lots.  X                    X
15. Any existing or proposed easements   X                    X
and right of way dedications.
16. Development phases, or stages, if
the project will be built over several   X                     
years.
17. Existing vegetation on the property
(trees over 4 inch caliper and           X                    X
significant vegetation).
18. Streams, watercourses, wetlands, or  X                    X
floodplains.
19. Proposed road names.                 X                     
20. Topography shall be shown at an
appropriate contour interval. Unless
waived by the county engineer, contour
lines shall be shown a minimum of 300    X                     
feet beyond the proposed boundary lines.
Slopes of over 5 percent shall be shown
in 5 foot intervals.
21. Data table showing number of lots,
amount of open space, density in lots    X                     
per acre, and average lot size.
22. Show any natural or constructed site
drainage patterns and proposed           X                    X
modifications unless waived by the
county engineer.
 
   TABLE 3-2
   PRELIMINARY CONSTRUCTION PLAN ELEMENTS
Items Required Standard Subdivision Minor Subdivision
Items Required            Standard Subdivision       Minor Subdivision
1. Proposed preliminary
utility infrastructure
plans, including sewer,   X                           
septic, water, and
stormwater1.
2. Soil erosion and
sediment control plan if  X                          X
required by the county    (if required)              (if required)
engineer.
3. Road and paving cross
sections. Indicate slopes X                           
in excess of 5 percent.
4. Proposed road names.   X                           
5. Street lighting plans. X                           
6. Pedestrian circulation
plans (if less than 2     X                          X
acre lots).
7. Traffic studies, if    X
required by the county    (if required)               
engineer2.
8. Areas of cuts or fills X                          X
of more than 4 feet.
9. Fire suppression       X                          X
systems (i.e., tanks,     (if required)              (if required)
hydrants, etc.).
10. Reference to IDAPA    X                          X
58.01.03.013 concerning   (if using community septic (if using community septic
individual subsurface     system)                    system)
sewage disposal.
11. Drainage plan (per    X                          X
section                   (if required)              (if required)
11-6-11 of this code).
 
Notes:
   1.   For subdivisions proposing individual septic systems, in lieu of
submitting preliminary septic drawings with the subdivision permit application,
the applicant may submit a copy of the predevelopment meeting form, signed by
Southwest district health department, stating a nutrient-pathogen study is not
required. If a nutrient-pathogen study is required, this item will not be
waived and preliminary construction drawings will be required with the
application. Percolation tests will be accepted when done in the preliminary
process and completed before the final plat.
   2.   Subdivision applicants will be required to submit a traffic study if
average daily traffic is estimated to exceed 1,000 ADT (average trips per day).
(Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009; amd. Ord. 2019-08, 8-26-2019)
12-3-7: MINOR SUBDIVISION REVIEW AND APPROVAL:
The purpose of minor subdivision review is to provide, to the extent allowed by
Idaho law, a simplified procedure for processing minor subdivision permit
applications. An applicant may use the minor subdivision process when the
proposed subdivision:
   A.   Will contain four (4) or fewer building lots and all lots will meet
minimum standards in size as set forth in the county zoning ordinance, and
   B.   Will contain no new public roads, and
   C.   Involves no new extensions of existing public road (not including road
widening), and
   D.   Is already served by public infrastructure required to serve the
subdivision, or where the required public infrastructure is within three
hundred feet (300') of the property boundary, and
   E.   Provides all lots with direct frontage on an existing public or private
road or provides access to a new private road, as authorized under sections
11-21 ,
11-22 ,
11-24 ,
11-25  of title 11.
The provision in subsection D of this section may be waived by the county
engineer and administrator when it is jointly determined that detailed
construction drawings are not necessary to accommodate the infrastructure
extension and when there is no affected party opposition.
If a minor subdivision lies within a floodplain or deemed as hillside it shall
meet the standards of section 12-7 for special development subdivisions.
An applicant may combine the application for a minor subdivision permit and the
application for final plat approval so that the review processes for each
application are conducted together. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009; amd. Ord. 2019-
08, 8-26-2019; Ord. 2025-06, 3-24-2025)
12-3-7-1: REVIEW DATE:
Upon receipt of a complete application, the administrator shall schedule a
minor subdivision review with department staff and the applicant. The review
shall take place within thirty (30) days from the date of application
acceptance. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-3-7-2: NOTICE:
   A.   The administrator shall:
      1.   Mail written notice to the owners of properties that are within
three hundred feet (300') of the boundaries of the proposed minor subdivision.
When the proposed minor subdivision lies within the Emmett area of city impact,
the city of Emmett shall also be entitled to mailed notice. The notice shall
provide the property owners with a plan of the minor subdivision, general
information concerning the proposal, and the time frame for submitting written
comments. Notice shall be mailed at least twenty five (25) days prior to the
review. Written comments or responses must be received by the administrator no
later than seven (7) days prior to the date of the review.
      2.   Post notice on the property. Notice shall be posted by use of a sign
in accordance with the provisions of Gem County zoning ordinance. Notice shall
be posted on the property at least twenty five (25) days prior to the review
and will remain posted for at least seven (7) days.
      3.   Provide copies of submitted documents, as necessary, to outside
agencies and jurisdictions that, in the opinion of the administrator, may be
affected by the proposal.
(Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009; amd. Ord. 2019-08, 8-26-2019)
12-3-7-3: REVIEW:
The administrator shall conduct a minor subdivision review, along with
appropriate staff and agencies, to ensure that all applicable ordinance
provisions are followed or completed. Minor subdivision review shall include,
but not be limited to:
   A.   Review of lot size and dimensions for conformance with the Gem County
zoning ordinance.
   B.   Determination that there are adequate provisions to serve the minor
subdivision with all necessary infrastructure.
   C.   Review of the location of fire hydrants or other fire suppression
mechanisms as required by the local fire district.
   D.   Review of the location for the installation of streetlights if
determined to be necessary by the Gem County road and bridge department.
   E.   Determination of whether mitigation of any development impact is
warranted.
   F.   Determination of the scope of improvements and dedications required
(curb, sidewalk, paving, water, sewer, drainage, easements, right of way
dedication, etc.).
   G.   Evaluation of the location of potential rights of way to access
adjoining parcels.
   H.   Conformance of the proposed subdivision with the comprehensive plan
policies and land use map.
The applicant may be required by the administrator to submit a resubmittal
letter in response to the county's review comments. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009;
amd. Ord. 2019-08, 8-26-2019)
12-3-7-4: ACTION:
The administrator shall forward the minor subdivision application to the board
with a written recommendation within fourteen (14) days after the minor
subdivision review. A copy shall be delivered or mailed to the applicant. The
written recommendation shall set forth the relevant standards and criteria, the
relevant facts relied upon, and the rationale for the recommendation. The
administrator may recommend approval, approval with conditions, or denial of
the minor subdivision. A recommendation to deny shall indicate reasons for
denial and indicate what steps are necessary to obtain approval.
Upon issuance of the administrator's recommendation, the application shall be
scheduled for a regularly scheduled board meeting. Within fourteen (14) days
after the date on which the application is considered by the board, the board
shall issue a written decision on the application. The decision shall be based
upon the record created by the administrator during the minor subdivision
review process. The board shall consider the recommendation of the
administrator. The decision shall set forth the relevant standards and
criteria, the relevant facts relied upon, and the rationale for the decision. A
denial by the board shall indicate reasons for denial and indicate what steps
are necessary to obtain approval. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009; amd. Ord. 2019-08,
8-26-2019)
12-3-7-5: REQUIRED FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL OF MINOR SUBDIVISION APPLICATIONS:
No minor subdivision permit application shall receive a recommendation of
approval from the administrator or be approved by the board unless each of the
following findings and conclusions are made:
   A.   Adequate provisions have been made for a domestic water supply system
that meets or exceeds the adopted water quality standards within Gem County and
the state of Idaho.
   B.   Adequate provisions have been made and approvals from the health
authority sought for treatment of wastewater within the proposed minor
subdivision.
   C.   All areas of the proposed minor subdivision that may involve soil or
topographical conditions presenting hazards have been identified and that the
proposed uses of these areas are compatible with such conditions.
   D.   The area proposed for minor subdivision is zoned for the proposed use
and the use conforms to other requirements found in this code and the
comprehensive plan.
   E.   The applicant has made adequate plans to ensure that Gem County and its
citizens will bear no more than their fair share of costs to provide services,
by paying fees, furnishing land, or providing other mitigation measures for off
site impacts to roads, parks, and other public facilities within Gem County.
   F.   The proposed minor subdivision complies with the design and improvement
standards set forth in this title.
   G.   The proposed subdivision complies with all other standards set forth in
this title or any other applicable ordinance or statute. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-
2009; amd. Ord. 2019-08, 8-26-2019)
12-3-7-6: EFFECTIVE PERIOD OF MINOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL:
The approval of a minor subdivision permit shall be effective for a period of
one year from the date of approval. If a final plat is not submitted for
approval within the one year period, the minor subdivision permit approval
shall be null and void, and the applicant shall be required to submit a new
application and fee, unless a time extension is granted in accordance with
section
12-3-7-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-3-7-7: EXTENSION OF THE EFFECTIVE PERIOD:
Prior to the expiration date of the effective period, the applicant may request
a time extension of the minor subdivision permit approval, in writing, from the
administrator. The administrator may grant a onetime extension, not to exceed
twelve (12) months, upon a showing of good cause by the applicant. The
administrator shall decide a request for extension within fourteen (14) days of
the receipt of the written request. The applicant may appeal the
administrator's decision to deny extension to the board. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-
2009)
12-3-7-8: AMENDMENTS TO APPROVED MINOR SUBDIVISION:
At any time after minor subdivision permit approval and before recording of a
final plat, the applicant may request of the administrator that an amendment be
made to the minor subdivision permit. If the proposed amendment is a minor
change to the plan and consistent with conditions of approval, the
administrator may grant the amendment in writing within fourteen (14) days
after the request. If the amendment is major or involves a change in the
conditions of approval, the administrator shall disapprove the amendment and
notify the applicant to adhere to the approved plan or to reapply for the
appropriate subdivision permit. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-3-8: STANDARD SUBDIVISION REVIEW AND APPROVAL:
The purpose of the standard subdivision review process is to provide a timely
and efficient review of applications for a subdivision permit when the proposed
subdivision does not qualify as a minor subdivision. Typically, the standard
subdivision process is used when the proposed subdivision contains new roads or
extensions to existing roads, and/or proposes installation or modification of
infrastructure such as sewer, water, and utilities. Subdivisions proposed in a
floodplain or on a hillside shall follow the standards for subdivisions in
floodplains or on hillsides as set forth in this title.
The application for a subdivision permit using the standard subdivision process
may not be reviewed in conjunction with the application for final plat
approval. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-3-8-1: OFFICIAL SUBMISSION DATE:
The date that a completed application is accepted by the administrator shall be
the official submission date. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-3-8-2: PUBLIC HEARING DATE, NOTICE:
Upon receipt of a complete application for standard subdivision permit
approval, along with all of the required submittals, the administrator shall
schedule a public hearing before the commission. The public hearing shall be
held at least forty five (45) days after but within seventy five (75) days of
the official submission date. The administrator shall:
   A.   Submit a notice for publication in the official newspaper or paper of
general circulation within the jurisdiction. Notice may also be made available
to other newspapers, radio and television stations serving the jurisdiction for
use as a public service announcement. Such notice shall provide the time and
place of the public hearing, a description of the location of the subdivision,
and a brief statement summarizing the request. The notice shall also indicate
that, to be considered, all written comments and/or materials must be received
by the department at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing. Notice shall be
published at least fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing.
   B.   Mail notices to all owners of property within three hundred feet (300')
of the boundaries of the land proposed to be subdivided or to such owners as
the administrator believes should receive notice. When the proposed subdivision
lies within the Emmett area of city impact, the city of Emmett shall also be
entitled to mailed notice. The notice shall provide the time and place of the
public hearing, a description of the location of the proposed subdivision, a
brief statement summarizing the request, and a vicinity map. The notice shall
also indicate that, to be considered, all written comments and/or materials
must be received by the department at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing.
Notice shall be mailed at least thirty (30) days prior to the public hearing.
   C.   Post notice on the property. Notice shall be posted by use of a sign in
accordance with the provisions of Gem County zoning ordinance. Notice shall be
posted on the property at least fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing.
Notice and request for comment shall be mailed to agencies, utilities, and
other jurisdictions deemed appropriate by the administrator or required by
Idaho Code no later than thirty (30) days prior to the public hearing date. The
notice and request for comment shall include application information, notice of
the public hearing date, and additional department staff comments. The notice
shall also indicate that, to be considered, all written comments and/or
materials must be received by the department at least ten (10) days prior to
the hearing. A legible copy of the subdivision plan shall be included.
To be considered, all written comments and/or materials must be received by the
department at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing, unless good cause is
shown why written comments/materials should be submitted and considered less
than ten (10) days prior to the hearing. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-3-8-3: STAFF REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION:
In order to aid the commission in making a recommendation to the board, the
administrator, prior to the public hearing, shall prepare and submit a written
staff report and recommendation to the commission that provides information
about the site and the proposed subdivision. The report and recommendation
shall include a reasoned statement that explains the relevant criteria and
standards, states the relevant facts, and explains the rationale for the
recommendation based upon the applicable provisions of the comprehensive plan,
relevant ordinances and statutory provisions, pertinent constitutional
principles, and factual information contained in the record. The report shall
include, but is not limited to, the following information, whether part of the
application materials or otherwise:
   A.   The current zoning and comprehensive plan designation of the area of
the proposed subdivision, along with any policies applicable to the area of the
proposed subdivision.
   B.   Existing land uses on the site of the proposed subdivision as well as
the surrounding land uses.
   C.   The location and size of existing sewer and water lines, along with a
site report from the appropriate health district.
   D.   A description of the physical characteristics of the site to include a
basic inventory of vegetation and any unique features.
   E.   A description of existing roads serving the site of the proposed
subdivision and a synopsis of the proposed roads.
   F.   A list of issues that the commission and board should focus upon.
   G.   An analysis of the impact of the proposed subdivision on the
infrastructure of Gem County. This shall include deficiencies in existing
infrastructure and what improvements would be needed to bring the
infrastructure up to an acceptable level of service.
   H.   Recommended conditions should the proposed subdivision be approved.
The applicant may be required by the administrator to submit a resubmittal
letter in response to the county's review comments. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-3-8-4: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION:
After the commission has reviewed the subdivision plan, preliminary
construction plans, staff report, and testimony and exhibits submitted at the
public hearing, the commission shall forward a written recommendation to the
board. The commission shall recommend approval, approval with conditions, or
disapproval of the subdivision within forty five (45) days after the public
hearing. The administrator shall mail a copy of the commission’s written
recommendation to the applicant within seven (7) days of the issuance of the
commission’s written recommendation and schedule review of the subdivision
permit application by the board. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009; amd. Ord. 2022-07,
8-1-2022)
12-3-8-5: BOARD ACTION:
Within forty five (45) days after the issuance of the commission's
recommendation, the board shall conduct a public hearing of the subdivision
permit application at a regular meeting. Said public hearing shall follow the
same noticing procedures as required for the commission hearing. The board
shall review the record, the staff report, the commission's recommendation, and
the minutes of the commission's public hearing and shall approve, approve with
conditions, or disapprove the subdivision permit application in writing within
thirty (30) days after the date on which the hearing is conducted by the board.
The Gem County clerk shall provide the applicant with a copy of the written
decision of the board by mailing a copy of the written decision within seven
(7) days after issuance of the decision. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-3-8-6: REQUIRED FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL OF STANDARD SUBDIVISION APPLICATIONS:
No standard subdivision permit application shall receive a recommendation of
approval from the commission or be approved by the board unless each of the
following findings and conclusions are made:
   A.   Adequate provisions have been made for a domestic water supply system
that meets or exceeds the adopted water quality standards within Gem County and
the state of Idaho.
   B.   Adequate provisions have been made and approvals from the health
authority sought for treatment of wastewater within the subdivision.
   C.   Proposed roads are consistent with the transportation element of the
comprehensive plan and meet Gem County road and bridge department standards.
   D.   All areas of the proposed subdivision that may involve soil or
topographical conditions presenting hazards have been identified and that the
proposed uses of these areas are compatible with such conditions.
   E.   The area proposed for subdivision is zoned for the proposed use and the
use conforms to other requirements found in this code and the comprehensive
plan.
   F.   The applicant has made adequate plans to ensure that Gem County and its
citizens will bear no more than their fair share of costs to provide services,
by paying fees, furnishing land, or providing other mitigation measures for off
site impacts to roads, parks, and other public facilities within Gem County.
   G.   The proposed subdivision complies with the design and improvement
standards set forth in this title.
   H.   The proposed subdivision, when applicable, meets any standards for
subdivision in floodplain or hillside areas.
   I.   The proposed subdivision complies with all other standards set forth in
this title or any other applicable ordinance or statute. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-
2009)
12-3-8-7: EFFECTIVE PERIOD OF STANDARD SUBDIVISION APPROVAL:
The approval of a standard subdivision permit shall be effective for a period
of two (2) years from the date the board issues its written decision, unless a
different time period is requested by the applicant, in writing at the time of
application, and agreed to by the board. By the end of the time period, the
applicant must have submitted a final plat for review and approval. If a final
plat is not submitted for final approval within the two (2) year period, or
period specified by the board, the subdivision approval shall be null and void,
and the applicant shall be required to submit a new application. (Ord. 2009-06,
9-28-2009)
12-3-8-8: EXTENSION OF THE EFFECTIVE PERIOD:
Prior to the expiration date of the effective period, the applicant may request
an extension, in writing, from the administrator. The administrator may grant
an extension, not to exceed twelve (12) months, upon a showing of good cause by
the applicant. The administrator shall render a decision to grant or not grant
an extension within fifteen (15) days of the date of submittal to the
administrator. The applicant may appeal the decision of the administrator to
the board. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-3-8-9: AMENDMENTS TO APPROVED STANDARD SUBDIVISION BEFORE FINAL PLAT
APPROVAL:
At any time after subdivision approval and before submission of a final
subdivision plat, the applicant may request of the administrator, in writing,
that an amendment be made to the approved standard subdivision permit. If the
proposed amendment is a minor change to the plan, the administrator may grant
the amendment in writing. If the amendment is major or involves a substantial
change in the conditions of approval, the administrator shall schedule a public
hearing to be held at least thirty (30) days after the receipt of the request
but within sixty (60) days of the request. For the purpose of this section, a
"substantial change" is any change that includes realignments of roads more
than forty five degrees (45°), the addition of any building lot, adjusting lot
lines of more than ten percent (10%) of total lots and/or similar changes that
may negatively affect service providers. This list is not intended to be all
inclusive but rather used as a guide by the administrator in making a
determination. The commission shall hold the public hearing to consider the
proposed amendment in accordance with the same requirements for a public
hearing for standard subdivision permit approval.
A public hearing on a proposed major amendment shall be limited to whether the
proposed amendment should or should not be approved. The commission may
approve, approve with modifications, or disapprove any proposed major amendment
and may make any modifications in the terms and conditions of subdivision
permit approval reasonably related to the proposed amendment. The commission
shall render a written decision on the proposed amendment within forty five
(45) days from the date of the public hearing. Any proposed changes to
conditions shall be forwarded to the board for a public hearing in the same
manner as for a new standard subdivision permit application. Any changes
approved by the board shall be included in an addendum to the board's written
decision. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-3-8-10: PHASING OR SECTIONALIZING SUBDIVISIONS:
Large developments may be phased or sectionalized, to be developed in portions
periodically according to a proposed schedule. The applicant shall indicate
plans for phasing or sectionalizing at the time of application. No more than
twenty four (24) months may elapse between phases. The plans, subject to review
and approval, shall show the entire property as well as the proposed phasing
boundaries. Proposed interim or temporary solutions to sanitary sewer and water
systems and to the handling of traffic on local roads, collectors, and
arterials within the subdivision, shall be shown on the submitted plans.
A preliminary plat must be filed showing the entire property and a final plat
must be filed on the property within the phase being developed.
The board's written decision for each final plat will require that the
dedication of public roads and improvements occur according to the phasing
plans unless otherwise specified by the board. The board may, in the interest
of public safety and welfare, require that certain collectors and arterials be
dedicated and constructed in their entirety regardless of the phasing plan.
In approving a standard subdivision to be developed in phases, the board shall
require that the amounts calculated for guarantees are commensurate with the
phasing plan. The board shall require that the guarantee amount be that amount
calculated for each phase and may defer the remaining amounts of the guarantee
until the remaining sections of the subdivision are platted.
A phasing plan shall coordinate required infrastructure systems, dedications,
off site improvements, open space/parks, landscaping, private utilities, or
other elements of a subdivision. The plan may indicate times or triggering
mechanisms for improvements.
No more than twenty four (24) months may elapse between phases unless the
applicant files a request for extension to the administrator and the board
approves the extension. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-3-9: CONSTRUCTION PLANS:
After approval of a subdivision permit application, the applicant shall submit
to the administrator two (2) copies of final construction plans prepared by a
civil engineer licensed in Idaho. Such plans shall adhere to the design and
improvement standards set forth in this title as well as all applicable Gem
County standards. No construction of any kind shall take place on the site of
an approved subdivision until final construction plans are reviewed and
approved by the county engineer. Systems reviewed and subject to approval
include, but are not limited to:
   A.   Roads, including curbs and sidewalks.
   B.   Water delivery system and/or water supply.
   C.   Sanitary sewer system.
   D.   Stormwater collection and treatment plans, including stormwater
management during construction.
   E.   Streetlight plans (if proposed by developer).
   F.   Off site improvements (roads, traffic signals, sidewalks, lighting,
etc.).
   G.   Irrigation water delivery system.
   H.   Site grading plans. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-3-9-1: EFFECT OF APPROVAL:
Upon final written approval and signatures by the board, and upon subsequent
review and approval of construction plans by the county engineer, the applicant
may proceed with construction of the subdivision. Approval of the subdivision
permit does not, however, authorize the conveyance of lots or other privileges
reserved until after the final plat is approved and recorded. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-
28-2009)
12-3-10: FURTHER SUBDIVISION IN A RECORDED, PLATTED SUBDIVISION; AMENDING A
RECORDED SUBDIVISION PLAT:
An applicant desiring to further subdivide property within a recorded, platted
subdivision shall follow the procedures in this title for obtaining a standard
subdivision permit and final plat approval.
A property boundary adjustment within a platted subdivision is permitted as set
forth in the property boundary adjustment section of the Gem County zoning
ordinance. Additionally, a platted subdivision may be amended when:
   A.   The amendment will not create more than the original number of lots in
the subdivision, and
   B.   All lots in the amended subdivision plat will comply with the minimum
requirements of the zoning ordinance (including setbacks of any existing
structures), and
   C.   No new roads or extensions of existing roads will be required, and
   D.   The amendment is approved in accordance with the final plat approval
procedures outlined in this title, and
   E.   The amendment shows (in faint background data) the original lot lines
and lot numbers. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
CHAPTER 4
FINAL PLAT REVIEW AND APPROVAL
SECTION:
12-4-1: Purpose
12-4-2: Application
12-4-3: Contents Of Final Plats
12-4-4: Accompanying Data And Reports; Final Plats
12-4-5: Correction And Amendment Of Final Plat
12-4-6: Review
12-4-7: Approval
12-4-8: Recordation
12-4-9: Applicable Laws
12-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish the procedure for final plat
review. The procedure is intended to provide orderly and expeditious processing
and recordation of subdivision plats. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-4-2: APPLICATION:
Following approval of a standard subdivision or, if applicable, a minor
subdivision permit, the applicant shall file, within the designated time
period, an application for final plat review with the administrator. The
application for final plat review shall:
   A.   Be made on forms provided through the department.
   B.   Include the entire standard subdivision, minor subdivision, or section/
phase thereof as determined by a phasing plan approved during subdivision
permit application review.
   C.   Comply in all material respects with the approved standard subdivision
or minor subdivision permit, whichever is applicable.
   D.   Include all formal irrevocable offers of dedication to the public of
all roads, local government uses, utilities, additional rights of way, parks,
and easements in a form approved by the Gem County prosecuting attorney.
   E.   Be accompanied by certification from the appropriate political
subdivisions that all the roads, water system, sanitary sewers, stormwater
facilities, and other public improvements, including lot improvements on the
individual lots of the subdivision have been completed and accepted as required
in these regulations, or that a guarantee (in conformance with chapter 5 of
this title) has been submitted in the proper form.
   F.   Include the final plat complying with the requirements set forth in the
content of final plats section of this chapter. A digital copy of the final
plat shall also be submitted in a format acceptable to the assessor's office.
(Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-4-3: CONTENTS OF FINAL PLATS:
To be considered for approval by the board, standard subdivision plats and
minor subdivision plats must meet the form and content requirements specified
in this section.
   A.   Preparation Requirements; Survey And Monument Data:
      1.   The standard subdivision or minor subdivision plat shall be prepared
by or under the direction of a professional land surveyor. The final plat must
be based upon an accurate and complete survey of the land to be subdivided made
in conformity with title 50, chapter 13, Idaho Code.
      2.   The survey and mathematical information and data necessary to locate
all monuments and to locate and retrace any and all interior and exterior
boundary lines must be shown. Such data may include, but is not limited to, the
bearings and distances of straight lines, and the lengths, radii, and delta for
all curves and radial bearings for nontangent curves.
      3.   All monuments, property lines, centerlines of roads, alleys and
easements adjoining or within the subdivision must be tied into the survey.
      4.   The location and description of all monuments found or placed in
making the survey must be identified on the map.
      5.   The allowable error of closure on any portion of the standard
subdivision plat or minor subdivision plat must not exceed 1/5,000 feet for
field closures and 0.02 foot for calculated closures, or shall comply with the
requirements of Idaho law applicable at the time of submittal.
   B.   Form Of Standard And Minor Subdivision Plats:
      1.   The standard or minor plat must be legibly drawn, printed or
reproduced by a process guaranteeing a permanent record in opaque black on
polyester base film. Required certificates, statements and acknowledgments must
be legibly stamped or printed on the map with opaque ink. The polyester base
film must have a minimum thickness of three one-thousandths (0.003) of an inch.
The ink surface must be coated with a suitable substance to assure permanent
legibility.
      2.   The size of each sheet must be eighteen inches by twenty seven
inches (18" x 27").
      3.   A marginal line must be drawn completely around each sheet, leaving
an entirely blank margin of three and one-half inches (31/2") on the left side
for binding and one-half inch (1/2") on all other edges.
      4.   The exterior boundary of the land included within the subdivision
shall be indicated by distinctive bold lines. The bearings and distance around
the boundary shall be bold and be the same as shown in the boundary description
in the owner's certificate. The map shall show the definite location of the
subdivision, and particularly its relation to surrounding surveys.
      5.   The scale of the map shall be large enough to show all details
clearly and enough sheets shall be used to accomplish this end.
      6.   Each sheet must be numbered, the relation of one sheet to another
clearly shown, and the total number of sheets used must be indicated on each
sheet.
      7.   All mechanical lettering must be a minimum of one-tenth inch (1/10")
in height and all freehand printing or lettering on the map must be of one-
eighth inch (1/8") minimum height. All lettering must be opaque and of such
shape and weight as to be readily legible on prints and other reproductions
made from the original drawings.
      8.   A title block shall be shown on top of each sheet, consisting of the
subdivision name and a subtitle giving a general description of the property by
reference to the maps that have previously been filed and by reference to the
plan of the United States survey. Reference to tracts and subdivisions in the
description must be spelled out and worded identically with original records
and references to book and page of record must be complete. The year of
platting shall be immediately below and centered on the title block.
      9.   All abbreviations shall be shown in the legend.
      10.   The north arrow shall point to the top of the page, unless
otherwise approved by the administrator.
   C.   Title Sheet: The standard subdivision plat or minor subdivision plat
must be accompanied by a title sheet containing the information prescribed in
subsections C1 through C6 of this section. However, where the size of the
subdivision permits, in lieu of a title sheet, the information may be shown on
the same sheet as the standard subdivision plat or minor subdivision plat
itself.
      1.   The title sheet must contain the title block, as described in
subsection B8 of this section.
      2.   Below the title block, a subtitle must appear giving a general
description of the property by reference to the maps, which have previously
been filed or by reference to the plan of the United States survey. Reference
to tracts and subdivisions in the description must be spelled out and worded
identically with original records and references to book and page of record
must be complete.
      3.   Statements, acknowledgments, endorsements, and acceptances of
dedication required by subsection E of this section must appear on the title
sheet.
      4.   The map sheet should show the basis of bearings unless it is shown
elsewhere on the map.
      5.   A vicinity map must be included.
      6.   Name of owner and professional land surveyor and surveyor's address.
   D.   Content Of Standard Subdivision And Minor Subdivision Plats:
      1.   Property To Be Included On The Subdivision Plat: If subdividing land
under one deed in phases, all land described by that deed shall be included in
the boundaries of the preliminary plat and all land included within the phase
being developed shall be shown on each final plat.
      2.   Lot Dimensions, Acreage, Numbers: Dimensions of parcels must be
given as total dimensions, corner to corner, and must be shown in feet and
hundredths of a foot. All lots must show total acreage to the nearest
thousandth. Each block and lot must be numbered consecutively, beginning with
the number one in each subdivision and continuing consecutively with no
omissions or duplications. (Phased development lots shall be numbered as if all
phases were on the original plat.)
      3.   Road Location, Widths, Names: The map must show the location of all
existing and proposed roads, alleys or highways by clear delineation of the
centerlines and sidelines of all road rights of way, the total width of such
rights of way and the widths of each side of the centerline. The names of all
existing and proposed roads (with the names to be or already approved by the
committee designated by the board for reviewing road names) within or adjoining
the subdivision must be shown. Whether the roads are to be for private use or
will be dedicated to the public must be clearly labeled.
      4.   Easements And Other Rights Of Way: The map must show the location of
all easements of record, and easements to be recorded, to which the property is
or will be subject. All easements other than for roads must be denoted by fine
broken lines and the purpose specified. The map must also indicate whether the
easement is to be for private use or will be dedicated to the public. Easement
widths, and the lengths and bearings of the lines together with sufficient
ties, must be indicated to definitely locate the easement with respect to the
property. For easements already existing as of record, proper record reference
must be given. If any easement is found to exist but cannot definitely be
located as of record, a statement to that effect must be made on the map.
      5.   Adjoining Properties: The parcels and blocks of all adjoining
subdivisions must be identified by subdivision name and by the book and page of
the filed plat. If no such subdivision is adjoining, then the plat shall be
marked "Unplatted" and the instrument number of the last recorded deed of
record must be identified.
      6.   City Or County Boundaries: City or county boundaries that adjoin the
subdivision must be clearly designated.
   E.   Statements: The following statements must appear on the title sheet.
All required signatures must be opaque.
      1.   Owner's Statement; Offer Of Dedication: A statement, signed and
acknowledged by all parties having any record title interest in the land being
subdivided, consenting to the preparation and filing of the plat and offering
for dedication to the public, in perpetuity, certain specific parcels of land
or easements, except in the following circumstances:
         a.   A lien for state, county, municipal, or local taxes or special
assessments, a trust interest under bond indentures, or mechanics' liens do not
constitute a record title interest in land for the purpose of this chapter.
         b.   The signature of either the holder of beneficial interests under
trust deeds and the trustee under the trust deeds may be omitted. The signature
of either shall constitute a full and complete subordination of the lien of the
deed of trust to the map and any interest created by the map.
      2.   Surveyor's Statement: A statement by the surveyor responsible for
the survey and final plat. The statement shall:
         a.   Give the date of the survey;
         b.   State that the survey and final plat were made by him or her or
under his or her direction, and that the survey is true and complete as shown;
         c.   State that all the monuments are of the character and occupy the
positions indicated, or that they will be set in those positions on or before a
specified later date; and
         d.   State that the monuments are, or will be, sufficient to enable
the survey to be retraced.
      3.   County Surveyor's Statement: The county surveyor shall sign and
state that:
         a.   He or she has examined the map;
         b.   The subdivision as shown is substantially the same as that
approved in the subdivision permit application and any approved alterations
thereof;
         c.   All provisions of title 50, chapter 13 and title 55, chapter 16,
Idaho Code relative to plats and surveys and applicable at the time of approval
of the subdivision permit have been complied with; and
         d.   He or she is satisfied that the map is technically correct.
      4.   Chair Of The Board Of County Commissioner's Statement: A statement
for execution by the chair of the board stating the date on which the board
approved the plat and stating that the board accepted, accepted subject to
improvement or rejected on behalf of the public, any real property offered for
dedication for public use in conformity with the terms of the offer of
dedication.
      5.   County Recorder's Statement: If the county recorder accepts the
standard subdivision plat or minor subdivision plat for filing, such acceptance
shall be certified on the title sheet thereof. The map shall become a part of
the official records of the county recorder upon its acceptance by the county
recorder for filing.
      6.   County Assessor's Statement: A statement that the assessor for
county of Gem, state of Idaho, certifies the plat is acceptable for assessment
purposes.
      7.   County Treasurer's Statement: A statement that the treasurer for Gem
County, state of Idaho, certifies and affirms that the property tax for the
subdivision property is paid in full through the (applicable) tax year. The
property tax levied for the (applicable) tax year is a lien due and not yet
payable. This certification is valid if recorded within thirty (30) days of
certification.
      8.   County Engineer's Statement: With the exception of a minor
subdivision plat, unless it is a hillside or floodplain development, the
engineer shall sign and state that:
         a.   He or she has examined the map; and
         b.   All provisions of Idaho Code relative to engineering of the
subdivision have been complied with.
      9.   Health Department Statement: A statement from the applicable health
department that addresses the status of sanitary restrictions for lots within
the subdivision.
   F.   Additional Information:
      1.   The county may require additional information to be filed or
recorded simultaneously with a standard subdivision plat or minor subdivision
plat. The additional information may be in the form of a separate document or
an additional map sheet which must indicate its relationship to the standard
subdivision plat or minor subdivision plat, and must contain a statement that
the additional information is for informational purposes, describing conditions
as of the date of filing, and is not intended to affect record title interest.
The document or additional plat sheet may also contain a notation that the
additional information is derived from public records or reports, and does not
imply the correctness or sufficiency of those records or reports by the
preparer of the document or additional map sheet.
      2.   Additional survey and plat information may include, but need not be
limited to, building setback lines, flood hazard zones, seismic lines and
setbacks, septic drainfield and expansion area, geologic mapping, and
archaeological sites. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009; amd. Ord. 2019-08, 8-26-2019)
12-4-4: ACCOMPANYING DATA AND REPORTS; FINAL PLATS:
   A.   Unless waived by the administrator, when the applicant submits the
final minor or standard subdivision plat to the department for review, it must
be accompanied by the following data, plans, reports and documents in a form
acceptable to the administrator:
      1.   Improvement Plans: Improvement plans, along with supplementary
calculations and estimates as set forth previously in this chapter.
      2.   Improvement Agreements And Security: Improvement agreements and
security as required in chapter 5 of this title.
      3.   Soils Report: A soils report prepared in accordance with Southwest
district health department minimum standards for geotechnical reports.
      4.   Title Guarantee: A title guarantee by a title company doing business
in the county, showing the names of all persons whose consent is necessary to
file the standard subdivision plat or minor subdivision plat and for any
dedication to public use, and their respective interest in the property,
certified for the benefit and protection of the county that the persons named
are all of the persons necessary to give clear title to the roads and other
easements to be offered for dedication.
      5.   Deeds For Off Site Easements Or Rights Of Way: Deeds for off site
easements or rights of way required for roads, drainage, sanitary sewers, water
supply, or other public purposes, which have not been dedicated on the standard
subdivision plat or minor subdivision plat. Written evidence acceptable to the
administrator must be presented in the form of rights of entry or permanent
easements across private property outside of the subdivision permitting or
granting access to perform necessary construction work and permitting the
maintenance of the proposed facilities.
      6.   Traverse Closures: Computer traverse closures showing the
mathematical closure, within the allowable limits of error set forth previously
in this chapter, of the exterior boundaries of the property in all cases, and
of the exterior boundaries of all blocks and parcels.
      7.   Organizational Documents: A copy of all proposed covenants,
conditions and restrictions, and all other organizational documents to be
recorded for the subdivision. All such documents must be reviewed and approved
by the Gem County prosecuting attorney.
      8.   Certificates Relative To Tax And Assessment Liens: Whenever any part
of the subdivision is subject to a lien for taxes or special assessments which
are not yet payable, the standard subdivision plat or minor subdivision plat
shall not be recorded until the applicant files with the county clerk all
required certificates and security.
      9.   Indemnity/Hold Harmless Agreement:
         a.   The applicant must submit an indemnity/hold harmless agreement
containing the following provisions:
            (1)   Applicant will defend, indemnify, and hold harmless Gem
County, its agents, officers, and employees from any claim, action, or
proceeding against Gem County or its agents, officers, or employees to attack,
set aside, void, or annul the approval of the subdivision by Gem County.
            (2)   Gem County will promptly notify the applicant of any claim,
action, or proceeding and will cooperate fully in the defense of such claim,
action or proceeding.
            (3)   Nothing contained in this agreement prohibits Gem County from
participating in the defense of any claim, action, or proceeding, if Gem County
bears its own attorney's fees and costs and defends the action in good faith.
(Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-4-5: CORRECTION AND AMENDMENT OF FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Amendments Permitted:
      1.   After a standard subdivision final plat or minor subdivision final
plat is filed for record in the office of the county recorder, it may be
amended by a certificate of correction or an amending map, for any of the
following reasons:
         a.   To correct an error in any course or distance shown on the map;
         b.   To show any course or distance that was omitted from the map;
         c.   To correct an error in the description of the real property shown
on the map;
         d.   To indicate monuments set after the death, disability or
retirement from practice of the surveyor charged with the responsibility for
setting monuments; or
         e.   To show the proper location or character of any monument which
has been changed in location or character, or which was originally shown at the
wrong location or incorrectly as to its character;
         f.   To correct any other type of map error or omission as approved by
the administrator, which does not affect any property right. Such errors and
omissions may include, but are not limited to, parcel numbers, acreage, road
names, and identification of adjacent record maps;
         g.   To make modifications when there are changes in circumstances
which make any or all of the conditions of the map no longer appropriate or
necessary and the modifications do not impose any additional burden on the
present fee owner of the property and do not alter any right, title or interest
in the real property reflected on the recorded map.
      2.   As used in this section, "error" does not include changes in courses
or distances from which an error is not ascertainable from the data shown on
the standard map or parcel map.
   B.   Form And Contents Of Amending Map Or Certificate Of Correction: The
amending map or certificate of correction must be prepared and signed by a
professional land surveyor. An amending map must conform to the requirements of
this title. The amending map or certificate of correction must show in detail
the corrections made and the names of the present fee owners of the property
affected by the corrections.
   C.   Submittal And Approval Of Amending Map Or Certificate Of Correction:
      1.   Where the certificate of correction or amendment of the standard map
or parcel map is filed for any of the reasons listed in subsections Ala through
A1f of this section, the amending map or certificate of correction must be
submitted to the administrator for review and approval. The administrator will
examine the amending map or certificate of correction and if the only changes
made are those described in subsections A1a through A1f of this section, the
administrator will certify to this fact on the amending map or certificate of
correction.
      2.   Where the certificate of correction or amendment of the standard map
or parcel map is filed for the reason described in subsection A1g of this
section, the amending map or certificate of correction must be submitted for
review and approval to the board. A public hearing will be held on the proposed
modification, with notice to be given in the manner prescribed in the minor or
standard subdivision permit process, whichever is applicable. The hearing will
be confined to consideration of and action on the proposed modification. The
modification will not be approved if the required findings and conclusions set
forth in the minor subdivision process or standard subdivision process cannot
be made.
   D.   Filing An Amending Map Or Certificate Of Correction With The County
Recorder: The amending map or certificate of correction, certified and approved
in accordance with this section, shall be filed for record in the office of the
county recorder. At that time, the original map will be deemed to have been
conclusively corrected and will impart constructive notice of all such
corrections in the same manner as though set forth upon the original map. Upon
recordation of a certificate of correction, the county recorder will transmit,
within thirty (30) days of recording, a certified copy to the administrator who
shall maintain an index of recorded certificates of correction.
   E.   Fees And Costs For Processing Amending Map: A fee for the reviewing,
processing, indexing and recording of an amending map or certificate of
correction, in such amount as established from time to time by resolution of
the board, may be required at the time the map or certificate is submitted for
review. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-4-6: REVIEW:
Upon submittal of the final plat to the administrator, a staff review will be
completed within thirty (30) days of acceptance. The review shall determine
whether all conditions of the approved subdivision permit application have been
completed and whether the final plat is consistent with the approved
subdivision permit. Such review shall determine that:
   A.   The plat is in conformance with Idaho Code 50-1301 et seq., plats and
vacations.
   B.   The plat layout conforms to that which was approved by the board during
the subdivision permit application review process, including compliance with
all conditions of approval.
   C.   Language on the dedication section of the plat reflects what was
approved in the subdivision permit review process and that any dedications are
accurately described.
   D.   The appropriate signature blocks are on the plat and that signatures of
the owner and owner's surveyor have been obtained.
   E.   Construction plans have been reviewed and approved by the county
engineer.
   F.   All required on site and off site improvements have been constructed
and accepted by the county engineer, or have been suitably guaranteed in
accordance with chapter 5 of this title.
   G.   Any required mitigation has been satisfied or other suitable
arrangements approved by the board have been made. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-4-7: APPROVAL:
When staff review of the final plat is completed, all required terms and
conditions of the subdivision permit are satisfied, and all required signatures
obtained, the administrator shall forward the plat to the county clerk
recommending that it be submitted to the board for approval. The county clerk
shall place the request for plat approval on the next available board agenda.
The board shall review the subdivision plat and, upon a finding that all of the
requirements of the approved subdivision permit have been satisfied, shall
finally approve the final plat and authorize the chairman of the board to sign
the final plat. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-4-8: RECORDATION:
After the plat is signed by the board, the applicant shall have thirty (30)
days to record the plat with the Gem County recorder, and to provide the
recorder with a reproducible mylar copy of the recorded plat. Upon recordation
of the plat and receipt of a reproducible mylar of the recorded plat, as well
as compliance with all other standards for issuance of building permits,
building permits may be issued for the lots created as part of the subdivision.
However, if a guarantee is in place at the time of recordation, no building
permits will be issued until requirements of the no-build agreement have been
satisfied. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-4-9: APPLICABLE LAWS:
To obtain final plat approval, the applicant shall be in compliance with all
federal, state and local laws applicable at the time that the final plat is
reviewed for approval. The applicant shall be in compliance with all local laws
and regulations applicable at the time the subdivision permit was approved by
the board. A final plat shall not be authorized for recordation if there exists
a violation to relevant ordinances or statutes. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
CHAPTER 5
ASSURANCE OF COMPLETION AND MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
12-5-1: Completion Of Improvements
12-5-2: Performance Guarantee
12-5-3: Guarantee Amount
12-5-4: Release Of Performance Guarantee
12-5-5: Dedications (Rep. by Ord. 2025-06, 3-24-2025)
12-5-6: Maintenance
12-5-7: Warranty Of Improvements
12-5-8: Warranty Guarantee
12-5-9: No-Build Agreement
12-5-1: COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
All required improvements shall be completed within one year of the date of
final plat approval unless a different time period is approved by the board.
Before a plat is signed by the county engineer, the applicant shall be required
to complete all road, sanitary, and other public improvements, including lot
improvements on individual lots as required in these regulations and as
approved by the board, or the applicant shall provide a suitable performance
guarantee. No building shall be occupied, nor shall any use be established in a
subdivision, until all necessary improvements have been installed and accepted
for maintenance by the county or other public service providers. The purpose of
this requirement is to ensure to the greatest extent possible that the health
and safety of the public and the residents of new subdivisions are protected.
(Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-5-2: PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE:
The applicant may guarantee to complete all of the agreed upon improvements
within one year of the date of the final plat approval or within such
alternative time period approved by the board by providing to the board one or
more of the following instruments in an amount equal to at least one hundred
fifty percent (150%) of the value of improvements to be guaranteed:
   A.   Performance Bond: The applicant may provide a performance bond from a
company qualified by law to act as a surety in Idaho. The bond shall be in the
form approved by the board and name the county as the obligee and the applicant
as principal.
   B.   Escrow: The applicant may deposit funds in an escrow with a bank or
financial institution qualified by law to do business in Idaho. The
disbursement of the escrow funds shall be governed by escrow instructions in a
form approved by the board.
   C.   Irrevocable Letter Of Credit: The applicant may cause a bank or
financial institution, qualified by law to do business in Idaho, to issue an
irrevocable letter of credit in a form approved by the board. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-
28-2009)
12-5-3: GUARANTEE AMOUNT:
The performance guarantee amount shall be one hundred fifty percent (150%) of
the estimated costs of all improvements, not including those to be constructed
by private utilities. The applicant's engineer shall have prepared, documented,
and certified each cost estimate. The estimated costs shall be submitted by the
applicant to the county engineer for approval. The estimated cost of all
improvements shall be the sum of the estimated cost approved by the county
engineer. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-5-4: RELEASE OF PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE:
As soon as any one of the following occurs, the board may release any
performance guarantee that has not been used or encumbered under provisions of
this chapter:
   A.   The final acceptance of all improvements and the posting of warranty
guarantee as set forth in this chapter.
   B.   The expiration of the warranty period as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-5-5: DEDICATIONS:
(Rep. by Ord. 2025-06, 3-24-2025)
12-5-6: MAINTENANCE:
The applicant shall perform capital maintenance of each required public
improvement until the board has expressly accepted the improvements. (Ord.
2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-5-7: WARRANTY OF IMPROVEMENTS:
The applicant shall warrant the design, construction materials, and workmanship
of the improvements installed pursuant to this title against any failure or
defect in design, construction, material, or workmanship for a period of one
year, except for sewer systems which shall be warranted until such time as the
number of active users on the system reaches twenty percent (20%) of the
approved user design capacity, but not less than one year nor more than three
(3) years.
This warranty shall cover all direct and indirect costs of repair or
replacement, and damage to the property, improvements, or facilities of the
board or any other person, caused by such failure or defect or in the course of
repairs, any increase in cost to the county of operating and maintaining a
county improvement resulting from such failures, defects, or damages.
The warranty shall not extend to any failure or defect caused solely by changes
in design, construction, or materials required by the board as a deviation from
regular requirements established by this title. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-5-8: WARRANTY GUARANTEE:
To secure the applicant's performance of the warranty of improvements, the
performance guarantee provided by the applicant pursuant to this chapter shall
remain in effect until the end of the warranty period or the applicant shall
provide a warranty guarantee by one or more of the instruments described above
by the following table:
 
Actual Cost Of Improvements       Percent To Secure Warranty
                                 
   Less than $500,000.00      10 percent
   $500,000.00 to $1,000,000. 7.50 percent
   Over $1,000,000.00         5 percent
 
(Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-5-9: NO-BUILD AGREEMENT:
When a performance guarantee is used rather than completion of all required
improvements, approval of the final plat shall be subject to a no-build
agreement to be entered into between the applicant and the county. The intent
of the no-build agreement is to restrict commencement of construction of
buildings for human occupancy on individual lots until such time as the
required improvements are installed to a level adequate to allow emergency
services to respond to any lot in the subdivision. The no-build agreement shall
be recorded in the Gem County recorder's office at the time the final plat is
recorded. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
CHAPTER 6
SUBDIVISION DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
12-6-1: Standards Enumerated
12-6-1: STANDARDS ENUMERATED:
All proposed subdivisions must comply with the following design and improvement
standards where applicable. No waiver of any of these standards may be granted
except pursuant to section
12-1-12 of this title.
   A.   Other Regulations: To the extent applicable, subdivision proposals
shall comply with:
      1.   The following titles of this code (or those which supersede):
         a.   Any chapter of title 4, "Public Health And Safety";
         b.   Any chapter of title 8, "Sanitary Code";
         c.   Any chapter of title 9, "Building Regulations", with the
recommendation or approval of the building official and fire official in an
established district;
         d.   Any chapter of title 13, "Flood Control";
         e.   The adopted comprehensive plan.
      2.   Adopted Idaho transportation department standards, if the applicant
seeks a new or expanded access onto a state highway.
   B.   Natural Feature Areas: Where practicable, the following specific areas
regardless of location shall be left undeveloped and undisturbed:
      1.   Unique or fragile areas such as geologic features, floodways (as
determined by title 13 of this code), and wetlands;
      2.   Areas of natural vegetation, including unique landscapes, large
individual trees, and stands of trees. A plan for landscape protection, tree
preservation, and tree introduction may be required;
      3.   Areas of significant value to wildlife;
      4.   Historically significant structures or sites; and
      5.   Natural drainage channels or watercourses.
   C.   Utilities: Any new utilities proposed or required for a subdivision
shall be installed by the applicant unless such subdivision contains rural lots
of two (2) acres or more. In such a subdivision, the applicant must provide
easements for future utilities. Such utilities must include underground service
connections for (to) each platted lot. Service feeder lines into the
subdivision from the exterior utility point of feed shall be installed
underground, beginning at the subdivision boundary. Utilities can be overhead
or underground to the subdivision boundary.
   D.   Water Supply:
      1.   General Requirements:
         a.   All domestic water sources shall meet state and federal standards
for drinking water, wells, separation from sewage disposal systems and any
other related requirements.
         b.   Fire protection systems shall meet local fire code requirements.
         c.   All abandoned wells shall be sealed to prevent contamination of
groundwater.
         d.   The requirements of Idaho Code section 42-111 for domestic water
limits and section 50-1334 for subdivision water systems shall be satisfied.
         e.   Domestic water shall be available in sufficient quantity to meet
foreseeable demands. Where insufficient data is available to verify water
quantity, an on site test well in the area of the proposed use shall be
required.
      2.   Central Water Systems:
         a.   The central water system requirement shall be met by
establishment of one of the following:
         b.   The central water system requirement shall be met by
establishment of one of the following:
            (1)   A water district formed under state law and acceptable to the
Idaho department of environmental quality ("DEQ"). A copy of the final DEQ
approval shall be provided in writing to the county.
            (2)   A private user's agreement addressing the operation,
maintenance and ongoing monitoring of the central water system. A copy of the
final, signed agreement shall be provided in writing to the county.
         c.   If deemed necessary by the county engineer and/or the applicable
fire district, circular or looped water supply systems may be required.
         d.   The board reserves the option to require central water systems
for subdivisions where necessary to provide for the public health, safety or
general welfare.
         e.   Central or community water systems shall be designed by a
registered engineer in Idaho and shall comply with the current requirements of
Idaho department of environmental quality drinking water distribution
checklist.
         f.   Construction of central or community water systems shall be
observed by a registered engineer in Idaho to the extent necessary for the
observing engineer to make a written statement that the water system was
constructed substantially as shown on the drawings.
      3.   Irrigation And Domestic System Requirements:
         a.   Existing on site surface and ground water rights shall be used
for existing and proposed on site agricultural uses and domestic and landscape
needs before additional domestic rights are sought.
         b.   Agricultural and domestic water delivery systems shall not be
intermingled.
         c.   All subdivisions shall satisfy the requirements of Idaho Code
section 31-3805 for irrigation water delivery.
         d.   Where surface water irrigation rights are available, all
subdivisions containing buildable lots less than one acre in size shall provide
underground, pressurized irrigation water to every lot. The pressurized
irrigation system shall be constructed and installed at the same time as the
domestic water lines, but it shall not necessarily be in the same trench.
   E.   Sewage Disposal:
      1.   All sewage disposal systems shall meet DEQ standards as administered
by the Southwest district health department ("SWDH") and as set forth in the
Idaho Code.
      2.   A sewage district or other entity acceptable to DEQ shall be
organized for the operation, maintenance and ongoing monitoring of any central
sewage system. A copy of the final DEQ approval shall be provided in writing to
the county.
   F.   Unsuitable Land: Land with conditions that may be detrimental to the
health, safety or general welfare of existing or future residents because of
potential hazards such as landslides, subsidence, high water table, high
pressure gas lines, power transmission lines, or other features with severe
development limitations shall not be subdivided for building or residential
purposes unless the hazards or other features are eliminated by lawful permit
or overcome by approved design and construction plans.
   G   Applicant Or Landowner: If the applicant or landowner with respect to an
application for a subdivision under this title is the state of Idaho, or any
agency, board, department, institution, or district thereof, the commission or
the board, in addition to all other applicable standards and criteria
hereunder, shall take into account the plans and needs of the state, or any
agency, board, department, institution or district thereof, as required by
Idaho Code section 67-6528.
   H.   Lots:
      1.   Building Site: Each lot shall contain a satisfactory building site
that is properly related to topography.
      2.   Corner Lots: Corner lots shall be a sufficient area without
obstructive landscaping to provide acceptable visibility for traffic safety.
      3.   Access: Each lot shall have access to an internal road or drive,
where practicable.
      4.   Calculation Of Lot Area: Calculation of lot area shall not include
land that is below the “natural or ordinary high water mark” of navigable
streams (as defined by Idaho Code section 36-1601), and therefore subject to
the public trust doctrine.
      5.   Large Lots: If the average lot size in a residential subdivision is
more than double the minimum acreage required for a residential zone, equal to
or exceeds the minimum acreage required in the residential/agricultural zone
(A-2 or A-3) or is within an area of city impact, applicants may be required to
arrange lots in anticipation of future resubdivision and provide for future
roads where necessary to serve potential lots.
      6.   Compliance With Regulations: Lot sizes, uses and the location of
uses shall satisfy any zoning regulations and other applicable sections of this
code.
      7.   Division By Road Or Other Lot: No single lot shall be divided by a
road, existing right of way or other lot.
      8.   Division By Boundary Line: No single lot shall be divided by a
municipal or county boundary line.
      9.   Distance From Power Lines: No residential building or structure for
human habitation shall be located within one hundred fifty feet (150') of the
centerline of a power transmission line.
      10.   Flag Lots: Flag lots will be allowed under the following
conditions:
         a.   The pole portion of the lot which touches the public or private
access is at least forty feet (40') in width on lots forty (40) acres or less
in size, or at least sixty feet (60') in width on lots more than forty (40)
acres in size or at least fifty feet (50') in width on any lot within the
Emmett area of city impact.
         b.   The length of the pole portion of the lot does not exceed fire
department regulations.
         c.   All other portions of this code apply to the lot bulk and
placement.
         d.   Required setbacks shall be measured from the nonpole portion of
the lot.
   I.   Remainder Parcels/Lots: If subdividing land under one deed in phases,
all land described by that deed shall be included in the boundaries of the
preliminary plat and all land included in the phase being developed will be
included in the final plat. Any land within the plat reserved for future
division shall be platted as lots that meet the minimum dimensional standards
for the zone in which they are located, and meet all other applicable land use
ordinances.
   J.   Blocks:
      1.   The length, widths, and shapes of blocks shall be determined with
due regard to:
         a.   Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special
needs of the type of use contemplated including the base district requirements
as to property sizes and dimensions.
         b.   Avoiding double front lots. If unavoidable, one of the frontages
shall be restricted from vehicular access.
         c.   Needs for convenient access, circulation, control, and safety of
road traffic. The number of intersecting roads with arterials of all classes
shall be held to a minimum.
         d.   The limitations and opportunities of topography.
      2.   Any residential block length greater than one thousand two hundred
feet (1,200') in length shall provide the necessary mitigation as required by
the fire authority having jurisdiction. Emergency access mitigation options
shall be identified and presented in writing at the time of subdivision
application. Final mitigation requirements shall be determined during the board
review and made conditions of approval.
      3.   Pedestrian access rights of way not less than ten feet (10') wide
may be required for walkways through or across a block when deemed desirable to
provide circulation, or access to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers,
transportation, and other community facilities. Said access right of way shall
be a separate platted lot.
   The board may review and modify block sizes.
   K.   Utilities: The applicant shall:
      1.   Grant a public and private utility easement of an adequate width
(typically 5 to 10 feet) to comply with all utility companies and other
potential easement users in all required locations on the plat (see subsection
R of this section for additional easement requirements); and
      2.   Install utilities prior to road surfacing; and
      3.   Obtain services of a qualified testing firm to pressure test all
central or community water and sewer main lines and TV inspect all sewer main
lines. Paving of roads will not be done until testing and inspection of the
water and sewer main lines show they meet requirements of the “Idaho Standards
For Public Works Construction”.
   L.   Drainage:
      1.   The applicant shall provide suitable drainage facilities for any
surface runoff from within or upstream of the subdivision. On site natural
drainage channels, gullies, ditches and ravines shall be used whenever
possible. To avoid soil erosion and manage nutrients, sediment catchment basins
may be required. The applicant shall follow the stormwater, erosion and
drainage requirements of section
11-6-11  of this code.
      2.   Where a subdivision contains a stream, watercourse, drainageway,
channel or ditch, an easement shall be provided adequate to contain that
watercourse and any further width necessary for maintenance or reconstruction.
      3.   Drainage systems shall not discharge into any sanitary sewer
facility.
      4.   When the proposed subdivision or any part thereof falls within the
boundaries of a mosquito abatement district, all drainage plans and systems
shall follow the guidelines of such district.
   M.   Park Or School Site Dedication: Based on a recommendation regarding the
suitability of the site from the recreation or school district, an applicant
may be required to provide either land or a financial contribution or both for
playgrounds, recreation space or a school site based on a rationally related
formula determined by a resolution or ordinance of the board.
   N.   Public Access Easements: The board may require an access easement to
publicly administered land, streams, rivers, lakes and reservoirs. An applicant
shall clearly delineate for the public the location of any access easement by
appropriate signage and rail fencing, and create an obligation by the
homeowners’ or lot owners’ association to maintain unrestricted passage by the
public. The board may require an easement for a future trail system connection.
   O.   Easements: It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to provide
on the final plat such easements required for utilities, drainage, access,
irrigation, waterways or other public facilities. The widths of such easements
shall be adequate for the facilities planned or proposed. In subdivisions with
lots of one acre or smaller, utility easements will be provided on all lot
lines. In subdivisions with lots of over an acre utility easements may be shown
along lot lines required to install proposed utilities. Prior to filing the
final plat, the applicant shall have submitted the plat to the person(s)
authorized to perform plat review for the utility interests. Prior to final
plat review by the administrator, a letter shall have been received from the
interested utilities signifying that easements shown on the plat are complete
and satisfactory for utility purposes. Where a subdivision is transversed by a
watercourse, appropriate easements shall be provided.
   P.   Design Of Subdivisions Within Or Adjacent To Lands Zoned A-1:
      1.   The subdivision shall be designed and residential structures located
to minimize the impact on agricultural land, farming operations, and sensitive
environmental features. The board shall consider, without limitation, the
following design criteria:
         a.   Locating residential structures as far from neighboring
agricultural lands as possible;
         b.   Grouping land uses as much as practical, such that agricultural
lands abut neighboring agricultural lands and residential structures are
located contiguous with other residential uses;
         c.   Locating structures on the least productive agricultural land and
in such a manner as to have little impact on any environmental, agricultural or
open space resources; and
         d.   Placing residential structures nearest to utilities and roads to
minimize the amount of construction and the loss of agricultural land. (Ord.
2009-06, 9-28-2009; amd. Ord. 2022-06, 7-11-2022; Ord. 2022-07, 8-1-2022; Ord.
2025-06, 3-24-2025)
CHAPTER 7
SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
12-7-1: Purpose; Applicability
12-7-2: Hillside Subdivision
12-7-3: Planned Unit And Condominium Subdivision
12-7-4: Manufactured Home Parks
12-7-5: Large Scale Development Subdivision
12-7-6: Cemetery Subdivision
12-7-7: Subdivision Within A Floodplain
12-7-1: PURPOSE; APPLICABILITY:
The purpose of this chapter is to identify various types of developments that
normally pose special concerns to the commission and elected officials when
reviewing and acting upon subdivision requests. This chapter outlines the plan
submittal requirements and design standards that shall be taken into
consideration when acting on special developments. The provisions of this
chapter are in addition to the plan requirements, design standards and
improvement standards that are required as set forth in this title.
Where applicable, all subdivisions must, in addition to the subdivision design
and improvement standards, comply with the following provisions relating to
special development subdivisions. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-7-2: HILLSIDE SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Appearance And Preservation: In order to preserve, retain, enhance and
promote the existing and future appearance, natural topographic features,
qualities and resources of hillsides, special consideration shall be given to
the following:
      1.   Skyline and ridge tops;
      2.   Rolling grassy landforms, including knolls, ridges and meadows;
      3.   Tree and shrub masses, grass, wildflowers and topsoil;
      4.   Rock outcroppings;
      5.   Streambeds, draw and drainage swells, especially where tree and
plant formations occur; and
      6.   Characteristic vistas and scenic panoramas.
   B.   Hillside Development Evaluation:
      1.   All development proposals must take into account and may be judged
by the way in which land use planning, soil mechanics, engineering, geology,
hydrology, civil engineering, environmental and civic design, architectural and
landscape design are applied in hillside areas at the discretion of the
commission and/or board including, but not limited to:
         a.   Planning of development to fit the topography, soil, geology,
hydrology and other conditions existing on the proposed site;
         b.   Orientation of development on the site so that grading and other
site preparation is kept to an absolute minimum;
         c.   Shaping of essential grading to blend with natural landforms to
minimize the necessity of padding and/or terracing of building sites;
         d.   Division of large tracts into smaller workable units on which
construction can be completed within one construction season so that large
areas are not left bare and exposed during the winter- spring runoff period;
         e.   Completion of paving as rapidly as possible after grading;
         f.   Allocations of areas not well suited for development because of
soil, geology or hydrology limitations for open space and recreation uses,
including well lots if applicable;
         g.   Minimizing disruption of existing plant and animal life;
         h.   Consideration of the view from and of the hills;
         i.   A portion of a hillside subdivision having a slope of less than
ten percent (10%) may, with the permission of the commission and/or board, be
dealt with in a separate phase or phases and is not subject to the special
provisions under this chapter.
   C.   Engineering Plans: The applicant shall retain a professional engineer
(s) to obtain the following information. Full engineering may not be required
if plat designates building envelopes outside of area of concern.
      1.   Soil Report: For any proposed hillside development a soils
engineering report shall be submitted with the subdivision permit application.
This report shall include data regarding the nature, distribution and strength
of existing soils, conclusions and recommendations for grading procedures,
design criteria for corrective measures, and opinions and recommendations
covering the adequacy of sites to be developed.
      2.   Geology Report:
         a.   For any proposed hillside development a geology report shall be
submitted with the subdivision permit application. This report shall include an
adequate description of site geology and an evaluation of the relationship
between the proposed development and the underlying geology and recommendations
for remedial remedies; and
         b.   The investigation and subsequent report shall be completed by a
professional geologist registered in the state of Idaho.
      3.   Hydrology Report:
         a.   For any proposed hillside development a hydrology report shall be
submitted with the subdivision permit application. This report shall include an
adequate description of the hydrology, conclusions and recommendations
regarding the effect of the hydrologic conditions on the proposed development,
and opinions and recommendations covering the adequacy of sites to be
developed; and
         b.   Flood frequency curves shall be provided for the area proposed
for development.
   D.   Grading Plan:
      1.   A preliminary grading plan shall be submitted with each hillside
subdivision permit application proposal and shall include the following
information:
         a.   Approximate limiting dimensions, elevations or finish contours to
be achieved by the grading, including all cut and fill slopes, proposed
drainage channels and related construction;
         b.   Preliminary plans and approximate locations of all surface and
subsurface drainage devices, walls, dams, sediment basins, storage reservoirs
and other protective devices to be constructed; and
         c.   A description of methods to be employed in disposing of soil and
other materials that are removed from the grading site, including the location
of the disposal site.
      2.   A final grading plan shall be submitted with each final plat and
shall include the following information:
         a.   Limiting dimensions, elevations or finish contours to be achieved
by the grading, including all proposed cut and fill slopes and proposed
drainage channels and related construction;
         b.   Detailed plans and locations of all surface and subsurface
drainage devices, walls, dams, sediment basins, storage reservoirs and other
protective devices to be constructed; and
         c.   A schedule showing when each stage of the project will be
completed, including the total area of soil surface which is to be disturbed
during each stage, together with estimated starting and completion dates. In no
event shall the existing natural vegetative ground cover be destroyed, removed
or disturbed more than fifteen (15) days prior to grading.
   E.   Development Standards:
      1.   Soils:
         a.   Fill areas shall be prepared by removing organic materials such
as vegetation and rubbish, and any other material which is determined by the
soils engineer to be detrimental to proper compaction or otherwise not
conducive to stability; no rock or similar irreducible material with a maximum
dimension greater than eight inches (8") shall be used as fill material in
fills that are intended to provide structural strength.
         b.   Fill shall be compacted to at least ninety five percent (95%) of
maximum density, as determined by AASHTO T99 and ASTM D698.
         c.   Cut slopes shall be no steeper than two horizontal to one
vertical (2:1); subsurface drainage shall be provided as necessary for
stability.
         d.   Fill slopes shall be no steeper than two horizontal to one
vertical (2:1); fill slopes shall not be located on natural slopes, two to one
(2:1) or steeper, or where fill slope toes out within twelve feet (12')
horizontally of the top of an existing or planned cut slope.
         e.   Tops and toes of cut and fill slopes shall be set back from
property boundaries a distance of three feet (3') plus one-fifth (1/5) of the
height of the cut or fill but need not exceed a horizontal distance of ten feet
(10'); tops and toes of cut and fill slopes shall be set back from structures a
distance of six feet (6') plus one-fifth (1/5) the height of the cut or fill,
but need not exceed ten feet (10').
         f.   The maximum horizontal distance of disturbed soil surface shall
not exceed seventy five feet (75').
      2.   Roadways:
         a.   Road alignment should follow natural terrain and no unnecessary
cuts or fills shall be allowed in order to create additional lots or building
sites.
         b.   One-way roads shall be permitted and encouraged where appropriate
for the terrain and where public safety would not be jeopardized. Width shall
be twenty four feet (24'), measured back of curb to back of curb.
         c.   The width of the graded section shall extend three feet (3')
beyond the curb back or edge of pavement on both the cut and fill sides of the
roadway. If sidewalk is to be installed parallel to the roadway, the graded
section shall be increased by the width of the sidewalk plus one foot (1')
beyond the curb back.
         d.   Concrete curb and gutter shall be installed along both sides of
all paved roadways.
         e.   A pedestrian walkway plan may be required.
      3.   Driveways And Parking: Combinations of collective private driveways,
cluster parking areas and on road parallel parking bays shall be used to
attempt to optimize the objectives of minimum soil disturbance, minimum
impervious cover, excellence of design and aesthetic sensitivity.
   F.   Vegetation And Revegetation:
      1.   The applicant shall submit a slope stabilization and revegetation
plan which shall include a complete description of the existing vegetation to
be removed and the method of disposal, the vegetation to be planted and slope
stabilization measures to be installed. The plan shall include an analysis of
the environmental effect of such operation, including the effects of slope
stability, soil erosion, water quality and fish and wildlife.
      2.   Vegetation sufficient to stabilize the soil shall be established on
all disturbed areas as each stage of grading is completed. Areas not contained
within lot boundaries shall be protected with perennial vegetal cover after all
construction is completed. Efforts shall be made to plant those species that
tend to recover from fire damage and do not contribute to a rapid rate of fire
spread.
      3.   The applicant shall be fully responsible for any destruction of
native vegetation proposed for retention. The applicant shall carry the
responsibility for its own employees and for all subcontractors from the first
day of construction until the notice of completion is filed. The applicant
shall be responsible for replacing such destroyed vegetation.
   G.   Maintenance: The owner of any private property on which grading or
other work has been performed pursuant to a grading plan approved or a building
permit granted under the provisions of this title shall continuously maintain
and repair all graded surfaces and erosion prevention devices, retaining walls,
drainage structures or means, and other protective devices, planting and ground
cover installed or completed. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-7-3: PLANNED UNIT AND CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION:
   A.   General: Planned unit and condominium developments shall be subject to
requirements set forth in the zoning ordinance and also subject to all
provisions within this title.
   B.   Minimum Area: A planned unit development for the following principal
uses shall contain an area of not less than:
      1.   Three (3) acres for residential use, except for a mobile home
subdivision;
      2.   Five (5) acres for residential use with subordinate commercial use;
      3.   Ten (10) acres for commercial use; and
      4.   Ten (10) acres for industrial use.
   C.   Site Development Plan: The applicant shall provide the commission with
a colored rendering of adequate scale to show the completed development that
will include at least the following:
      1.   Architectural style and building design;
      2.   Building materials and color;
      3.   Landscaping;
      4.   Screening;
      5.   Garbage areas;
      6.   Parking; and
      7.   Open space.
   D.   Private Roads: Private road construction standards must comply with the
Gem County zoning ordinance. Adequate construction standards may vary depending
on the size of the development and the demands placed on such improvements.
   E.   Homeowners' Association: The homeowners' association bylaws and other
similar deed restrictions, which provide for the control and maintenance of all
common areas, recreation facilities or open space, shall meet with the approval
of the commission and/or board.
   F.   Storage Areas: Storage areas shall be provided for the anticipated
needs of boats, campers and trailers. For typical residential development, one
adequate space shall be provided for every two (2) living units. This may be
reduced by the board if there is a showing that the needs of a particular
development are less.
   G.   Parking Space: One additional parking space beyond that which is
required by the zoning ordinance may be required for every three (3) dwelling
units to accommodate visitor parking.
   H.   Maintenance Building: A maintenance building shall be provided, size
and location to be suitable for the service needs that are necessary for the
repair and maintenance of all common areas.
   I.   Open Space: The location of open space shall be appropriate to the
development and shall be of such shape and area to be usable and convenient to
the residents of the development.
   J.   Control During Development: Single ownership or control during
development shall be required and a time limit may be imposed to guarantee the
development is built and constructed as planned. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-7-4: MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS:
   A.   General: Manufactured home parks shall be subject to any requirements
set forth in the zoning ordinance.
   B.   Special Requirements: Manufactured home parks shall be subject to the
following special requirement:
      1.   Developed as a planned unit development with a minimum lot area for
the planned development of three (3) acres. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-7-5: LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Required Information: Due to the impact that a large scale development
would have on public utilities and services, the applicant shall submit the
following information along with the subdivision permit application:
      1.   Identification of all public services that would be provided to the
development (i.e., fire protection, police protection, water, sewer, road
construction, parks and open space, recreation, maintenance, schools and solid
waste collection);
      2.   Estimate the public service costs to provide adequate service to the
development; and
      3.   Estimate the tax revenue that will be generated from the
development. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-7-6: CEMETERY SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Function: The applicant shall provide written documentation that will
sufficiently explain the functions of the proposed cemetery for either human or
animal remains.
   B.   Compliance With Idaho Code: The applicant shall submit a written
statement that has been prepared by an attorney that adequately assures the
compliance of the proposed cemetery with the procedural management requirements
that are outlined in title 27, Idaho Code. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
12-7-7: SUBDIVISION WITHIN A FLOODPLAIN:
   A.   Flood Areas: For any proposed subdivision that is located within a
floodplain, the applicant shall provide a development plan of adequate scale
and supporting documentation that will show and explain at least the following:
      1.   Location of all planned improvements;
      2.   The location of the floodway and the floodway fringe per engineering
practices as specified by the army corps of engineers;
      3.   The location of the present water channel;
      4.   Any planned rerouting of waterways or floodways;
      5.   All major drainageways;
      6.   Areas of frequent flooding;
      7.   Means of floodproofing buildings; and
      8.   Means of insuring loans for improvements within the floodplain.
New construction and substantial improvements of residential and nonresidential
structures within the floodplain shall comply with section
13-5-2 of this code.
   B.   Justification For Development: Upon the determination that buildings
are planned within the floodplain or that alterations of any kind are
anticipated within the floodplain area that will alter the flow of water, the
applicant shall demonstrate conclusively to the commission that such
development will not present a hazard to life, limb or property, will not have
adverse effects on the safety, use or stability of a public way or drainage
channel or the natural environment.
No subdivision or part thereof shall be approved if levees, fills, structures
or other features within the proposed subdivision will individually or
collectively significantly increase the flood flows, heights or damages. If
only part of a proposed subdivision can be safely developed, the board shall
limit development to that part and shall require that development proceed
consistent with that determination.
The proposed subdivision shall be reviewed to assure that:
      1.   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize the
flood damage;
      2.   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical
and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damages; and
      3.   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
New or replacement water supply systems and/or sanitary sewage systems shall be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems
and discharges from the systems into floodwaters, and require on site waste
disposal systems to be located so as to avoid impairment of them or
contamination from them during flooding. (Ord. 2009-06, 9-28-2009)
CHAPTER 8
ROAD NAMING
(Rep. by Ord. 2025-06, 3-24-2025)
TITLE 13
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 1
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE, AND OBJECTIVES
SECTION:
13-1-1: Statutory Authority
13-1-2: Findings Of Fact
13-1-3: Statement Of Purpose
13-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORITY:
The Legislature of the State of Idaho, pursuant to Idaho Code §§ 46-1020
through 46-1024, authorizes local governments to adopt floodplain management
ordinances that identify floodplains and minimum floodplain development
standards to minimize flood hazards and protect human life, health, and
property. Therefore, the Board of County Commissioners for Gem County, Idaho
does hereby ordain as follows. (Ord. 2017-02, 3-6-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-09, 8-
16-2021)
13-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of Gem County are subject to periodic inundation
that results in:
      1.   Loss of life and property;
      2.   Health and safety hazards;
      3.   Disruption of commerce and governmental services;
      4.   Extraordinary public expenditures for flood relief and protection;
and
      5.   Impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public
health, safety, and general welfare.
   B.   Flood losses are caused by structures in flood hazard areas, which are
inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise unprotected from flood
damages, and by the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains causing
increases in flood heights and velocities.
   C.   Local government units have the primary responsibility for planning,
adopting, and enforcing land use regulations to accomplish proper floodplain
management. (Ord. 2017-02, 3-6-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-09, 8-16-2021)
13-1-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
The purpose of this ordinance is to promote public health, safety, and general
welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in
flood hazard areas. (Ord. 2017-02, 3-6-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-09, 8-16-2021)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
13-2-1: Words And Terms Defined
13-2-1: WORDS AND TERMS DEFINED:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this ordinance
shall be interpreted according to the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this ordinance its most reasonable application. The definitions in this
ordinance shall be for purposes of administering this floodplain management
ordinance and should not change definitions that may appear in other zoning
ordinances within the Gem County Code.
ACCESSORY
STRUCTURE      A structure on the same lot or parcel as a principal structure, the use of which is
(APPURTENANT   incidental and subordinate to the principal structure.
STRUCTURE):
ADDITION (TO
AN EXISTING    An extension or increase in the floor area or height of a building or structure.
BUILDING):
APPEAL:        A request for review of the Floodplain Administrator's interpretation of provisions
               of this ordinance or request for a variance.
               A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, or AR/AH zone on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map
AREA OF        (FIRM) with a 1 percent (1%) or greater annual chance of flooding to an average
SHALLOW        depth of one (1) to three (3) feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist,
FLOODING:      where the path of flooding is unpredictable, and where velocity flow may be evident.
               Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF
SPECIAL FLOOD  See Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA).
HAZARD:
BASE FLOOD:    The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given
               year.
               A determination by the Federal Insurance Administrator of the water surface
               elevations of the base flood, that is, the flood level that has a one percent or
BASE FLOOD     greater chance of occurrence in any given year. When the BFE has not been provided
ELEVATION      in a special flood hazard area, it may be obtained from engineering studies
(BFE):         available from a Federal, state, or other source using FEMA-approved engineering
               methodologies. This elevation, when combined with the Freeboard, establishes the
               Flood Protection Elevation.
BASEMENT:      Any area of the building having its floor sub grade (below ground level) on all
               sides.
BUILDING:      See Structure.
               Facilities that are vital to flood response activities or critical to the health and
               safety of the public before, during, and after a flood, such as a hospital,
CRITICAL       emergency operations center, electric substation, police station, fire station,
FACILITIES:    nursing home, school, vehicle and equipment storage facility, or shelter; and
               facilities that, if flooded, would make the flood problem and its impacts much
               worse, such as a hazardous materials facility, power generation facility, water
               utility, or wastewater treatment plant.
               The vertical datum is a base measurement point (or set of points) from which all
               elevations are determined. Historically, that common set of points was the National
DATUM:         Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929 (NGVD29). The vertical datum currently adopted by
               the federal government as a basis for measuring heights is the North American
               Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD88).
               Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including but not limited
DEVELOPMENT:   to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving,
               excavation or drilling operations, or storage of equipment or materials.
               Any activity defined as Development which will necessitate a Floodplain Development
DEVELOPMENT    Permit; such as: the construction of buildings, structures, or accessory structures;
ACTIVITY:      additions or substantial improvements to existing structures; bulkheads, retaining
               walls, piers, and pools; the placement of mobile homes; or the deposition or
               extraction of materials; the construction or elevation of dikes, berms and levees.
DIGITAL FLOOD  The digital official map of a community, issued by the Federal Insurance
INSURANCE RATE Administrator, on which both the special flood hazard areas and the risk premium
MAP (DFIRM):   zones applicable to the community are delineated.
ELEVATED       For insurance purposes, a non-basement building which has its lowest elevated floor
BUILDING:      raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers, pilings,
               or columns.
               An important administrative tool of the NFIP. It is used to determine the proper
ELEVATION      flood insurance premium rate; it is used to document elevation information necessary
CERTIFICATE:   to ensure compliance with community floodplain management regulations; and it may be
               used to support a request for a Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) or Letter of Map
               Revision based on fill (LOMR-F).
               An area enclosed by solid walls below the BFE/FPE or an area formed when any space
ENCLOSURE:     below the BFE/FPE is enclosed on all sides by walls or partitions. Insect screening
               or open wood lattice used to surround space below the BFE/RFPE is not considered an
               enclosure.
               The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation, buildings, structures, or
ENCROACHMENT:  development into a floodplain, which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a
               floodplain.
               For the purposes of determining rates, structures for which the "start of
EXISTING       construction" commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1,
CONSTRUCTION:  1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. "Existing construction" may also be
               referred to as "existing structures."
EXISTING       A manufactured home park or subdivision where the construction of facilities for
MANUFACTURED   servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at
HOME PARK OR   a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and final
MANUFACTURED   site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
HOME           of the original floodplain management regulations adopted by the community, April
SUBDIVISION:   17, 1978.
EXISTING       See Existing Construction.
STRUCTURES:
EXPANSION TO   The preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
AN EXISTING    the lots on which the manufacturing homes are to be affixed (including the
MANUFACTURED   installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
HOME PARK OR   grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
SUBDIVISION:
               A.   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally
               dry land areas from:
                  1.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
                  2.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
               source.
                  3.   Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by flooding as
               defined in paragraph A.2. of this definition and are akin to a river of liquid and
FLOOD OR       flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when earth is carried by
FLOODING:      a current of water and deposited along the path of the current.
               B.   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other body of
               water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents of water
               exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an unusually high water
               level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe storm, or by an
               unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an abnormal tidal surge, or by
               some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event which results in flooding as defined
               in paragraph A.1. of this definition.
FLOOD
ELEVATION      See Base Flood Elevation (BFE)
DETERMINATION:
FLOOD
ELEVATION      See Flood Insurance Study (FIS)
STUDY:
FLOOD          An official map of a community, on which the Federal Insurance Administrator has
INSURANCE RATE delineated both the special hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to
MAP (FIRM):    the community. A FIRM that has been made available digitally is called a Digital
               Flood Insurance Rate Map (DFIRM).
FLOOD          An examination, evaluation, and determination of flood hazards and, if appropriate,
INSURANCE      corresponding water surface elevations; or an examination, evaluation and
STUDY (FIS):   determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or flood-related erosion hazards.
FLOOD ZONE:    A geographical area shown on a Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) that reflects the
               severity or type of flooding in the area.
FLOODPLAIN OR  Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any source (see
FLOOD-PRONE    definition of “flooding”).
AREA:
FLOODPLAIN     The individual appointed to administer and enforce the floodplain management
ADMINISTRATOR: regulations.
FLOODPLAIN     Any type of permit that is required in conformance with the provisions of this
DEVELOPMENT    chapter, prior to the commencement of any development activity.
PERMIT:
FLOODPLAIN     The operation of an overall program of corrective and preventive measures for
MANAGEMENT:    reducing flood damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans,
               flood control works, and flood plain management regulations.
               Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
FLOODPLAIN     special purpose ordinances (such as a flood plain ordinance, grading ordinance, and
MANAGEMENT     erosion control ordinance), and other applications of police power. The term
REGULATIONS:   describes such state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide
               standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
               Any combination of structural and non-structural additions, changes, or adjustments
FLOODPROOFING: to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or improved real
               property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their contents.
FLOOD          The Base Flood Elevation plus the Freeboard.
PROTECTION     A.   In "Special Flood Hazard Areas" where Base Flood Elevations (BFEs) have been
ELEVATION      determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus 2 feet of freeboard; and
(FPE):         B.   In "Special Flood Hazard Areas" where no BFE has been established, this
               elevation shall be at least two feet (2') above the highest adjacent grade.
               Those physical structural works for which funds have been authorized, appropriated,
               and expended and which have been constructed specifically to modify flooding in
FLOOD          order to reduce the extent of the area within a community subject to a "special
PROTECTION     flood hazard" and the extent of the depths of associated flooding. Such a system
SYSTEM:        typically includes dams, reservoirs, levees, or dikes. These specialized flood
               modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering
               standards.
               The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must be
FLOODWAY:      reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the
               water surface elevation.
               A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for the purposes of
               floodplain management. Freeboard tends to compensate for the many unknown factors
               that could contribute to flood heights greater than the height calculated for a
FREEBOARD:     selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as wave action, obstructed bridge
               openings, debris and ice jams, and the hydrologic effects of urbanization in a
               watershed. The Base Flood Elevation (BFE) plus the freeboard establishes the Flood
               Protection Elevation (FPE). Freeboard shall be two feet (2').
               A facility that cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located or
FUNCTIONALLY   carried out in close proximity to water, such as a docking or port facility
DEPENDENT USE: necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, or
               ship repair facilities. The term does not include long-term storage, manufacture,
               sales, or service facilities.
HIGHEST        The highest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to construction, adjacent
ADJACENT GRADE to the proposed walls of a structure. Refer to the FEMA Elevation Certificate for
(HAG):         HAG related to building elevation information.
               A structure that is:
               A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing
               maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the
               Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on the
               National Register;
               B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as
               contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or to
               a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered
HISTORIC       historic district;
STRUCTURE:     C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places and determined as
               eligible by states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by
               the Secretary of the Interior; or
               D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places and determined as
               eligible by communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
               either:
                  1.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior;
               or
                  2.   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved
               programs.
               A general term used to refer to the several types of revisions and amendments to
               FEMA maps that can be accomplished by letter. They include Letter of Map Amendment
               (LOMA), Letter of Map Revision (LOMR), and Letter of Map Revision based on Fill
               (LOMR-F).
               A.   Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA): an official amendment, by letter, to an
               effective National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) map. A LOMA establishes a
               property's location in relation to the Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA). LOMAs are
               usually issued because a property has been inadvertently mapped as being in the
               floodplain but is actually on natural high ground above the base flood elevation.
               B.   Letter of Map Revision (LOMR): FEMA's modification to an effective Flood
               Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or a Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM) or both. LOMRs
               are generally based on the implementation of physical measures that affect the
               hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and thus result in the
               modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the effective Base Flood
LETTER OF MAP  Elevations (BFEs), or the Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA). The LOMR officially
CHANGE (LOMC): revises the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or Flood Boundary and Floodway Map
               (FBFM), and sometimes the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) report, and when appropriate,
               includes a description of the modifications. The LOMR is generally accompanied by an
               annotated copy of the affected portions of the FIRM, FBFM, or FIS report.
               C.   Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F): FEMA's modification of the
               Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA) shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) based
               on the placement of fill outside the existing regulatory floodway. The LOMR-F does
               not change the FIRM, FBFM, or FIS report.
               D.   Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR): A formal review and comment as to
               whether a proposed flood protection project or other project complies with the
               minimum NFIP requirements for such projects with respect to delineation of special
               flood hazard areas. A CLOMR does not revise the effective Flood Insurance Rate Map
               (FIRM) or Flood Insurance Study (FIS). Upon submission and approval of certified as-
               built documentation, a Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) may be issued by FEMA to revise
               the effective FIRM. Building Permits and/or Flood Development Permits cannot be
               issued based on a CLOMR, because a CLOMR does not change the NFIP map.
               A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and constructed
LEVEE:         according to sound engineering practices, to contain, control, or divert the flow of
               water so as to provide protection from temporary flooding.
               A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees, and associated
LEVEE SYSTEM:  structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are constructed and operated
               in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST         The lowest point of the ground level next to the structure. Refer to the FEMA
ADJACENT GRADE Elevation Certificate for LAG related to building elevation information.
(LAG):
               The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement). An unfinished or
               flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or
LOWEST FLOOR:  storage in an area other than a basement area is not considered a building's lowest
               floor; Provided, that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in
               violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of 44 CFR § 60.3 and
               this title.
               A structure, transportable in one or more sections, built on a permanent chassis and
MANUFACTURED   designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the
HOME:          required utilities. The term "Manufactured Home" does not include a “Recreational
               Vehicle.”
MANUFACTURED   A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into two or more manufactured home
HOME PARK OR   lots for rent or sale.
SUBDIVISION:
               The building value, not including the land value and that of any accessory
MARKET VALUE:  structures or other improvements on the lot. Market value may be established by
               independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated for age of building
               and quality of construction (Actual Cash Value); or adjusted tax assessed values.
               For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), the National Geodetic
MEAN SEA       Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum (such as North America Vertical Datum
LEVEL:         of 1988 - NAVD88) to which Base Flood Elevations (BFEs) shown on a community's FIRM
               are referenced.
               Describes a condition where there is a river, flow, or inundation of liquid mud down
               a hillside usually as a result of a dual condition of loss of brush cover and the
MUDSLIDE (i.e. subsequent accumulation of water on the ground preceded by a period of unusually
MUDFLOW):      heavy or sustained rain. A mudslide (i.e., mudflow) may occur as a distinct
               phenomenon while a landslide is in progress, and will be recognized as such by the
               Administrator only if the mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of
               damage that occurs.
MUDSLIDE (i.e. The operation of an overall program of corrective and preventive measures for
MUDFLOW) AREA  reducing mudslide (i.e., mudflow) damage, including but not limited to emergency
MANAGEMENT:    preparedness plans, mudslide control works, and flood plain management regulations.
MUDSLIDE (i.e. An area with land surfaces and slopes of unconsolidated material where the history,
MUDFLOW) PRONE geology, and climate indicate a potential for mudflow.
AREA:
NATIONAL FLOOD The NFIP is a Federal program created by Congress to mitigate future flood losses
INSURANCE      nationwide through sound, community-enforced building and zoning ordinances and to
PROGRAM        provide access to affordable, federally backed flood insurance protection for
(NFIP):        property owners.
               A structure for which the start of construction commenced on or after the effective
               date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes any
NEW            subsequent improvements to such structures.
CONSTRUCTION:  Any construction started after April 17, 1978 and before the effective start date of
               this floodplain management ordinance is subject to the ordinance in effect at the
               time the permit was issued, provided the start of construction was within one
               hundred and eighty (180) days of permit issuance.
NEW            A place where the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the
MANUFACTURED   manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum the installation of
HOME PARK OR   utilities, the construction of streets, and final site grading or the pouring of
SUBDIVISION:   concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective date of floodplain management
               regulations adopted by a community April 17, 1978.
POST-FIRM:     Construction or other development for which the "start of construction" occurred on
               or after the effective date of the initial Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).
               Construction or other development for which the "start of construction" occurred
PRE-FIRM:      before April 17, 1978, the effective date of the initial Flood Insurance Rate Map
               (FIRM).
               A vehicle that is:
               A.   Built on a single chassis, and
RECREATIONAL   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
VEHICLE:       projection, and
               C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towed by a light duty truck, and
               D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
               quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
REGULATORY     See Floodway.
FLOODWAY:
               To bring the structure or other development into compliance with State or local
               flood plain management regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the
REMEDY A       impacts of its non-compliance. Ways that impacts may be reduced include protecting
VIOLATION:     the structure or other affected development from flood damages, implementing the
               enforcement provisions of the ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar
               violations, or reducing Federal financial exposure with regard to the structure or
               other development.
REPETITIVE     An NFIP-insured structure that has had at least two paid flood losses of more than
LOSS           one thousand dollars ($1,000) each in any ten (10)-year period since 1978.
STRUCTURE:
RIVERINE:      Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including tributaries), stream,
               brook, etc.
SPECIAL FLOOD  The land in the flood plain within a community subject to a one percent (1%) or
HAZARD AREA    greater chance of flooding in any given year. For purposes of these regulations, the
(SFHA):        term "special flood hazard area" is synonymous in meaning with the phrase "area of
               special flood hazard".
               Includes substantial improvement, and means the date the building permit was issued,
               provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
               addition placement, or other improvement was within one hundred and eighty (180)
               days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of
               permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or
               footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond
               the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
START OF       Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading,
CONSTRUCTION:  and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor
               does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the
               erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
               accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not
               part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of
               construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other
               structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
               dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE:     A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank that is
               principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
               Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the
               structure to its before-damaged condition would equal or exceed fifty percent (50%)
               of its market value before the damage occurred. See definition of "substantial
SUBSTANTIAL    improvement". Substantial damage also means flood-related damage sustained by a
DAMAGE:        structure on two separate occasions during a 10-year period for which the cost of
               repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds
               twenty-five percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
               occurred.
               Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure,
               the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
               structure before the "start of construction" of the improvement. This term includes
               structures which have incurred "substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair
               work performed. The term does not, however, include either:
SUBSTANTIAL    A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of
IMPROVEMENT:   state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
               identified by the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum
               necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
               B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the alteration will not
               preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic structure" and the
               alteration is approved by variance issued pursuant to this Title 13.
               FEMA publications that provide guidance concerning the building performance
               standards of the NFIP, which are contained in Title 44 of the U S Code of Federal
               Regulations § 60.3. The bulletins and fact sheets are intended for use primarily by
               State and local officials responsible for interpreting and enforcing NFIP
               regulations and by members of the development community, such as design
               professionals and builders. New bulletins, as well as updates of existing bulletins,
TECHNICAL      are issued periodically as needed. The bulletins do not create regulations. Rather
BULLETINS AND  they provide specific guidance for complying with the minimum requirements of
TECHNICAL FACT existing NFIP regulations.
SHEETS:        It should be noted that Technical Bulletins and Technical Fact Sheets provide
               guidance on the minimum requirements of the NFIP regulations. State or community
               requirements that exceed those of the NFIP take precedence. Design professionals
               should contact the community officials to determine whether more restrictive State
               or local regulations apply to the building or site in question. All applicable
               standards of the State or local building code must also be met for any building in a
               flood hazard area.
TEMPERATURE    Having the temperature regulated by a heating and/or cooling system, built-in or
CONTROLLED:    appliance.
VARIANCE:      A grant of relief by the governing body from a requirement of this ordinance.
               The failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the
               community's flood plain management regulations. A structure or other development
VIOLATION:     without the Finished Construction Elevation Certificate, other certifications, or
               other evidence of compliance required in 44 CFR § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)
               (3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until such time as
               that documentation is provided.
               The height, in relation to the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or
WATER SURFACE  the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other specified datum), of
ELEVATION:     floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the flood plains of coastal or
               riverine areas.
               A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other topographic feature on or over
WATERCOURSE:   which waters flow at least periodically. Watercourse includes specifically
               designated areas in which substantial flood damage may occur. (Ord. 2017-02, 3-6-
               2017; amd. Ord. 2021-09, 8-16-2021)
 
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
13-3-1: Lands To Which This Title Applies
13-3-2: Basis For Special Flood Hazard Areas
13-3-3: Establishment Of Floodplain Development Permit
13-3-4: Compliance
13-3-5: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
13-3-6: Interpretation
13-3-7: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
13-3-8: Penalties For Violation
13-3-1: LANDS TO WHICH THIS TITLE APPLIES:
This title shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
jurisdiction of Gem County. Nothing in this ordinance is intended to allow uses
or structures that are otherwise prohibited by the zoning ordinance. (Ord.
2017-02, 3-6-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-09, 8-16-2021)
13-3-2: BASIS FOR SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS:
The special flood hazard areas identified by the Federal Insurance
Administrator in a scientific and engineering report titled "Flood Insurance
Study (FIS) for Gem County, Idaho and Unincorporated Areas", dated August 24,
2021, with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) or Digital Flood
Insurance Rate Maps (DFIRM), and other supporting data, are adopted by
reference and declared a part of this ordinance. The FIS and the FIRM are on
file at the Development Services Office located at 109 S. McKinley Avenue.
(Ord. 2017-02, 3-6-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-09, 8-16-2021)
13-3-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this ordinance prior to the commencement of any development
activities within special flood hazard areas determined in accordance with the
provisions of
13-4-2. (Ord. 2017-02, 3-6-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-09, 8-16-2021)
13-3-4: COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted, altered,
or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
ordinance and other applicable state and Federal regulations. (Ord. 2017-02, 3-
6-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-09, 8-16-2021)
13-3-5: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This title shall not in any way repeal, abrogate, impair, or remove the
necessity of compliance with any other laws, ordinances, regulations,
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions, etcetera. However, where this
ordinance and another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes more stringent or
greater restrictions shall control. (Ord. 2017-02, 3-6-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-09,
8-16-2021)
13-3-6: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this title all provisions shall be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes. (Ord. 2017-02, 3-6-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-09, 8-16-2021)
13-3-7: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this ordinance is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur. Flood heights may be
increased by man-made or natural causes. This title does not imply that land
outside the Special Flood Hazard Areas or uses permitted within such areas will
be free from flooding or flood damages. This title shall not create liability
on the part of Gem County or by any officer or employee thereof for flood
damages that result from reliance on this ordinance or an administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder. (Ord. 2017-02, 3-6-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-09,
8-16-2021)
13-3-8: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION:
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted, or
altered unless in full compliance with the terms of this title and other
applicable regulations.
Violation of the provisions of this title or failure to comply with any of its
requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall be subject to
the general penalties outlined in Title 1, Chapter 4 of this code. Nothing
herein contained shall prevent Gem County from taking such other lawful actions
as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. (Ord. 2017-02, 3-6-2017;
amd. Ord. 2021-09, 8-16-2021; Ord. 2022-05 6-21-2022)
CHAPTER 4
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
13-4-1: Designation Of Floodplain Administrator
13-4-2: Duties And Responsibilities Of Floodplain Administrator
13-4-3: Floodplain Development Application, Permit, And Certification
Requirements
13-4-4: Corrective Procedures
13-4-5: Variance Procedures
13-4-1: DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The Gem County Planning Director, hereinafter referred to as the “Floodplain
Administrator,” is hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions
of this title. (Ord. 2017-02, 3-6-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-09, 8-16-2021)
13-4-2: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
   A.   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that the
requirements of this title have been satisfied.
   B.   Review all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to
assure that all necessary local, state, and Federal permits have been received,
including Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of
1972, 33 USC 1334.
   C.   Notify adjacent communities and the Idaho Department of Water Resources
State Coordinator for the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit evidence of such
notification to the Federal Insurance Administrator.
   D.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated
portion of any watercourse is maintained.
   E.   Prevent encroachments into floodways unless the certification and flood
hazard reduction provisions
13-5-5 are met.
   F.   Obtain and maintain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of
the lowest floor (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new
and substantially improved structures, in accordance with the provisions of
13-4-3C.
   G.   Obtain and maintain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to
which all new and substantially improved structures and utilities have been
floodproofed, in accordance with the provisions of
13-4-3C.
   H.   Obtain and maintain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of
all public utilities in accordance with the provisions of
13-4-3C.
   I.   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain and
maintain certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of
13-4-3C and
13-5-2B.
   J.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries
of the Special Flood Hazard Areas, or floodways, (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person contesting the
location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
interpretation as provided in this article.
   K.   When Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with the provisions of
13-3-2, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any BFE data, along with
floodway data available from a Federal, State, or other source, including data
developed pursuant to
13-5-3, in order to administer the provisions of this ordinance.
   L.   When Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway data
has been provided in accordance with the provisions of
13-3-2 require that no new construction, substantial improvements, or other
development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zone AE on the
community's FIRM unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the
proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community.
   M.   When the lowest floor and the lowest adjacent grade of a structure or
the lowest ground elevation of a parcel in a Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA)
is above the Base Flood Elevation (BFE), advise the property owner of the
option to apply for a Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) from FEMA. Maintain a copy
of the LOMA issued by FEMA in the floodplain development permit file.
   N.   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration of
this ordinance and make these records available for public inspection,
recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, as
amended.
   O.   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to a
floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator or
qualified designee, shall make as many inspections of the work as may be
necessary to ensure that the work is being done according to the provisions of
the local ordinance and the terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the
Floodplain Administrator has a right, upon presentation of proper credentials,
to enter on any premises within the jurisdiction of the community at any
reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   P.   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part thereof
is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation of this
ordinance, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be immediately
stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to the person
doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order shall state the specific
work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the condition
(s) under which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work order
constitutes a misdemeanor.
   Q.   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked.
   R.   Make periodic inspections throughout the Special Flood Hazard Areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator and each
member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   S.   Follow through with corrective procedures of as needed.
   T.   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance requests.
   U.   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to, the
FIS Report, FIRM and other official flood maps, and studies adopted in
accordance with the provisions of
13-3-2 of this title, including any revisions thereto including Letters of Map
Change, issued by FEMA. Notify the NFIP State Coordinator and FEMA of your
community's mapping needs.
   V.   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including Letters of Map
Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-Fs) and Letters of Map Revision (LOMRs).
   W.   A community's base flood elevations may increase or decrease resulting
from physical changes affecting flooding conditions. As soon as practicable,
but not later than six months after the date such information becomes
available, a community shall notify the Federal Insurance Administrator (FIA)
of the changes by submitting technical or scientific data in accordance with
this part. Such a submission is necessary so that upon confirmation of those
physical changes affecting flooding conditions, risk premium rates and flood
plain management requirements will be based upon current data.
   X.   Upon occurrence, notify the Federal Insurance Administrator (FIA) in
writing whenever the boundaries of the community have been modified by
annexation or the community has otherwise assumed or no longer has authority to
adopt and enforce flood plain management regulations for a particular area. In
order that all FHBM's and FIRM's accurately represent the community's
boundaries, include within such notification a copy of a map of the community
suitable for reproduction, clearly delineating the new corporate limits or new
area for which the community has assumed or relinquished flood plain management
regulatory authority. (Ord. 2017-02, 3-6-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-09, 8-16-2021)
13-4-3: FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION, PERMIT, AND CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Application Requirements: Application for a Floodplain Development
Permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within Special Flood Hazard Areas. The following items shall
be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
      1.   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
         a.   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities, and
other development;
         b.   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map as determined in
13-3-2, or a statement that the entire lot is within the special flood hazard
area;
         c.   The flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in
13-3-2;
         d.   The boundary of the floodway(s) as determined in
13-3-2;
         e.   The Base Flood Elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in
13-3-2;
13-3-3; or
13-5-3;
         f.   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
         g.   The certification of the plot plan by a registered land surveyor
or professional engineer.
      2.   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within a
special flood hazard area including but not limited to:
         a.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed lowest
floor (including basement) of all structures;
         b.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure in Zone A, AE, AH, AO will be floodproofed; and
         c.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or floodproofed.
      3.   If floodproofing, a Floodproofing Certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-33)
with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and maintenance
plan that include, but are not limited to, installation, exercise, and
maintenance of floodproofing measures.
      4.   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this title are met.
These details include but are not limited to:
         a.   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation,
or on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and
         b.   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance
13-5-1H.2.a.-f. when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones A, AE,
AH, AO.
      5.   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor.
      6.   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
      7.   Certification that all other local, state, and Federal permits
required prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received.
      8.   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of
13-5-2E. and F. of this title are met.
      9.   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation, when
applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and
      10.   A map (if not shown on plot plan) showing the location of the
proposed watercourse alteration or relocation.
   B.   Permit Requirements. The floodplain development permit shall include,
but not be limited to:
      1.   A complete description of all the development to be permitted under
the floodplain development permit (i.e. house, garage, pool, septic, bulkhead,
cabana, pole barn, chicken coop, pier, bridge, mining, dredging, filling,
grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of equipment or
materials, etcetera).
      2.   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with available data specified in
13-3-2.
      3.   The flood protection elevation required for the lowest floor
(including basement) and all attendant utilities.
      4.   The flood protection elevation required for the protection of all
utility equipment and machinery.
      5.   All certification submittal requirements with timelines.
      6.   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway of any watercourse, as applicable.
      7.   The flood openings requirements, if in Zones A, AE, AH, AO.
      8.   All floodplain development permits shall be conditional upon the
start of construction of work within one hundred and eighty (180) days. A
floodplain development permit shall expire one hundred and eighty (180) days
after issuance unless the permitted activity has commenced as per the Start of
Construction definition.
      9.   A statement of the limitations of below BFE enclosure uses, if
applicable. (i.e., parking, building access and limited storage only).
      10.   A statement that all materials below BFE/FPE must be flood
resistant materials.
   C.   Certification Requirements:
      1.   Elevation Certificates:
         a.   The primary purpose of the Elevation Certificate is to rate a
flood insurance policy.
         b.   An Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form 86-0-33) is required prior to
the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit
holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the
elevation of the lowest floor (including basement), in relation to mean sea
level. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder prior to the beginning of construction. Failure to submit the
certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause to deny a
floodplain development permit.
         c.   An Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form 86-0-33) is optional, but
recommended, after the lowest floor (including basement) is established. Within
seven (7) calendar days of establishment of the lowest floor (including
basement)elevation, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement), in relation to mean sea level. Any work done within the
seven (7) day calendar period and prior to submission of the certification
shall be at the permit holder's risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review
the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be
corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further work being
permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make
required corrections shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
         d.   A final as-built Finished Construction Elevation Certificate
(FEMA Form 86-0-33) is required after construction is completed and prior to
certificate of compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the
permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of
final as-built construction of the elevation of the lowest floor (including
basement) and all attendant utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall
review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review
shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of
compliance/occupancy issuance. In some instances, another certification may be
required to certify corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the
certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause to
withhold the issuance of a certificate of compliance/occupancy.
The finished construction elevation certificate certifier shall provide at
least two (2) photographs showing the front and rear of the building taken
within ninety (90) days from the date of certification. The photographs must be
taken with views confirming the building description and diagram number
provided in Section B. To the extent possible, these photographs should show
the entire building including foundation. If the building has split-level or
multi-level areas, provide at least two (2) additional photographs showing side
views of the building. In addition, when applicable, provide a photograph of
the foundation showing a representative example of the flood openings or vents.
All photographs must be in color and measure at least three inches by three
inches (3" × 3"). Digital photographs are acceptable.
      2.   Floodproofing Certificate. If non-residential floodproofing is used
to meet the Flood Protection Elevation requirements, a Floodproofing
Certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-34), with supporting data, an operational plan,
and an inspection and maintenance plan are required prior to the actual start
of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to
the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design
elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) and all attendant utilities,
in relation to mean sea level. Floodproofing certification shall be prepared by
or under the direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and
certified by same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate
data, the operational plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan.
Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the applicant prior
to permit approval. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make
required corrections shall be cause to deny a Floodplain Development Permit.
Failure to construct in accordance with the certified design shall be cause to
withhold the issuance of a Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy.
      3.   If a manufactured home is placed within Zone A, AE, AH, AO and the
elevation of the chassis is more than thirty-six inches (36") in height above
grade, an engineered foundation certification is required in accordance with
the provisions of
13-5-2C.2.
      4.   If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, the following shall
all be submitted by the permit applicant prior to issuance of a floodplain
development permit:
         a.   A description of the extent of watercourse alteration or
relocation; and
         b.   A professional engineer's certified report on the effects of the
proposed project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the
effects to properties located both upstream and downstream; and
         c.   A map showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration
or relocation; and
         d.   An Idaho Stream Channel Alteration Permit approval shall be
provided by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator.
      5.   Certification Exemptions: The following structures, if located
within Zone A, AE, AH, AO, are exempt from the elevation/floodproofing
certification requirements specified in items 1 and 2 of this subsection:
         a.   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of
13-5-2E.1.;
         b.   Temporary structures meeting requirements of
13-5-2-F; and
         c.   Accessory structures less than two hundred (200) square feet
meeting requirements of
13-5-2G.
   D.   Determinations for Existing Buildings and Structures: For applications
for building permits to improve buildings and structures, including
alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of occupancy,
additions, rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements, repairs of
substantial damage, and any other improvement of or work on such buildings and
structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with the Building
Official, shall:
      1.   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work. In the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
      2.   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
      3.   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; and
      4.   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that compliance
with the flood resistant construction requirements of the adopted Idaho
Building Code and this title is required. (Ord. 2017-02, 3-6-2017; amd. Ord.
2021-09, 8-16-2021)
13-4-4: CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES:
   A.   Violations to be Corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable State and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
   B.   Actions in Event of Failure to Take Corrective Action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner's last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      1.   That the building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
      2.   That a hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at a
designated place and time, not later than ten (10) days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      3.   That following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue
an order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
applicable.
   C.   Order to Take Corrective Action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of the flood damage prevention
ordinance, he or she shall issue an order in writing to the owner, requiring
the owner to remedy the violation within a specified time period, not less than
sixty (60) calendar days, nor more than one-hundred-eighty (180) calendar days.
Where the Floodplain Administrator finds that there is imminent danger to life
or other property, he or she may order that corrective action be taken in such
lesser period as may be feasible.
   D.   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the clerk within ten (10)
days following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the
order of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local governing body
shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and
affirm, or revoke the order.
   E.   Failure to Comply with Order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished at the
discretion of the court. (Ord. 2017-02, 3-6-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-09, 8-16-2021)
13-4-5: VARIANCE PROCEDURES:
   A.   The Board of County Commissioners as established by Gem County,
hereinafter referred to as the "appeal board", shall hear and decide requests
for variances from the requirements of this ordinance.
   B.   Variances may be issued for:
      1.   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
      2.   Functionally dependent facilities, if determined to meet the
definition as stated in Chapter 2 of this ordinance, provided provisions of
13-4-5I.2., 3., and 4., have been satisfied, and such facilities are protected
by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no
additional threats to public safety; or
      3.   Any other type of development, provided it meets the requirements of
this chapter.
   C.   In passing upon variances, the appeal board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this title and:
      1.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      2.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      3.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      4.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      5.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under Article II of this title as a functionally dependent facility, where
applicable;
      6.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      7.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      8.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      9.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      10.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      11.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and bridges.
   D.   The applicant shall include a written report addressing each of the
above factors in
13-4-5C.1-11 with their application for a variance.
   E.   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of this
title, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the granting of variances
as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this ordinance.
   F.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the Base Flood Elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and that such construction
below the BFE increases risks to life and property, and that the issuance of a
variance to construct a structure below the BFE will result in increased
premium rates for flood insurance up to twenty-five dollars ($25) per one
hundred dollars ($100) of insurance coverage. Such notification shall be
maintained with a record of all variance actions, including justification for
their issuance.
   G.   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
the State of Idaho upon request.
   H.   Conditions for Variances:
      1.   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other Federal, State, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
      2.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if the
variance would result in any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge.
      3.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      4.   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit approval.
      5.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   I.   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or sites,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage
facilities that are located in Special Flood Hazard Areas provided that all of
the following conditions are met.
      1.   The use serves a critical need in the community.
      2.   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special flood
hazard area.
      3.   The lowest floor (including basement) of any structure is elevated
or floodproofed to at least the flood protection elevation.
      4.   The use complies with all other applicable Federal, state and local
laws.
   J.   Gem County will notify the State NFIP Coordinator of the Idaho
Department of Water Resources of its intention to grant a variance at least
thirty (30) calendar days prior to granting the variance.
   K.   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board may appeal
such decision to the Court, as provided in Idaho Code 67-6535. (Ord. 2017-02,
3-6-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-09, 8-16-2021)
CHAPTER 5
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
SECTION:
13-5-1: General Standards
13-5-2: Specific Standards
13-5-3: Standards For Floodplains Without Established Base Flood Elevations
13-5-4: Standards For Riverine Floodplains With Base Flood Elevations But
Without Established Floodways
13-5-5: Standards For Floodways
13-5-6: Standards For Areas Of Shallow Flooding (Zone AO, AH, AR/AO, Or AR/AH)
13-5-1: GENERAL STANDARDS:
In all special flood hazard areas the following provisions are required:
   A.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and lateral
movement of the structure.
   B.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage in accordance
with the Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials Requirements,
and available from the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   C.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
   D.   All new and replacement electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air
conditioning equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding to the Flood Protection Elevation.
These include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units,
bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable
boxes, hot water heaters, and electric outlets/switches.
   E.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   F.   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   G.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   H.   A fully enclosed area, of new construction and substantially improved
structures, which is below the lowest floor and used solely for parking, access
or storage shall:
      1.   Be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials at least to the
Flood Protection Elevation; and
      2.   Include, in Zones A, AE, AH, AO flood openings to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must either be certified
by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum
design criteria:
         a.   A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         b.   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one (1)
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
         c.   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed area
must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and exit;
         d.   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher than
one foot (1') above the interior or exterior adjacent grade;
         e.   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
         f.   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
   I.   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a structure,
which is in compliance with the provisions of this ordinance, shall meet the
requirements of "new construction" as contained in this title.
   J.   Nothing in this ordinance shall prevent the repair, reconstruction, or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
ordinance and located totally or partially within the floodway, or stream
setback, provided there is no additional encroachment below the Flood
Protection Elevation in the floodway, or stream setback, and provided that such
repair, reconstruction, or replacement meets all of the other requirements of
this title.
   K.   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in
13-4-5I. A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least the flood
protection elevation and certified in accordance with the provisions of
13-4-3C.
   L.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage and determined to be
reasonably safe from flooding.
   M.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   N.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   O.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by Federal or State law, including Section 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334.
   P.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals greater than
fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres, whichever is the lesser, shall include
within such proposals base flood elevation data.
   Q.   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard area,
the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
   R.   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest Base Flood
Elevation (BFE) shall apply.
   S.   Fill is prohibited in the SFHA, including construction of buildings on
fill, except under the following conditions:
      1.   Fill material can be generated from the existing parcel. Only
material from above the ordinary high water mark within the floodplain may be
used as fill within the floodplain unless an engineering report showing a no
rise or better to the property is prepared.
      2.   Fill can be brought onto a parcel to create driveways, roads, and
building pads according to professional engineered report showing a no rise or
better to the property.
         a.   Fill material, not native to the property, must be compacted to
at least ninety-five percent (95%) of standard laboratory maximum dry density
(standard proctor), according to ASTM Standard D-698. (Ord. 2017-02, 3-6-2017;
amd. Ord. 2021-05, 4-19-2021; Ord. 2021-09, 8-16-2021)
13-5-2: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
In all Special Flood Hazard Areas where Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data has
been provided, as set forth in
13-3-2 or
13-5-4, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of
13-5-1, are required:
   A.   Residential Construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
lowest floor including basement, elevated no lower than the Flood Protection
Elevation, as defined in Chapter 2 of this ordinance.
   B.   Non-Residential Construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other non-residential structure
shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated no lower than the
Flood Protection Elevation, as defined in Chapter 2 of this title. Structures
located in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, and A1-30 may be floodproofed to the Flood
Protection Elevation in lieu of elevation provided that all areas of the
structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, below the
Flood Protection Elevation are watertight with walls substantially impermeable
to the passage of water, using structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. For AH
and AO Zones, the floodproofing elevation shall be in accordance with
13-5-6B. A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that the
floodproofing standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such certification
shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in
13-4-3C, along with the operational plan and the inspection and maintenance
plan.
   C.   Manufactured Homes:
      1.   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that the
lowest floor (including basement) of the manufactured home is no lower than the
Flood Protection Elevation, as defined in Chapter 2 of this title.
      2.   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the Idaho Division of Building Safety's "Idaho Manufactured
Home Installation Standard" in accordance with Idaho Code § 44-2201(2).
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis
thirty-six inches (36") or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall
be supported by reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation
of the chassis is above thirty-six inches (36") in height, an engineering
certification is required.
      3.   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of
13-5-1H.
      4.   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all residents
of all new, substantially improved, or substantially damaged manufactured home
parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This plan shall be
filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the local Emergency
Management Coordinator.
   D.   Additions/Improvements:
      1.   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         a.   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any more non-
conforming than the existing structure; or
         b.   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      2.   Additions to non-compliant post-FIRM structures that are a
substantial improvement with no modifications to the existing structure other
than a standard door in the common wall shall require only the addition to
comply with the standards for new construction.
      3.   Additions and/or improvements to non-compliant post-FIRM structures
when the addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior
modifications to the existing structure are:
         a.   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
only must comply with the standards for new construction; or
         b.   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      4.   Any combination of repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
or improvement of a building or structure taking place during a five (5) year
period, the cumulative cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of
the market value of the structure before the improvement or repair is started,
must comply with the standards for new construction. For each building or
structure, the five (5) year period begins on the date of the first improvement
or repair of that building or structure subsequent to the effective date of
this ordinance. If the structure has sustained substantial damage, any repairs
are considered substantial improvement regardless of the actual repair work
performed. The requirement does not, however, include either:
         a.   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary, or safety code violations identified by the building
official and that are the minimum necessary to assume safe living conditions;
or
         b.   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
   E.   Recreational Vehicles: Recreational vehicles shall be either:
      1.   Temporary Placement:
         a.   Be on site for fewer than one hundred and eight (180) consecutive
days and be fully licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is
ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to
the site only by quick disconnect type utilities, and has no permanently
attached additions); or
      2.   Permanent Placement:
         a.   Recreational vehicles that do not meet the limitations of
temporary placement shall meet all the requirements for new construction, as
set forth in
13-5-1.
   F.   Temporary Non-Residential Structures: Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a flash flood or other type of flood warning notification.
The following information shall be submitted in writing to the Floodplain
Administrator for review and written approval:
      1.   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed six (6) months, renewable up to one
(1) year;
      2.   The name, address, and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
      3.   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., immediately upon flood warning notification);
      4.   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the entity
responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
      5.   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside the
special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   G.   Accessory Structures: When accessory structures (sheds, detached
garages, etc.) used solely for parking or storage are to be placed within a
Special Flood Hazard Area, elevation or floodproofing certifications are
required for all accessory structures in accordance with
13-4-3C, and the following criteria shall be met:
      1.   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking, or restroom areas);
      2.   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
      3.   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
      4.   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the building
site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      5.   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with the
provisions of
13-5-1A.
      6.   All service facilities, such as electrical, shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of
13-5-1D; and
      7.   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces shall be provided below Flood Protection Elevation in conformance
with the provisions of
13-5-1H.
An accessory structure with a footprint less than 200 square feet and is a
minimal investment of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500) or less and
satisfies the criteria outlined in 1-5 above is not required to provide the
elevation certificate per
13-4-3C(1).
   H.   Tanks. When gas and liquid storage tanks are to be placed within a
special flood hazard area, the following criteria shall be met:
      1.   Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads during conditions of the base flood, including the effects of
buoyancy (assuming the tank is empty);
      2.   Elevated above-ground tanks, in flood hazard areas shall be attached
to and elevated to or above the design flood elevation on a supporting
structure that is designed to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement
during conditions of the base flood. Tank-supporting structures shall meet the
foundation requirements of the applicable flood hazard area;
      3.   Not elevated above-ground tanks, that do not meet the elevation
requirements of
13-5-2B of this ordinance shall be permitted in flood hazard areas provided the
tanks are anchored or otherwise designed and constructed to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads
during conditions of the design flood, including the effects of buoyancy
assuming the tank is empty and the effects of flood-borne debris.
      4.   Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and vents shall be:
         a.   At or above the flood protection elevation or fitted with covers
designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of the contents of the
tanks during conditions of the base flood; and
         b.   Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic
and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during conditions of
the base flood.
   I.   Construction of Below-Grade Crawlspace:
      1.   The interior grade of a crawlspace must not be below the BFE and
must not be more than two (2) feet below the exterior lowest adjacent grade
(LAG).
      2.   The height of the below-grade crawlspace, measured from the interior
grade of the crawlspace to the top of the crawlspace foundation wall, must not
exceed four feet (4') at any point.
      3.   There must be an adequate drainage system that removes floodwaters
from the interior area of the crawlspace. The enclosed area should be drained
within a reasonable time after a flood event.
      4.   The velocity of floodwaters at the site should not exceed five feet
(5') per second for any crawlspace.
   J.   Subdivision plats: Flood zones.
      1.   A note must be provided on the final plat documenting the current
flood zone in which the property or properties are located. The boundary line
must be drawn on the plat in situations where two or more flood zones intersect
over the property or properties being surveyed.
      2.   FEMA FIRM panel(s): #160xxxxxxC, & 160xxxxxxE, etc.
FIRM effective date(s): 08/24/2021
Flood Zone(s): Zone X, Zone A, Zone AE, A Zone AO, Zone, AH, Zone D, etc.
Base Flood Elevation(s): AE ____.0 ft., etc.
Flood Zones are subject to change by FEMA & all land within a floodway or
floodplain is regulated by Title 13 of the Gem County Code. (Ord. 2017-02, 3-6-
2017; amd. Ord. 2021-09, 8-16-2021)
13-5-3: STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS:
Within the Special Flood Hazard Areas designated as Zone A (also known as
Unnumbered A Zones) and established in
13-3-2, where no Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data has been provided by FEMA, the
following provisions, in addition to the provisions of
13-5-1, shall apply:
The BFE used in determining the Flood Protection Elevation (FPE) shall be
determined based on the following criteria:
   A.   When Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data is available from other sources,
all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas shall also
comply with all applicable provisions of this title and shall be elevated or
floodproofed in accordance with standards in
13-5-1 and
13-5-2.
   B.   When floodway data is available from a Federal, state, or other source,
all new construction and substantial improvements within floodway areas shall
also comply with the requirements of
13-5-2 and
13-5-5.
   C.   All subdivision, manufactured home park, and other development
proposals shall provide Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data if development is
greater than five (5) acres or has more than fifty (50) lots/manufactured home
sites. Such Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data shall be adopted by reference in
accordance with
13-3-2 and utilized in implementing this title. The applicant/developer shall
submit an application for a Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) prior to
Preliminary Plat approval and have obtained a Letter of Map Revision (LOMR)
prior to any building permits for structures being issued.
   D.   When Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data is not available from a Federal,
State, or other source as outlined above, the lowest floor (including basement)
shall be elevated or floodproofed (non-residential) to two feet (2.0") above
the Highest Adjacent Grade (HAG) at the building site or to the Flood
Protection Elevation (FPE) whichever is higher, as defined in Chapter 2 All
other applicable provisions of
13-5-2 shall also apply. (Ord. 2017-02, 3-6-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-09, 8-16-2021)
13-5-4: STANDARDS FOR RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS WITH BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS BUT
WITHOUT ESTABLISHED FLOODWAYS:
Along rivers and streams where Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data is provided by
FEMA or is available from another source but floodways are not identified for a
Special Flood Hazard Area on the FIRM or in the FIS report, the following
requirements shall apply to all development within such areas:
   A.   Standards of
13-5-1 and
13-5-2; and
   B.   Until a regulatory floodway is designated, no encroachments, including
fill, new construction, substantial improvements, or other development shall be
permitted unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community. (Ord. 2017-02, 3-6-2017;
amd. Ord. 2021-09, 8-16-2021)
13-5-5: STANDARDS FOR FLOODWAYS:
Areas designated as floodways are located within the Special Flood Hazard Areas
established in
13-3-2. The floodways are extremely hazardous areas due to the velocity of
floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris and potential
projectiles. The following provisions shall apply to all development within
such areas:
   A.   Development and fill are prohibited in the floodway which includes not
approving Conditional Letters or Letters of Map Revision (CLOMR-F or LOMR-F)
unless it solely includes channel stabilization, bank stabilization sufficient
to protect the use from flood related erosion under the following conditions:
      1.   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not result
in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood,
based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with
standard engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain Administrator
prior to issuance of floodplain development permit
      2.   Notwithstanding any other provisions of § 60.3, a community may
permit encroachments within the adopted regulatory floodway that would result
in an increase in base flood elevations, provided that the community first
applies for a Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR), fulfills the
requirements for such revisions as established under the provisions of § 65.12,
and receives the approval of the Federal Insurance Administrator.
   B.   Other Development in regulated floodways:
      1.   Fences that have the potential to block the passage of floodwaters,
such as stockade fences and wire mesh fences, in regulated floodways shall meet
the limitations of
13-5-5 of this title.
      2.   Retaining walls, bulkheads, sidewalks, and driveways that involve
the placement of fill in regulated floodways shall meet the limitations of
13-5-5 of this title.
      3.   Roads and watercourse crossings, including roads, bridges, culverts,
low-water crossings, and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to travel
from one side of a watercourse to the other side, which encroach into regulated
floodways, shall meet the limitations of
13-5-5 of this title.
      4.   Drilling water, oil, and/or gas wells including fuel storage tanks,
apparatus, and any equipment at the site that encroach into regulated floodways
shall meet the limitations of
13-5-5 of this title.
      5.   Docks, piers, boat ramps, marinas, moorings, decks, docking
facilities, port facilities, shipbuilding, and ship repair facilities that
encroach into regulated floodways shall meet the limitations of
13-5-5.A.1-2 of this title regarding the engineered studies required. (Ord.
2017-02, 3-6-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-05, 4-19-2021; Ord. 2021-09, 8-16-2021; Ord.
2021-13, 11-8-2021)
13-5-6: STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (ZONE AO, AH, AR/AO, OR AR/AH):
Located within the special flood hazard areas established in
13-3-2, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one (1) to three (3)
feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of
flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate. In addition to
13-5-1 and
13-5-2, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the
following requirements:
   A.   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be elevated at least as
high as the depth number specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), in
feet, plus a freeboard of 2 feet, above the highest adjacent grade; or at least
4 feet above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified.
   B.   Non-residential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be floodproofed
to the same level as required in
13-5-2B so that the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, below that level shall be watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of
buoyancy. Certification is required in accordance with
13-4-3C and
13-5-2B.
   C.   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on slopes
to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
   D.   Accessory structure (appurtenant structure) (sheds, detached garages,
etc.)
      1.   Used solely for parking, and storage
         a.   Shall have the lowest floor elevated at least as high as the
depth number specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), in feet, plus a
freeboard of two feet, above the highest adjacent grade; or at least four feet
above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified; or
         b.   Shall have flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below Flood Protection Elevation in
conformance with the provisions of
13-5-1.H.2.
      2.   Not used solely for parking, and storage:
         a.   Shall be elevated per
13-5-2.B.
   E.   Hazardous Velocities: Where hazardous velocities are noted on the FIRM,
proper construction techniques and methods shall be used to mitigate the
effects of the velocities. (Ord. 2017-02, 3-6-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-09, 8-16-
2021)
CHAPTER 6
LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
SECTION:
13-6-1: Effect On Right And Liabilities Under The Existing Flood Damage
Prevention Ordinance
13-6-2: Effect Upon Outstanding Floodplain Development Permits
13-6-3: Severability
13-6-4: Effective Date
13-6-1: EFFECT ON RIGHT AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE
PREVENTION ORDINANCE:
This title is intended to repeal and replace the Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance (Ordinance 87-3) of Gem County enacted on May 11, 1987. The enactment
of this ordinance shall not affect any action, suit or proceeding instituted or
pending. (Ord. 2017-02, 3-6-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-09, 8-16-2021)
13-6-2: EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS:
Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans, construction,
size, or designated use of any development or any part thereof for which a
Floodplain Development Permit has been granted by the Floodplain Administrator
or his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of this title.
Provided, however, that when construction is not begun under such outstanding
permit within a period of 180 days subsequent to the date of issuance of the
outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this title. (Ord. 2017-02, 3-6-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-09, 8-16-
2021)
13-6-3: SEVERABILITY:
The title is hereby declared to be severable. Should any portion of this title
be declared invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining
provisions shall continue in full force and effect and shall be read to carry
out the purpose(s) of the ordinance before the declaration of partial
invalidity. (Ord. 2017-02, 3-6-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-09, 8-16-2021)
13-6-4: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This title shall be in full force and effect upon passage, approval, and
publication according to law. (Ord. 2017-02, 3-6-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-09, 8-16-
2021)
TITLE 14
BLACK CANYON PLANNED COMMUNITY ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE; PURPOSE AND INTENT; APPLICABILITY
SECTION:
14-1-1: Short Title
14-1-2: Purpose And Intent
14-1-3: Applicability
14-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known, cited and referred to as the BLACK CANYON PLANNED
COMMUNITY ZONING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-1-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
Generally, this title is enacted with the purpose and intent of promoting, on
behalf of Black Canyon, the health, safety, comfort and general welfare of the
residents, business operators and visitors to Black Canyon; to conserve and
control the population density and to facilitate adequate and economical
provisions for public improvements, all in accordance with the Black Canyon
specific plan; for the desirable future physical development of Black Canyon;
and to provide a method of administration, all as authorized by Gem County's
plan, ordinances, as well as Idaho's statutes and constitution.
The purpose and intent of this title is to set forth the development standards
and administrative procedures for implementing the land use policies of Black
Canyon as detailed and implemented in the individual phasing plans, including
preliminary and final plats, to be submitted for each phase.
Specifically, it is the purpose of this title to:
   A.   Provide for the design of quality, mixed use development within Black
Canyon;
   B.   Provide distinctive, efficient and effective regulations to guide
development in Black Canyon;
   C.   Encourage flexibility and creativity in Black Canyon's design and
development in order to respond to market demand and site specific conditions
while enhancing the economic viability and quality of Black Canyon as well as
the city of Emmett and Gem County;
   D.   Encourage creative and innovative land planning and design processes
throughout Black Canyon, which are sensitive to existing environmental
conditions;
   E.   Provide for the integration and balance of a variety of uses in Black
Canyon;
   F.   Establish responsibility for the development of essential public
services throughout Black Canyon and the specific mechanisms by which they will
be provided and financed;
   G.   Provide for phased and orderly development of Black Canyon utilizing
consistent criteria;
   H.   Provide flexibility for reconfiguration of residential and
nonresidential uses and/or population density as long as these reconfigurations
do not conflict with the overall intent of Black Canyon and this title;
   I.   Establish the permitted uses and minimum standards for each category of
residential and nonresidential use;
   J.   Identify and define standards for uses which may occur in each of the
land use categories;
   K.   Establish a review and approval process for the development of Black
Canyon. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-1-3: APPLICABILITY:
This title governs the development and administration of Black Canyon, as shown
on the Black Canyon zoning map and the Black Canyon land use and intensity map.
To the extent that a development issue is not covered under the Black Canyon
ordinance, the applicable ordinances of Gem County shall control. This title
shall apply only to lands contained within the exterior boundaries of Black
Canyon. However, it shall not apply to state or federal lands located within
the exterior boundaries.
   A.   Scope And Content: This title shall consist of the text hereof and the
Black Canyon zoning map filed in the office of the recorder of Gem County and
in the Gem County development services department for the purpose of
administration and enforcement. Any amendments to the Black Canyon zoning map
shall be filed in the office of the recorder as well as the Black Canyon zoning
map in the Gem County development services department.
   B.   Flexibility: The development standards and design guidelines shown in
the Black Canyon specific plan, including, without limitation, the Black Canyon
specific plan, and this title are intended to depict the general nature and
relative intensity of residential and nonresidential development in Black
Canyon, while allowing sufficient flexibility at the time of detailed planning
and platting so that the overall goals and policies and purpose and intent of
Black Canyon can be achieved. The configuration and densities of development
parcels and phases may be altered from those shown on the Black Canyon specific
plan to accommodate market, financing, site and other conditions and revisions
to the project's implementation strategy providing that the reconfiguration
does not conflict with the Black Canyon zoning map, specific restrictions or
the general intent of this title. Uses and density may also be transferred
between development parcels as depicted on the Black Canyon specific plan
providing any such transfer does not conflict with the Black Canyon zoning map,
specific restrictions or the general intent of the BC specific plan and this
title. The responsibility for such interpretation shall rest with the
administrator. And provided that any such conflict may be resolved by amending
the Black Canyon specific plan, the Black Canyon specific plan or this title.
   C.   Conflict Of Laws: In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this title shall be exclusive requirements under this code for
development within Black Canyon.
   D.   Phased Development: This title is intended to regulate all development
and improvement of Black Canyon, but is not intended to regulate the bulk sale
and conveyance of raw land to developers. Developers intending to develop land
within Black Canyon, or any portion thereof, are subject to the Black Canyon
specific plan and this title. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
14-2-1: Terms Defined
14-2-1: TERMS DEFINED:
The following definitions shall be used in the interpretation and construction
of this title. Words used in the present tense include the future; the singular
number shall include the plural and the plural the singular; the word "shall"
is mandatory and not permissive. Any term not defined herein shall have its
plain and ordinary meaning.
ACCESSORY APARTMENT OR GUESTHOUSE: A fully functional living unit including a
kitchen, bathroom, etc., which may provide residence in barter for personal
services, or accommodate a family member who wishes to live in a separate
structure on the same lot.
ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE: A use, building or structure that is customarily
incidental and subordinate to the principal permitted use or approved
administrative permit use, and is conducted or located upon the same lot.
ACREAGE LOTS: Lots as more particularly described in subsection 14-3-4E3a of
this title.
ADMINISTRATIVE PERMIT: A permit issued by the administrator for a specified use
for either a onetime use or a continuing use requiring annual reviews by the
administrator to ensure that the use is being conducted in accordance with the
permit.
ADMINISTRATIVE PERMIT USE: A use or occupancy of a structure, or a use of land,
permitted only upon issuance of an administrative permit and subject to the
limitations and conditions specified therein.
ADMINISTRATOR: The Gem County administrator of development services or an
authorized representative thereof.
AFFECTED PERSON: Same meaning as is ascribed to such term by section 67-6521,
Idaho Code, as amended from time to time.
ALLEY: A public or private way affording only secondary means of access to
abutting property at the back or side of a property.
ANIMAL CLINIC OR VETERINARY OFFICE: Any building or portion thereof designed or
used for the care or treatment of domestic or exotic animals, large or small,
in which veterinary services as well as associated services including clipping,
bathing, boarding and other services are rendered to such animals. An animal
hospital or veterinary hospital is the same as an animal or veterinary clinic,
the distinction being that in the case of an animal hospital there is a
licensed veterinarian on the premises.
APPLICANT: Any owner or person with a proprietary interest in real property
within the boundaries of the Black Canyon planned community who submits any
application under this title.
BARN: Any structure used to house domestic livestock.
BASEMENT: That portion of a building structure all or partly underground but
having at least one-half (1/2) of its height below the average level of the
adjoining ground. A basement, when used for dwelling purposes, shall be counted
as a story for purposes of height measurement where at least one-half (1/2) of
its height is above finished grade (daylight basement), and as a half story for
purposes of side yard determination.
BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT: A building where meals and/or lodging are
provided for compensation to three (3) or more persons, but not more than
twelve (12) persons, and who are not members of the householder's family.
BLACK CANYON ASSOCIATION OR ASSOCIATIONS: The Idaho nonprofit or profit
corporations whose members consist exclusively of property owners within one or
more phases or areas of Black Canyon and whose purpose is to provide for the
administration and governance of the affairs of Black Canyon. There may be more
than one association, any one of which may be limited to a particular type of
use such as residential, commercial or recreational or may include a
combination of all uses in a particular phase.
BLACK CANYON, BLACK CANYON PLANNED COMMUNITY: That area depicted on the Black
Canyon zoning map, as amended from time to time.
BLACK CANYON DESIGN REVIEW COMMITTEE OR DESIGN REVIEW COMMITTEE: That certain
design review committee (DRC) referenced herein as well as in the design
guidelines approved as a part of the Black Canyon specific plan.
BLACK CANYON LAND USE AND INTENSITY MAP: See definition of Land Use And
Intensity Map.
BLACK CANYON SPECIFIC PLAN: The Black Canyon specific plan consists of the
goals, objectives, policies, maps (such as sketch plan maps), development
standards/administration provisions and other components of the Black Canyon
application for a planned community that have been adopted by the board, and
which shall serve as a guide for development. A copy of each approved Black
Canyon specific plan shall be on file with the Gem County development services
department (development services).
BLACK CANYON ZONING MAP: Map depicting the Black Canyon planned community
boundary and the zoning districts within this boundary.
BLOCK: A group of lots, tracts or parcels within well defined boundaries,
usually streets.
BOARD: The board of county commissioners of Gem County, Idaho (board).
BOARD CHAIRMAN: Chairman of the Gem County board of county commissioners.
BOARDER: See definition of Roomers Or Boarders.
BUILDING: Any structure securely affixed to the land, and having a roof
supported by columns or walls, and entirely separated on all sides from any
other structure by space or by walls in which there are no communicating doors,
windows or openings, which is designed or intended for the occupancy, shelter,
enclosure or protection of persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind.
BUILDING COVERAGE: The total allowable percentage of a lot that may be covered
by a building or buildings.
BUILDING ENVELOPE: Areas of land within which all site disturbances pertaining
to construction of buildings, e.g., site work, actual construction, etc., shall
be conducted but it shall not include site disturbances pertaining to
landscaping.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the average contact ground level at
the front wall of the building to the highest point of the coping of a flat
roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the mean height level between
eaves and ridge for gable, hip or gambrel roofs.
BUILDING MASSING: The three-dimensional bulk and scale of a building.
BUILDING SITE: The ground area of a building or group of buildings together
with all open spaces as required by this title.
CAFE: See definition of Restaurant.
CLINIC: A building, other than a hospital, used by one or more licensed or
other healthcare professionals for the purpose of receiving and treating
clients.
CLUB, LODGE OR SOCIAL HALL: The social use of a building or of any premises by
a profit or nonprofit association for social or fraternal purposes.
CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT OR CLUSTERING: Clustering of buildings, garages, and drives
to minimize site disruption and/or maximize open space. Clustering techniques
may include, but are not limited to, shared driveways, key or flag lots, and
cul-de-sacs.
COMMERCIAL STABLE AND RIDING SCHOOLS: For profit stables and horse riding
schools.
COMMERCIAL USE: The purchase, sale or other transaction involving the handling
or disposition of any article, substance or commodity for livelihood or profit,
or the ownership or management of office buildings, offices, recreational or
amusement enterprises or the maintenance and use of offices by professions and
trades rendering services including all advertising, events and other
activities associated with such commercial use.
COMMERCIAL ZONE OR ZONES: Those areas shown on the Black Canyon zoning map
designated for commercial uses including, but not limited to, retail or
wholesale sales, offices, or clinics or professional services.
COMMISSION: The planning and zoning commission of Gem County, Idaho.
COMMON AREAS: Those areas that are used, owned or managed jointly by a group of
residences, businesses or association(s). Common areas include, but are not
limited to, open spaces, parking areas, pathways, and parks.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: A compilation of goals, policies, maps and other data
guiding the physical, social and economic development, both public and private,
of the county and its environs, as defined in chapter 65, title 67, Idaho Code.
CONDOMINIUM: A condominium within Black Canyon shall have the same meaning as
set forth in section 55-101B, Idaho Code as the same is amended and modified
from time to time, and subsection 14-3-4E3b of this title.
CONVALESCENT HOME: A home, place or institution licensed by the Idaho state
department of health and welfare as a nursing home which operates or maintains
facilities providing convalescence or chronic care or both for a period in
excess of twenty four (24) consecutive hours for three (3) or more patients not
related by blood or marriage to the operator, said patients who by reason of
illness or infirmity are unable to properly care for themselves.
CORRAL: See definition of Paddock Or Corral or Pasture.
COUNTY: Gem County, Idaho.
DEDICATION: The setting apart of land or interests in land for public use,
charitable, religious or educational purposes, including the granting of any
and all conservation easements.
DEVELOPER: A person or entity making application to or developing land by
subdividing or otherwise creating parcels of land on which buildings or
structures are located or constructed, including an authorized agent(s) of a
developer or the owner of the real property in question.
DOMESTIC LIVESTOCK: Horses, cattle, dairy animals, sheep, goats, llamas,
alpacas and other similar grazing animals, small animals such as rabbits and
domestic birds. Domestic livestock shall not include swine or such birds as are
caged and housed inside the dwelling and are not raised for commercial use.
DRAINAGE: The removal of excess waters from land by means of surface or
subsurface conduits.
DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment, other than a service station or truck
stop, which is designed to encourage or permit customers to receive services,
obtain goods, or be entertained, while remaining in their motor vehicles.
Provided, however, that drive-in establishments may be associated with a
service station or truck stop but shall require separate approval for conduct
of such business.
DUPLEX: A building of no more than two (2) stories in height designed for or
used by two (2) families or housekeeping units.
DWELLING: Any building or portion thereof designed or used as the residence or
as separate living quarters of one or more persons, but not including a tent,
trailer or a room in a hotel, motel, or bed and breakfast establishment.
DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY: A building or portion thereof designed for or used by
two (2) or more families or housekeeping units.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building designed for or used exclusively for
residential purposes by one family or housekeeping unit.
EASEMENT: A right of use, but less than fee simple or ownership, and usually
for a certain stated purpose.
ENGINEER, COUNTY: The licensed professional engineer appointed or employed by
the board.
EQUESTRIAN CENTER: One or more of the Black Canyon equestrian facilities more
particularly described in subsection 14-3-4D2 of this title.
ESSENTIAL PUBLIC SERVICES: As provided in the Gem County comprehensive plan
(plan) these shall include, but are not limited to, water systems, public
safety services, wastewater collection and treatment systems, stormwater
detention or retention areas or drainage facilities and structures, public
schools, streets, roads and open space.
FAR: Floor to area ratio.
FEMA: Federal emergency management agency.
FAMILY: A person living alone, or two (2) or more persons living together as a
single housekeeping unit, in a dwelling unit, as distinguished from a group
occupying a bed and breakfast establishment, boarding house, lodging house,
motel or hotel.
FAMILY DAYCARE HOME: A facility licensed under or defined as such in section
39-1102, Idaho Code, as amended from time to time.
FINAL PLAT: The map of a subdivision containing all of the requirements of
chapter 13, title 50, Idaho Code, to be recorded in the office of the county
recorder after approval by the board. See also definition of Plat, Final.
FLOODPLAIN: That area defined as such by FEMA.
GRADE: The elevation of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the
midpoint of any exterior wall of a building or structure.
GREENHOUSE: A building whose roof or roof and sides are made largely of
transparent or translucent material and in which the temperature and humidity
can be regulated for the cultivation of plants, for private use or public sale.
GROUP DAYCARE FACILITY: A facility licensed as or defined as such in section
39-1102, Idaho Code, as amended from time to time.
GUESTHOUSE: See definition of Accessory Apartment Or Guesthouse.
HEALTH CLUB FACILITY: Any facility providing exercise services to its
customers.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any gainful occupation, profession or craft carried on wholly
in a dwelling place and clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
dwelling for dwelling purposes. Provided, however, that:
   A.   There shall be no change in the character of the dwelling.
   B.   Not more than one-half (1/2) of the area of one floor of said dwelling
shall be used for such use.
   C.   No external alterations or construction features not customary in a
dwelling unit may be constructed.
   D.   There may not be any external evidence of such use except for signs as
approved by the DRC and provided for in this title.
IMPROVEMENT: Streets, pavement, paths, bikeways, sedimentation control
facilities, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, water systems, sanitary and storm
systems, gas lines, electric and telephone lines and appurtenances, street
signs, lights, irrigation canals, landscaping, lot corner monuments, and other
such items as may be required for compliance with the regulation of this title.
INDUSTRIAL ZONE: Those areas shown on the Black Canyon zoning map specifically
intended for industrial uses, including, but not limited to, public domestic
water or irrigation systems, wastewater treatment facilities and gravel
extraction operations.
KENNEL: Any facility used for the boarding or training of more than four (4)
domestic animals.
LAND USE AND INTENSITY MAP: The plan contained within the Black Canyon specific
plan that generally depicts areas intended for commercial, industrial, open
space, public, recreational, residential and rural uses.
LARGE LOTS: Lots as more particularly described in subsection 14-3-4E3c of this
title.
LODGE: See definition of Club, Lodge Or Social Hall.
LOT: A parcel of land, which meets any of the lot requirements of this title
for use, design and dimensional standards and is for transfer of ownership or
development, including, but not limited to, condominiums, duplexes or
commercial buildings. Such parcel of land may be developed if it complies with
all applicable provisions of this title and has been approved in writing by the
DRC.
LOT DEPTH: The mean horizontal distance between the front and the rear lot
lines. Where the lot is irregular and the lot lines converge, the rear lot line
shall be deemed to be a line at a point where the side lot lines are not less
than ten feet (10') apart.
LOT LINE, FRONT: The line separating the lot from the principal street on which
it fronts.
LOT LINE REAR: The lot line opposite and most distant from the front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line. A side lot
line separating a lot from a street is also called a side street or flanking
street lot line. A side lot line separating a lot from another lot or lots is
also called an interior side lot line.
LOT LINES: The property lines bounding the lot.
LOT WIDTH: The mean width of the lot measured at right angles to its depth,
provided however, that the minimum lot width required in each district shall be
measured at a distance from the front line equal to the required least depth of
the front yard.
MASTER DEVELOPER: Black Canyon Partners, LLC, or its assigns.
MODEL HOME: A single-family dwelling or a unit within a duplex or multi-family
dwelling which is shown to prospective buyers of lots or dwellings for the
purpose of promoting the retail sale of lots or dwellings within Black Canyon.
NURSERY: Land and/or greenhouses used for horticultural purposes including, but
not limited to, raising of flowers, shrubs and plants, for private use or
public sale on site.
OPEN SPACE: The area depicted on the Black Canyon land use and intensity map
that shall remain open and free of development other than wildlife habitat
improvements, trails, and other recreational improvements.
PADDOCK OR CORRAL: A small enclosure, typically in the vicinity of the
equestrian center or a stable where horses are exercised.
PARCEL: A single, contiguous unit of land owned by, or recorded as, the
property of the same person or persons or entities.
PARCEL BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT: The division for conveyance of a lot or parcel of
land for the purpose of adjusting the boundary between parcels where: the
dimensions of the parcels are not reduced below the minimum dimensional
standards for its applicable zone; there is no increase in the original number
of parcels; and, no easements, public streets, private streets or publicly
dedicated areas are affected. A parcel boundary adjustment shall not move or
affect the location of any platted lot line. All such adjustments shall be
approved in writing by the DRC prior to application to the county for approval.
PARK AND RIDE FACILITY: Any facility designed to allow Black Canyon residents
to park their vehicles in order to car pool or ride in a van or bus to various
locations, usually, however, to work.
PARKING AREA (PRIVATE): A structure or open area, other than a street or public
way, designed, arranged and made available for the storage of private vehicles
of occupants of the building or buildings for which the parking area is
developed and is necessary and accessory.
PARKING AREA OR LOT (PUBLIC): A structure or open area, other than a street or
public way, to be used for the storage, for limited periods of time, of
operable passenger and commercial vehicles, and available to the public,
whether for compensation, free, or as an accommodation to clients or customers.
PARKING SPACE: A usable space for the parking of motor vehicles within an open,
public or private parking area or within the structure or a building meeting
the standards of Gem County zoning ordinance as amended from time to time.
PASTURE: An enclosure, typically fenced, with natural cover or planted with
forage for domestic animals.
PERSONAL SERVICE RETAIL: Any retail operation oriented toward the provision of
personal services.
PHASING PLAN: The preliminary and final plats for each phase of development of
Black Canyon as submitted or approved for preliminary plat and/or final plat
approval.
PLAT, FINAL: The drawing, map or plan of a phase of Black Canyon, including a
separate subdivision or other tract of land, or a replatting of such, including
certifications, descriptions and approvals and containing those elements and
requirements set forth in the Gem County subdivision ordinance and Idaho
statutes, as either are amended from time to time.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY: A preliminary plat of a phase of Black Canyon including a
separate subdivision or other tract of land, or a replatting of such containing
the elements and requirements set forth in this title or the Gem County
subdivision ordinance as amended from time to time.
PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USE: The main use of a lot, parcel or a building as
distinguished from a subordinate or accessory use.
PUBLIC AND COMMUNITY USES: All uses intended to be made available or serve the
public including, but not limited to: community centers, post office
facilities, churches, schools, public structures, recreational and health club
facilities and daycare facilities.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: A right of way open to the public, whether appearing on
any plat, established by fee title or a deeded easement.
PUBLIC SERVICES: All uses intended to provide services to the public,
including, but not limited to, public or domestic water, irrigation water,
wastewater treatment, utility services such as telephone, electricity or gas,
roads or other facilities associated with such uses.
PUBLIC STRUCTURE: Any structure designed for the benefit and use of the public.
PUBLIC UTILITY: Any person, entity or municipal department, duly authorized to
furnish to the public pursuant to laws or regulations promulgated by state or
federal agencies the following: electricity, gas, steam, telephone,
transportation, water, or other regulated services.
PUBLIC UTILITY STRUCTURE: Any structure utilized by a public utility.
RECREATION FACILITY: A commercial or nonprofit swimming pool, park, fitness
center, public gathering place or other use designed for amusement or
recreation.
RECREATION ZONE OR ZONES: Those areas designated on the Black Canyon zoning map
specifically for recreational uses including, but not limited to, equestrian,
golf, boating and other recreational uses.
REGULAR LOTS: Lots as more particularly described in subsection 14-3-4E3e of
this title.
RESIDENTIAL ZONE OR ZONES: Those areas illustrated on the Black Canyon zoning
map intended for residential purposes including multi-family but excluding
commercial housing such as hotels and bed and breakfast establishments unless
otherwise permitted under a special use permit.
RESTAURANT: Any building, or part thereof, other than a bed and breakfast
establishment, where meals and/or beverages are provided for compensation,
including, but not limited to, cafes, cafeterias, coffee shops, lunchrooms,
tearooms, soda shops, and dining rooms, but excluding drive-up or drive-in
facilities.
RESTRICTIVE COVENANT: A written promise or pledge which, when recorded,
attaches to affected realty and which cannot be separated from the land without
the consent of the affected landowners.
RETAIL STORE: A store that sells commodities directly to consumers as opposed
to commodities sold only to other sellers, including, but not limited to, a
general store, hardware store, clothing, bookstore, etc.
ROAD, PUBLIC: An alley, bridge, highway, road, street or thoroughfare under the
jurisdiction of the Gem County road and bridge department.
ROOMERS OR BOARDERS: Persons paying remuneration for eating and sleeping within
a residence.
RURAL LOTS: Lots as more particularly described in subsection 14-3-4E3f of this
title.
RURAL OR RURAL OPERATIONS: The growing of cultivated crops, fruit trees, berry
bushes, grazing, pasturage, raising of domestic livestock, horticulture,
floriculture, viticulture. The operation of any accessory uses to rural
purposes shall be limited to packing the produce for off site transportation to
a processing plant. Provided however, that in the case of viticulture, a winery
shall be considered an accessory use. Allowed accessory uses shall not include
a commercial packing facility for produce from other rural facilities, feedlot
or stockyard, the commercial feeding of garbage or offal to swine or other
animals, a slaughterhouse, the operation of a fertilizer works, nor plants for
the reduction of animal matter.
RURAL OUTBUILDINGS: Any building or structure, which is used for storage or
shelter of farming materials, equipment, supplies, products or animals.
RURAL SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment primarily engaged in performing
animal husbandry or horticultural services, including agricultural milling and
processing, harvesting, rural land preparation, irrigation and farm equipment
sales and service, veterinary services, boarding or training of horses, and
rural or agricultural produce stands.
SCHOOL, PUBLIC OR PRIVATE: An institution of learning either publicly or
privately supported.
SERVICE STATION: A filling station or business enterprise using the premises
primarily to sell and supply motor fuel and lubricating oils and grease to on
premises trade, including the sale of tires, batteries, automotive accessories,
together with other related services, including minor motor vehicle repair. It
may also include a convenience store retail use or drive-in.
SETBACK: The space on a lot or parcel required to be left open, either by the
front, side or rear yard requirements of the Gem County zoning ordinance, this
title, or by the delineation on a recorded plat map, or recorded covenants,
whichever is more restrictive.
SIGN: Any structure or natural object, such as a tree, rock, bush and the
ground itself, or part thereof or device attached thereto or painted or
represented thereon, which shall be used to attract attention to any object,
product, place, activity, person, institution, organization or business or
which shall display or include any letter, word, model, banner, flag, pennant,
insignia, device or representation used as, or which is in the nature of an
announcement, direction or advertisement. For the purpose of this definition,
the word "sign" does not include the flag, pennant or insignia of any nation,
state, city or other political unit, or any political, educational, charitable,
philanthropic, civic, professional, religious or like campaign, drive, movement
or event.
SITE DISTURBANCE: Any change in the natural character of Black Canyon as it
exists at the date of adoption of this title, such as occurs during
construction, landscaping, etc.
SKETCH PLAN: A less detailed development elaboration than a preliminary plat
used in conjunction with a preapplication conference. A sketch plan may include
maps, charts, goals, objectives, policies and other information.
SLOPE: The number of feet of rise or fall per one hundred feet (100')
horizontal distance, divided by one hundred (100) and expressed as a
percentage.
SOCIAL HALL: See definition of Club, Lodge Or Social Hall.
SPECIAL USE PERMIT: A use or occupancy of a structure, or a use of land,
permitted only upon issuance of a special permit and subject to the limitations
and conditions specified therein.
SPECIFIC PLAN: The Black Canyon specific plan illustrating the general concepts
and overall design of Black Canyon, but as specifically and particularly
designed and established by each phasing plan submitted for development of the
individual phases of Black Canyon.
STABLE: A structure used or designed for the keeping, boarding, riding and/or
care of horses or other animals used for riding.
STORAGE FACILITY OR STORAGE STRUCTURE: Any storage facility or structure used
for the storage or parking (long term or short term) of, without limitation,
vehicles, agricultural and recreational vehicles, boats and other watercraft,
snowmobiles, equipment, and machinery.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the floor above it, or if there is no floor above, then the
space between the floor and the ceiling next above it. Any portion of a story
or fraction thereof, exceeding the definitions of the Gem County subdivision
ordinance for height of story, as amended from time to time, shall be
considered as an additional story as per that ordinance. If the finished floor
level directly above a basement or cellar is more than six feet (6') above
grade, such basement or cellar shall be considered a story.
STREET, PRIVATE: Any parcel of land used for a street, road, lane or way or
similar designation which is not maintained by, or dedicated to the Gem County
road and bridge department or other appropriate government agency, and used
exclusively for the benefit of private individuals, businesses or associations.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change in the supporting members of a building, such
as walls, columns, beams or girders.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed, the use of which requires permanent location
on the ground, or attachment to something having a permanent location on the
ground, provided fences not exceeding six feet (6') in height shall not be
deemed a structure.
SUBDIVISION: The division of a lot or parcel of land into four (4) or more lots
or parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership, or for building
development, as provided in the Gem County subdivision ordinance, as amended
from time to time.
SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE: The Gem County subdivision ordinance, as amended from
time to time. The provisions of the subdivision ordinance shall apply to any
development within Black Canyon unless the matter is specifically otherwise
provided for herein.
SURVEYOR, COUNTY: The licensed professional land surveyor appointed or employed
by the board to check plats and monuments for compliance with platting and
surveying laws, provide for surveying monument records and make such surveys,
descriptions, maps and plats as ordered by the board.
SWIMMING POOL: An artificial pool of water having a depth at any point of more
than three feet (3') and a diameter exceeding eight feet (8'), whether above or
in the ground, whether rectangular, circular, ovoid or irregular and intended
to be used for swimming by humans.
TAVERN OR LOUNGE: A building where alcoholic beverages are sold for consumption
on the premises, not including restaurants.
TEMPORARY LIVING QUARTERS: See definition of Accessory Apartment Or Guesthouse.
TEMPORARY SALES OFFICE: Those facilities, wherever located, used primarily for
the wholesale or retail sales of property or lots located within Black Canyon.
TOT LOTS: Any playground facility designed for use by children.
TOWNHOME LOTS: Lots as more particularly described in subsection 14-3-4E3b of
this title. See also definition of Condominium.
UNPLATTED PROPERTY USE: Those uses described in section
14-3-5 of this title.
USE: The purpose for which land or a structure thereon is designated, arranged
or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained, let or leased.
UTILITIES: Services intended to be used by the general public including, but
not limited to, natural gas, oil, electricity and telephone.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which a person or property may be
transported excepting devices moved by human power or used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks.
WASTEWATER COLLECTION AND TREATMENT SYSTEM: An installation or system that is
used to collect and treat domestic wastewater.
WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM: An installation or system that provides a domestic or
irrigation water supply.
WILDLIFE AREA: An area specifically designated for wildlife and big game winter
range. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
CHAPTER 3
PRINCIPAL PERMITTED, ACCESSORY, CONDITIONAL AND PROHIBITED USES
SECTION:
14-3-1: Zoning Districts
14-3-2: Black Canyon Zoning Map And Specific Plan
14-3-3: Allowed Uses Within Zoning Districts
14-3-4: Specific Uses
14-3-5: Unplatted Property
14-3-1: ZONING DISTRICTS:
For purposes of this title, Black Canyon is hereby divided into the following
zoning districts as depicted on the Black Canyon zoning map:
Black Canyon commercial (BC-C)
Black Canyon industrial (BC-I)
Black Canyon public services (BC-PS)
Black Canyon recreational (BC-Rec)
Black Canyon residential (BC-Res)
Black Canyon rural (BC-Rural) (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-3-2: BLACK CANYON ZONING MAP AND SPECIFIC PLAN:
The Black Canyon zoning map generally depicts the zoning districts within Black
Canyon. The Black Canyon specific plan describes the general nature and
relative intensity of development and uses within these zoning districts
subject to the appropriate flexibility and other standards discussed elsewhere
in this title. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-3-3: ALLOWED USES WITHIN ZONING DISTRICTS:
Certain uses are allowed within the specified zoning districts. Any use not
named herein or similar in type to one of the uses described, is prohibited.
(Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-3-4: SPECIFIC USES:
The following is a detailed description of all uses allowed in each zone,
including their allowed uses, accessory uses, as well as administrative or
special use permit uses, if any:
   A.   Black Canyon Commercial (BC-C): The commercial districts are intended
to provide for uses compatible with Black Canyon's overall design as a
community with varying lifestyles and recreational opportunities, to support
businesses that are compatible with adjoining districts or uses, and provide
services for the residents of Black Canyon and other nearby areas.
      1.   Allowed Uses:
Bank branch offices including automated tellers and drive-up services.
Clinics - medical, dental.
Condominiums, including residential and commercial, patio and town home
complexes.
Dry cleaning and laundering facilities (provided actual dry cleaning is done
off site).
Entertainment facilities including theaters, clubs, lodges or social halls.
Equestrian center uses.
Golf course uses.
Group daycare facilities.
Guesthouses and bed and breakfast establishments.
Multi-family housing.
Offices such as business or professional.
Park and ride facilities.
Parking areas or lots, public or private.
Parks.
Personal service retail stores or establishments such as beauty salons or
supply stores.
Places of worship.
Public structures.
Public utility facilities and structures.
Railroad access uses.
Recreation facilities, including equestrian, golf and water recreation.
Restaurants, cafes, confectioneries or soda fountains including drive-in
establishments.
Retail stores including by way of example: general stores, hardware stores, and
bookstores.
Service stations.
Storage facilities or storage structures.
Veterinary clinics, small animal only with boarding limited to animals under
treatment.
      2.   Accessory Uses:
Uses not listed above that are compatible with the principal use on the lot.
      3.   Uses Permitted With A Special Use Permit: The only other uses
allowed in this zone, but requiring a special use permit are:
Ministorage facilities.
Roadside stands.
   B.   Black Canyon Industrial (BC-I): The industrial districts are intended
to provide for uses that are more intensive and will result in the production
of noise, odors or other activities that should generally be either located
away from or buffered from the residential areas.
      1.   Allowed uses:
Domestic water facilities.
Electric power facilities including substations.
Gravel extraction operations including batch plants.
Irrigation water facilities.
Ministorage facilities.
Natural gas facilities.
Wastewater treatment facilities, including areas for land application of
treated wastewater or facility residue.
   C.   Black Canyon Public Services (BC-PS): The public services districts are
intended to provide for the location of services and utilities public in nature
and appropriately grouped in areas that may or may not be buffered from other
uses, or where appropriate, actually located within other zones where
compatible with the underlying zone.
      1.   Allowed uses:
Domestic water facilities.
Government or quasi-governmental offices.
Irrigation water facilities.
Public safety such as police, fire and paramedic or other emergency services.
Schools.
Telecommunication systems.
U.S. postal service facilities.
   D.   Black Canyon Recreation (BC-Rec): The Black Canyon recreation districts
are intended to provide for uses compatible with Black Canyon's overall design
as a community with varying lifestyles and recreational opportunities, to
designate areas restricted to recreational activities separate from other more
intensive uses such as residential and commercial while allowing for uses
compatible with or incidental to the recreational nature of the zone. Because
of the wide variety of recreational opportunities intended in Black Canyon,
each type of use has restrictions that will be specified for a particular
phase. For example, a particular phase may have an area within the zone
designated solely for equestrian center uses or boating and marina uses, or,
the zone may be unlimited. The uses generally allowed in the BC-Rec zone
include the following, each of which is described in greater detail below:
      1.   Boating Or Marina Uses: Boating or marina access areas are generally
intended to facilitate the use of Black Canyon Reservoir by the residents and
guests of residents of Black Canyon as well as the general public who use the
reservoir for boating or boating related activities.
         a.   Allowed uses:
Convenience stores.
Museums or facilities regarding local historical interest.
Park and ride facilities.
Public or private group events sponsored by Black Canyon residents or
commercial operations with scheduling permission from the respective
association or DRC.
Restaurants, cafes and other food service facilities, including the sale of
liquor to be consumed in the facility, but not off site consumption sales.
Retail sales associated with boating activities, including the sale of gasoline
and other motor related products.
Structures, including clubhouses, pavilions, gazebos, restrooms and concession
facilities.
      2.   Equestrian Center Or Uses: Equestrian centers are generally intended
to include equestrian uses and associated facilities to serve residents of
Black Canyon who own or wish to board horses, would like to utilize center
owned stock, or members of the public who use the facilities as part of the
center's functions or group sponsored events. There are also equestrian related
uses that occur in designated open space areas or in the park or trail system
within the exterior boundaries of Black Canyon. Each phasing plan will indicate
uses allowed in the specific area based on the overall design of the phase.
         a.   Allowed uses:
Animal boarding facilities such as kennels.
Arenas, covered or open.
Cafes, drive-in, restaurants, including drive-up services.
Clinics or veterinary offices.
Commercial stables and riding schools.
Corrals, paddocks and pastures.
Equestrian related retail store.
Event catering including the sale of alcoholic beverages for on site
consumption.
Office(s) and residence for operator/caretaker.
Public and private parking areas.
Restaurants, cafes and other food service facilities, including the sale of
liquor to be consumed in the facility.
Stables for residents' stock.
Storage facilities for equestrian related equipment and foodstuffs.
      3.   Golf Course Uses: Golf course uses are those areas and facilities
generally associated with the game of golf and intended to serve residents of
Black Canyon or members of the public who use the facilities as part of the
golf course functions including private or group sponsored events.
         a.   Allowed uses:
Commercial housing accommodations including hotels and motels.
Driving ranges and practice facilities.
Event catering including the sale of alcoholic beverages for on site
consumption.
Golf courses.
Land application of treated wastewater or facility residue.
Museums or facilities regarding local historical interest.
Park and ride facilities.
Public or private group events sponsored by Black Canyon residents or
commercial operations with scheduling permission from the respective golf
course.
Restaurants, cafes and other food service facilities, including the sale of
liquor to be consumed in the facility or on the golf course.
Retail sales associated with golfing activities.
Structures, including clubhouses, pavilions, gazebos, restrooms and concession
facilities.
      4.   Open Space: Open space areas are designated to provide a variety of
recreational opportunities to residents of Black Canyon, their guests and in
limited instances, the public, either through public access to public lands
contained within Black Canyon's exterior boundaries or events sponsored in
these areas. These areas are designated on the Black Canyon phasing plans and
may be limited in the uses allowed in a particular phase.
         a.   Allowed uses:
Animal exercising, riding and training.
Nurseries or arboretums producing plants for Black Canyon open space, parks or
landscape areas.
Public or private group events sponsored by Black Canyon residents or
commercial operations with scheduling permission from the open space and parks
management.
Rural operations limited to activities or operations such as gardens and
demonstration rural projects.
Structures such as gazebos, restrooms and concession facilities.
Trails including pedestrian, bike and equestrian.
      5.   Parks: Park areas are designated to provide a variety of
recreational opportunities to residents of Black Canyon, their guests and the
public. These areas are designated on the Black Canyon phasing plans and may be
limited in the uses allowed in a particular phase.
         a.   Allowed uses:
Animal exercising.
Event catering including the sale of alcoholic beverages for on site
consumption.
Museums or facilities regarding local historical interest.
Nurseries or arboretums producing plants for Black Canyon open space, parks or
landscape areas.
Park and ride facilities.
Park structures, including amphitheaters, pavilions, gazebos, restrooms and
concession facilities.
Play fields, playgrounds, tot lots, tennis courts, swimming pools.
Public or private group events sponsored by Black Canyon residents or
commercial operations with scheduling permission from the open space, parks and
trails management organization.
Rural operations limited to activities and operations such as gardens and
demonstration rural projects.
Schools.
Trails including pedestrian, bike and equestrian.
      6.   Railroad Access Uses: Railroad access uses are those areas and
facilities generally associated with the Idaho Northern Pacific Railroad and
intended to serve residents of Black Canyon or members of the public who use
the facilities as part of the recreational opportunities available in Black
Canyon including private or group sponsored events.
         a.   Principal permitted uses:
Museums or facilities regarding local historical interest.
Park and ride facilities.
Passenger depots or access points.
Public or private group events sponsored by Black Canyon residents or
commercial operations with scheduling permission from the management
organization.
Restaurants, cafes and other food service facilities.
Structures, including pavilions, gazebos, restrooms and concession facilities.
      7.   Trails: The trail areas are designated to provide a variety of
recreational opportunities to residents of Black Canyon, their guests and in
limited instances, the public, either through public access to public lands
contained within Black Canyon's exterior boundaries or events sponsored in
these areas. These areas are designated on the Black Canyon phasing plans and
may be limited in the uses allowed in a particular phase.
         a.   Allowed uses:
Animal exercising, riding and training.
Structures such as gazebos, restrooms and concession facilities.
Trails including pedestrian, bike and equestrian.
   E.   Black Canyon Residential (BC-Res): The residential districts are
intended to group together residential dwellings of various characters and
allow for other uses compatible with a residential area. The phasing plan for
each phase will illustrate the various types of residential and other uses.
Provided however, that not more than twenty percent (20%) of any phase may
contain multi- family lots or uses without the prior written approval of the
DRC. And further provided that not more than fifty percent (50%) of any phase
may contain any combination of condominiums, patio or town homes without the
prior written approval of the DRC. The types of lots allowed in a residential
district are described in greater detail below.
      1.   Allowed Uses, Generally: In addition to the various residential
lots, other uses are allowed in the residential district as compatible with or
providing particular convenience to residents in the residential district.
These may include one or more of the following and shall be so designated on
the phasing plan for the particular phase. Any such use shall comply with the
Black Canyon restrictive covenants for the particular phase.
Open space, parks or trails.
Public safety facilities such as police, fire, or paramedics.
Recreational uses such as equestrian.
Schools, public or private.
      2.   Special Use Permits: The following uses may be permitted with a
special use permit:
Apartment housing.
Churches or other places of worship.
      3.   Specific Provisions: Specific provisions for each type of
residential use:
         a.   Acreage Lots: Acreage lots are larger lots intended to provide a
transition from rural lots to other uses. These lots are intended to provide a
high degree of flexibility in transitioning from rural to residential or
commercial character.
            (1)   Allowed uses:
Accessory apartment or guesthouse.
Daycare home with prior approval of DRC.
Freestanding garages or storage structures.
Hobby greenhouses.
Home occupations.
Limited rural activities such as raising 4-H animals, pasturage of animals
belonging to the property owner, and raising of fodder for animals on site.
Limited rural outbuildings.
Roomers or boarders with a resident family.
Single-family dwellings and their accessory structures.
Temporary sales offices and model homes.
            (2)   Uses requiring a special use permit:
Bed and breakfast establishments.
Clubs, lodges and social halls.
Public utility structures.
         b.   Condominium, Patio And Town Home Lots: Condominium, patio and
town home lots are the densest single-family residential product envisioned at
Black Canyon. These lots are generally intended to provide an alternative,
attached style unit, which may appeal to seniors, empty nesters, first time
buyers, and single parents who prefer an attached product with limited yard
area.
            (1)   Allowed uses:
Home occupations.
Parking area or lot.
Recreational, fitness and health facilities for use only by residents of the
complex or their guests.
Roomers or boarders with a resident family.
Single-family dwellings and their accessory structures.
Small freestanding storage structures.
Swimming pools and tennis courts within the complex for use only by residents
of the complex or their guests.
         c.   Large Lots: Large lots are spacious lots that generally provide
additional transition from rural or acreage lots to more intensive uses such as
commercial or higher density residential lots. These lots vary in size and tend
to be irregular in configuration in order to minimize visual impact and conform
to existing topography.
            (1)   Allowed uses:
Accessory apartment or guesthouse.
Daycare home with approval of the DRC.
Freestanding garages or storage structures.
Hobby greenhouses.
Home occupations.
Limited rural activities such as pasturage, raising 4-H animals, and raising of
fodder for animals on site.
Limited rural outbuildings.
Residential outbuildings.
Roomers or boarders with a resident family.
Single-family dwellings and their accessory structures.
Temporary sales offices and model homes.
            (2)   Uses permitted with a special use permit:
Bed and breakfast establishments.
Clubs, lodges and social halls.
Public utility structures.
         d.   Multi-Family Lots: Multi-family lots are generally intended to be
developed for apartments or other multi-family type dwellings.
         e.   Regular Lots: Regular lots are generally intended to be developed
for higher density single-family residential. These lots offer a more typical
residential site size and configuration to meet the portion of the market,
which may not be attracted to the more unique lot types offered elsewhere in
the project.
            (1)   Allowed uses:
Accessory apartment or guesthouse.
Daycare home with approval of the DRC.
Home occupations.
Roomers or boarders with a resident family.
Single-family dwellings and their accessory structures.
Temporary sales offices and model homes.
            (2)   Uses permitted with special use permit:
None at this time.
         f.   Rural Lots: Rural lots are adjacent to or within either the Black
Canyon rural district or open space. These lots are intended to provide unique
residential experiences in conjunction with carefully controlled rural
operations.
            (1)   Allowed uses:
Accessory apartment or guesthouse.
Bed and breakfast establishments.
Daycare home with approval by DRC.
Home occupations.
Residential outbuildings.
Roadside stands that sell rural or agricultural products produced on the
property with prior approval of the DRC.
Roomers or boarders with a resident family.
Rural operations (crop production or farming, viticulture, animal husbandry,
grazing, nursery operations) and their accessory structures.
Rural outbuildings.
Shop for repair of personal machinery, equipment and vehicles used for rural
purposes.
Single-family dwellings and their accessory structures.
Temporary sales offices and model homes.
            (2)   Uses permitted with a special use permit:
Clubs, lodges and social halls.
Public utility structures.
   F.   Black Canyon Rural (BC-Rural): The rural district is intended to
provide unique residential experiences in conjunction with carefully controlled
rural operations.
      1.   Allowed uses:
Accessory apartment or guesthouse.
Agricultural outbuildings.
Bed and breakfast establishments.
Churches.
Daycare home.
Home occupations.
Parks.
Roadside stands that sell rural or agricultural products produced on the
property with approval by the association or DRC.
Roomers or boarders with a resident family.
Rural operations (crop production or farming, viticulture, animal husbandry,
grazing, nursery operations) including accessory structures.
Schools.
Shops for repair of personal machinery, equipment and vehicles used for rural
purposes.
Single-family dwellings and their accessory structures.
Temporary sales offices and model homes.
      2.   Uses permitted with a special use permit:
Public structures.
Public utility structures. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-3-5: UNPLATTED PROPERTY:
Unplatted property or properties are those parcels within the exterior
boundaries of Black Canyon that have not been platted as part of any phasing
plan. These areas are intended for future platting. Until platting, the uses
occurring on the respective parcels may continue subject to the Black Canyon
restrictive covenants. In addition, the following shall apply to such areas:
   A.   Allowed uses:
Community events - public and private.
Public utility structures.
Rural operations including farming, grazing and nurseries.
Rural outbuildings and crop storage facilities.
Temporary construction facilities.
Temporary sales offices.
Trails - pedestrian, nonmotorized vehicles and equestrian.
   B.   Special requirements: All building and structures must comply with the
current Gem County zoning ordinance until the respective parcel is platted.
After platting, the requirements of this title as well as the Black Canyon
restrictive covenants shall apply to the platted property. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-
2005)
CHAPTER 4
LOT DIMENSIONS, SETBACKS, BUILDING HEIGHT AND LOT COVERAGE
SECTION:
14-4-1: Generally
14-4-1: GENERALLY:
The following shall apply to each of the various lots and uses as set forth
below. All measurements are from the property line.
Acreage lots:                               
 Dimensions:                               
  Minimum size                           1.5 acres
  Minimum depth                          150 feet
  Minimum width                          150 feet
  Minimum frontage                       100 feet; 50 feet for flag lots
 Setbacks:                                 
  Front yard                             30 feet
                                           20 feet from lot line and
  Side yard                              international fire code setback from
                                           buildings on adjoining properties
  Corner lot side yard                   30 feet side yard setback from all
                                           lot lines
  Rear yard                              30 feet
 Buildings:                                
  Maximum height:                         
   Residence and outbuildings           30 feet
   Barn                                 40 feet
  Maximum lot coverage                   20 percent of lot
Boating or marina access lots:              
 Dimensions                               None
                                           20 feet for structures; 20 feet for
 Setbacks                                 sports fields, tot lots, special use
                                           areas and play equipment
 Buildings:                                
                                           35 feet; may include special
  Height                                 vertical elements of less than 100
                                           square feet
  Maximum lot coverage                   55 percent of lot
Commercial lots:                            
 Dimensions:                               
  Minimum lot size                       3,200 square feet
  Minimum lot depth                      80 feet
  Minimum lot width                      40 feet
 Setbacks:                                 
  Front yard setback                     0 feet
  Side yard setback                      0 feet to adjoining commercial; 30
                                           feet to adjoining residential
  Corner lot side yard                   10 feet from side street
                                           10 feet; 0 feet for freestanding
  Rear yard setback                      garage or storage structure with
                                           alley
 Buildings:                                
                                           30 feet, not including vertical
  Maximum height                         elements of less than 100 square
                                           feet
  Maximum lot coverage                   85 percent of lot
Condominiums, patio and town homes, multi-  
family:
 Dimensions:                               
  Minimum size                           4,000 square feet
  Minimum depth                          60 feet
  Minimum width                          50 feet
  Minimum frontage                       50 feet
 Setbacks:                                 
  Front yard                             5 feet
                                           0 feet for connected structures; 10
  Side yard                              feet minimum from lot line, if
                                           adjacent structures are not
                                           connected
  Corner lot side yard                   13 feet from corner side street
                                           10 feet, 0 feet for garage,
  Rear yard                              accessory or storage structure with
                                           alley
 Buildings:                                
  Maximum height                         35 feet
  Maximum lot coverage                   55 percent of lot
Equestrian centers:                         
 Dimensions:                               
  Minimum lot size                       2 acres
  Minimum lot depth                      None
  Minimum lot width                      None
 Setbacks                                 30 feet for structures; 20 feet for
                                           paddock or corral fencing
 Buildings:                                
                                           40 feet; may include special
  Height                                 vertical elements of less than 100
                                           square feet to maximum total height
                                           of 50 feet
  Maximum lot coverage                   20 percent of lot
Golf course lots:                           
 Dimensions                               None
 Setbacks                                 20 feet for all structures except
                                           fences
 Buildings:                                
                                           35 feet; may include special
  Height                                 vertical elements of less than 100
                                           square feet to maximum total height
                                           of 60 feet
  Maximum lot coverage                   None
Industrial lots:                            
 Dimensions                               None
 Setbacks                                 As determined by the DRC
 Buildings:                                
  Maximum height                         35 feet
  Maximum lot coverage                   As determined by DRC
Large lots:                                 
 Dimensions:                               
  Minimum size                           0.5 acres
  Minimum depth                          120 feet
  Minimum width                          100 feet
  Minimum frontage                       50 feet
 Setbacks:                                 
  Front yard                             30 feet
                                           10 feet from lot line and
  Side yard                              international fire code setback from
                                           buildings on adjoining properties
  Corner lot side yard                   20 feet side yard setback from all
                                           lot lines
  Rear yard                              20 feet
 Buildings:                                
  Maximum height:                         
   Residence and outbuildings           30 feet
   Barn                                 40 feet
  Maximum lot coverage                   30 percent of lot
Open space areas:                           
 Dimensions                               None
 Setbacks                                 20 feet for structures; 10 feet for
                                           play equipment
 Buildings:                                
                                           35 feet; may include special
  Height                                 vertical elements of less than 100
                                           square feet to maximum total height
                                           of 60 feet
  Maximum lot coverage                   Per approval of DRC
Parks:                                      
 Dimensions                               None
                                           20 feet for structures; 20 feet for
 Setbacks                                 sports fields, tot lots, special use
                                           areas and play equipment
 Buildings:                                
                                           35 feet; may include special
  Height                                 vertical elements of less than 100
                                           square feet to maximum total height
                                           of 60 feet
  Maximum lot coverage                   15 percent
Public services lots:                       
 Dimensions:                               
  Minimum lot size                       3,200 square feet
  Minimum lot depth                      80 feet
  Minimum lot width                      40 feet
  Minimum frontage                       50 feet
 Setbacks:                                 
  Front yard setback                     0 feet
  Side yard setback                      0 feet to adjoining commercial; 30
                                           feet to adjoining residential
  Corner lot side yard                   10 feet from side street
                                           10 feet; 0 feet for freestanding
  Rear yard setback                      garage or storage structure with
                                           alley
 Buildings:                                
                                           35 feet, not including vertical
  Maximum height                         elements of less than 100 square
                                           feet
  Maximum lot coverage                   75 percent of lot
Railroad access areas:                      
 Dimensions                               None
                                           20 feet from railroad right of way
 Setbacks                                 for all pedestrian access points; 35
                                           feet from railroad right of way for
                                           all structures
 Buildings:                                
                                           35 feet; may include special
  Height                                 vertical elements of less than 100
                                           square feet to maximum total height
                                           of 60 feet
  Maximum lot coverage                   55 percent
Regular lots:                               
 Dimensions:                               
  Minimum size                           6,000 square feet
  Minimum depth                          60 feet
  Minimum width                          50 feet
  Minimum frontage                       50 feet
 Setbacks:                                 
  Front yard                             5 feet
                                           10 feet from lot line and
  Side yard                              international fire code setback from
                                           buildings on adjoining properties
  Corner lot side yard                   20 feet side yard setback from all
                                           lot lines
  Rear yard                              20 feet and 8 feet for garage
 Buildings:                                
  Maximum height                         30 feet
  Maximum lot coverage                   55 percent of lot
Rural lots:                                 
 Dimensions:                               
  Minimum size                           5.01 acres
  Minimum depth                          150 feet
  Minimum width                          150 feet
  Minimum frontage                       100 feet; 50 feet for flag lots
 Setbacks:                                 
  Front yard                             30 feet
                                           20 feet from lot line and
  Side yard                              international fire code setback from
                                           buildings on adjoining properties
  Corner lot side yard                   30 feet side yard setback from all
                                           lot lines
  Rear yard                              30 feet
 Buildings:                                
  Maximum height:                         
   Residence and outbuildings           30 feet
   Barn                                 40 feet
  Maximum lot coverage                   15 percent of lot
Trails:                                     
 Dimensions                               None
 Setbacks                                 20 feet for all structures
 Buildings:                                
                                           20 feet; may include special
  Height                                 vertical elements of less than 100
                                           square feet to maximum total height
                                           of 35 feet
  Maximum lot coverage                   Per approval of DRC
 
(Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
CHAPTER 5
PARKING REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
14-5-1: Applicability
14-5-1: APPLICABILITY:
The following parking requirements shall apply to the lots and uses as
described below:
                                       Parking shall be provided at a minimum
Boating or marina access              of 1 space per 1,000 square feet of
                                       interior building area
                                       Parking shall be provided at a minimum
Commercial                            of 1 space per 1,000 square feet of
                                       interior building area
Condominium, patio and town home and  Parking shall include 1.25 off street
multi-family lots                      space for every unit
                                       Parking shall include 1 off street space
Equestrian centers                    for every 4 horses boarded on site; 1
                                       space per on duty employee/caretaker
                                       Parking shall be provided at 1 space per
                                       hole with a minimum of 3 spaces. Parking
Golf course                           may be combined with other multiple or
                                       joint uses, such as open spaces or
                                       trails
                                       Parking spaces are not required.
                                       However, areas may be designated on or
Open space                            near trailheads or may be designated
                                       with other multiple or joint uses, such
                                       as parks
                                       Parking shall be provided for parks in
                                       excess of 1 acre at 1 space per 1/
Parks                                 4 acre. Parking may be combined with
                                       other multiple or joint uses, such as
                                       open spaces or trails
                                       Parking shall be provided at a minimum
Public service facilities             of 1 space per 1,000 square feet of
                                       interior building area
                                       Parking shall be provided at 1 space per
                                       250 feet of floor area, with a minimum
Railroad access areas                 of 3 spaces. Parking may be combined
                                       with other multiple or joint uses, such
                                       as open spaces or trails
                                       A minimum of 3 parking spaces shall be
                                       provided at the trailhead of the major
Trails                                trails. Parking may be combined with
                                       other multiple or joint uses, such as
                                       open spaces, parks, residential or
                                       commercial areas
 
(Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
CHAPTER 6
SPECIAL CONDITIONS
SECTION:
14-6-1: Applicability
14-6-2: Acreage Lots
14-6-3: Commercial Lots
14-6-4: Condominiums, Patio And Town Homes
14-6-5: Large Lots
14-6-6: Regular Lots
14-6-7: Rural Lots
14-6-8: Equestrian Centers
14-6-9: Golf Course, Open Spaces, Parks And Trails
14-6-1: APPLICABILITY:
Special conditions shall apply to the lots and uses described in this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-6-2: ACREAGE LOTS:
   A.   Houses and accessory structures shall be sited to minimize grading and
shall be compatible with existing topography. Site grading is limited to the
area within lot setbacks. In addition, techniques such as shared driveways,
meandering driveways, rear entry garages, rural style buildings, barns, etc.,
shall be employed to maintain rural character along public roadways.
   B.   Building massing shall step with the natural grade to minimize exposed
building facade on the "downhill" portion of the lot to two (2) stories plus
roof. The "downhill" portion may be either street side or rear of the lot.
   C.   Floodplain development shall comply with all federal emergency
management agency (FEMA) and local floodplain regulations. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-
2005)
14-6-3: COMMERCIAL LOTS:
   A.   Buildings may be developed as commercial condominiums.
   B.   Loading facilities or areas shall be thoroughly screened and buffered
from adjoining residential uses.
   C.   Commercial buildings shall have special architectural treatments to
make them residential in scale, mass and design and thus compatible with
adjoining residential uses.
   D.   Residential dwellings located in a commercial zone, such as multi-
family housing, condominiums, etc., shall comply with the minimum standards set
forth in chapter 4 of this title regarding setbacks, building height and lot
coverage. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-6-4: CONDOMINIUMS, PATIO AND TOWN HOMES:
   A.   Density shall not exceed sixteen (16) dwelling units per acre.
   B.   Garages are encouraged to be incorporated into the building massing.
Where possible, garage doors shall not directly face the main thoroughfare,
except for corner lots. Residences on corner lots shall have the garage set
back from the front plane of the house.
   C.   Building massing shall step with the natural grade to minimize exposed
building facade on the "downhill" portion of the lot to two (2) stories plus
roof. The "downhill" portion may be either street side or rear of the lot.
   D.   Surface parking areas shall be landscaped and terraced with the natural
grade.
   E.   Ground floor units are encouraged to have patios to provide a private
outdoor space. Upper floor units are encouraged to have porches or balconies.
   F.   Floodplain development shall comply with all federal emergency
management agency (FEMA) and local floodplain regulations. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-
2005)
14-6-5: LARGE LOTS:
   A.   Unless restricted by topography, garages shall be set back, side or
rear entry and garage doors shall not directly face the street, except for
corner lots. Residences on corner lots shall have the garage set back from the
side plane of the house.
   B.   Building massing shall step with the natural grade to minimize exposed
building facade on the "downhill" portion of the lot to two (2) stories plus
roof. The "downhill" portion may be either street side or rear of the lot.
   C.   Floodplain development shall comply with all federal emergency
management agency (FEMA) and local floodplain regulations. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-
2005)
14-6-6: REGULAR LOTS:
   A.   Unless restricted by topography, garages shall have rear, side or set
back entries.
   B.   Building massing shall step with the natural grade to minimize exposed
building facade on the "downhill" portion of the lot to two (2) stories plus
roof. The "downhill" portion may be either street side or rear of the lot.
   C.   Floodplain development shall comply with all federal emergency
management agency (FEMA) and local floodplain regulations. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-
2005)
14-6-7: RURAL LOTS:
   A.   Houses and accessory structures shall be sited to minimize grading and
shall be compatible with existing topography. In addition, techniques such as
shared driveways, meandering driveways, rear entry garages, rural style
buildings, barns, etc., shall be employed to maintain rural character along
public roadways.
   B.   Building massing shall step with the natural grade to minimize exposed
building facade on the "downhill" portion of the lot to two (2) stories plus
roof. The "downhill" portion may be either street side or rear of the lot.
   C.   Floodplain development shall comply with all federal emergency
management agency (FEMA) and local floodplain regulations. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-
2005)
14-6-8: EQUESTRIAN CENTERS:
   A.   Buildings shall be sited with respect to existing drainage patterns.
   B.   Building massing and pastures shall step with the natural grade.
   C.   Service, loading and maintenance facilities shall be completely
screened from roads and residential areas. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-6-9: GOLF COURSE, OPEN SPACES, PARKS AND TRAILS:
   A.   Where reasonably possible, structures and trails shall be sited with
respect to existing drainage patterns.
   B.   Service, loading and maintenance facilities shall be completely
screened from roads and residential areas. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
CHAPTER 7
LANDSCAPING
SECTION:
14-7-1: Landscape Ordinance And Black Canyon Covenants, Conditions And
Restrictions
14-7-2: Prohibited Plants
14-7-1: LANDSCAPE ORDINANCE AND BLACK CANYON COVENANTS, CONDITIONS AND
RESTRICTIONS:
Development in Black Canyon shall be subject to the Gem County landscape
ordinance. Provided however, the following plants are prohibited from being
planted anywhere in the exterior boundaries of Black Canyon. Other landscape
requirements, more strict than in the Gem County landscape ordinance may be set
forth in the Black Canyon covenants, conditions and restrictions (CCRs). In
such event, the CCRs shall control over the requirements of the Gem County
landscape ordinance. Any landscaping plan required under the landscape
ordinance shall be approved by the DRC prior to submittal to Gem County for
approval. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-7-2: PROHIBITED PLANTS:
Botanical Name Common Name Concern
Botanical Name         Common Name            Concern
Acer negundo           Box elder; "sensation" Soft wood, severely insect
                       variety allowed        prone
Acer saccharinum       Silver maple           Weak wood; competes with
                                              native black cottonwoods
Ailanthus altissima    Tree of heaven         Weak wood, invasive
Betula papyrifera      Paper birch            Susceptible to borers, poor
                                              heat tolerance
Betula pendula         Weeping birch          Susceptible to borers, poor
                                              heat tolerance
Elaeangus angustifolia Russian olive          Invasive
Fraxinus excelsior     Kimberly blue ash      Disease prone
Ginkgo biloba          Ginkgo; male clones on Stench of fruit on female
                       female trees allowed   plants
Juglans nigra          Black walnut           Fruit (covered nuts) toxic to
                                              adjacent plants
Robinia pseudoacacia   Black locust           Susceptible to borers
Populus species        Cottonwood             Soft wood, shallow root
                                              system
                      Aspen - discouraged    Poor heat and drought
                                              tolerance
Morus alba             Mulberry               Fruit
                                              Dutch elm disease,
Ulmus species          Elm                    susceptible to elm leaf
                                              beetles
 
(Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
CHAPTER 8
GRADING AND DRAINAGE
SECTION:
14-8-1: General Provisions
14-8-2: Development Evaluation
14-8-3: Development In Hazardous Areas
14-8-4: Fills
14-8-5: Vegetation And Revegetation
14-8-6: Engineering Plans
14-8-7: Grading Plans
14-8-8: Maintenance
14-8-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
All development requiring grading shall be conducted in a site sensitive manner
to reduce impacts. Development in a particular phase or a specific lot shall
comply with the following unless otherwise waived in writing by the DRC prior
to application to Gem County for approval of the phase or issuance of a
building permit. Provided, in the case of delays caused by weather, the DRC may
grant a temporary waiver of any of the following. Further provided, that unless
there are implications for the public health or safety, the discretion of the
DRC to waive any of the following shall be absolute. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-8-2: DEVELOPMENT EVALUATION:
All development proposals shall take into account and be judged by the way in
which land use planning, soil mechanics, engineering, geology, hydrology, civil
engineering, environmental and civil design, architectural and landscape design
are applied, including, but not limited to:
   A.   Planning of development to fit the topography, soils, geology,
hydrology and other conditions existing on the proposed site;
   B.   Orientation of development on the site so that grading and other site
preparation is kept to a minimum;
   C.   Shaping of essential grading to blend with natural landforms and to
minimize the necessity of padding or terracing of building sites;
   D.   Division of large tracts into smaller workable units on which
construction can be completed within one construction season so that large
areas are not left bare and exposed during the winter- spring runoff period;
   E.   Completion of paving as rapidly as possible after grading;
   F.   Allocation of areas not well suited for development because of soil,
geology or hydrology limitations for open space and recreation uses;
   G.   Minimizing, where reasonably possible, the disruption of existing plant
and animal life; and
   H.   Consideration of the views from and of the hills. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-
2005)
14-8-3: DEVELOPMENT IN HAZARDOUS AREAS:
Areas having soil, geology or hydrology hazards shall not be developed unless
it is shown that:
   A.   The site limitations can be overcome;
   B.   If developed, unreasonable hazard to life or property will not occur;
   C.   The safety, use or stability of a public way or drainage channel will
not be jeopardized; and
   D.   The natural environment will not suffer unreasonable or undue impact.
(Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-8-4: FILLS:
Where fill is proposed to be used or results from any development activities,
such fill shall comply with the following:
   A.   Fill areas shall be prepared by removing organic material such as
vegetation and rubbish, and any other material, which is determined by the
soils engineer to be detrimental to proper compaction or otherwise not
conducive to stability. No rock or similar irreducible material with a maximum
dimension greater than eight inches (8") shall be used as fill material in
fills that are intended to provide structural strength.
   B.   Fills shall be compacted to at least ninety five percent (95%) of
maximum density, as determined by AASHTO T99 and ASTM D698.
   C.   Cut slopes shall be no steeper than two horizontal to one vertical (2:
1). Subsurface drainage shall be provided as necessary for stability.
   D.   Fill slopes shall be no steeper than two horizontal to one vertical (2:
1) and shall not be located on natural slopes two to one (2:1) or steeper, or
where fill slope toes out within twelve feet (12') horizontally of the top of
an existing or planned cut slope.
   E.   Tops and toes of cut and fill slopes shall be set back from property
boundaries a distance of three feet (3') plus one-fifth (1/5) of the height of
the cut or fill but need not exceed a horizontal distance of ten feet (10').
Tops and toes of cut and fill slopes shall be set back from structures a
distance of six feet (6') plus one-fifth (1/5) the height of the cut or fill,
but need not exceed ten feet (10').
   F.   The maximum horizontal distance of disturbed soil surfaces shall not
exceed seventy five feet (75'). (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-8-5: VEGETATION AND REVEGETATION:
Each phase or development within a phase shall be subject to the following
requirements pertaining to the preservation or replacement of existing
vegetation:
   A.   The developer shall submit a slope stabilization and revegetation plan
which shall include a complete description of the existing vegetation, the
vegetation to be removed and the method of disposal, the vegetation to be
planted and slope stabilization measures to be installed. The plan shall
include an analysis of the environmental effects of such operations, including
the effects on slope stability, soil erosion, water quality and fish and
wildlife.
   B.   The developer shall establish vegetation sufficient to stabilize the
soil on all disturbed areas as each stage of grading is completed. Areas not
contained within lot boundaries shall be protected with perennial vegetal cover
after all construction is completed. Efforts shall be made to plant those
species that tend to recover from fire damage and do not contribute to a rapid
rate of fire spread.
   C.   The developer shall be fully responsible for any destruction of native
vegetation proposed for retention. Such responsibility shall extend to the
developer's employees as well as all subcontractors from the first day of
construction until the notice of completion is filed. The developer shall be
responsible for replacing any destroyed vegetation. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-8-6: ENGINEERING PLANS:
For any area of a proposed phase where slopes exceed ten percent (10%) slopes,
the developer shall retain one or more professional engineers to obtain the
following information to be reviewed by the DRC prior to submission of any
preliminary plat to Gem County. The reports shall also be submitted to Gem
County as part of any such application:
   A.   Soils Report: The soils report shall include data regarding the nature,
distribution and strength of existing soils, conclusions and recommendations
for grading procedures, design criteria for corrective measures and opinions
and recommendations covering the adequacy of sites to be developed.
   B.   Geology Report: The geology report shall include an adequate
description of site geology and an evaluation of the relationship between the
proposed development and the underlying geology and recommendations for
remedial remedies where appropriate. The investigation and subsequent report
shall be completed by a professional geologist registered in the state of
Idaho.
   C.   Hydrology Report: The hydrology report shall include an adequate
description of the hydrology, conclusions and recommendations regarding the
effect of hydrologic conditions on the proposed development, and opinions and
recommendations covering the adequacy of sites to be developed. (Ord. 2005-13,
9-12-2005)
14-8-7: GRADING PLANS:
For any area of a proposed phase where slopes exceed ten percent (10%), the
developer shall submit the following grading plans in addition to any
information required by Gem County:
   A.   A preliminary grading plan including the following information shall be
filed with the preliminary plat:
      1.   Approximate limiting dimensions, evaluations or finish contours to
be achieved by the grading, including all cut and fill slopes, proposed
drainage channels and related construction;
      2.   Preliminary plans and approximate locations of all surface and
subsurface drainage devices, walls, dams, sediment basins, storage reservoirs
and other protective devices to be constructed; and
      3.   A description of methods to be employed in disposing of soil and
other material that is removed from the grading site, including the location of
the disposal site.
   B.   A final grading plan, including the following information shall be
submitted with the final plat:
      1.   Limiting dimensions, evaluations or finish contours to be achieved
by the grading including all proposed cut and fill slopes and proposed drainage
channels and related construction;
      2.   Detailed plans and locations of all surface and subsurface drainage
devices, walls, dams, sediment basins, storage reservoirs and other protective
devices to be constructed, locations of any structures on or within fifteen
feet (15') of the location on the site where the work is to be performed, how
finish grades meet adjoining property, erosion control and slope protection;
and
      3.   A schedule showing when each stage of that area in the phase will be
completed, including the total area of soil surface that is to be disturbed
during each stage, together with estimated start and completion dates. Provided
however, in no event shall the existing natural vegetative ground cover be
destroyed, removed or disturbed more than fifteen (15) days prior to grading.
(Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-8-8: MAINTENANCE:
The owner of any private property on which grading or other work has been
performed pursuant to a grading plan approved or a building permit granted
under the provisions of this title shall continuously maintain and repair all
graded surfaces and erosion prevention devices, retaining walls, drainage
structures or means, and other protective devices, plantings and ground cover
installed or completed. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
CHAPTER 9
DEVELOPMENT AND DESIGN GUIDELINES
SECTION:
14-9-1: Purpose And Intent
14-9-2: Declaration Of Covenants, Conditions And Restrictions (CCRs)
14-9-3: Architecture
14-9-4: Site Design
14-9-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The following guidelines illustrate the general level of design and development
control that will be applied to development of the residential and
nonresidential parcels within the overall project. The DRC will review
development and site plans, architecture and landscape designs in Black Canyon.
The DRC reserves the right to modify these standards too, as long as general
project intent and theme is maintained. DRC responsibilities will include the
review and approval of development or building plans, elevations, materials,
colors, fencing, signage, lighting, landscaping and parking arrangements prior
to permit application to Gem County. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-9-2: DECLARATION OF COVENANTS, CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS (CCRs):
Specific responsibilities and standards will be further defined in the
declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions (CCRs) which will also
serve to control design and development at Black Canyon. The DRC shall have
sole authority in determining compliance with the CCRs and design guidelines.
(Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-9-3: ARCHITECTURE:
Black Canyon is not intended to be developed with one prevalent architectural
style. Variety in the architecture is encouraged. An emphasis, however, will be
placed on architectural styles that complement the theme of Black Canyon, the
use of quality materials and complementary relationships between building and
site design features. The major theme of Black Canyon is that of a high
elevation western setting where the prevalent architecture utilizes stone,
timber and other natural materials such as is found in the newer sections of
Ketchum/Sun Valley, McCall and the commercial development known as Eagle River
along the Boise River and Highway 55 in Eagle. In particular:
   A.   Building scale and height should relate to topography, lot sizes and
setbacks. A mix of one- and two-story units in the rural residential
neighborhoods will be encouraged. Custom homes on slope sensitive lots should
use hillside adaptive design techniques such as post and beam construction and
daylight basements to minimize streetside and rear yard facade exposure.
Building heights in the townhome or condominium residential neighborhoods as
well as nonresidential uses may be taller but should have a massing and scale
compatible where there are adjoining single-family residential uses.
   B.   Building form should conform to site topography, and where reasonably
possible, not overwhelm natural site features. Step structures with slope, and
cut into hillsides will be encouraged to reduce visual bulk.
   C.   A mix of housing styles and types is encouraged. Variety in elevations
and materials is essential.
   D.   Unless constrained by site conditions, homes on rural, acreage and
large lots shall have side or rear entry garages (garage doors not directly
facing the street).
   E.   Private exterior living spaces such as porches, decks and patios are
encouraged in the design of each unit in the townhome and condominium
neighborhoods.
   F.   Roof pitch variations are preferred. No flat roofs or rock covered
roofs are permitted. Tile, concrete tile, metal, architectural grade
composition shingle or other materials approved by the DRC are permitted. Wood
shake roofs are prohibited.
   G.   Passive solar designs, energy and water conservation measures are
encouraged.
   H.   Building materials and color schemes blending with the natural
landscape of earth tones and grassland vegetation are encouraged but not
required. Any exterior materials should minimize fuel potential for wildfires.
The use or incorporation of fire resistant or treated wood, stone, and/or brick
on exteriors is encouraged. Material changes, fenestration changes and
variations of wall and window surface planes are also encouraged. In order to
avoid the appearance of a false applique, no material changes shall be allowed
on corners or where structures abut common areas. If material changes occur,
they must occur at logical changes in building form.
   I.   Windows shall be sensitively placed to protect privacy of adjacent
residences.
   J.   View corridors are critical to and from all open spaces. The siting of
buildings, accessory structures, fences, etc., and their impact on views and
adjacent uses shall be carefully considered.
   K.   Mechanical equipment on roofs, aboveground transformers, satellite
dishes, active solar panels, utility equipment and loading, service and storage
areas generally will be screened from view from the streets, pathways, public
areas and adjacent uses. Commercial trash enclosures and maintenance structures
shall be designed to be compatible in style, materials and colors with the main
building and shall be of permanent construction. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-9-4: SITE DESIGN:
Parcel developers, builders and lot owners will be encouraged to use innovative
and environmentally responsive techniques in designing the final configuration
of lots, buildings, roadways, drives, etc. These techniques may include, where
appropriate, one or more of the following:
   A.   Minimize development on highly visible hillside slopes. Encourage
development predominantly at the top and base of slopes.
   B.   Cluster buildings to maximize contiguous open space and minimize
disruption to native vegetation.
   C.   Encourage location of building structures into topographic folds and
site ridge top units in saddles to minimize "skylining".
   D.   Keep views at the terminus of roadway intersections open to amenities,
open space and creek beds.
   E.   Avoid steep slopes (greater than 25 percent) and soils with poor
bearing capacities.
   F.   Site buildings to capitalize on passive cooling/heating. (Ord. 2005-13,
9-12-2005)
CHAPTER 10
SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
14-10-1: General Provisions
14-10-2: Monuments
14-10-3: Streets And Alleys
14-10-4: Curbs And Gutters
14-10-5: Street Signs
14-10-6: Streetlights
14-10-7: Pedestrian/Bicycle Pathways
14-10-8: Sidewalks
14-10-9: Underground Utilities
14-10-10: Water Supply And Wastewater Systems
14-10-11: Pressurized Irrigation Systems
14-10-12: Storm Drainage And Flood Control
14-10-13: Fire Hydrants And Water Mains
14-10-14: Construction Plans
14-10-15: Public Works Standards
14-10-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
Unless otherwise waived by the DRC in writing, the development of any phase
shall be subject to the following conditions and specifications. The DRC has
absolute discretion to waive any or all of these requirements to achieve the
overall design and theme of Black Canyon. Any such waiver shall be in writing
and included as part of any application to develop any phase other than phase
one. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-10-2: MONUMENTS:
Monuments shall be set in accordance with section 50-1303, Idaho Code. (Ord.
2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-10-3: STREETS AND ALLEYS:
All streets and alleys shall be constructed in accordance with the standards
and specifications adopted herein. The standards contained within this title
shall govern. The design of the vehicular and pedestrian circulation system at
Black Canyon will meet the safety and functional intent of the American
Association Of State Highway And Traffic Officials (AASHTO) design standards
while not compromising the aesthetic, environmental, and community building
goals of the project. Provided, however, that gradients of local streets shall
not exceed slopes of ten percent (10%) and collectors shall not exceed seven
percent (7%). (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-10-4: CURBS AND GUTTERS:
   A.   Vertical Or Rolled Curbs And Gutters: Vertical or rolled curbs and
gutters shall be constructed on collector and arterial streets within phases.
They are not required in industrial, rural or unplatted areas.
   B.   Rolled Curbs And Gutters: Rolled curbs and gutters shall be required on
all minor streets in commercial zones and in residential zones except where the
gross density of the phase is less than one home per five (5) acres.
   C.   Driveways, Curb Cuts: All driveway openings and curbs shall be
designated on the submittal plans. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-10-5: STREET SIGNS:
Street name signs shall be installed in the appropriate locations at each
street intersection in accordance with the local standards. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-
12-2005)
14-10-6: STREETLIGHTS:
Streetlights shall be installed in accordance with Gem County requirements.
Black Canyon shall own and maintain all street lighting unless Gem County or
other public agency agrees to ownership and maintenance. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-
2005)
14-10-7: PEDESTRIAN/BICYCLE PATHWAYS:
Pathways are intended to encourage nonmotorized forms of travel routes to
common destinations such as schools, parks, shopping centers, etc.
   A.   Location: The following factors will be considered in the placement of
any pathway including: the utility and need for a given pathway, impacts to
existing neighborhoods, pathway design as it relates to both crime prevention
and function, and the responsibilities of ownership, maintenance, and
liability. In particular, the location and convenience of access to:
      1.   Schools.
      2.   Parks.
      3.   Commercial centers.
      4.   Recreation areas.
      5.   Public lands.
      6.   Public safety concerns where pedestrians, cyclists or equestrians
have to travel near a collector or arterial roadway that poses a hazard.
   B.   Design: The design of any pathway may include paving or a surface
appropriate to the type of anticipated use such as gravel or sand for
equestrian or mountain bike usage; pavement for pedestrian and bicycles. If
constructed, the following shall be followed:
      1.   Pavement: If paved, the paved portion of the pathway may range from
five feet (5') to ten feet (10') in width. Micropathways within subdivisions
that are designed for primary use by the residences of the subdivision shall be
a minimum five feet (5') wide.
      2.   Barriers: Barriers may be placed at the terminal ends of paths to
restrict use by motor vehicles while allowing use by bicycles, wheelchairs and
other modes of travel.
      3.   Landscaping: Pathways need not be landscaped. If landscaped, the
landscape area shall be not less than two feet (2') if a meandering paved
pathway, nor more than five feet (5') wide on either side of the pathway. Site
constraints such as barrow ditches may permit deletion of the landscaped area
between the pathway and the barrow pit. For safety purposes, planting material
shall be limited to three feet (3') in height at maturity. The landscape, any
fencing allowed or any structures shall be a note on the plat.
      4.   Fencing: Fencing is not required. However, if fencing is utilized at
the boundary of the landscaped area, and is not the side or rear yard of a
residence, then if less than four feet (4') in height, sight obscuring fencing
may be used. If exceeding five feet (5') in height, nonsight obscuring fencing
shall be used. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-10-8: SIDEWALKS:
Sidewalks are not required between phases. Within phases, the following shall
apply:
   A.   Sidewalk Requirements: Sidewalks are required on both sides of the
street in residential and commercial areas except where the average width of
the lots, e.g., all residential lots or all commercial lots, as measured at the
street frontage line or at the building setback line, is over one hundred feet
(100'). In that event, a sidewalk is only required on one side of the street.
Sidewalks are not required in any other zone. If they are constructed, they
shall comply with the following:
      1.   Sidewalks shall be a minimum of five feet (5') wide.
      2.   Sidewalks and crosswalks shall be separated from the edge of the
abutting roadway and/or back of curb by a minimum five foot (5') wide landscape
strip. The landscape strip shall be completed with sod, automatic irrigation,
and planted with plantings in accordance with the approved landscape plan for
that phase. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-10-9: UNDERGROUND UTILITIES:
All utilities shall be placed underground. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-10-10: WATER SUPPLY AND WASTEWATER SYSTEMS:
It is the intent that all domestic water and wastewater treatment within Black
Canyon be through the domestic water and wastewater treatment systems
constructed as part of phase one. Provided however, that rural lots and
residential lots five (5) acres or larger are not subject to this provision. If
the DRC approves a phase or property utilize a different system, whether shared
or individual, based solely on the determination that it is not feasible to
connect to the community systems, any such system shall comply with all
requirements of SWDH and IDEQ. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-10-11: PRESSURIZED IRRIGATION SYSTEMS:
It is the intent that all irrigation within Black Canyon be through the
pressurized irrigation system constructed as part of phase one. Provided,
however, that rural lots and residential lots five (5) acres or larger are not
subject to this provision. If the DRC approves a phase or property utilize a
different system, whether shared or individual, such system shall comply with
the following requirements:
   A.   The pressurized irrigation system may have a backup connection to a
potable water system with the approval of SWDH and Idaho department of water
resources (IDWR) and shall include the installation of a state approved reduced
pressure backflow prevention assembly or an air gap separating the irrigation
system and the potable water system.
   B.   The pressurized irrigation system shall be designed by a licensed
professional engineer registered in the state of Idaho, and the construction
plans for the system shall be reviewed and approved by the DRC.
   C.   The system shall comply with section 31-3805, Idaho Code. (Ord. 2005-
13, 9-12-2005)
14-10-12: STORM DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL:
Each phase shall include an adequate storm drainage system to accommodate
stormwater runoff from the public rights of way and to preclude off site
drainage in accordance with the state of Idaho public works standards (IPWS) as
amended from time to time, and as more fully set out in the city of Emmett
"Storm Water Management Design Manual" as amended from time to time in
accordance with the IPWS. Each system shall comply with the following:
   A.   Interceptor Ditches: Interceptor ditches shall be established above all
cut/fill slopes, and the intercepted water conveyed to a stable channel or
natural drainageway with adequate capacity.
   B.   Curb, Gutter And Pavement Design: Curb, gutter and pavement design
shall be such that water on roadways is prevented from flowing off the roadway.
   C.   Runoff From Impervious Cover: Runoff from areas of concentrated
impervious cover (for example, roofs, driveways and roads) shall be collected
and transported to a natural drainageway with sufficient capacity to accept the
discharge without undue erosion.
   D.   Deposit Of Waste Material Prohibited: Waste material from construction,
including soil and other solid materials, shall not be deposited within the
100-year floodplain.
   E.   Drainageways Or Hydraulic Structures In Major Waterways: "Drainageways
or hydraulic structures in major waterways" (defined as draining a basin area
of 10 acres or more) shall be designed for the 100-year flood.
   F.   Storm Drainage Retention Facilities: On site retention or partial on
site retention of storm drainage from new developments is required in any case
where, due to development activity, such drainage would be increased either in
peak flow rate or in total quantity from that previously discharged from the
land or property being developed. Complete retention is required in all cases
except those where: 1) runoff flows directly, without crossing intervening
property, into an existing drain ditch or other drainage facility that is
operated and maintained by a drainage receiver, and 2) such drainage receiver
agrees, as evidenced by valid and binding public document, to receive a certain
definite quantity of storm drainage from the development. Retention on site of
any drainage not so accepted by a drainage receiver or of any drainage in
excess of the quantity accepted by a drainage receiver is a duty of the current
property owner at any time.
   G.   Retention Facilities: Retention or partial retention facilities shall
be provided as an essential part of such development. Design and construction
of such retention facilities shall conform to standards stated herein. All
facilities shall be maintained on an ongoing basis in order to perform as
designed. Should any of the provisions of other agency requirements conflict
with the standards set forth herein, the higher standard shall apply.
   H.   Sediment Catchment Ponds: Sediment catchment ponds shall be constructed
and maintained downstream from each development, unless sediment retention
facilities are otherwise provided. Any facility used shall provide for the
removal of surface debris and contaminants, as well as sediment retention.
   I.   Completion And Operation Deadline: The overall drainage system shall be
completed and made operational at the earliest possible time during
construction.
   J.   Alterations Of Major Drainageways: Alterations of major drainageways
shall be avoided except for approved road crossings and drainage structures.
   K.   Natural Or Improved Open Channel Drainageways: Natural or improved open
channel drainageways shall be preserved or provided for in major waterways;
except, that at road crossings, conduits may be permitted. Minor waterways
shall be permitted to be enclosed in conduits.
   L.   Drainage System Plans: Drainage system plans shall show how lots will
be graded so that all runoff runs either over the curb, or to a drainage
easement, and that no runoff shall cross any lot line onto another lot except
within a drainage easement. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-10-13: FIRE HYDRANTS AND WATER MAINS:
Adequate fire protection shall be required in accordance with the fire district
standards as modified by any requirements herein. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-10-14: CONSTRUCTION PLANS:
The developer of each phase shall provide all information required by Gem
County for any subdivision application. Construction plans shall be prepared by
an engineer licensed in the state of Idaho and shall include profiles, cross
section, specifications and other supporting data, for all required public
streets, utilities and other facilities. Such construction plans shall be based
on preliminary plans, which have been approved with the preliminary plat, and
shall be prepared in conjunction with the final plat. Construction plans are
subject to approval by the responsible public agencies and all construction
plans shall be prepared in accordance with the public agencies' standards or
specifications. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-10-15: PUBLIC WORKS STANDARDS:
This title hereby adopts the current edition of the "Idaho Standards For Public
Works Construction" (ISPWC). Prior to any public work development or
construction, the contractors or developers shall review the above adopted
standards. Contained below are additional standards, which are to be used in
addition to the ISPWC. These standards shall control unless the standards
adopted herein are more restrictive than the ISPWC. In any event, the DRC shall
have the absolute discretion to waive compliance with these standards unless
such waiver poses a serious risk to the public health or safety. These
standards are set out for convenience.
   A.   Specific Sections: All materials, construction, testing, and inspection
shall be in accordance to the current ISPWC divisions 300, 400, and all other
applicable divisions therein.
   B.   Fire Flow: The water distribution system shall provide, as a minimum,
the following fire flows for new subdivision development in the appropriate
land use zone:
 
Black Canyon commercial (BC-C)       3,000 gpm
Black Canyon industrial (BC-I)       3,000 gpm
Black Canyon public services (BC-PS) 3,000 gpm
Black Canyon recreational (BC-Rec)   3,000 gpm
Black Canyon residential (BC-Res)    1,500 gpm
Black Canyon rural (BC-Rural)        1,500 gpm
 
   C.   Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants specifications and location shall be
reviewed and approved by Gem County rural fire district having jurisdiction.
      1.   Spacing shall not exceed five hundred foot (500') intervals.
      2.   All water mains installed on cul-de-sacs or similar dead end streets
shall have a hydrant located at the end of the water line.
   D.   Water Pipe Fittings And Valves:
      1.   Materials: All water pipe, fittings, and valves shall be in
accordance with current edition of the ISPWC sections 401.2 and 402.2.
      2.   Water Mains: Water mains shall be tested prior to permitting such
water mains to be open to the distribution system. A representative from the
appropriate jurisdictional authority shall be present during all water main
testing. The developer's engineer shall provide certification of testing and
testing results to the DRC and Gem County.
      3.   Disinfection: Water mains shall be disinfected according to the
specifications set forth in the current edition of the ISPWC section 401.3.9
prior to leak and pressure testing.
      4.   Pressure Testing: Water mains shall be pressure tested according to
the specifications set forth in the current edition of the ISPWC section
401.3.6. All valves shall be exposed prior to testing. If pressure during
testing drops five (5) psi or more, the test is considered to have failed
regardless if leakage is below allowable.
      5.   Trench Compaction Testing: Trench compaction testing shall be once
every three hundred (300) linear feet of water line placed with a minimum of
two (2) test locations. Testing and retesting shall be in accordance with the
specifications set forth in the current edition of the ISPWC section 306.3.3.B.
      6.   Location: Water mains shall be designed so a minimal number of
nonpotable water crossings occur in the construction for developments and that
they generally follow the centerline of streets as close as possible. All water
line locations shall be approved by the DRC and Gem County engineer. In cases
where water pipe crosses a nonpotable water line constructed with water class
pipe, the distances between the pipes shall not be closer than four inches (4")
and shall be separated by the placement of four inches (4") of rigid foam
board.
      7.   Size: Water main size is six inches (6") in diameter unless
otherwise recommended by the DRC or the Gem County engineer.
      8.   Valve Configuration:
         a.   At a minimum, all tees shall have one valve on the run and one
valve on the branch.
         b.   All crosses shall have valves on all legs.
         c.   When connecting new water line to an existing water line that is
ten inches (10") or greater, a valve at all branches (except at a hydrant) is
required.
      9.   Cover: Water mains shall have a minimum of forty two inches' (42")
cover and a maximum cover of sixty inches (60"). Cover greater than sixty
inches (60") may be allowed where obstructions occur, but must be approved by
the DRC and the Gem County engineer.
      10.   Dead End Water Mains: Dead end water mains shall be avoided. They
shall be permitted only where water service from phase to phase is designed to
continue along the water main run, or on approved cul-de-sacs. If approved,
they shall:
         a.   Terminate with a valve followed by at least ten feet (10') of
water line with an end cap and thrust block clearly marked at the surface.
         b.   Have a fire hydrant within ten feet (10') of the termination of
the main.
         c.   A water valve placed at the nearest tee, cross, or on the leg of
the dead end run.
      11.   Water Main Stubs: No water services shall be installed on water
main stubs to future phases.
      12.   Water Valves: Water valves shall be anchored to tees or crosses
when appropriate with all-thread bolts (stainless steel or galvanized) or
strapped to thrust blocks with galvanized straps and approved by the Gem County
engineer.
      13.   Watertight Plugs: At all times, when laying pipe is not in
progress, open end pipe shall be closed by watertight plug.
      14.   Tampering: Contractors working in Black Canyon are not to open,
close, or tamper with any valve. The contractor shall notify the DRC when a
valve needs to be opened or closed.
      15.   Service Lines: Service lines shall be constructed in accordance
with ISPWC.
      16.   Saddles: Saddles for water mains shall be stainless steel. Saddles
are required at all main line connections. Saddles twelve inches (12") or
greater shall have a stainless steel double strap.
      17.   Corporation Stop: Corporation stops required at all main line
connections.
      18.   Curb Stop: A curb stop is required at the base of the meter setter
on the water main side.
      19.   Meter Setter: Meter setters shall be an eighteen inch (18") minimum
and have a dual check valve. A five foot (5') section of pipe shall be extended
on the customer side of the meter vault. Meter setter shall be centered in
meter vault.
      20.   Meter Vaults; Single Meters: Meter vaults shall be made of eighteen
inch (18") smooth interior corrugated HDPE pipe, ADS N-12. Meter vault lids
shall be eighteen inches (18") with knockout in place. Meter vaults shall be
located on the opposite side of a building lot from the location of mailboxes.
      21.   Meters: Meters are required for each water service and shall be
"touch read" style.
      22.   Location Of Water Service: Water services shall be located within
the right of way approximately one foot (1') from the property line.
   E.   Sanitary Sewer: All materials, construction, testing, and inspection
shall be in accordance to the current edition of the ISPWC divisions 300, 500,
and all other applicable divisions therein. Sanitary sewer pipe shall extend to
the boundaries of the current phase, taking into consideration future
development of subsequent phases.
      1.   Materials: Sewer pipe shall be ASTM 3034 SDR 35 PVC pipe or the
appropriate jurisdictional authority approved equivalent. Trench backfill shall
be type A backfill according to the specifications set forth in the current
edition of the ISPWC section 306.3.3. Trench shall include nonmetallic tape
identifying the sanitary sewer pipe.
      2.   Testing: Sanitary sewer mains shall be tested prior to permitting
such sewer main to be open to the collection system. A representative of the
appropriate jurisdictional authority or authorities shall be present during all
sewer main testing. The developer's engineer shall provide certification of
testing and testing results to the DRC and Gem County.
         a.   Pressure Testing: Sanitary sewer mains shall be pressure tested
according to the specifications set forth in the current edition of the ISPWC.
         b.   Visual Test: A televised video of all sections of sewer mains
shall be provided to the DRC and Gem County. All visible leaks shall be
repaired, even though the leakage may be below allowable limits. All repairs
shall be inspected by the Gem County engineer and approved prior to
backfilling.
         c.   Trench Compaction: Trench compaction testing shall be once every
three hundred (300) linear feet of sewer line placed with a minimum of two (2)
test locations. Testing and retesting shall be in accordance with the
specifications set forth in the current edition of the ISPWC.
      3.   Watertight Plugs: At all times, when installing pipe is not in
progress, open end pipe shall be closed by watertight plug.
      4.   Terminate Pipeline: The pipeline shall be terminated with a manhole
when a stub extends greater than one hundred feet (100').
      5.   Manholes:
         a.   Materials: Sewer manholes shall be constructed in accordance with
current edition of the ISPWC.
         b.   Testing: Sanitary sewer manholes shall be tested prior to
permitting such sewer manhole to be open to the collection system. Testing
shall be in accordance to current edition of the ISPWC. The Gem County engineer
or other appropriate personnel shall be present during testing. The developer's
engineer shall provide certification of testing and testing results to Gem
County.
         c.   Location: Sewer manholes shall be located within five feet (5')
of the centerline of the street.
         d.   Grade Rings: Cast in place concrete blocks shall be installed in
place of grade rings. The block shall not exceed twelve inches (12") in height
and shall be grouted to the cone section of the manhole and to the manhole
frame.
         e.   External Sealing System: All manholes shall be watertight. An
external sealing system shall be required to be installed on the outside of the
manhole at the barrel joints in addition to the joint sealing system specified
in the current edition of the ISPWC. The external sealing system shall be
preapproved by the Gem County engineer.
         f.   Connection: Connection into an existing manhole or construction
of a drop manhole or special manhole shall not be accepted without full time
inspection by the Gem County engineer or other appropriate personnel.
      6.   Pressure Sewer Pipes:
         a.   Materials: All pressure sewer pipes shall be in accordance with
the current edition of the ISPWC. Pressure sewer pipe shall be preapproved by
the Gem County engineer.
         b.   Testing: Sanitary sewer pressure mains shall be tested prior to
permitting such sewer main to be open to the collection system. Testing shall
be in accordance to current edition of the ISPWC. Appropriate Gem County
personnel shall be present during testing. The developer's engineer shall
provide certification of testing and testing results to the jurisdictional
authority. Trench compaction testing shall be completed once every three
hundred (300) linear feet of pressure line placed with a minimum of two (2)
test locations. Testing and retesting shall be in accordance with the
specifications set forth in the current edition of the ISPWC.
         c.   Locating Wire Boxes: Boxes shall be in accordance with current
edition of the ISPWC. Locating wire boxes shall be installed on pressure sewer
mains at a maximum spacing of four hundred feet (400').
         d.   Cover: Pressure sewer mains shall have a minimum of forty two
inches' (42") cover and a maximum cover of sixty inches (60"). Cover greater
than sixty inches (60") may be allowed where obstructions occur, but must be
approved by the Gem County engineer.
      7.   Sewer Services:
         a.   Connection To Mains: Service wyes or tees shall be used on new
main installations. Saddles are not acceptable. All sewer services shall be
connected to the sewer main. In the event that a service is connected to a main
line by means of a manhole, the service flow direction shall be pointed
downstream and at an angle of less than forty five degrees (45°) to the
direction of flow.
         b.   Service Markers: In addition to requirements set forth in the
current edition of the ISPWC, sewer services shall also be marked with a four
foot (4') long three-eighths inch (3/8") rebar and with a permanent stamp in
the sidewalk.
      8.   Sewage Lift Station: Sewage lift station design shall be reviewed
and approved by the appropriate jurisdictional authority.
   F.   Storm Sewer/Drainage: All materials, construction, testing, and
inspection shall be in accordance to the current edition of the ISPWC divisions
300, 600, 1000, and all other applicable divisions therein. All proposed storm
sewer and drainage plans shall be submitted with the preliminary plat for the
particular phase after approval by the DRC. The DRC or Gem County may waive any
of the following standards so long as such waiver shall not pose a risk of harm
to the public.
      1.   Best Management Practices: All proposed developments shall use the
appropriate "best management practice" mitigation measure as defined in the
"Catalog Of Storm Water Best Management Practices For Idaho Cities And
Counties" by Idaho division of environmental quality (IDEQ) as required for the
stormwater constituent and/or contaminant deemed to be removed. Design and
construction of such measures shall be as a minimum according to the above
referenced catalog, meet requirements of the stormwater discharge permit for
the development and must be approved by Gem County and any other agency having
jurisdiction.
      2.   Site Evaluation: Site conditions that should be evaluated include,
but are not limited to, the following:
         a.   Permeability and types of soil and subsurface materials
underlying the BMP (within 10 feet of the bottom of the BMP);
         b.   Size of the drainage area served and the generated runoff volume
in relation to the size of the BMP;
         c.   Slope and geometry of the site;
         d.   Proximity and classification of bedrock beneath the bottom of the
BMP;
         e.   Land uses and potential contaminant types;
         f.   Proximity to surface water;
         g.   Proximity to public and private drinking water supply wells and
intakes;
         h.   Site specific factors related to past use, including soil and
groundwater contamination.
      3.   Plan Submittal Requirements: A stormwater management plan (plan) is
required for new development projects with drainage areas over twenty thousand
(20,000) square feet in the area to be developed. The plan must be stamped and
signed by the licensed professional engineer. In addition, the plan shall
contain all of the components listed in the checklist below. Review of the plan
may be delayed if the submittal is incomplete. The following is the required
checklist:
         a.   Drainage analysis prepared and certified by a licensed
professional engineer.
         b.   Topographic survey of the development showing existing drainage
and irrigation water conveyance systems within the property line or developed
site.
         c.   Show predeveloped and finished grade contours at two foot (2')
intervals. Greater contour intervals may be used if the grade information is
unreadable. For sites less than one acre and with less than two percent (2%)
cross grades, submit predevelopment and finished grade spot elevations along
the property lines and at key points within the project site instead of a
topographic survey.
         d.   Elevations of adjoining lots and finished floor elevations for
all proposed buildings on site.
         e.   Peak flow rate calculations (pre and post, if applicable).
         f.   Runoff volume calculations (pre and post, if applicable).
         g.   Plan of new or modified drainage systems, including system
dimensions. Include profiles or spot elevations at key locations.
         h.   Grades of all impervious surfaces.
         i.   Flood routing and computations for the 100-year flood through the
site.
         j.   A drainage report including the basis for design, narration of
the design, and the operation of the drainage system. Minor design adjustments
are acceptable if the applicant provides supporting design documentation. For
multiphase developments, the drainage report must include pertinent data from
other phases.
         k.   Standard note on the plans requiring inspection of the drainage
facilities by the Gem County engineer.
         l.   Copies of associated permits, easements, and discharge
agreements.
         m.   Operation and maintenance (O&M) plan if necessary.
      4.   Review: The storm drainage management plan shall be reviewed and
approved as part of the preliminary plat process both before the DRC and Gem
County.
      5.   Drainage Easements: All stormwater control facilities and natural
drainage channels, not part of a new subdivision, shall be located in
designated and reserved stormwater easements. Easements shall be located to
provide access for routine inspection and shall be sized for access of
construction equipment and activities that may be needed for maintenance and
repair work.
      6.   Discharge Into Drains Or Canals: Stormwater discharge shall not be
permitted to drain into canals, drains or natural streamways without sufficient
treatment prior to discharge.
   G.   Pressurized Irrigation: All materials, construction, testing, and
inspection shall be in accordance to the current edition of the ISPWC divisions
300, 900, and all other applicable divisions therein. The DRC or Gem County may
waive any of the following so long as the waiver does not pose a serious risk
of harm to the public.
      1.   Sufficiency Of Flow: Allotted irrigation flow verification documents
shall include all stipulations of use imposed by the entity supplying water to
the development and any other information affecting the conditions of delivery
of irrigation water. If it is determined that there is insufficient flow,
alternative measures shall be sought to ensure delivery of adequate supply of
irrigation water to the development. The following are the minimum
requirements:
         a.   General layout and plan of system;
         b.   Demonstration of sources;
         c.   Quantity;
         d.   Calculation showing adequacy of service;
         e.   Design data and pump curves.
      2.   Materials: All pressure irrigation materials shall be in accordance
with the current edition of the ISPWC.
      3.   Testing: Pressure irrigation mains shall be tested prior to
permitting such irrigation main to be open to the local development
distribution system. Testing shall be in accordance to current edition of the
ISPWC.
      4.   Cross Connection: No cross connection between potable water and
pressure irrigation water shall be allowed.
   H.   Streets And Roads: All materials, construction, testing, and inspection
shall be in accordance to the current edition of the ISPWC divisions 200, 700,
800 and all other applicable divisions therein. The DRC or the Gem County road
and bridge department may waive any of the following requirements so long as
the waiver does not pose a significant risk of harm to the public:
      1.   Circulation Plan: All streets and roads shall conform to the
circulation plan of the Black Canyon specific plan.
      2.   Relation To Topography: Streets shall be arranged in proper relation
to topography so as to result in usable lots, safe streets and acceptable
gradients.
      3.   Alleys Or Alley Loaded Streets: Alleys or alley loaded streets are
permitted throughout Black Canyon with approval of the DRC.
      4.   Cul-De-Sac Streets: Cul-de-sac streets shall not be more than seven
hundred feet (700') in length and shall terminate with an adequate circular
turnaround having a minimum radius of fifty two feet (52') of right of way with
the following exceptions:
         a.   In areas of densities below one dwelling unit per acre, cul- de-
sac streets up to a maximum of one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') in
length may be permitted if approved by the fire department and the Gem County
road and bridge department. No more than twenty (20) dwelling units shall be
permitted on said cul- de-sac.
         b.   In areas of densities greater than one dwelling unit per five (5)
acres, cul-de-sac streets up to a maximum of two thousand eight hundred feet
(2,800') in length may be permitted if approved by the fire department and the
Gem County road and bridge department. No more than twenty (20) dwelling units
shall be permitted on said cul-de-sac.
      5.   Private Roads And Streets: Private roads and streets shall be an
exception within Black Canyon and must be approved by the DRC prior to any
design plans being submitted to Gem County. Provided that such roads in
unplatted areas shall be considered to be prior nonconforming uses that will
not need upgrading until the area is platted. Such streets shall meet the
materials and design standards herein and shall provide a use and maintenance
agreement approved by the DRC.
      6.   Street Widths: All improved roads shall have widths from top back of
curb to top back of curb as follows. In the event that the street does not have
curb, the widths below shall be measured from the edge of pavement to the edge
of pavement.
 
Residential     41 feet
Collector       36 feet
Major collector 36 feet
Arterial        50 feet
Cul-de-sac      52 feet in diameter
 
      7.   Alternative Sections: Developments that submit improved section
different from above may be permitted. If an alternative section is to be
submitted, the developer shall include a narrative and supporting engineering
data that would aid in the review process.
         a.   Increasing pedestrian safety,
         b.   Decreasing local traffic speeds,
         c.   Localized stormwater retention. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
CHAPTER 11
SIGNAGE
SECTION:
14-11-1: General Requirements
14-11-2: Gem County Sign Ordinance
14-11-3: Specific Requirements
14-11-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
The signage and graphics program within Black Canyon will follow the overall
theme of the project and must be approved by the DRC. Signage will further
reinforce design concepts and provide identification for the residential areas
and nonresidential uses. Signage will also be provided for traffic control,
along pathways and for public information purposes. In all cases, signs will be
kept simple to reduce, not contribute to visual clutter. Signage throughout the
project shall be consistent and compatible. Sizes, styles and configurations
will vary depending on the specific purpose, activity level and building
materials. The guidelines set out below will form part of the more detailed
requirements of the CCRs. Signage requirements will vary from zone to zone and
may differ between types of use. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-11-2: GEM COUNTY SIGN ORDINANCE:
All signage shall comply with the Gem County ordinance unless otherwise
addressed herein. All signage shall comply with the CCRs. In the event that the
CCRs are more restrictive than the Gem County sign ordinance or these
provisions, the CCRs shall control. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-11-3: SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lighting And Landscaping: Lighting and landscaping shall be considered
an integral part of all signage proposals.
   B.   Sign Materials: Regardless of style, signs constructed of brick,
concrete, wood, stucco, stone and other natural materials with painted or
relief cut letters are encouraged.
   C.   Prohibited Signs: Prohibited signs shall include:
      1.   Signs which constitute a hazard to traffic of pedestrians;
      2.   Signs located within any stream or drainage channel;
      3.   Mobile signs or portable signs; balloons, flags or kite style signs;
      4.   Inflatable signs;
      5.   Signs which produce odor, sound, smoke, flame or other emissions;
      6.   Signs which imitate or simulate official signs, or which use yellow
or red blinking or intermittent lights resembling danger or warning signals;
      7.   Signs using strobe lights or individual light bulbs exceeding
seventy five (75) watts;
      8.   Signs on public property or right of way or signs attached to
utility poles, streetlights, fences, barns, sheds, or other similar structures;
and
      9.   Roof signs and billboards.
   D.   Freestanding Signs: Freestanding signs should be in proportion/scale to
surrounding elements. Emphasis should be placed on sizing signs in relationship
to the vehicular versus pedestrian traffic they serve. Sign faces should only
be large enough to accommodate the minimum typeface size and quantity needed to
convey the intended message.
   E.   Identification Signs At Project Entrances: Identification signs will be
provided at project entrances as part of the overall entry statement to Black
Canyon. Each residential area may have its own entry statement and signage
theme or color combinations.
   F.   Monument Signs, Etc.: Monument signs, piers, walls, freestanding
monolith/pylons shall be used.
   G.   Community Or Residential Identification Signs: Community or residential
identification signs shall not exceed six feet (6') in height or thirty two
(32) square feet in area and may be provided on each side of an entrance
street. Lighting of residential entrance identification signs shall be
indirect, with screened wall or ground mounted light sources.
   H.   Commercial Signage: Commercial signage shall be kept small and subdued
to respect the residential character of the community. Commercial
establishments shall have a maximum of one identification sign either hung
directly on the front facade of the structure or on a post at the entry wall.
Commercial signs shall not exceed forty eight (48) square feet in area on
facades and twenty four feet (24') if hung from a freestanding post.
   I.   Special Purpose Signage:
      1.   Directional, informational and regulatory signs shall not exceed six
feet (6') in height or sixteen (16) square feet in area and shall be compatible
throughout the community.
      2.   Temporary signs shall not exceed six feet (6') in height and twenty
four (24) square feet in area. The location and number of temporary signs shall
be subject to approval by the DRC.
      3.   Political signs are permitted to be displayed only on private
property and only two (2) weeks prior to an election. They must be removed
within twenty four (24) hours after the election. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
CHAPTER 12
ENERGY AND WATER CONSERVATION MEASURES
SECTION:
14-12-1: Intent
14-12-2: Energy Conservation
14-12-3: Water Conservation
14-12-1: INTENT:
Black Canyon is designed to accommodate conservation measures to reduce energy
and water consumption. The strategies listed below shall be incorporated into
each phasing plan as appropriate given site, topographic and other design
requirements. Not all elements must be incorporated, but special consideration
shall be given where a majority of the elements are accommodated. (Ord. 2005-
13, 9-12-2005)
14-12-2: ENERGY CONSERVATION:
There are two (2) major areas of focus on reduction of energy consumption:
electricity for lighting and heating and dependence on fossil fuels for
transportation.
   A.   Lighting:
      1.   Purpose: Lighting in Black Canyon will serve different purposes
depending on the zone or usage such as in the commercial and residential areas.
         a.   In the residential areas, small scale intimate lighting for
streets, sidewalks, building entries and residential lots shall be incorporated
as a design element.
         b.   Along rural roads sections, lighting should be minimized to
reduce light pollution in the community.
         c.   Main intersections should be lighted for safety purposes only.
Lighting shall be functional and efficient, while keeping with the design
themes of Black Canyon.
         d.   Lighting will vary from larger scale illumination of major
roadways to intimate lighting of pathways, building entries or residential
lots. In general, to reduce light pollution in the community, overall lighting
shall be minimized.
      2.   Energy Consumption: Energy consumption shall be considered in
determining lighting fixtures.
      3.   Illumination Levels; Design: Illumination levels should not exceed
minimum required levels for its purpose. Design should address specific
activities to be lighted.
      4.   Low Wattage; Renewable Energy: Use of low wattage high life lighting
products is encouraged. Use of photovoltaic or other renewable energy sources
should be explored.
   B.   Heating And Air Conditioning: All structure designs intended to be
either heated or cooled shall incorporate as many of the following concepts as
may be practical and reasonable for energy efficient design:
      1.   Alternative heating sources such as passive solar;
      2.   Site placement to maximize shading in the summer to reduce the
necessity of air conditioning through the use of site placement and
landscaping;
      3.   Increased insulation and structural design including two inch by six
inch (2" x 6") walls and thermal design windows.
   C.   Traffic Reduction: Black Canyon is planned and designed to reduce
reliance on combustion engine vehicles and minimize and contain vehicle trips
through a combination of the following:
      1.   Provide a functionally efficient, safe, balanced network of
vehicular, bicycle and pedestrian facilities.
      2.   Rural road section designs will be utilized to the greatest extent
possible in cooperation with and based on approval by the Gem County road and
bridge department. While these sections will not have curbs, gutters or
sidewalks, they will have a parallel path system that will accommodate bicycles
and pedestrians thereby reducing vehicular trips and improving both the safety
and alternate transportation options in the community.
      3.   Accommodate "through" bicycle traffic on street and "recreational"
bicycle traffic both on street and on shared pedestrian/bicycle paths separated
from roadways.
      4.   Develop on site commercial and community/recreation facilities that
will help to capture traffic and minimize the number of trips off site for
shopping, professional services or leisure activities.
      5.   Develop "park and ride lots" and foster the use of "vanpools" for
commuting to either the city of Emmett or the Boise Valley to enable residents
get to work without using their personal vehicles.
      6.   Develop infrastructure that will incorporate the most advanced
practical telecommunications technology to encourage and promote telecommuting
to enable residents who choose to work at home to communicate with their
employers, schools, libraries and other information services without leaving
the community. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-12-3: WATER CONSERVATION:
Black Canyon policies include conservation of ground and surface water used for
irrigation and domestic use. The following conservation measures are intended
to minimize the amount of water brought into the consumption or usage cycle as
well as provide the most efficient manner to utilize the water resource:
   A.   Residential water use for both potable and irrigation on all but the
acreage, large and rural lots shall be limited to connection to the community
water systems.
   B.   Commercial, industrial and where reasonably possible, recreational,
irrigation water use shall be limited to the community pressurized irrigation
system.
   C.   No connection from the community domestic water system shall be allowed
for irrigation purposes.
   D.   All water usage from either community system shall be metered with the
ability for real time analysis of water usage and control.
   E.   All irrigation uses from the community system shall be underground and
fully automatic with timed systems to control irrigation times and water usage.
   F.   Use of water conserving systems including, but not limited to, drip
irrigation and moisture sensors are strongly encouraged.
   G.   Irrigation heads, where used, are to be adjusted to minimize runoff.
All irrigation heads adjacent to paved areas, curbs and turf shall be of pop up
type.
   H.   All domestic water use shall incorporate high efficiency (low water
usage) devices such as water saving showers, toilets and other water fixtures.
   I.   Commercial and industrial zones shall incorporate the following where
reasonable and practical. Residential zones shall encourage the same principles
although they shall not be required unless specified in the CCRs.
      1.   Drought tolerant plantings;
      2.   Efficient irrigation equipment, scheduling and management; and
      3.   Soil amendments and mulch cover in landscape areas. (Ord. 2005-13,
9-12-2005)
CHAPTER 13
ADMINISTRATIVE/OTHER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
14-13-1: Intent
14-13-2: Administration
14-13-3: Essential Services
14-13-4: Application Approvals By DRC
14-13-5: Approvals Based On Compliance With This Title
14-13-6: Amendments
14-13-1: INTENT:
The review and approval process established hereunder for the development of
Black Canyon embodies the intent of Black Canyon and the Gem County zoning
ordinance. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-13-2: ADMINISTRATION:
It shall be the duty of the administrator to administer the provisions of this
title for the development of Black Canyon. The administrator shall have the
authority to interpret the provisions of this title and make decisions on land
use issues not specifically addressed by Black Canyon or this title. (Ord.
2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-13-3: ESSENTIAL SERVICES:
No phase of Black Canyon shall be approved unless essential public services for
such phase, as specified in Black Canyon and this title, are provided to
support the phase as it proceeds. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-13-4: APPLICATION APPROVALS BY DRC:
Application must be approved by the respective design review committee of Black
Canyon Association (DRC). No application shall be accepted by Gem County
without the prior written approval of the respective DRC for compliance with
the Black Canyon declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions (CCRs)
applicable to the property that is the subject of the application, whether the
application is for approval of initial development, such as a phasing plan or a
building permit. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-13-5: APPROVALS BASED ON COMPLIANCE WITH THIS TITLE:
The administrator, commission, or board, as the case may be, shall base their
approvals or disapprovals upon compliance with the provisions of this title and
the goals and policies and purpose and intent of Black Canyon. The
administrator, commission or board shall also consider the Gem County
subdivision and zoning ordinances. Provided however, the goals, policies,
purpose and intent of Black Canyon and this title shall take precedence over
the other ordinances unless the particular issue is not provided for in this
title. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-13-6: AMENDMENTS:
No material amendments shall be made to this title without the express approval
of the Black Canyon Association(s), which shall indicate its/their approval by
majority vote of the respective board of directors. Provided, however, where an
amendment is required because of a change in state statute or federal law or
regulation, so long as the amendment strictly complies with such change in the
state statute or federal law or regulation, the approval of the Black Canyon
Association(s) is not required. (Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
CHAPTER 14
ZONING MATRICES
SECTION:
14-14-1: Use Matrices
14-14-2: Height And Area Matrix
14-14-1:USE MATRICES:
   BLACK CANYON PLANNED COMMUNITY/ZONING MATRIX
   TABLE 1
 
A   = Allowed                                    SUP   = Special use permit
AU  = Accessory uses                             Blank = Not allowed
DRC = Prior approval by design review committee         
 
    Zone
Use Residential
    Acreage Condominium, Patio And Town Home Large Regular Rural
                           Zone
Use                        Residential
                           Acreage Condominium, Patio And Large Regular Rural
                                   Town Home
Accessory apartment or     AU                            AU    AU      AU
guesthouse
Apartment housing          SUP     SUP                    SUP   SUP     SUP
Bed and breakfast          SUP                           SUP          A
Churches or other places   SUP     SUP                    SUP   SUP     SUP
of worship
Clubs, lodges and social   SUP                           SUP          SUP
halls
Daycare home               DRC     DRC                    DRC   DRC     DRC
Detached garage/storage/   A       A                      A            A
shop (personal use)
Hobby greenhouse           A                             A             
Home occupation            A       A                      A     A       A
Parking area or lot -             A                                   
public or private
Public safety facilities   A       A                      A     A       A
Public utility structures  SUP                           SUP          SUP
Recreational, fitness and
health facilities for use         A                                   
only by residents of the
complex or their guests
Residential outbuildings                                A            A
Roadside stands that sell
rural or agricultural                                               DRC
products produced on the
property
Roomers or boarders with a A       A                      A     A       A
resident family
Rural activities such as
raising 4-H animals,
pasturage of animals       A                             A            A
belonging to the property
owner, and raising of
fodder for animals on site
Rural operations                                                    A
Rural outbuildings         A                             A            A
(limited)
Schools, public or private A       A                      A     A       A
Single-family dwelling and A       A                      A     A       A
their accessory structures
Swimming pools and tennis
courts within the complex
for use only by residents         A                                   
of the complex or their
guests
Temporary sales offices    A       A                      A     A       A
and model homes
 
   TABLE 2
    Zone
                                   Recreation
Use Commercial Industrial Public   Boating Golf   Equestrian Open               Railroad Unplatted Rural
                          Services And     Course Center     Space Parks Trails Access   Property
                                   Marina
                  Zone
                                                 Recreation
Use               Commercial Industrial Public   Boating Golf   Equestrian Open               Railroad Unplatted Rural
                                        Services And     Course Center     Space Parks Trails Access   Property
                                                 Marina
Accessory
apartment or                                                                                          A
guesthouse
Animal boarding
facilities such                                            A                                            
as kennels
Animal
exercising,                                                          A     A     A                        
riding and
training
Apartment housing                                                                                      
Apartments and
other multi-      A                                                                                     
family housing
Arenas, covered                                            A                                            
or open
Bank branch
offices including
automated tellers A                                                                                     
and drive-up
services
Bed and breakfast                                                                                     A
Boating and                                                                                            
marina uses
Churches or other A                                                                                    A
places of worship
Clinics -         A                                                                                     
medical, dental
Clinics or
veterinary                                                 A                                            
offices
Clubs, lodges and                                                                                      
social halls
Commercial
housing
accommodations                                       A                                                  
including hotels
and motels
Commercial
stables and                                                A                                            
riding schools
Condominiums,
including
residential and   A                                                                                     
commercial, patio
and town home
complexes
Convenience                                   A                                                         
stores
Corrals,
paddocks, and                                              A                                            
pastures
Daycare home                                                                                          A
Detached garage/
storage shop                                                                                           
(personal use)
Domestic water              A          A                                                                 
facilities
Driving ranges
and practice                                         A                                                  
facilities
Dry cleaning and
laundering
facilities        A                                                                                     
(provided actual
dry cleaning is
done off site)
Electric power
facilities                  A                                                                           
including
substations
Entertainment
facilities
including         A                                                                                     
theaters, clubs,
lodges or social
halls
Equestrian center A                                                                                     
uses
Equestrian
related retail                                             A                                            
store
Event catering
including the
sale of alcoholic                                    A      A               A                             
beverages for on
site consumption
Golf course use   A                                   A                                                  
Government or
quasi-government                      A                                                                 
offices
Gravel extraction
operations                  A                                                                           
including batch
plants
Group daycare     A                                                                                     
facilities
Guesthouses and
bed and breakfast A                                                                                     
establishments
Hobby greenhouse                                                                                       
Home occupation                                                                                       A
Irrigation water            A          A                                                                 
facilities
Land application                                     A                                                  
Ministorage,
including boats   SUP        A                                                                           
and equestrian
equipment
Museums or
facilities
regarding local                               A       A                     A           A                  
historical
interest
Natural gas                 A                                                                           
facilities
Nurseries or
arboretums
producing plants
for Black Canyon                                                     A     A                             
open space, parks
or landscape
areas
Office(s) and
residence for                                              A                                            
operator/
caretaker
Offices such as
business or       A                                                                                     
professional
Open space                                                                                             
Park and ride     A                            A       A                     A           A                  
facilities
Park structures,
including
amphitheaters,
pavilions,                                                                A                             
gazebos,
restrooms and
concession
facilities
Parking area or
lot - public or   A                                         A                                            
private
Parks                                                                                                 A
Passenger depots                                                                     A                  
or access points
Personal service
retail stores or
establishments    A                                                                                     
such as beauty
salons or supply
stores
Play fields,
playgrounds, tot
lots, tennis                                                              A                             
courts, swimming
pools
Public or private
group events
sponsored by
Black Canyon                                  DRC     A                DRC   DRC         DRC      A          
residents or
commercial
operations
Public safety                         A                                                                 
facilities
Public structures A                                                                                    SUP
Public utility    A                                                                           A         SUP
structure
Railroad access   A                                                                                     
uses
Recreation
facilities,
including         A                                                                                     
equestrian, golf
and water
recreation
Recreational,
fitness and
health facilities
for use only by                                                                                        
residents of the
complex or their
guests
Residential                                                                                            
outbuildings
Restaurants,
cafes and other
food service
facilities,                                   A             A                                            
including the
sale of liquor to
be consumed in
the facility
Restaurants,
cafes and other
food service
facilities,
including sale of                                    A                                                  
liquor to be
consumed in the
facility or on
the golf course
Restaurants,
cafes,
confectioneries   A                                         A                          A                  
or soda fountains
including drive-
in establishments
Retail sales
associated with
boating
activities,                                   A                                                         
including the
sale of gasoline
and other motor
related products
Retail sales
associated with                                      A                                                  
golfing
activities
Retail stores     A                                                                                     
Roadside stands   SUP                                                                                   
Roadside stands
that sell rural
or agricultural                                                                                       DRC
products produced
on the property
Roomers or
boarders with a                                                                                       A
resident family
Rural activities
such as raising
4-H animals,
pasturage of
animals belonging                                                                                      
to the property
owner, and
raising of fodder
for animals on
site
Rural operations                                                                             A          
Rural operations
limited to
activities or
operations such                                                      A     A                            A
as gardens and
demonstration
rural projects
Rural
outbuildings                                                                                 A         A
(limited)
Schools, public                       A                                    A                            A
or private
Service station   A                                                                                     
Single-family
dwelling and                                                                                          A
their accessory
structures
Stables for                                                A                                            
residents' stock
Storage
facilities or     A                                         A                                            
storage
structures
Structures,
including
clubhouses,
pavilions,                                    A       A                A          A      A                  
gazebos,
restrooms and
concession
facilities
Swimming pools
and tennis courts
within the
complex for use                                                                                        
only by residents
of the complex or
their guest
Telecommunication                     A                                                                 
systems
Temporary
construction                                                                                 A          
facilities
Temporary sales
offices and model                                                                            A         A
homes
Trails                                                                                                 
Trails including
pedestrian, bike                                                     A     A     A              A          
and equestrian
U.S. postal                           A                                                                 
service facility
Unplatted                                                                                              
property uses
Veterinarian
clinics, small
animals only with A                                                                                     
boarding limited
to animals under
treatment
Wastewater
treatment
facilities,
including areas
for land                    A                                                                           
application of
treated
wastewater or
facility residue
 
(Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
14-14-2:HEIGHT AND AREA MATRIX:
    BLACK CANYON PLANNED COMMUNITY OFFICIAL HEIGHT AND AREA REGULATIONS
            Minimum Minimum Minimum Minimum  Lot     Lot     Lot     Lot     Maximum  Maximum
Lot         Lot     Lot     Lot     Lot      Front   Rear    Side    Corner  Building Lot
Designation Size    Depth   Width   Frontage Yard    Yard    Yard    Yard    Height   Coverage
                                             Setback Setback Setback Setback
Lot           Minimum Minimum Minimum Minimum  Lot Front  Lot Rear   Lot Side    Lot Corner Maximum   Maximum
Designation   Lot     Lot     Lot     Lot      Yard       Yard       Yard        Yard       Building  Lot
              Size    Depth   Width   Frontage Setback    Setback    Setback     Setback    Height    Coverage
              1.5                     100'                                                  30'
Acreage       acres   150'    150'    50' for  30'        30'        20' 1       30'        residence 20%
                                      flag lot                                              40' barn
              0.5                                                                20'        30'
Large         acres   120'    100'    50'      30'        20'        10' 2                 residence 30%
                                                                                            40' barn
Regular       6,000   60'     50'     50'      5'         20' and 8' 10' 2       20' 1      30'       55%
              sq. ft.                                     for garage
              5.01                    100'                                                  30'
Rural         acres   150'    150'    50' for  30'        30'        20' 2       30' 1      residence 15%
                                      flag lot                                              40' barn
                                                                     0' for
                                                          10'        connected
                                                                    structures
Condominiums,                                             0' for      
patio and     4,000                                       garage,    10' min.    13' from
town homes,   sq. ft. 60'     50'     50'      5'         accessory  from lot    side       35'       55%
multi- family                                             or storage line, if    street
                                                          structure  adjacent
                                                          with alley structures
                                                                     are not
                                                                     connected
                                                          10'        0' to
                                                                    adjoining
                                                          0' for     commercial  10' from
Commercial    3,200   80'     40'             0'         garage,               side       30' 3     85%
              sq. ft.                                     accessory  30' to      street
                                                          or storage adjoining
                                                          structure  residential
                                                          with alley
Industrial    0                             Determined Determined Determined  Determined 35'       Determined
                                               by DRC     by DRC     by DRC      by DRC               by DRC
                                               20' for    20' for    20' for all 20' for
                                               all        all        structures  all
Golf course   None    None    None    None     structures structures except      structures 35' 4     None
                                               except     except     fences      except
                                               fences     fences                 fences
                                               30' for    30' for    30' for     30' for
                                               structures structures structures  structures
Equestrian                                                                     
centers       2 acres None    None            20' for    20' for    20' for     20' for    40' 5     20%
                                               paddock or paddock or paddock or  paddock or
                                               corral     corral     corral      corral
                                               fencing    fencing    fencing     fencing
                                               20' for    20' for    20' for     20' for
                                               structures structures structures  structures
                                                                               
                                               20' for    20' for    20' for     20' for
Boating or                                     sports     sports     sports      sports
marina access None    None    None    None     fields,    fields,    fields, tot fields,    35' 6     55%
                                               tot lots,  tot lots,  lots,       tot lots,
                                               special    special    special use special
                                               use areas  use areas  areas and   use areas
                                               and play   and play   play        and play
                                               equipment  equipment  equipment   equipment
                                               20' for    20' for                20' for
                                               railroad   railroad   20' for     railroad
                                               right of   right of   railroad    right of
                                               way for    way for    right of    way for
                                               all        all        way for all all
                                               pedestrian pedestrian pedestrian  pedestrian
Railroad                                       access     access     access      access
access        None    None    None    None     points     points     points      points     35' 4     55%
                                                                               
                                               35' from   35' from   35' from    35' from
                                               railroad   railroad   railroad    railroad
                                               right of   right of   right of    right of
                                               way for    way for    way for all way for
                                               all        all        structures  all
                                               structures structures             structures
                                               20' for    20' for    20' for     20' for
                                               structures structures structures  structures
                                                                               
                                               20' for    20' for    20' for     20' for
                                               sports     sports     sports      sports
Parks         None    None    None    None     fields,    fields,    fields, tot fields,    35' 4     15%
                                               tot lots,  tot lots,  lots,       tot lots,
                                               special    special    special use special
                                               use areas  use areas  areas and   use areas
                                               and play   and play   play        and play
                                               equipment  equipment  equipment   equipment
                                               20' for    20' for    20' for     20' for
                                               structures structures structures  structures
Open space    None    None    None    None                                              35' 3     Approval
areas                                          10' for    10' for    10' for     10' for              of DRC
                                               play       play       play        play
                                               equipment  equipment  equipment   equipment
                                                          10'
                                                                    0' to
                                                          0' for     adjoining
Public        3,200                                       free-      commercial  10' from
service       sq. ft. 80'     40'     50'      0'         standing              side       35' 3     75%
                                                          garage or  30' to      street
                                                          storage    adjoining
                                                          structure  residential
                                                          with alley
                                               20' for    20' for    20' for all 20' for              Approval
Trails        None    None    None    None     all        all        structures  all        20' 7     of DRC
                                               structures structures             structures
 
Notes:
   1.    From all lot lines.
   2.    From lot line and international fire code setback from buildings on
adjoining properties.
   3.    Not including vertical elements of less than 100 square feet.
   4.    May include special vertical elements of less than 100 square feet to
a maximum total height of 60 feet.
   5.    May include special vertical elements of less than 100 square feet to
maximum total height of 50 feet.
   6.    May include special vertical elements of less than 100 square feet.
   7.    May include special vertical elements of less than 100 square feet to
maximum total height of 35 feet.
(Ord. 2005-13, 9-12-2005)
TITLE 15
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES
CHAPTER 1
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
15-1-1: Short Title, Applicability, Exemptions, And Purpose
15-1-2: Definitions
15-1-3: Establishment Of Service Areas; Imposition Of Impact Fee; Fee Schedule;
Exemptions
15-1-4: Collection Of Impact Fees; Enforcement
15-1-5: Certification
15-1-6: Individual Assessment
15-1-7: Developer Credits And Reimbursement
15-1-8: Methodology For The Calculation Of Impact Fees
15-1-9: Extraordinary Impact
15-1-10: Fee Payer Refunds
15-1-11: Establishment Of Capital Projects Fund; Fund Accounts
15-1-12: Expenditure Of Impact Fees
15-1-13: Appeals, Protest And Mediation
15-1-14: Periodic Reviews; Annual Budget
15-1-15: Audit
15-1-16: Advisory Committee
15-1-17: Miscellaneous Provisions
15-1-18: Rules Of Construction
15-1-1: SHORT TITLE, APPLICABILITY, EXEMPTIONS, AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Short title: This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Gem
County Development Impact Fee Ordinance.
   B.   Findings: The Board of Gem County Commissioners finds that:
      1.   Within unincorporated Gem County, the County is experiencing
considerable growth and development.
      2.   The new growth and development occurring within unincorporated Gem
County will place ever-increasing demands on the county to provide, improve and
expand existing public facilities to serve that new growth and development and
the tax revenues generated from that new growth and development often does not
generate sufficient funds to provide the necessary improvements and expansion
of the public facilities to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
Those users that create the increased demand should bear their proportionate
share of the cost of public facilities needed to serve the new growth and
development.
   C.   Authority: This title is enacted pursuant to the county's general
police powers, its authority to enact ordinances, and its authority as provided
by the act and other applicable laws of the State of Idaho to impose and
collect development impact fees when affected by growth and development for the
purpose of agreeing to impose, collect and expend development impact fees in
order for new growth and development to pay their proportionate share of the
cost of public facilities to serve that new growth and development.
   D.   Applicability: This chapter shall apply to the development of property
located within the boundaries of unincorporated Gem County
   E.   Purpose: The intent of this chapter is to ensure that new residential
and non-residential development bears a proportionate share of the cost of
system improvements; to ensure that such proportionate share does not exceed
the cost of such system improvements required to accommodate new development;
and to ensure that funds collected from new development are actually used for
system improvements in accordance with the Act. (Ord. 2021-10,-23-2021)
15-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the following
meanings, unless another meaning is plainly intended and words and terms
appearing in the singular number includes the plural and the plural the
singular:
ACCOUNT:       The interest-bearing account within the Impact Fee Capital Projects Fund as
               established in this chapter.
               The County's Development Impact Fee Advisory Committee ("Advisory Committee")
ADVISORY       formed and staffed by the County pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-8205 to prepare and
COMMITTEE:     recommend the Capital Improvements Plan and any amendments, revisions or updates
               of the same.
APPROPRIATE:   To legally obligate by contract or otherwise commit to the expenditure of funds
               by appropriation or other official act of the Board of Commissioners.
BUILDING       The permit required for foundations, new construction and additions pursuant to
PERMIT:        Chapter 14, Title 11, Gem County Code.
               Shall land, buildings, roadway, intersection and bridge improvements, apparatus,
CAPITAL        vehicles and equipment as identified in Exhibits III-2 and IV-4 of the County's
FACILITIES:    Capital Improvements Plan as adopted by the County, and specifically including
               those related costs including system improvement costs, but not including
               maintenance, operations, or improvements that do not expand their capacity.
CAPITAL        Improvements with a useful life of ten (10) years or more, by new construction or
IMPROVEMENTS:  other action, which increases the service capacity of the county's public
               facilities.
CAPITAL        A component of the Capital Improvements Plan adopted by the county pursuant to
IMPROVEMENTS   Chapters 65 and 82 of Title 67, Idaho Code, as they may be amended, which
ELEMENT:       component meets the requirements of the capital improvements plan required by the
               Act.
CAPITAL        The impact fee study and capital improvements plan recommended by the Development
IMPROVEMENTS   Impact Fee Advisory Committee and adopted by the county that identifies the
PLAN:          capital facilities for which the county's impact fees may be used as a funding
               source as found in the comprehensive plan appendix.
CAPITAL
PROJECTS FUND  Shall mean and refer to the County's Development Impact Fee Capital Projects Fund
(the "Capital  established by action of the County Board of Commissioners pursuant to section 11
Projects       of this chapter and Idaho Code § 67-8210(1).
Fund"):
COUNTY:        Gem County, Idaho.
COUNTY BOARD
OF             The Board of Commissioners of Gem County.
COMMISSIONERS:
DEVELOPER:     Any person or legal entity undertaking Development and/or the subdivision of
               property pursuant to Idaho Code §§ 50-1301 through 50-1334, as may be amended.
               Any construction or installation of a building or structure, or any change in use
               of a building or structure, or any change in the use, character or appearance of
DEVELOPMENT:   land, which creates additional demand and need for public facilities and/or
               subdivision of property that would permit any change in the use, character or
               appearance of land.
DEVELOPMENT    Any written duly authorized document from the county which authorizes the
APPROVAL:      commencement of a development.
               A requirement attached to a developmental approval or other county governmental
DEVELOPMENT    action approving or authorizing a particular development project including, but
REQUIREMENT:   not limited to, a rezoning, which requirement compels the payment, dedication or
               contribution of goods, services, land or money as condition of approval.
               Any structure, or portion thereof, providing living facilities for one family as
DWELLING UNIT: herein defined, including provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and
               sanitation.
DWELLING UNIT, A building or portion thereof designed for or used by two (2) or more families or
MULTI-FAMILY:  housekeeping units.
DWELLING UNIT, A building designed for or used exclusively for residential purposes by one
SINGLE-FAMILY: family or housekeeping unit.
EXTRAORDINARY  Those costs incurred as result of an extraordinary impact.
COSTS:
               An impact which is reasonably determined by the County to:
               A.   Result in the need for system improvements, the cost of which will
EXTRAORDINARY  significantly exceed the sum of the development impact fees to be generated from
IMPACT:        the project or the sum agreed to be paid pursuant to a development agreement as
               allowed by Idaho Code § 67-8214(2), as it may be amended; or
               B.   Result in the need for system improvements which are not identified in the
               capital improvements plan.
               A.   A person living alone or two (2) or more persons related by blood or
               marriage.
               B.   A group of not more than ten (10) persons who need not be related by blood
               or marriage living together in a dwelling unit.
FAMILY:        C.   Eight (8) or fewer unrelated mentally and/or physically handicapped or
               elderly persons residing in a dwelling unit who are supervised at the dwelling in
               connection with their handicap or age related infirmity, provided that no more
               than two (2) staff members reside in the dwelling unit at any one time. (Resident
               staff shall not be counted toward the "8 or fewer" criterion.)
FEE PAYER:     The person who pays or is required to pay the county's impact fee. A fee payer
               may include a Developer.
               A payment of money imposed as condition of development approval to pay for a
               proportionate share of the costs of system improvements needed to serve the
               development. The term does not include the following:
               A.   A charge or fee to pay the administrative plan review, or inspection cost
               associated with permits required for development;
               B.   Connection or hookup charges;
IMPACT FEE:    C.   Availability charges for drainage, sewer, water or transportation charges
               for services provided directly to the development; or
               D.   Amounts collected from a developer in a transaction in which the county has
               incurred expenses in constructing capital improvements for the development if the
               owner or developer has agreed to be financially responsible for the construction
               or installation of those capital improvements, unless a written agreement is
               made, pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-8209(3) as it may be amended, for credit or
               reimbursement.
               The County and each of the Participating Fire Districts Joint Development Impact
JOINT ADVISORY Fee Advisory Committee formed and staffed pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-8205 to
COMMITTEE:     recommend capital improvement plans and any amendments, revisions or updates of
               the same.
LAND USE       A description of the service area and projections of land uses, densities,
ASSUMPTIONS:   intensities and population in the service area over at least a ten (10) year
               period.
LEVEL OF       A measure of the relationship between service capacity and service demand for
SERVICE:       public facilities.
               A structure, constructed according to HUD/FHA mobile home construction and safety
               standards, transportable in one (1) or more sections, which, in the traveling
               mode, is eight (8) feet or more in width or is forty (40) body feet or more in
               length, or when erected on site, is three hundred twenty (320) or more square
               feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a
MANUFACTURED/  dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to required
MOBILE HOME:   utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
               systems contained in such structure, except that such term shall include any
               structure which meets all the requirements of this subsection except the size
               requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a
               certification required by the secretary of housing and urban development and
               complies with the standards established under 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.
               Any building or building component other than a manufactured/mobile home, which
MODULAR        is constructed according to the International Building Code, as adopted or any
BUILDING:      amendments thereto, which is of closed construction and is either entirely or
               substantially prefabricated or assembled at a place other than the building site.
               The total current monetary value of past, present or future payments,
PRESENT VALUE: contributions or dedications of goods, services, materials, construction or
               money.
PROJECT:       A particular development on an identified parcel of land.
               In contrast to system improvements, shall mean site improvements and facilities
PROJECT        that are planned and designed to provide service for a particular development
IMPROVEMENTS:  project and that are necessary for the use and convenience of the occupants or
               users of the project.
PROPORTIONATE  Shall mean that portion of system improvement costs determined pursuant to Idaho
SHARE:         Code § 67-8207 which reasonably relates to the service demands and needs of the
               Project.
               Land, buildings and equipment used for roads, streets and bridges, including
PUBLIC         rights-of-way, traffic signals, landscaping and any local component of state or
FACILITIES:    federal highways; parks, open space and recreation areas, including all related
               capital improvements; and public safety facilities, including law enforcement
               which have a useful life of ten (10) years or more.
RECREATIONAL   A vehicular type unit primarily designed as temporary quarters for recreational,
VEHICLE:       camping, or travel use, which either has its own motive power or is mounted on or
               drawn by another vehicle.
               Land within the boundaries of the unincorporated County as established pursuant
SERVICE AREA:  Chapter 14, Title 31, Idaho Code, in which specific public facilities provide
               service to development on the basis of sound planning or engineering principles
               or both as identified in the county's capital improvements plan.
               A standardized measure of consumption, use, generation or discharge attributable
               to an individual unit of development calculated in accordance with generally
SERVICE UNIT:  accepted engineering or planning standards for a particular category of capital
               improvements. As specifically used in this title, service units include all
               dwelling units as defined herein and includes, on the square foot basis,
               nonresidential development.
SYSTEM         In contrast to project improvements, shall mean capital improvements to public
IMPROVEMENTS:  facilities which are designed to provide service to a service area.
               Costs incurred for construction or reconstruction of system improvements,
               including design, acquisition, engineering and other costs, and also including,
               without limitation, the type of costs described in Idaho Code § 50-1702(h), as it
               may be amended, to provide additional public facilities needed to service new
               growth and development. For clarification, system improvement costs do not
               include:
               A.   Construction, acquisition or expansion of public facilities other than
               capital improvements identified in the capital improvements plan;
               B.   Improvements, repair, operation or maintenance of existing or new capital;
SYSTEM         C.   Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing capital improvements to
IMPROVEMENT    serve existing development in order to meet stricter safety, efficiency,
COSTS:         environmental or regulatory standards;
               D.   Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing capital improvements to
               provide better service to existing development;
               E.   Administrative and operating costs of the county unless such costs are
               attributable to development of the capital improvements plan, as provided in
               Idaho Code § 67-8208, as it may be amended; and
               F.   Principal payments and interest or other finance charges on bonds or other
               indebtedness except financial obligations issued by or on behalf of the county to
               finance capital improvements identified in the capital improvements plan. (Ord.
               2021-10, -23-2021)
 
15-1-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF SERVICE AREAS; IMPOSITION OF IMPACT FEE; FEE SCHEDULE;
EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Establishment of Service Areas: There is hereby established a service
area which service area includes all land in unincorporated Gem County.
   B.   Imposition of Impact Fees: Impact fees for the county are hereby
imposed on all new development located within unincorporated Gem County.
   C.   Fee Schedule. Impact fees shall be calculated in accordance with the
fee schedule set forth below providing for standard fees based on the total
number of dwelling units or square feet of nonresidential space in the
development, unless:
      1.   The fee payer requests an individual assessment pursuant to section
6 of this chapter; or
      2.   The county finds the development will have an extraordinary impact
pursuant to section 9 of this chapter.
The methodology for determining the costs per service unit provided for in the
fee schedule is set forth in the County's Capital Improvements Plan as adopted
by the County pursuant to Idaho Code§ 67-8208, as it may be amended.
Impact Fee Schedule:
      1.   Sheriff:
         a.   Residential (per Dwelling Unit): $277.00.
         b.   Non-Residential (per square foot): $0.11.
      2.   Roads and Bridges:
         a.   Residential (per Single-Family Dwelling Unit): $7,326.00.
         b.   Residential (per Multi-Family Dwelling Unit): $4,249.00.
         c.   Non-Residential (per retail square foot): $17.67.
         d.   Non-Residential (per office square foot): $10.94.
         e.   Non-Residential (per industrial square foot): $3.92.
      3.   EMS: Residential (per Dwelling Unit): $401.00.
   D.   Developer's Election: A developer shall have the right to elect to pay
a project's proportionate share of system improvements costs by payment of
impact fee according to the fee schedule as full and complete payment of the
development project's proportionate share of system improvements costs, except
as provided in Idaho Code § 67-8214(3), as it may be amended.
   E.   Procedures:
      1.   Building Permit: Upon submittal of complete building permit plans or
manufactured home installation permit for the development to the county, the
county shall calculate the impact fee for the development within thirty (30)
days of submittal unless:
         a.   The fee payer had previously requested and been granted an
individual assessment pursuant to this chapter; or
         b.   The county has previously determined the development may have an
extraordinary impact pursuant to this chapter.
   F.   Exemptions. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the
following:
      1.   Rebuilding the same amount of floor space of a structure which is
destroyed by fire or other catastrophe, provided the structure is rebuilt and
ready for occupancy within two (2) years of its destruction;
      2.   Remodeling or repairing a structure which does not increase the
number of service units;
      3.   Replacing a residential unit, including a manufactured/mobile home,
with another residential unit on the same lot; provided that, the number of
service units does not increase;
      4.   Placing a temporary construction trailer, office or an RV used as
living quarters per Gem County Code on a lot;
      5.   Constructing an addition on a residential structure which does not
increase the number of service units;
      6.   Adding uses that are typically accessory to residential uses, such
as tennis court or a clubhouse, unless it can be clearly demonstrated that the
use creates a significant impact on the capacity of system improvements; or
      7.   The installation of a modular building, manufactured/mobile home or
recreational vehicle if the fee payer can demonstrate by documentation such as
utility bills and tax records that either:
         a.   A modular building, manufactured/mobile home or recreational
vehicle was legally in place on the lot or space prior to the effective date of
this chapter; or
         b.   An impact fee has been paid previously for the modular building,
manufactured/mobile home or recreational vehicle on that same lot or space.
   G.   Exemption Claim Process: A fee payer shall claim an exempt development
activity upon application of a building permit or manufactured/mobile home
installation permit, or if no building permit or manufactured/mobile home
installation permit required, prior to the time construction commences. Any
exemption not so claimed shall be deemed waived by the fee payer. Claims for
exemption shall be determined by the county within fifteen (15) days of receipt
of the claim for exemption. (Ord. 2021-10, -23-2021)
15-1-4: COLLECTION OF IMPACT FEES; ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Payment of Fees: The impact fee shall be paid to the county at the
following times:
      1.   If a Building Permit or manufactured/mobile home installation permit
is required, then before or at the time the permit is issued;
      2.   If no Building Permit or manufactured/mobile home installation
permit is required, then at the time that construction commences; or
      3.   At such other time as the fee payer or developer and the county have
agreed upon in writing with notice to the county.
   B.   Enforcement: When any impact fee is due pursuant to this chapter, or
pursuant to the terms of any written agreement between a fee payer and the
county, and such impact fee has not been paid in a timely manner, the county
may exercise any or all of the following powers as applicable to its authority,
in any combination, to enforce the collection of the impact fee:
      1.   Withhold building permits, manufactured home installation permits,
or other county development approval related to the development for which the
impact fee is due until all impact fees due have been paid, and issue stop work
orders, and revoke or suspend a building permit;
      2.   Withhold utility services from the development for which the impact
fee is due until all impact fees due have been paid;
      3.   Add interest to the impact fee not paid in full at the legal rate
provided for in Idaho Code § 28-22-104, as it may be amended, plus five percent
(5%) beginning on the date at which the payment of the impact fee was due until
paid in full;
      4.   Impose a penalty of five percent (5%) of the total impact fee (not
merely the portion dishonored, late or not paid in full) per month beginning on
the date at which the payment of the impact fee was due until paid in full; and
      5.   Impose a lien pursuant to the authority of Idaho Code § 67-8213(4)
for failure to timely pay an impact fee following the procedures contained in
Idaho Code Title 45, Chapter 5. (Ord. 2021-10, -23-2021)
15-1-5: CERTIFICATION:
   A.   A fee payer may request a written certification of the impact fee
schedule or individual assessment which shall establish the impact fee for that
development. Such certification shall establish the impact fee so long as there
is no material change to the particular development as identified in the
individual assessment application, or the impact fee schedule. A certification
may be applied for in the following manner.
   B.   Requests for certification shall be in writing and made to the county.
Within thirty (30) days after receiving such request, the county shall issue a
written certification of the amount of the impact fee due for the proposed
development. The certification shall include an explanation of the calculation
of the impact fee including an explanation of factors considered under Idaho
Code § 67-8207 and shall also specify the system improvement(s) for which the
impact fee is intended to be used. The county shall provide the certification
to the fee payer.
15-1-6: INDIVIDUAL ASSESSMENT:
   A.   In lieu of calculating the amount of the impact fee using the impact
fee schedules in section 3 of this chapter, an individual assessment of impact
fees is permitted when the fee payer demonstrates by clear and convincing
evidence that the established impact fee is inappropriate.
      1.   Individual Assessment Process: A fee payer may file a written
request for an individual assessment of the development by the county with the
county prior to the receipt of a building permit or other necessary approvals
or entitlements from the county. A request for an individual assessment process
shall involve consideration of studies, data, and any other relevant
information submitted by the fee payer to adjust the amount of the impact fee.
If a fee payer files a request for the use of an individual assessment, the fee
payer shall be responsible for retaining a qualified professional to prepare
the individual assessment that complies with the requirements of this chapter,
at the fee payer's expense. The fee payer shall bear the burden of proving by
clear and convincing evidence that the resulting individual assessment is a
more accurate measure of its proportionate share of the cost of system
improvements, based on the county's adopted level of service, than the
development impact fees that would otherwise be due pursuant to the fee
schedule.
         a.   Each individual assessment request and supporting documentation
submitted by the fee payer shall be based on the same level of service
standards and unit costs for system improvements used in the county's capital
improvements plan, shall use an average cost (not a marginal cost) methodology,
and shall document the relevant methodologies and assumptions used.
         b.   Each individual assessment request delivered to the county may
then be accepted, rejected, or accepted with modifications by the county as the
basis for calculating the impact fee. The criteria for acceptance, rejection or
acceptance with modifications shall be whether the individual assessment is a
more accurate measure of demand for system improvements element(s) created by
the proposed development, or the costs of those facilities, than the applicable
fee shown in the fee schedule.
         c.   The county shall issue a written decision within thirty (30) days
following receipt of a completed request for individual assessment together
with all supporting information from the fee payer, so as not to unreasonably
delay the developer's (fee payer's) subsequent applications to the county for
building permits.
         d.   The decision by the county on an application for an individual
assessment shall include an explanation of the calculation of the impact fee,
shall specify the system improvement(s) for which the impact fee is intended to
be used, and shall include an explanation of those factors identified in Idaho
Code § 67-8207.
         e.   If an individual assessment is accepted or accepted with
modifications by the county then the impact fee due under this chapter for such
development shall be calculated according to such individual assessment. (Ord.
2021-10, -23-2021)
15-1-7: DEVELOPER CREDITS AND REIMBURSEMENT:
   A.   When a developer or their predecessor in title or interest has
constructed system improvements of the same category as a capital improvements
element, or contributed or dedicated land or money towards the completion of
system improvements of the same category as the capital improvements element,
and the county has accepted such construction, contribution or dedication, the
county shall issue a credit against the impact fees otherwise due for the same
capital improvements element in connection with the proposed development, as
set forth in this section, credit shall be issued regardless of whether the
contribution or dedication to system improvements was required by the county as
a condition of development approval or was offered by the developer and
accepted by the county in writing, and regardless of whether the contribution
or dedication was contributed by the developer or by a local improvement
district controlled by the developer.
   B.   Credits against an Impact Fee shall not be given for:
      1.   Project Improvements; or
      2.   Any construction, contribution or dedication not agreed to in
writing by the County prior to commencement of the construction, contribution,
or dedication.
Credits issued for one capital improvements element may not be used to reduce
impact fees due for a different capital improvement. No credits shall be issued
for system improvements contributed or dedicated prior to the effective date of
this chapter.
   C.   Valuation of Credit at Present Value:
      1.   Land: Credit for qualifying land dedications shall, at the fee
payer's option, be valued at the present value of one hundred percent (100%) of
the most recent assessed value for such land as shown in the records of the
county assessor.
      2.   Improvements: Credit for qualifying acquisition or construction of
system improvements shall be valued by the county at the present value of such
improvements based on complete engineering drawings, specifications, and
construction cost estimates submitted by the fee payer to the county. The
county shall determine the amount of credit due based on the information
submitted, or, if it determines that such information is inaccurate or
unreliable, then on alternative engineering or construction costs acceptable to
the county as a more accurate measure of the value of the offered system
improvements to the county
   D.   When Credits Become Effective:
      1.   Land: Approved credits for land dedications shall become effective
when the land has been conveyed to the county in a form acceptable to the
county, at no cost to the county, and has been accepted by the county. Upon
request of the fee payer, the county shall issue a letter stating the amount of
credit available.
      2.   Improvements: Approved credits for acquisition or construction of
system improvements shall generally become effective when:
         a.   All required construction has been completed and has been
accepted by the county;
         b.   A suitable maintenance and warranty bond has been received and
approved by the county; and
         c.   All design, construction, inspection, testing, bonding, and
acceptance procedures have been completed in compliance with all applicable
requirements of the county and the state of idaho. Upon request of the fee
payer, the county shall issue a letter stating the amount of credit available.
   E.   Credit Request Process:
      1.   Request: In order to obtain a credit against an impact fee otherwise
due, a fee payer shall submit to the county a written offer of request to
dedicate to the county specific parcels of qualifying land or a written offer
to contribute or construct specific system improvements to the capital
facilities in accordance with all applicable state or county design and
construction standards, and shall specifically request a credit against the
type of impact fee for which the land dedication or system improvements is
offered.
      2.   Review: After receipt of the written offer of request for credit,
the county shall review the request and determine whether the land or system
improvements offered for credit will reduce the costs of providing capital
facilities by an amount at least equal to the value of the credit. If the
county determines that the offered credit satisfies that criteria and will be
acceptable to the County Board of Commissioners, then the credit shall be
issued. The county shall complete its review and determination of an
application within thirty (30) days after receipt of an application for credit.
      3.   Credits Exceeding Fee Amounts Due: If the credit due to a fee payer
pursuant to subsection C exceeds the impact fee that would otherwise be due
from the fee payer pursuant to the chapter (whether calculated through the
impact fee schedule in section 3 of this chapter or through an individual
assessment), the fee payer may choose to receive such credit in the form of
either:
         a.   A credit against future impact fee due for the same system
improvements; or
         b.   A reimbursement from impact fees paid by future development that
impacts the system improvements contributed or dedicated by the fee payer.
Unless otherwise stated in an agreement with the fee payer, the county shall be
under no obligation to use any of the county funds - other than impact fees
paid by other development for the same system improvements - to reimburse the
fee payer for any credit in excess impact fees that are due.
      4.   Written Agreement Required: If credit or reimbursement is due to the
fee payer pursuant to this section, the county shall enter into a written
agreement with the fee payer, negotiated in good faith, prior to the
contribution, dedication, or funding of the system improvements giving rise to
the credit. The agreement shall provide for the amount of credit or the amount,
time and form of reimbursement, and shall have a term not exceeding ten (10)
years.
      5.   The county's determination on the written offer of request for
credit shall be provided to the fee payer. (Ord. 2021-10, -23-2021)
15-1-8: METHODOLOGY FOR THE CALCULATION OF IMPACT FEES:
   A.   General Provisions:
      1.   Accounting Principles: The calculation of the impact fee shall be in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A development impact
fee shall not be deemed invalid because payment of the fee may result in an
incidental benefit to owners or developers within the service area other than
the fee payer.
      2.   Levels Of Service: The impact fee shall be calculated on the basis
of levels of service for public facilities in the adopted capital improvement
plan that are applicable to existing development as well as new growth and
development. The construction, improvement, expansion or enlargement of new or
existing public facilities for which the impact fee is imposed must be
attributable to the capacity demands generated by the new development.
   B.   Methodology; Proportionate Methodology: The impact fee shall not exceed
a proportionate share of the cost of the system improvements determined in
accordance with Idaho Code § 67-8207, as it may be amended. Impact fees shall
be based on actual system improvements costs or reasonable estimates of such
costs. The amount of the impact fee shall be calculated using the methodology
contained in the adopted capital improvements plan.
   C.   Proportionate Share Determination:
      1.   The impact fee shall be based on a reasonable and fair formula or
method under which the impact fee imposed does not exceed a proportionate share
of the costs incurred or to be incurred by the county in the provision of
system improvements to serve the new development. The proportionate share is
the costs attributable to the new development after the county considers the
following:
         a.   Any appropriate credit, offset or contribution of money,
dedication of land or construction of system improvements;
         b.   Payments reasonably anticipated to be made by or as a result of a
new Development in the form of user fees and debt service payments;
         c.   That portion of general tax or other revenues allocated by the
county to system improvements; and
         d.   All other available sources of funding such system improvements.
      2.   In determining the proportionate share of the cost of system
improvements to be paid by the developer, the following factors shall be
considered by the county and accounted for in the calculation of the impact
fee:
         a.   The costs of existing system improvements within the service
area;
         b.   The means by which existing system improvements have been
financed;
         c.   The extent to which the new development will contribute to system
improvements costs through taxation, assessments, or developer or landowner
contributions, or has previously contributed to system improvements costs
through developer or landowner contributions;
         d.   The extent to which the new development is required to contribute
to the cost of existing system improvements in the future;
         e.   The extent to which the new development should be credited for
providing system improvements, without charge to other properties within the
service area;
         f.   Extraordinary costs, if any, incurred in serving the new
development;
         g.   The time and price differential inherent in a fair comparison of
fees paid at different times; and
         h.   The availability of other sources of funding system improvements
including, but not limited to, user charges, general tax levies,
intergovernmental transfers and special taxation. (Ord. 2021-10, -23-2021)
15-1-9: EXTRAORDINARY IMPACT:
   A.   The county may make an initial determination that development may
impose an extraordinary impact due to a review of a development application
transmitted to the county pursuant to the county's zoning authority under the
Local Land Use Planning Act, chapter 65, title 67, Idaho Code.
   B.   Process:
      1.   Within thirty (30) days after county's receipt of the development
application, the county will notify the fee payer of the county's initial
determination that the development may impose an extraordinary impact. Such
notice shall include that a supplemental study, at the fee payer's expense will
be required.
      2.   Within thirty (30) days following the designation of a development
with extraordinary impact, the county shall meet with the fee payer to discuss
whether the fee payer wants to:
         a.   Pay for the supplemental study necessary to determine the System
Improvements Costs related to the proposed Development;
         b.   Modify the proposal to avoid generating Extraordinary Impact; or
         c.   Withdraw the application for certification, or Development
approval.
      3   If the fee payer agrees to pay for the supplemental study required to
document the proposed development's proportionate share of system improvements
costs, then the county and the fee payer shall jointly select an individual or
organization acceptable to both to perform such study. The fee payer shall
enter into a written agreement with such individual or organization to pay the
costs of such study. Such agreement shall require the supplemental study to be
completed within thirty (30) days of such written agreement, unless the fee
payer agrees to a longer time.
      4.   Once the study has been completed, the fee payer may choose to:
         a.   Pay the proportionate share of system improvements costs
documented by the supplemental study; or
         b.   Modify the proposed development to reduce such costs; or
         c.   Withdraw the application.
      5.   If the fee payer agrees to pay the system improvements costs
documented in the supplemental study, that agreement shall be reduced to
writing between the county and the fee payer prior to review and consideration
of any application for any development approval or building permit related to
the proposed development.
      6.   Notwithstanding any agreement by the fee payer to pay the
proportionate share of system improvements costs documented by the supplemental
study, nothing in this ordinance shall obligate the county to approve
development that results in an extraordinary impact to the county. (Ord. 2021-
10, -23-2021)
15-1-10: FEE PAYER REFUNDS:
   A.   Duty to Refund:
      1.   An impact fee shall be refunded to a fee payer, or successor in
interest, or a property owner in the following circumstances:
         a.   Service is available but never provided;
         b.   A building permit, or permit for installation of a manufactured
home, is denied or abandoned;
         c.   The fee payer pays an impact fee under protest and a subsequent
review of the fee paid or the completion of an individual assessment determines
that the fee paid exceeded the proportionate share to which the county was
entitled to receive;
         d.   The county has collected an impact fee and the county has failed
to appropriate or expend the collected fees pursuant to section 2 below; or
         e.   Failure of the county to commence construction or encumber the
funds in the Capital Projects Fund.
      2.   Any impact fee paid shall be refunded if the county has failed to
commence construction of system improvements in accordance with this chapter,
or to appropriate funds for such construction, within eight (8) years after the
date on which such fee was collected by the county. Any refund due shall be
paid to the owner of record of the parcel for which the county's impact fee was
paid. The county may hold impact fees for longer than eight (8) years but in no
event longer than eleven (11) years from the date collected if the county
identifies in writing:
         a.   A reasonable cause why the fees should be held longer than eight
(8) years; and
         b.   An anticipated date by which the fees will be expended.
If the county complies with the previous sentence, then any impact fees so
identified shall be refunded to the fee payer if the county has failed to
commence construction of system improvements in accordance with the written
notice, or to appropriate funds for such construction on or before the date
identified in such writing.
      3.   After an impact fee has been paid pursuant to this chapter and after
a certificate of occupancy has been issued by the county, no refund of any part
of such fee shall be made if the project for which the fee was paid is later
demolished, destroyed, or is altered, reconstructed, or reconfigured so as to
reduce the size of the project or the number of units in the project.
      4.   Each refund shall include a refund of interest at one-half the legal
rate provided for in Idaho Code § 28-22-104 from the date on which the fee was
originally paid.
   B.   Process: The county shall make a determination of whether a refund is
due within thirty (30) days after receipt of a written request for a refund
from the fee payer, successor in interest, or an owner of record of the
property for which the fee was paid. When the right to a refund exists, the
county shall send the refund within ninety (90) days after the county
determines that a refund is due. (Ord. 2021-10, -23-2021)
15-1-11: ESTABLISHMENT OF CAPITAL PROJECTS FUND; FUND ACCOUNTS:
   A.   Capital Projects Funds Established: The capital projects fund will be
maintained by the county for the purpose of ensuring that all impact fees
collected, pursuant to this chapter, are used to address impacts reasonably
attributable to new development for which the impact fees are paid. The capital
projects fund shall have its own interest-bearing account. The interest earned
on the account pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-8210(1) shall not be governed by
Idaho Code § 57-127, as it may be amended, but shall be considered funds of the
capital projects fund and shall be subject to the same restrictions on uses of
funds as the impact fees on which the interest is generated.
   B.   Deposit of Impact Fees: All monies paid by a fee payer, pursuant to
this chapter, shall be identified as impact fees and upon receipt by the county
shall be promptly deposited in the capital projects fund account.
      1.   Monies in the capital projects fund account shall be spent in the
order collected, on a first- in/first-out basis.
      2.   The county shall maintain and keep accurate financial records for
the account which records shall:
         a.   Show the source and disbursement of all revenues;
         b.   Account for all monies received;
         c.   Ensure that the disbursement of funds from the account shall be
used solely and exclusively for the provisions of projects specified in the
capital improvements plan; and
         d.   Provide an annual accounting for the impact fee capital projects
fund account showing the source and amount of all funds collected and the
projects that were funded, which annual accounting shall be provided to the
county as part of the annual audit process of this chapter. (Ord. 2021-10, -23-
2021)
15-1-12: EXPENDITURE OF IMPACT FEES:
   A.   Expenditures: Expenditures of impact fees collected and deposited in
the capital projects fund shall be made only for system improvements within the
service area for which the impact fee was collected in accordance with the
capital improvements plan.
   B.   Capital Improvements Plan Reimbursement; Surcharge: A portion of each
impact fee collected may be designated as a surcharge for reimbursement for the
cost of preparing the capital improvements plan in accordance with Idaho Code §
67-8208. The surcharge shall not exceed the development's proportionate share
of the cost of preparing the capital improvements plan. (Ord. 2021-10, -23-
2021)
15-1-13: APPEALS, PROTEST AND MEDIATION:
   A.   Appeals: Any fee payer that is or may be obligated to pay an impact
fee, individual assessment or an extraordinary impact, or that claims a right
to receive a refund, reimbursement, exemption or credit under this chapter, and
who is dissatisfied with a decision made either by the county in applying this
chapter, may appeal such decision. The fee payer shall have the burden on
appeal of proving by clear and convincing evidence that the decision was in
error.
   B.   Appeal Process:
      1.   Appeals of denials of an exemption from impact fees under section 3
of this chapter.
         a.   A fee payer shall file a written notice of the appeal with the
county development services department within thirty (30) days after the date
of a denial of an exemption. Such notice of appeal shall include a statement
describing why the fee payer believes that the appealed decision was in error,
together with copies of any documents that the fee payer believes support the
claim.
         b.   The County Development Services Department shall schedule a
hearing in front of the County Board of Commissioners within thirty (30) days
of receiving the appeal. The fee payer or its representative shall have a right
to be present and to present evidence in support of the appeal. The county
personnel who made the decision under appeal or their representatives shall
likewise have the right to be present and to present evidence in support of the
decision.
         c.   The County Board of Commissioners shall consider the decision
denying the exemption and also consider any additional evidence that may be
offered by the fee payer and county staff. The County Board of Commissioners
may affirm, reverse, or modify in whole or in part the decision appealed from
and issue a written decision within thirty (30) days.
         d.   A final decision of the County Board of Commissioners may be
judicially reviewed pursuant to Idaho Code § 31-1506.
      2.   Appeals of impact fee schedule assessments, refunds, reimbursements,
credits, individual assessments, or extraordinary impacts under this chapter.
         a.   The fee payer shall file a written notice of the appeal with the
county within thirty (30) days after the date of the county's decision, or the
date on which the fee payer submitted a payment of the impact fee under
protest, whichever is later. Such written application shall include a statement
describing why the fee payer believes that the appealed decision was in error,
together with copies of any documents that the fee payer believes support the
claim.
         b.   The County's Board of Commissioners, shall hear the appeal within
sixty (60) days after receipt of a written notice of appeal. The fee payer or
its representative shall have a right to be present and to present evidence in
support of the appeal. The county personnel who made the decision under appeal
or their representatives shall likewise have the right to be present and to
present evidence in support of the decision. The criteria to be used by the
County's Board of Commissioners in considering the appeal shall be whether:
            (1)   The decision or interpretation made by the county; or
            (2)   The alternative decision or interpretation offered by the fee
payer, more accurately reflects the intent of this chapter that new development
in the service area pay its proportionate share of the costs of system
improvements to public facilities necessary to serve new development and
whether the chapter has been correctly applied.
The County's Board of Commissioners shall issue a decision upholding,
reversing, or modifying the decision being appealed within thirty (30) days
after hearing the appeal.
   C.   Payment Under Protest: A fee payer may pay a impact fee under protest
in order not to delay in the issuance of a building permit by the county. A fee
payer making a payment under protest shall not be estopped from exercising the
right to appeal provided herein, nor shall such fee payer be estopped from
receiving a refund of any amount deemed to have been illegally collected.
   D.   Mediation:
      1.   Any fee payer that has a disagreement with a decision made by the
county regarding an impact fee determination that is or may be due for a
proposed development pursuant to this chapter, may enter into a voluntary
agreement with the county as the case may be, to subject the disagreement to
mediation by a qualified independent party acceptable to both parties to the
mediation.
      2.   Mediation may take place at any time following the filing of a
timely appeal, or as an alternative to such appeal, provided that the request
for mediation is filed no later than the last date on which a timely appeal
could be filed pursuant to this section.
      3.   Participation in mediation does not preclude the fee payer from
pursuing other remedies provided for in this section.
      4.   If mediation is requested, any related mediation costs shall be
shared equally by the parties to the mediation, and a written agreement
regarding the payment of such costs shall be executed prior to the commencement
of mediation.
      5.   In the event that mediation does not resolve the issues, the fee
payer retains all rights of appeal as set forth in this section. (Ord. 2021-10,
-23-2021)
15-1-14: PERIODIC REVIEWS; ANNUAL BUDGET:
   A.   Review and Modification of Capital Improvements Plan: Unless the County
Board of Commissioners deems some other period is appropriate, the County
shall, at least once every five (5) years, commencing from the date of the
original adoption of the capital improvements plan, review the development
potential and update the capital improvements plan in accordance with the
procedures set forth in Idaho Code § 67-8206, as it may be amended. Each update
shall be prepared by the county in consultation with the Advisory Committee.
   B.   Annual budget: The county shall annually adopt a capital budget. (Ord.
2021-10, -23-2021)
15-1-15: AUDIT:
As part of its annual audit process, the county shall prepare an annual report:
   A.   Describing the amount of all impact fees collected, appropriated or
spent during the preceding year; and
   B.   Describing the percentage of taxes and revenues from sources other than
the impact fees collected, appropriated or spent for system improvements during
the preceding year. (Ord. 2021-10, -23-2021)
15-1-16: ADVISORY COMMITTEE:
   A.   Establishment and Purpose: Pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-8205, there is
hereby established Development Impact Fee Advisory Committee (Advisory
Committee), whose purpose is to carry out the duties as set forth in Idaho Code
§ 67-8205(3), as it may be amended.
   B.   Membership: The Advisory Committee shall be composed of not fewer than
five (5) members, all of whom must reside within the County. Two (2) or more
members shall be active in the business of development, building or real
estate. Two (2) or more members shall not be in the business of development,
building or real estate.
   C.   Meetings: Meetings may be called by the Advisory Committee by giving
reasonable notice of the time and place of the meeting in accordance with the
Open Meetings Law, Idaho Code §§ 74-201 et seq., as may be amended. The
Advisory Committee shall adopt reasonable rules as are necessary to carry out
the duties and responsibilities of the committee subject to the approval of the
County, and elect such officers as deemed necessary.
   D.   Continuation of existing Committees: Each development impact fee
advisory committee established as part of the preparation of the respective
capital improvements plans shall become the Joint Development Impact Fee
Advisory Committee and shall continue in existence. (Ord. 2021-10, -23-2021)
15-1-17: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the county from requiring a
developer to construct reasonable project improvements, as are required by the
fire codes and other rules that are adopted by the state fire marshal, in
conjunction with a development.
   B.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent or prohibit
private agreements between property owners or developers, the Idaho
Transportation Department and governmental entities in regard to the
construction or installation of system improvements or providing for credits or
reimbursements for system improvements costs incurred by a developer including
inter-project transfers of credits or providing for reimbursement for project
improvements which are used or shared by more than one (1) development project.
   C.   Nothing in this chapter shall obligate the county to approve
development which results in an extraordinary impact.
   D.   Nothing in this chapter shall obligate the county to approve any
development request which may reasonably be expected to reduce levels of
service below minimum acceptable levels established in this chapter.
   E.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to create any additional
right to develop real property or diminish the county in regulating the orderly
development of real property within its boundaries
   F.   Nothing in this chapter shall work to limit the use by the county of
the power of eminent domain or supersede or conflict with requirements or
procedures authorized in the idaho code for local improvement district or
general obligation bond issues.
   G.   The county shall develop a plan for alternative sources of revenue,
which shall include but not necessarily be limited to plans generated during
the annual budget process, lobbying efforts, tax increment financing, and
implementation of user fees, administrative and regulatory fees and other forms
of revenue.
   H.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, that portion of a
project for which a complete application for a building permit has been
received by the county, prior to the effective date of this chapter, shall not
be subject to the impact fee imposed by this chapter. If the resulting building
permit is later revised or replaced after the effective date of the ordinance
codified in this chapter, and the new building permit(s) reflects a development
density, intensity, development size or number of service units more than ten
percent (10%) higher than that reflected in the original building permit, then
the impact fee may be charged on the difference in density, intensity,
development size or number of service units between the original and the
revised or replacement building permit.
   I.   Any monies, including any accrued interest not assigned to specific
system improvements within such capital improvements plan and not expended or
refunded pursuant to this chapter shall be retained in the same account until
the next fiscal year.
   J.   If the county discovers an error in the capital improvements plan that
results in assessment or payment of more than a proportionate share of system
improvement costs on any proposed development, the county shall:
      1.   Adjust the impact fee to collect no more than a proportionate share;
or
      2.   Discontinue the collection of any impact fees until the error is
corrected by ordinance.
   K.   If impact fees are calculated and paid based on a mistake or
misrepresentation, they shall be recalculated. Any amounts overpaid by a fee
payer shall be refunded by the county within thirty (30) days after the
acceptance of the recalculated amount, with interest at the legal rate provided
for in Idaho Code § 28-22-104 from the date on which the fee was paid. Any
amounts underpaid by the fee payer shall be paid to the county within thirty
(30) days after the acceptance of the recalculated amount, with interest at the
legal rate provided for in Idaho Code § 28-22-104 from the date on which the
fee was paid. (Ord. 2021-10, -23-2021)
15-1-18: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
All provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this chapter shall
be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the Act and
the Gem County Board of Commissioners may be fully carried out. (Ord. 2021-10,
-23-2021)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
15-2-1: Short Title, Applicability, Exemptions, And Purpose
15-2-2: Definitions
15-2-3: Establishment Of Fire District Service Areas; Imposition Of Fire
District Impact Fee; Fee Schedule; Exemptions
15-2-4: Collection Of Fire District Impact Fees; Enforcement
15-2-5: Certification
15-2-6: Individual Assessment
15-2-7: Developer Credits And Reimbursement
15-2-8: Methodology For The Calculation Of Fire District Impact Fees
15-2-9: Extraordinary Impact
15-2-10: Fee Payer Refunds
15-2-11: Establishment Of Fire District Capital Projects Fund; Trust Accounts
15-2-12: Expenditure Of Fire District Impact Fees
15-2-13: Appeals, Protest And Mediation
15-2-14: Periodic Reviews; Annual Budget
15-2-15: Audit
15-2-16: Joint Advisory Committee
15-2-17: Miscellaneous Provisions
15-2-18: Rules Of Construction
15-2-1: SHORT TITLE, APPLICABILITY, EXEMPTIONS, AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Short title: This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Gem
County Fire District Development Impact Fee Ordinance.
   B.   Findings: The Board of Gem County Commissioners finds that:
      1.   Within unincorporated Gem County, the County is experiencing
considerable growth and development.
      2.   The new growth and development occurring within unincorporated Gem
County will place ever-increasing demands on any Fire District whose boundaries
include land in unincorporated Gem County to provide, improve and expand
existing public safety facilities to serve that new growth and development and
the tax revenues generated from that new growth and development often does not
generate sufficient funds to provide the necessary improvements and expansion
of the public safety facilities to protect the public health, safety and
welfare. Those users that create the increased demand should bear their
proportionate share of the cost of public safety facilities needed to serve the
new growth and development.
      3.   Fire Districts organized pursuant to Idaho Code §§ 31-1401 et seq.
do not have authority to make and adopt ordinances as a method of carrying out
their statutory duties.
      4.   The Idaho Development Impact Fee Act (Act) at Idaho Code §§ 67-8201
et seq. requires an entity to adopt an ordinance in order to impose and collect
development impact fees.
      5.   The Act does provide, pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-8204A, in
circumstances where the county and the Fire District are both affected by the
considerable growth and development as is occurring within the county, that the
county and the Fire District may enter into an intergovernmental agreement for
the purpose of agreeing to collect and expend development impact fees for
system improvements which provides for a new funding mechanism for those system
improvements costs incurred by the Fire District to meet the demand and growth
occurring within the county and which promotes and accommodates orderly growth
and development and protects the public health, safety and general welfare of
the people, residential and non-residential establishments within the
boundaries of the county.
      6.   The county has statutory authority to make and adopt ordinances
pursuant to Idaho Code § 31-714.
   C.   Authority: This title is enacted pursuant to the county's general
police powers, its authority to enact ordinances, and its authority as provided
by the act and other applicable laws of the state of idaho to impose and
collect development impact fees on behalf of the Fire District; and the
county's and the Fire District's authority to enter into an intergovernmental
agreement as provided for in Idaho Code § 67-8204A when jointly affected by
growth and development for the purpose of agreeing to impose, collect and
expend development impact fees in order for new growth and development pay
their proportionate share of the cost of public facilities to serve that new
growth and development.
   D.   Applicability: This chapter shall apply to the development of property
located within the boundaries of the Gem County Fire Protection District #1
and/or the Middleton Rural Fire District in unincorporated Gem County.
   E.   Purpose: The intent of this chapter is to ensure that new residential
and non-residential development bears a proportionate share of the cost of
system improvements; to ensure that such proportionate share does not exceed
the cost of such system improvements required to accommodate new development;
and to ensure that funds collected from new development are actually used for
system improvements in accordance with the act. (Ord. 2021-10, -23-2021)
15-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the following
meanings, unless another meaning is plainly intended and words and terms
appearing in the singular number includes the plural and the plural the
singular:
                  To legally obligate by contract or otherwise commit to the expenditure of funds
APPROPRIATE:      by appropriation or other official act of the Board of Commissioners of any Fire
                  District.
BOARD OF          The Board of Commissioners of the Fire District, which is its governing board.
COMMISSIONERS:
BUILDING PERMIT:  The permit required for foundations, new construction and additions pursuant to
                  Chapter 14, Title 11, Gem County Code.
CAPITAL           Improvements with a useful life of ten (10) years or more, by new construction or
IMPROVEMENTS:     other action, which increases the service capacity of the Fire District's Capital
                  Facilities.
CAPITAL           A component of the Capital Improvements Plan adopted by the Fire District and the
IMPROVEMENTS      County pursuant to Chapters 65 and 82 of Title 67, Idaho Code, as they may be
ELEMENT:          amended, which component meets the requirements of the capital improvements plan
                  required by the Act.
                  The Impact Fee Study and Capital Improvements Plan recommended by the Joint
CAPITAL           Advisory Committee and adopted by the Fire District and the County that
IMPROVEMENTS      identifies the Fire District Capital Facilities for which the Fire District's
PLAN:             Impact Fees may be used as a funding source as found in the Comprehensive Plan
                  appendix.
                  Shall mean and refer to the Fire District's Development Impact Fee Capital
CAPITAL PROJECTS  Projects Fund established by action of the Board of Commissioners of the Fire
FUND (the         District as set forth respectively in the Board of Commissioners' Resolutions and
"Capital Projects pursuant to section
Fund"):           15-2-11 of this chapter and Idaho Code § 67-8210(1) is the respective Capital
                  Projects Fund into which the Fire District's Impact Fees shall be deposited and
                  maintained by the Fire District.
COUNTY:           Gem County, Idaho.
COUNTY BOARD OF   The Board of Commissioners of Gem County.
COMMISSIONERS:
DEVELOPER:        Any person or legal entity undertaking Development and/or the subdivision of
                  property pursuant to Idaho Code §§ 50-1301 through 50-1334, as may be amended.
                  Any construction or installation of a building or structure, or any change in use
                  of a building or structure, or any change in the use, character or appearance of
DEVELOPMENT:      land, which creates additional demand and need for public facilities and/or
                  subdivision of property that would permit any change in the use, character or
                  appearance of land.
DEVELOPMENT       Any written duly authorized document from the County which authorizes the
APPROVAL:         commencement of a Development.
                  A requirement attached to a developmental approval or other county governmental
DEVELOPMENT       action approving or authorizing a particular development project including, but
REQUIREMENT:      not limited to, a rezoning, which requirement compels the payment, dedication or
                  contribution of goods, services, land or money as condition of approval.
                  Any structure, or portion thereof, providing living facilities for one family as
DWELLING UNIT:    herein defined, including provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and
                  sanitation.
                  Any structure, or portion thereof, providing living facilities for one family as
DWELLING UNIT:    herein defined, including provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and
                  sanitation.
DWELLING UNIT,    A building or portion thereof designed for or used by two (2) or more families or
MULTI-FAMILY:     housekeeping units.
EXTRAORDINARY     Those costs incurred as result of an extraordinary impact.
COSTS:
                  An impact which is reasonably determined by the Fire District to:
                  A.   Result in the need for Fire District system improvements, the cost of which
EXTRAORDINARY     will significantly exceed the sum of the development impact fees to be generated
IMPACT:           from the project or the sum agreed to be paid pursuant to a development agreement
                  as allowed by Idaho Code § 67-8214(2), as it may be amended; or
                  B.   Result in the need for Fire District system improvements which are not
                  identified in the Capital Improvements Plan.
                  A.   A person living alone or two (2) or more persons related by blood or
                  marriage.
                  B.   A group of not more than ten (10) persons who need not be related by blood
                  or marriage living together in a dwelling unit.
FAMILY:           C.   Eight (8) or fewer unrelated mentally and/or physically handicapped or
                  elderly persons residing in a dwelling unit who are supervised at the dwelling in
                  connection with their handicap or age related infirmity, provided that no more
                  than two (2) staff members reside in the dwelling unit at any one time (Resident
                  staff shall not be counted toward the “8 or fewer” criterion).
FEE PAYER:        The person who pays or is required to pay the Fire District's Impact Fee. A fee
                  payer may include a Developer.
                  Shall mean and refer to a Fire District organized and existing by virtue of the
FIRE DISTRICT:    Fire District Law, Chapter 14, Title 31, Idaho Code and which has entered into an
                  intergovernmental agreement with the county for the collection and expenditure of
                  development impact fees.
FIRE DISTRICT     The Fire District Administrator of the Fire District, and their designee.
ADMINISTRATOR:
                  Stations, apparatus, vehicles and equipment of the Fire District which is
FIRE DISTRICT     identified in Exhibits V-6 and V-7 of the Fire District's Capital Improvements
CAPITAL           Plan as adopted by the county, and specifically including those related costs
FACILITIES:       including system improvement costs, but not including maintenance, operations, or
                  improvements that do not expand their capacity.
                  A payment of money imposed as condition of development approval to pay for a
                  proportionate share of the costs of system improvements needed to serve the
                  development. The term does not include the following:
                  A.   A charge or fee to pay the administrative plan review, or inspection cost
                  associated with permits required for development;
                  B.   Connection or hookup charges;
FIRE DISTRICT     C.   Availability charges for drainage, sewer, water or transportation charges
IMPACT FEE:       for services provided directly to the development; or
                  D.   Amounts collected from a developer in a transaction in which the Fire
                  District has incurred expenses in constructing capital improvements for the
                  development if the owner or developer has agreed to be financially responsible
                  for the construction or installation of those capital improvements, unless a
                  written agreement is made, pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-8209(3) as it may be
                  amended, for credit or reimbursement.
INTERGOVERNMENTAL Shall mean and refer to the Fire District's intergovernmental agreement with the
AGREEMENT:        County pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-8204A for the collection and expenditure of
                  Fire District impact fees established pursuant to this chapter.
                  The County and the Fire District's Joint Development Impact Fee Advisory
JOINT ADVISORY    Committee ("Joint Advisory Committee") formed and staffed by the Fire District
COMMITTEE:        pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-8205 to prepare and recommend the Fire District's
                  capital improvements plan and any amendments, revisions or updates of the same.
LAND USE          A description of the service area and projections of land uses, densities,
ASSUMPTIONS:      intensities and population in the service area over at least a ten (10) year
                  period.
LEVEL OF SERVICE: A measure of the relationship between service capacity and service demand for
                  Public Facilities.
                  A structure, constructed according to HUD/FHA mobile home construction and safety
                  standards, transportable in one (1) or more sections, which, in the traveling
                  mode, is eight (8) feet or more in width or is forty (40) body feet or more in
                  length, or when erected on site, is three hundred twenty (320) or more square
                  feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a
MANUFACTURED/     dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to required
MOBILE HOME:      utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
                  systems contained in such structure, except that such term shall include any
                  structure which meets all the requirements of this subsection except the size
                  requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a
                  certification required by the secretary of housing and urban development and
                  complies with the standards established under 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.
                  Any building or building component other than a manufactured/mobile home, which
MODULAR BUILDING: is constructed according to the International Building Code, as adopted or any
                  amendments thereto, which is of closed construction and is either entirely or
                  substantially prefabricated or assembled at a place other than the building site.
                  The total current monetary value of past, present or future payments,
PRESENT VALUE:    contributions or dedications of goods, services, materials, construction or
                  money.
PROJECT:          A particular development on an identified parcel of land.
                  In contrast to system improvements, shall mean site improvements and facilities
PROJECT           that are planned and designed to provide service for a particular development
IMPROVEMENTS:     project and that are necessary for the use and convenience of the occupants or
                  users of the project.
PROPORTIONATE     That portion of system improvement costs determined pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-
SHARE:            8207 which reasonably relates to the service demands and needs of the project.
PUBLIC            Land, buildings, apparatus, vehicles and equipment used for fire, emergency
FACILITIES:       medical and rescue, and water supply production, storage and distribution
                  facilities which have a useful life of ten (10) years or more.
RECREATIONAL      A vehicular type unit primarily designed as temporary quarters for recreational,
VEHICLE:          camping, or travel use, which either has its own motive power or is mounted on or
                  drawn by another vehicle.
                  Land within the boundaries of the Fire District within unincorporated Gem County
                  as established pursuant Chapter 14, Title 31, Idaho Code, in which specific
SERVICE AREA:     Public Facilities provide service to Development on the basis of sound planning
                  or engineering principles or both as identified in the Fire District's Capital
                  Improvements Plan.
                  A standardized measure of consumption, use, generation or discharge attributable
                  to an individual unit of development calculated in accordance with generally
SERVICE UNIT:     accepted engineering or planning standards for a particular category of capital
                  improvements. As specifically used in this title, service units include all
                  dwelling units as defined herein and includes, on the square foot basis,
                  nonresidential development.
                  In contrast to project improvements, shall mean capital improvements to public
SYSTEM            facilities which are designed to provide service to a service area. For the
IMPROVEMENTS:     purpose of this chapter, system improvements are for Fire District capital
                  facilities designed to provide both fire protection and emergency medical
                  services.
                  Costs incurred for construction or reconstruction of system improvements,
                  including design, acquisition, engineering and other costs, and also including,
                  without limitation, the type of costs described in Idaho Code § 50-1702(h), as it
                  may be amended, to provide additional public facilities needed to service new
                  growth and development. For clarification, system improvement costs do not
                  include:
                  A.   Construction, acquisition or expansion of public facilities other than
                  capital improvements identified in the capital improvements plan;
                  B.   Improvements, repair, operation or maintenance of existing or new capital;
SYSTEM            C.   Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing capital improvements to
IMPROVEMENT       serve existing development in order to meet stricter safety, efficiency,
COSTS:            environmental or regulatory standards;
                  D.   Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing capital improvements to
                  provide better service to existing development;
                  E.   Administrative and operating costs of the Fire District and/or the county
                  unless such costs are attributable to development of the capital improvements
                  plan, as provided in Idaho Code § 67-8208, as it may be amended; and
                  F.   Principal payments and interest or other finance charges on bonds or other
                  indebtedness except financial obligations issued by or on behalf of the Fire
                  District to finance capital improvements identified in the capital improvements
                  plan.
TRUST ACCOUNT:    The interest-bearing account within the Fire District's Impact Fee Capital
                  Projects Fund as established in this chapter. (Ord. 2021-10, -23-2021)
 
15-2-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF FIRE DISTRICT SERVICE AREAS; IMPOSITION OF FIRE
DISTRICT IMPACT FEE; FEE SCHEDULE; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Establishment of Fire District Service Areas: There is hereby
established a service area for the Fire District which service area includes
all land in unincorporated Gem County within the boundaries of the Fire
District as established pursuant to chapter 14, title 31, Idaho Code.
   B.   Imposition of Fire District Impact Fees: Fire District impact fees for
the Fire District are hereby imposed on all new development located within the
boundaries of the Fire District in unincorporated Gem County.
   C.   Fee Schedule: Fire District's impact fees shall be calculated in
accordance with the fee schedule set forth below providing for standard fees
based on the total number of dwelling units or square feet of nonresidential
space in the development, unless:
      1.   The fee payer requests an individual assessment pursuant to section
6 of this chapter; or
      2.   The Fire District finds the development will have an extraordinary
impact pursuant to section 9 of this chapter.
The methodology for determining the costs per service unit provided for in the
fee schedule is set forth in the Fire District's capital improvements plan as
adopted by the county pursuant to Idaho Code§ 67-8208, as it may be amended.
      1.   Gem County Fire Protection District #1 Impact Fee Schedule:
         a.   Residential (per Dwelling Unit): $1,407.00.
         b.   Non-Residential (per square foot): $0.72.
      2.   Middleton Rural Fire District Impact Fee Schedule:
         a.   Residential (per Dwelling Unit): $849.00.
         b.   Non-Residential (per square foot): $0.42.
   D.   Developer's Election: A developer shall have the right to elect to pay
a project's proportionate share of system improvements costs by payment of
impact fee according to the fee schedule as full and complete payment of the
development project's proportionate share of system improvements costs, except
as provided in Idaho Code § 67-8214(3), as it may be amended.
   E.   Procedures:
      1.   Building Permit: Upon submittal of complete building permit plans or
manufactured home installation permit for the development to the county, the
county shall calculate the Fire District impact fee for the development within
thirty (30) days of submittal unless:
      2.   The fee payer had previously requested and been granted an
individual assessment pursuant to this chapter; or
      3.   The Fire District has previously determined the development may have
an extraordinary impact pursuant to this chapter.
   F.   Exemptions: The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the
following:
      1.   Rebuilding the same amount of floor space of a structure which is
destroyed by fire or other catastrophe, provided the structure is rebuilt and
ready for occupancy within two (2) years of its destruction;
      2.   Remodeling or repairing a structure which does not increase the
number of service units;
      3.   Replacing a residential unit, including a manufactured/mobile home,
with another residential unit on the same lot; provided that, the number of
service units does not increase;
      4.   Placing a temporary construction trailer or office on a lot;
      5.   Constructing an addition on a residential structure which does not
increase the number of service units;
      6.   Adding uses that are typically accessory to residential uses, such
as tennis court or a clubhouse, unless it can be clearly demonstrated that the
use creates a significant impact on the capacity of system improvements; or
      7.   The installation of a modular building, manufactured/mobile home or
recreational vehicle if the fee payer can demonstrate by documentation such as
utility bills and tax records that either:
         a.   A modular building, manufactured/mobile home or recreational
vehicle was legally in place on the lot or space prior to the effective date of
this chapter; or
         b.   A Fire District impact fee has been paid previously for the
modular building, manufactured/mobile home or recreational vehicle on that same
lot or space.
   G.   Exemption Claim Process: A fee payer shall claim an exempt development
activity upon application of a building permit or manufactured/mobile home
installation permit, or if no building permit or manufactured/mobile home
installation permit required, prior to the time construction commences. Any
exemption not so claimed shall be deemed waived by the fee payer. Claims for
exemption shall be determined by the county within fifteen (15) days of receipt
of the claim for exemption. (Ord. 2021-10, -23-2021)
15-2-4: COLLECTION OF FIRE DISTRICT IMPACT FEES; ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Payment of Fees: The Fire District impact fee shall be paid to the
county at the following times:
      1.   If a building permit or manufactured/mobile home installation permit
is required, then before or at the time the permit is issued;
      2.   If no building permit or manufactured/mobile home installation
permit is required, then at the time that construction commences; or
      3.   At such other time as the fee payer or developer and the Fire
District have agreed upon in writing with notice to the county.
   B.   Enforcement: When any Fire District impact fee is due pursuant to this
chapter, or pursuant to the terms of any written agreement between a fee payer
and the Fire District, and such Fire District impact fee has not been paid in a
timely manner, the county may exercise any or all of the following powers as
applicable to its authority, in any combination, to enforce the collection of
the Fire District impact fee:
      1.   Withhold building permits, manufactured home installation permits,
or other county development approval related to the development for which the
fire district impact fee is due until all Fire District impact fees due have
been paid, and issue stop work orders, and revoke or suspend a building permit;
      2.   Withhold utility services from the development for which the Fire
District impact fee is due until all Fire District impact fees due have been
paid;
      3.   Add interest to the Fire District Impact Fee not paid in full at the
legal rate provided for in Idaho Code § 28-22-104, as it may be amended, plus
five percent (5%) beginning on the date at which the payment of the Fire
District impact fee was due until paid in full;
      4.   Impose a penalty of five percent (5%) of the total Fire District
impact fee (not merely the portion dishonored, late or not paid in full) per
month beginning on the date at which the payment of the Fire District impact
fee was due until paid in full; and
      5.   Impose a lien pursuant to the authority of Idaho Code § 67-8213(4)
for failure to timely pay a Fire District impact fee following the procedures
contained in Idaho Code Title 45, Chapter 5.
   C.   In the event a Fire District impact fee is paid to the Fire Protection
District, then the Fire District Administrator shall immediately notify the
county of said payment.
   D.   All Fire District impact fees paid to the county shall be transferred
to the Fire District Administrator on a once-a-month basis. (Ord. 2021-10, -23-
2021)
15-2-5: CERTIFICATION:
   A.   A Fee Payer may request a written certification of the impact fee
schedule or individual assessment which shall establish the impact fee for that
development. Such certification shall establish the Fire District impact fee so
long as there is no material change to the particular development as identified
in the individual assessment application, or the impact fee schedule. A
certification may be applied for in the following manner:
   B.   Requests for certification shall be in writing and made to the Fire
District Administrator. Within thirty (30) days after receiving such request,
the Fire District Administrator shall issue a written certification of the
amount of the Fire District impact fee due for the proposed Development. The
certification shall include an explanation of the calculation of the Fire
District Impact Fee including an explanation of factors considered under Idaho
Code § 67-8207 and shall also specify the system improvement(s) for which the
Fire District Impact Fee is intended to be used. The Fire District
Administrator shall provide the certification to the fee payer and the county.
(Ord. 2021-10, -23-2021)
15-2-6: INDIVIDUAL ASSESSMENT:
   A.   In lieu of calculating the amount of the Fire District impact fee using
the impact fee schedules in section 3 of this chapter, an individual assessment
of impact fees is permitted when the fee payer demonstrates by clear and
convincing evidence that the established impact fee is inappropriate.
      1.   Individual Assessment Process: A fee payer may file a written
request for an individual assessment of the development by the Fire District
with the Fire District Administrator prior to the receipt of a building permit
or other necessary approvals or entitlements from Gem County. A request for an
individual Assessment process shall involve consideration of studies, data, and
any other relevant information submitted by the fee payer to adjust the amount
of the Fire District impact fee. If a fee payer files a request for the use of
an individual assessment, the fee payer shall be responsible for retaining a
qualified professional to prepare the individual assessment that complies with
the requirements of this chapter, at the fee payer's expense. The fee payer
shall bear the burden of proving by clear and convincing evidence that the
resulting individual assessment is a more accurate measure of its proportionate
share of the cost of system improvements, based on the Fire District's adopted
level of service, than the development impact fees that would otherwise be due
pursuant to the fee schedule.
         a.   Each individual assessment request and supporting documentation
submitted by the fee payer shall be based on the same level of service
standards and unit costs for system improvements used in the Fire District's
capital improvements plan, shall use an average cost (not a marginal cost)
methodology, and shall document the relevant methodologies and assumptions
used.
         b.   Each individual assessment request delivered to the Fire District
Administrator may then be accepted, rejected, or accepted with modifications by
the Fire District Administrator as the basis for calculating the Fire District
impact fee. The criteria for acceptance, rejection or acceptance with
modifications shall be whether the individual assessment is a more accurate
measure of demand for system improvements element(s) created by the proposed
development, or the costs of those facilities, than the applicable fee shown in
the fee schedule.
         c.   The Fire District Administrator shall issue a written decision
within thirty (30) days following receipt of a completed request for individual
assessment together with all supporting information from the fee payer, so as
not to unreasonably delay the developer's (fee payer's) subsequent applications
to the county for building permits.
         d.   The decision by the Fire District Administrator on an application
for an individual assessment shall include an explanation of the calculation of
the Fire District impact fee, shall specify the system improvement(s) for which
the Fire District impact fee is intended to be used, and shall include an
explanation of those factors identified in Idaho Code § 67-8207.
         e.   If an individual assessment is accepted or accepted with
modifications by the Fire District Administrator then the Fire District impact
fee due under this chapter for such development shall be calculated according
to such individual assessment.
         f.   The Fire District Administrator shall provide notice of final
determination of an individual assessment to the Fee Payer and Gem County.
(Ord. 2021-10, -23-2021)
15-2-7: DEVELOPER CREDITS AND REIMBURSEMENT:
   A.   When a developer or their predecessor in title or interest has
constructed system improvements of the same category as a Fire District's
capital improvements element, or contributed or dedicated land or money towards
the completion of system improvements of the same category as the Fire
District's capital improvements element, and the Fire District has accepted
such construction, contribution or dedication, the Fire District shall issue a
credit against the Fire District's impact fees otherwise due for the same Fire
District's capital improvements element in connection with the proposed
development, as set forth in this section, credit shall be issued regardless of
whether the contribution or dedication to system improvements was required by
the Fire District as a condition of development approval or was offered by the
developer and accepted by the Fire District in writing, and regardless of
whether the contribution or dedication was contributed by the developer or by a
local improvement district controlled by the developer.
   B.   Credits against a Fire District impact fee shall not be given for:
      1.   Project Improvements; or
      2.   Any construction, contribution or dedication not agreed to in
writing by the Fire District prior to commencement of the construction,
contribution, or dedication.
Credits issued for one Fire District capital improvements element may not be
used to reduce Fire District impact fees due for a different capital
improvement. No credits shall be issued for system improvements contributed or
dedicated prior to the effective date of this chapter.
   C.   Valuation of Credit at Present Value:
      1.   Land: Credit for qualifying land dedications shall, at the fee
payer's option, be valued at the present value of one hundred percent (100%) of
the most recent assessed value for such land as shown in the records of the
county assessor.
      2.   Improvements: Credit for qualifying acquisition or construction of
System Improvements shall be valued by the Fire District at the present value
of such improvements based on complete engineering drawings, specifications,
and construction cost estimates submitted by the fee payer to the Fire
District. The Fire District Administrator shall determine the amount of credit
due based on the information submitted, or, if it determines that such
information is inaccurate or unreliable, then on alternative engineering or
construction costs acceptable to the Fire District as a more accurate measure
of the value of the offered System Improvements to the Fire District.
   D.   When Credits Become Effective:
      1.   Land: Approved credits for land dedications shall become effective
when the land has been conveyed to the Fire District in a form acceptable to
the Fire District, at no cost to the Fire District, and has been accepted by
the Fire District. Upon request of the fee payer, the Fire District shall issue
a letter stating the amount of credit available.
      2.   Improvements. Approved credits for acquisition or construction of
system improvements shall generally become effective when:
         a.   All required construction has been completed and has been
accepted by the Fire District;
         b.   A suitable maintenance and warranty bond has been received and
approved by the Fire District; and
         c.   All design, construction, inspection, testing, bonding, and
acceptance procedures have been completed in compliance with all applicable
requirements of the Fire District and the State of Idaho.
Upon request of the fee payer, the Fire District shall issue a letter stating
the amount of credit available.
   E.   Credit Request Process:
      1.   Request: In order to obtain a credit against a Fire District impact
fee otherwise due, a fee payer shall submit to the Fire District Administrator
a written offer of request to dedicate to the Fire District specific parcels of
qualifying land or a written offer to contribute or construct specific system
Improvements to the Fire District capital facilities in accordance with all
applicable state or county design and construction standards, and shall
specifically request a credit against the type of Fire District impact fee for
which the land dedication or system improvements is offered.
      2.   Review: After receipt of the written offer of request for credit,
the Fire District Administrator shall review the request and determine whether
the land or system improvements offered for credit will reduce the costs of
providing Fire District capital facilities by an amount at least equal to the
value of the credit. If the Fire District Administrator determines that the
offered credit satisfies that criteria and will be acceptable to the Fire
District's Board of Commissioners, then the credit shall be issued. The Fire
District shall complete its review and determination of an application within
thirty (30) days after receipt of an application for credit.
      3.   Credits Exceeding Fee Amounts Due: If the credit due to a fee payer
pursuant to subsection C exceeds the Fire District impact fee that would
otherwise be due from the fee payer pursuant to the chapter (whether calculated
through the impact fee schedule in section 3 of this chapter or through an
individual assessment), the fee payer may choose to receive such credit in the
form of either:
         a.   A credit against future Fire District impact fee due for the same
system improvements; or
         b.   A reimbursement from Fire District impact fees paid by future
development that impacts the system improvements contributed or dedicated by
the fee payer.
Unless otherwise stated in an agreement with the fee payer, the Fire District
shall be under no obligation to use any of the Fire District funds - other than
Fire District impact fees paid by other development for the same system
improvements - to reimburse the fee payer for any credit in excess of Fire
District impact fees that are due.
      4.   Written Agreement Required: If credit or reimbursement is due to the
fee payer pursuant to this section, the Fire District shall enter into a
written agreement with the fee payer, negotiated in good faith, prior to the
contribution, dedication, or funding of the system improvements giving rise to
the credit. The agreement shall provide for the amount of credit or the amount,
time and form of reimbursement, and shall have a term not exceeding ten (10)
years.
      5.   The Fire District Administrator's determination on the written offer
of request for credit shall be provided to the fee payer and the county. (Ord.
2021-10, -23-2021)
15-2-8: METHODOLOGY FOR THE CALCULATION OF FIRE DISTRICT IMPACT FEES:
   A.   General Provisions:
      1.   Accounting Principles: The calculation of the Fire District impact
fee shall be in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
development impact fee shall not be deemed invalid because payment of the fee
may result in an incidental benefit to owners or developers within the service
area other than the fee payer.
      2.   Levels Of Service: The Fire District impact fee shall be calculated
on the basis of levels of service for public facilities in the adopted capital
improvement plan that are applicable to existing development as well as new
growth and development. The construction, improvement, expansion or enlargement
of new or existing public facilities for which the Fire District Impact Fee is
imposed must be attributable to the capacity demands generated by the new
Development.
   B.   Methodology; Proportionate Methodology: The Fire District impact fee
shall not exceed a proportionate share of the cost of the system improvements
determined in accordance with Idaho Code § 67-8207, as it may be amended. Fire
District impact fees shall be based on actual system improvements costs or
reasonable estimates of such costs. The amount of the Fire District Impact Fee
shall be calculated using the methodology contained in the adopted capital
improvements plan.
   C.   Proportionate Share Determination:
      1.   The Fire District impact fee shall be based on a reasonable and fair
formula or method under which the Fire District impact fee imposed does not
exceed a proportionate share of the costs incurred or to be incurred by the
Fire District in the provision of system improvements to serve the new
development. The proportionate share is the costs attributable to the new
development after the Fire District considers the following:
         a.   Any appropriate credit, offset or contribution of money,
dedication of land or construction of system improvements;
         b.   Payments reasonably anticipated to be made by or as a result of a
new development in the form of user fees and debt service payments;
         c.   That portion of general tax or other revenues allocated by the
fire district to system improvements; and
         d.   All other available sources of funding such system improvements.
      2.   In determining the proportionate share of the cost of system
improvements to be paid by the developer, the following factors shall be
considered by the Fire District and accounted for in the calculation of the
Fire District's impact fee:
         a.   The costs of existing system improvements within the service
area;
         b.   The means by which existing system improvements have been
financed;
         c.   The extent to which the new development will contribute to system
improvements costs through taxation, assessments, or developer or landowner
contributions, or has previously contributed to system improvements costs
through developer or landowner contributions;
         d.   The extent to which the new development is required to contribute
to the cost of existing system improvements in the future;
         e.   The extent to which the new development should be credited for
providing system improvements, without charge to other properties within the
service area;
         f.   Extraordinary costs, if any, incurred in serving the new
development;
         g.   The time and price differential inherent in a fair comparison of
fees paid at different times; and
         h.   The availability of other sources of funding system improvements
including, but not limited to, user charges, general tax levies,
intergovernmental transfers and special taxation. (Ord. 2021-10, -23-2021)
15-2-9: EXTRAORDINARY IMPACT:
   A.   A Fire District may make an initial determination that development may
impose an extraordinary impact due to a review of a development application
transmitted by the county to a Fire District pursuant to the county's zoning
authority under the Local Land Use Planning Act, chapter 65, title 67, Idaho
Code.
   B.   Process:
      1.   Within thirty (30) days after Fire District Administrator's receipt
from the county of the development application, the Fire District Administrator
will notify the fee payer and the county of the Fire District Administrator's
initial determination that the development may impose an extraordinary impact.
Such notice shall include that a supplemental study, at the fee payer's expense
will be required.
      2.   Within thirty (30) days following the designation of a development
with extraordinary impact, the Fire District Administrator shall meet with the
fee payer to discuss whether the fee payer wants to:
         a.   Pay for the supplemental study necessary to determine the system
improvements costs related to the proposed development;
         b.   Modify the proposal to avoid generating extraordinary impact; or
         c.   Withdraw the application for certification, or development
approval.
      3.   If the fee payer agrees to pay for the supplemental study required
to document the proposed development's proportionate share of system
improvements costs, then the Fire District and the fee payer shall jointly
select an individual or organization acceptable to both to perform such study.
The fee payer shall enter into a written agreement with such individual or
organization to pay the costs of such study. Such agreement shall require the
supplemental study to be completed within thirty (30) days of such written
agreement, unless the fee payer agrees to a longer time.
      4.   Once the study has been completed, the fee payer may choose to:
         a.   Pay the proportionate share of system improvements costs
documented by the supplemental study; or
         b.   Modify the proposed development to reduce such costs; or
         c.   Withdraw the application.
The Fire District Administrator shall notify the county of the fee payer's
choice within fifteen (15) days of the fee payer's decision.
      5.   If the fee payer agrees to pay the system improvements costs
documented in the supplemental study, that agreement shall be reduced to
writing between the Fire District and the fee payer prior to review and
consideration of any application for any development approval or building
permit related to the proposed development. The Fire District Administrator
shall provide a copy of the agreement to the county within fifteen (15) days
after the agreement has been signed by both parties.
      6.   Notwithstanding any agreement by the fee payer to pay the
proportionate share of system improvements costs documented by the supplemental
study, nothing in this title shall obligate the county to approve development
that results in an extraordinary impact to the Fire District. (Ord. 2021-10, -
23-2021)
15-2-10: FEE PAYER REFUNDS:
   A.   Duty to Refund:
      1.   A Fire District's impact fee shall be refunded to a fee payer, or
successor in interest, or a property owner in the following circumstances:
         a.   Service is available but never provided;
         b.   A building permit, or permit for installation of a manufactured
home, is denied or abandoned;
         c.   The fee payer pays a Fire District impact fee under protest and a
subsequent review of the fee paid or the completion of an individual assessment
determines that the fee paid exceeded the proportionate share to which the Fire
District was entitled to receive;
         d.   The Fire District has collected a fire district impact fee and
the fire district has failed to appropriate or expend the collected fees
pursuant to subsection 2. below; or
         e.   Failure of the Fire District to commence construction or encumber
the fund in the Fire District's development impact fee capital projects fund.
      2.   Any Fire District impact fee paid shall be refunded if the Fire
District has failed to commence construction of system improvements in
accordance with this chapter, or to appropriate funds for such construction,
within eight (8) years after the date on which such fee was collected by the
Fire District. Any refund due shall be paid to the owner of record of the
parcel for which the Fire District's impact fee was paid. The Fire District may
hold Fire District impact fees for longer than eight (8) years but in no event
longer than eleven (11) years from the date collected if the Fire District
identifies in writing:
         a.   A reasonable cause why the fees should be held longer than eight
(8) years; and
         b.   An anticipated date by which the fees will be expended.
If the Fire District complies with the previous sentence, then any Fire
District impact fees so identified shall be refunded to the fee payer if the
Fire District has failed to commence construction of system improvements in
accordance with the written notice, or to appropriate funds for such
construction on or before the date identified in such writing.
      3.   After a Fire District impact fee has been paid pursuant to this
chapter and after a certificate of occupancy has been issued by the county, no
refund of any part of such fee shall be made if the project for which the fee
was paid is later demolished, destroyed, or is altered, reconstructed, or
reconfigured so as to reduce the size of the project or the number of units in
the project.
      4.   Each refund shall include a refund of interest at one-half the legal
rate provided for in Idaho Code § 28-22-104 from the date on which the fee was
originally paid.
   B.   Process: The Fire District shall make a determination of whether a
refund is due within thirty (30) days after receipt of a written request for a
refund from the fee payer, successor in interest, or an owner of record of the
property for which the fee was paid. When the right to a refund exists, the
Fire District shall send the refund within ninety (90) days after the Fire
District determines that a refund is due. (Ord. 2021-10, -23-2021)
15-2-11: ESTABLISHMENT OF FIRE DISTRICT CAPITAL PROJECTS FUND; TRUST ACCOUNTS:
   A.   Capital Projects Funds Established: The Capital Projects Fund
established by the Fire District will be maintained by the Fire District for
the purpose of ensuring that all Fire District impact fees collected, pursuant
to this chapter, are used to address impacts reasonably attributable to new
development for which the Fire District impact fees are paid. The Capital
Projects Fund shall have its own interest-bearing Account. The interest earned
on the account pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-8210(1) shall not be governed by
Idaho Code § 57-127, as it may be amended, but shall be considered funds of the
Capital Projects Fund and shall be subject to the same restrictions on uses of
funds as the Fire District impact fees on which the interest is generated.
   B.   Deposit of Fire District Impact Fees: All monies paid by a fee payer,
pursuant to this chapter, shall be identified as Fire District impact fees and
upon receipt by the Fire District shall be promptly deposited by the Fire
District Administrator in the Capital Projects Fund Account.
      1.   Monies in the capital projects fund account shall be spent in the
order collected, on a first-in/first-out basis.
      2.   The Fire District shall maintain and keep accurate financial records
for the account which records shall:
         a.   Show the source and disbursement of all revenues;
         b.   Account for all monies received;
         c.   Ensure that the disbursement of funds from the account shall be
used solely and exclusively for the provisions of projects specified in the
capital improvements plan; and
         d.   Provide an annual accounting for the fire district impact fee
capital projects fund account showing the source and amount of all funds
collected and the projects that were funded, which annual accounting shall be
provided to the county as part of the annual audit process of this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-10, -23-2021)
15-2-12: EXPENDITURE OF FIRE DISTRICT IMPACT FEES:
   A.   Expenditures: Expenditures of Fire District impact fees collected and
deposited in the capital projects fund shall be made only for system
improvements within the service area for which the impact fee was collected in
accordance with the capital improvements plan.
   B.   Capital Improvements Plan Reimbursement; Surcharge: A portion of each
impact fee collected may be designated as a surcharge for reimbursement of the
Fire District for the cost of preparing the capital improvements plan in
accordance with Idaho Code § 67-8208. The surcharge shall not exceed the
development's proportionate share of the cost of preparing the capital
improvements plan. (Ord. 2021-10, -23-2021)
15-2-13: APPEALS, PROTEST AND MEDIATION:
   A.   Appeals: Any fee payer that is or may be obligated to pay a Fire
District impact fee, individual assessment or an extraordinary impact, or that
claims a right to receive a refund, reimbursement, exemption or credit under
this chapter, and who is dissatisfied with a decision made either by the county
or by the Fire District Administrator in applying this chapter, may appeal such
decision. The fee payer shall have the burden on appeal of proving by clear and
convincing evidence that the decision was in error.
   B.   Appeal Process:
      1.   Appeals of denials of an exemption from Impact Fees under section
15-2-3 of this chapter.
         a.   A fee payer shall file a written notice of the appeal with the
Gem County Development Services Department within thirty (30) days after the
date of a denial of an exemption. Such notice of appeal shall include a
statement describing why the fee payer believes that the appealed decision was
in error, together with copies of any documents that the fee payer believes
support the claim.
         b.   The Gem County Development Services Department shall schedule a
hearing in front of the County Board of Commissioners within thirty (30) days
of receiving the appeal. The fee payer or its representative shall have a right
to be present and to present evidence in support of the appeal. The county
personnel who made the decision under appeal or their representatives shall
likewise have the right to be present and to present evidence in support of the
decision.
         c.   The County Board of Commissioners shall consider the decision
denying the exemption and also consider any additional evidence that may be
offered by the fee payer and county staff. The County Board of Commissioners
may affirm, reverse, or modify in whole or in part the decision appealed from
and issue a written decision within thirty (30) days.
         d.   A final decision of the County Board of Commissioners may be
judicially reviewed pursuant to Idaho Code § 31-1506.
      2.   Appeals of impact fee schedule assessments, refunds, reimbursements,
credits, individual assessments, or extraordinary impacts under this chapter.
         a.   The fee payer shall file a written notice of the appeal with the
Fire District Administrator within thirty (30) days after the date of the Fire
District Administrator's decision, or the date on which the fee payer submitted
a payment of the Fire District impact fee under protest, whichever is later.
Such written application shall include a statement describing why the fee payer
believes that the appealed decision was in error, together with copies of any
documents that the fee payer believes support the claim.
         b.   The Fire District's Board of Commissioners, shall hear the appeal
within sixty (60) days after receipt of a written notice of appeal. The fee
payer or its representative shall have a right to be present and to present
evidence in support of the appeal. The Fire District Administrator who made the
decision under appeal or its representatives shall likewise have the right to
be present and to present evidence in support of the decision. The criteria to
be used by the Fire District's Board of Commissioners in considering the appeal
shall be whether:
            (1)   The decision or interpretation made by the Fire District
Administrator; or
            (2)   The alternative decision or interpretation offered by the fee
payer, more accurately reflects the intent of this chapter that new development
in the service area pay its proportionate share of the costs of system
improvements to Fire District facilities necessary to serve new development and
whether the chapter has been correctly applied.
The Fire District's Board of Commissioners shall issue a decision upholding,
reversing, or modifying the decision being appealed within thirty (30) days
after hearing the appeal.
   C.   Payment Under Protest: A fee payer may pay a fire district impact fee
under protest in order not to delay in the issuance of a building permit by the
county. A fee payer making a payment under protest shall not be estopped from
exercising the right to appeal provided herein, nor shall such fee payer be
estopped from receiving a refund of any amount deemed to have been illegally
collected.
   D.   Mediation:
      1.   Any fee payer that has a disagreement with a decision made by the
county or a decision made by the Fire District Administrator regarding a Fire
District impact fee determination that is or may be due for a proposed
development pursuant to this chapter, may enter into a voluntary agreement with
the county, or the Fire District, as the case may be, to subject the
disagreement to mediation by a qualified independent party acceptable to both
parties to the mediation.
      2.   Mediation may take place at any time following the filing of a
timely appeal, or as an alternative to such appeal, provided that the request
for mediation is filed no later than the last date on which a timely appeal
could be filed pursuant to this section.
      3.   Participation in mediation does not preclude the fee payer from
pursuing other remedies provided for in this section.
      4.   If mediation is requested, any related mediation costs shall be
shared equally by the parties to the mediation, the Fire District, or the
county, and a written agreement regarding the payment of such costs shall be
executed prior to the commencement of mediation.
      5.   In the event that mediation does not resolve the issues, the fee
payer retains all rights of appeal as set forth in this section. (Ord. 2021-10,
-23-2021)
15-2-14: PERIODIC REVIEWS; ANNUAL BUDGET:
   A.   Review and Modification of Capital Improvements Plan: Unless the Board
of Commissioners of a Fire District deems some other period is appropriate, the
Board of Commissioners of a Fire District shall, at least once every five (5)
years, commencing from the date of the original adoption of the capital
improvements plan, review the development potential and update the capital
improvements plan in cooperation with the county and in accordance with the
procedures set forth in Idaho Code § 67-8206, as it may be amended. Each update
shall be prepared by the Fire District Administrator in consultation with the
Joint Development Impact Fee Advisory Committee.
   B.   Annual budget: The Fire District shall annually adopt a capital budget
and deliver a copy to the county within thirty (30) days of adoption. (Ord.
2021-10, -23-2021)
15-2-15: AUDIT:
As part of its annual audit process, the Fire District shall prepare and
forward to the county an annual report:
   A.   Describing the amount of all Fire District impact fees collected,
appropriated or spent during the preceding year; and
   B.   Describing the percentage of taxes and revenues from sources other than
the Fire District impact fees collected, appropriated or spent for system
improvements during the preceding year. (Ord. 2021-10, -23-2021)
15-2-16: JOINT ADVISORY COMMITTEE:
   A.   Establishment and Purpose: Pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-8205, there is
hereby established jointly with the Fire District a Joint Development Impact
Fee Advisory Committee (Joint Advisory Committee), whose purpose is to carry
out the duties as set forth in Idaho Code § 67-8205(3), as it may be amended.
   B.   Membership: The Joint Advisory Committee shall be composed of not fewer
than five (5) members. Two (2) or more members shall be active in the business
of development, building or real estate.
   C.   Meetings: Meetings may be called by the Joint Advisory Committee by
giving reasonable notice of the time and place of the meeting in accordance
with the Open Meetings Law, Idaho Code §§ 74-201 et seq., as may be amended.
The Joint Advisory Committee shall adopt reasonable rules as are necessary to
carry out the duties and responsibilities of the committee subject to the joint
approval of the Fire District and county, and elect such officers as deemed
necessary.
   D.   Continuation of existing Committees: Each development impact fee
advisory committee established as part of the preparation of the respective
Capital Improvements Plans shall become the Joint Development Impact Fee
Advisory Committee and shall continue in existence. (Ord. 2021-10, -23-2021)
15-2-17: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the Fire District from requiring
a developer to construct reasonable project improvements, as are required by
the fire codes and other rules that are adopted by the State Fire Marshal, in
conjunction with a development.
   B.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent or prohibit
private agreements between property owners or developers, the Idaho
Transportation Department and governmental entities in regard to the
construction or installation of system improvements or providing for credits or
reimbursements for system improvements costs incurred by a developer including
inter-project transfers of credits or providing for reimbursement for project
improvements which are used or shared by more than one (1) development project.
   C.   Nothing in this chapter shall obligate the county to approve
development which results in an extraordinary impact.
   D.   Nothing in this chapter shall obligate the Fire District to approve any
development request which may reasonably be expected to reduce levels of
service below minimum acceptable levels established in this chapter.
   E.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to create any additional
right to develop real property or diminish the county in regulating the orderly
development of real property within its boundaries.
   F.   Nothing in this chapter shall work to limit the use by the county of
the power of eminent domain or supersede or conflict with requirements or
procedures authorized in the Idaho Code for local improvement District or
general obligation bond issues.
   G.   The Fire District shall develop a plan for alternative sources of
revenue, which shall include but not necessarily be limited to plans generated
during the Fire District's annual budget process, lobbying efforts, tax
increment financing, and implementation of user fees, administrative and
regulatory fees and other forms of revenue.
   H.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, that portion of a
project for which a complete application for a building permit has been
received by the county, prior to the effective date of this chapter, shall not
be subject to the Fire District impact fee imposed by this chapter. If the
resulting building permit is later revised or replaced after the effective date
of the ordinance codified in this chapter, and the new building permit(s)
reflects a development density, intensity, development size or number of
service units more than ten percent (10%) higher than that reflected in the
original building permit, then the Fire District impact fee may be charged on
the difference in density, intensity, development size or number of service
units between the original and the revised or replacement building permit.
   I.   Any monies, including any accrued interest not assigned to specific
system improvements within such capital improvements plan and not expended or
refunded pursuant to this chapter shall be retained in the same account until
the next Fire District fiscal year.
   J.   If the Fire District discovers an error in the capital improvements
plan that results in assessment or payment of more than a proportionate share
of system improvement costs on any proposed development, the Fire District
Administrator shall:
      1.   Adjust the fire district impact fee to collect no more than a
proportionate share; or
      2.   Discontinue the collection of any fire district impact fees until
the error is corrected by ordinance.
   K.   If Fire District impact fees are calculated and paid based on a mistake
or misrepresentation, they shall be recalculated. Any amounts overpaid by a fee
payer shall be refunded by the Fire District within thirty (30) days after the
Fire District's acceptance of the recalculated amount, with interest at the
legal rate provided for in Idaho Code § 28-22-104 from the date on which the
fee was paid. Any amounts underpaid by the fee payer shall be paid to the Fire
District within thirty (30) days after the Fire District Administrator's
acceptance of the recalculated amount, with interest at the legal rate provided
for in Idaho Code § 28-22-104 from the date on which the fee was paid. In the
case of an underpayment to the Fire District, the Fire District Administrator
may request the county and the county may withhold issuance of the building
permits or development approval for the project for which the Fire District
impact fee was paid until such underpayment is corrected, and if amounts owed
to the Fire District are not paid within such thirty-day (30) period, the Fire
District Administrator may also ask the county to and the county may revoke any
building permits or development approval issued in reliance on the previous
payment of such Fire District impact fee and refund such fee to the fee payer.
(Ord. 2021-10, -23-2021)
15-2-18: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
All provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this chapter shall
be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the Act and
the Gem County Board of Commissioners and the Board of Commissioners of the
Fire District may be fully carried out.
(Ord. 2021-10, -23-2021)
TITLE 16 AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION AREAS
CHAPTER 1
AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION AREAS
SECTION:
16-1-1: Purpose
16-1-2: Definitions
16-1-3:    Creation And Designation Of APA
16-1-4:    Review Process
16-1-5:    Expansion Or Removal Of An APA
16-1-6:    Termination Of An APA
16-1-7:    Enrollment Duration And Review
16-1-8:    Fees
16-1-9:    Enforcement, Prohibitions, And Penalties
16-1-10: APA Commission
16-1-1: PURPOSE:
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for a voluntary process through
which agricultural and timber producers of Gem County may make application to
commit lands actively devoted to agriculture for future agricultural use. An
agriculture protection area ("APA") designation aims to protect farmland,
rangeland, and forest land; promote farm viability; support the local
agricultural economy; and provide for long-term planning stability. This
chapter sets out the process for creation of agriculture protection areas.
(Ord. 2025-05, 12-23-2024)
16-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
AGRICULTURE PRODUCTION: Activities or conditions conducted on land actively
devoted to agriculture as defined in Idaho Code § 63-604, or on forest land as
defined in Idaho Code § 63-1701.
AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREA ("APA"): Specific parcels of land in a designated
geographic area voluntarily created under the authority of this chapter for the
purpose of protecting and preserving agricultural land.
AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREA COMMISSION: The advisory board to the Board of
County Commissioners created pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-9705.
APPLICANT: Anyone who owns five (5) contiguous acres or more of land that has
been in active agricultural or forest production for the previous three (3)
consecutive years, consistent with the provisions of Idaho Code §§ 63-604, 63-
1701, and who voluntarily applies for that land to be part of an APA.
AREA OF CITY IMPACT (AOCI): Designated by county ordinance where city growth
and development are expected to occur.
HARDSHIP: A situation or circumstance over which a landowner in an APA has no
control and can then petition for removal for reasons that include but are not
limited to an adverse result in litigation against the farm or landowner, death
of a close family member that would lead to unanticipated financial hardships,
significant tax liabilities, bankruptcy due to another person's fraud, or any
other illegal activity; after any automatic renewal period, failure to meet the
initial termination deadline shall constitute hardship.
PROPOSAL: Written documents submitted to a governing body or agricultural
protection area commission from a landowner regarding his property.
(Ord. 2025-05, 12-23-2024)
16-1-3: CREATION AND DESIGNATION OF APA:
   A.   An agriculture protection area shall be designated as an "APA." An APA
designation is a voluntary land use designation available to landowners who
wish to protect their agricultural land from future nonagricultural
development. The APA, once approved, will be designated on the Gem County
Comprehensive Plan Future Land Use Map. To qualify for an APA designation, the
land must be:
      1.   At least five (5) contiguous acres, and
      2.   Actively devoted to an agricultural or forest production, and
      3.   Assessed as agriculture land with a current agricultural exemption
or forest land,
      4.   Located within a zone that allows for agricultural or forest use,
and
      5.   Not located in or within one half (½) mile of the southern boundary
limits the Emmett AOCI.
   B.   Landowners wishing to establish an APA must submit an application to
the Gem County Development Services Department. At a minimum, the application
shall include the following:
      1.   Name, phone number, email, and mailing address of the landowner;
      2.   Proof of land ownership;
      3.   A legal description of the parcels, structures, and facilities
proposed to be included in the APA;
      4.   A map showing the boundaries of the proposed APA;
      5.   A statement outlining the current contiguous acreages of land, land
use, agricultural productivity, and other relevant characteristics of the land
to be included in the APA;
      6.   The number of years the land has been in agricultural or forest
production, the types of agricultural or forest commodities produced, and the
applicant's plan to continue using the land for agricultural or forest
purposes;
      7.   A copy of any easements on the property;
      8.   The stated reasons for seeking an APA designation; and,
      9.   Soil surveys, water rights, and any other relevant environmental
assessments.
(Ord. 2025-05, 12-23-2024)
16-1-4: REVIEW PROCESS:
   A.   Upon receipt of a completed application, development services shall
submit the application to the APA Commission within fourteen (14) days and the
APA Commission shall review the proposal and make a recommendation to the Board
of County Commissioners within sixty (60) days of receiving the application.
The application shall be evaluated on the following standards:
      1.   The total contiguous acreage of the land is at least five (5) acres
in size and is currently assessed as agriculture with an agriculture exemption
or forest land,
      2.   Location is not in or within one half (½) mile of the southern
boundary limits of the Emmett AOCI or within an AOCI,
      3.   The applicant's plan for continuity of operation over the twenty
(20) year designation period,
      4.   Possible conflict with existing city annexation or development plans
or agreements,
      5.   Proximity to existing public rights of way,
      6.   Proximity to planned transportation corridors or future public
rights of way,
      7.   Proximity to planned airport expansion or development,
      8.   Proximity to planned development with existing entitlements,
      9.   Agricultural production capability of the land within the proposed
APA, and
      10.   Other local impacts relevant to the proposed APA.
   B.   Notwithstanding the standards and review process outlined in this
chapter, the Board of County Commissioners may place additional conditions on
lands designated as an APA, including, but not limited to, setbacks from
existing public rights of way, setbacks from existing public structures, and a
review of the land's APA designation after twenty (20) years.
   C.   Once the APA Commission makes its recommendation to the Board of County
Commissioners, the Board of County Commissioners shall hold a public hearing
and issue its decision within sixty (60) days. Failure to make a decision shall
render the APA Commission's recommendation final. The Board of County
Commissioner's decision shall include findings of facts supporting its
decision.
   D.   Upon making its decision, the Board of County Commissioners shall:
      1.   Record the designation of an APA, a legal description of the area,
and any findings of facts with the county recorder within ten (10) days;
      2.   Amend county land use planning maps to reflect the boundaries of the
APA; and
      3.   Notify relevant public officials and agencies of the designation.
(Ord. 2025-05, 12-23-2024)
16-1-5: EXPANSION OR REMOVAL OF AN APA:
   An expansion, modification or partial removal, of an existing APA shall
follow the same application, review, and hearing procedures outlined in this
chapter and consistent with Idaho Code § 67-9709. Any expansion of an APA shall
be contiguous to the APA.
(Ord. 2025-05, 12-23-2024)
16-1-6: TERMINATION OF AN APA:
   A landowner wishing to terminate an APA must request in writing a meeting
with the Board of County Commissioners. The meeting request shall include a
proof of hardship. The request and proof of hardship should be submitted to
both the County Clerk and Development Services Department. Early termination of
the APA shall only occur if the landowner is able to establish a hardship as
defined in this chapter. The landowner seeking to terminate an APA bears the
burden of proof in demonstrating the hardship. Early termination of an APA is
not taken lightly, and will be carefully considered.
(Ord. 2025-05, 12-23-2024)
16-1-7: ENROLLMENT DURATION AND REVIEW:
   Twenty (20) years after the creation of an APA, if the landowner desires to
continue with the APA, no action on the part of the landowner is necessary and
the APA shall automatically renew for another twenty (20) years. If the
landowner desires to terminate the agricultural protection area, written notice
to the Board of County Commissioners is required to be submitted to both the
County Clerk and Development Services Department prior to the expiration of the
APA. Failure to meet the initial termination deadline shall constitute hardship
for purposes of requesting an early termination of the APA during any automatic
renewal period.
(Ord. 2025-05, 12-23-2024)
16-1-8: FEES:
   An application fee shall be required to cover administrative costs of
processing each application, such costs, including, but not limited to,
reviewing materials, conducting public meetings and hearings, publication
costs, processing and recording documents, and updating county land use maps.
(Ord. 2025-05, 12-23-2024)
16-1-9: ENFORCEMENT, PROHIBITIONS, AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Unless otherwise approved by the Board of County Commissioners, the
following land uses are not allowed within an APA:
      1.   The siting of large confined animal feeding operations (CAFO);
      2.   The siting of residential development, commercial, manufacturing,
industrial, solar energy farms, wind energy farms, or battery storage
structures; or
      3.   Any other nonagricultural land uses.
   B.   The Board of County Commissioners or acting code enforcement officer or
other designee shall be responsible for enforcing the provisions of this
chapter. Any person found to be in violation of this Ordinance shall be guilty
of an infraction as consistent with GCC
1-4-1.
(Ord. 2025-05, 12-23-2024)
16-1-10: APA COMMISSION:
   The Board of County Commissioners shall appoint at least three (3) and no
more than five (5) members to the APA Commission to serve for a term of three
(3) years. Members shall be actively employed by or supporting production
agriculture as further defined in Idaho Code § 67-905. APA Commission members
shall serve in an advisory role and have the following responsibilities: 1)
review and make recommendations on APA applications, and 2) assess and report
annually on the agricultural needs of the County. The Board of County
Commissioners may remove members of the APA Commission at any time, with or
without cause. APA Commission members serve in a volunteer capacity without
pay, benefits, or other compensation.
(Ord. 2025-05, 12-23-2024)
 
