CITY CODE
of
GENESEE, IDAHO
1982
Code current through:
Res. 2023-4, passed October 17, 2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Genesee, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including resolution 2023-4, passed October 17, 2023. Ordinances of the
City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 269
AN ORDINANCE PROVIDING FOR THE REVISION, CODIFICATION AND COMPILATION OF THE
GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF GENESEE.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF GENESEE, IDAHO:
   Section 1. That all ordinances of a general nature now in force in the City
of Genesee, Idaho, as revised, codified and compiled and hereinafter set forth,
be, and they are hereby adopted, passed, published and declared to be the
compiled ordinances of the City of Genesee, pursuant to Chapter 9, Title 50 of
the Idaho Code, as amended, empowering any city of the first or second class,
or any village, to revise, codify and compile its ordinances.
   Section 2. That this ordinance and all said ordinances of a general nature
compiled and codified as above stated, shall be in full force and effect upon
the passage, approval, and publication of this ordinance in one issue of The
Gazette News, a newspaper of general circulation, published in the City of
Kendrick, Idaho, Latah County, and the official newspaper thereof.
   Adopted February 7, 1983.
[IMAGE]
[IMAGE]
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
Genesee City Code   1
Saving Clause   2
Claims   3
Corporate Seal   4
Official Newspaper   5
Salaries   6
Precinct   7
General Penalty   8
Mayor   9
City Council   10
Appointive Officers   11
Elections   12
Initiative And Referendum   13
CHAPTER 1
GENESEE CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Construction Of Words
1-1-5: Definitions
1-1-6: Liability Of Employers And Agents
1-1-1: TITLE:
This compilation and codification of the general ordinances of the city of
Genesee is hereby declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official
city code of the city of Genesee. Any reference made to the number of any
section contained herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the
same under its appropriate title heading, its chapter heading, and its section
heading, and to the general penalty clause relating thereto, as well as to the
section itself, when reference is made to this code by title in any legal
documents. (1963 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of a general and permanent effect of the city. (1963
Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute a
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to Sterling
Codifiers, Inc., and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for
insertion in its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement
page shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each copy of this
code within thirty (30) days from the date of its final passage. (1963 Code)
1-1-4: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural number is
used, in describing or referring to any matters, parties, or persons, any
single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this code by words importing the singular number only,
or the masculine gender, several matters, parties, or persons and females as
well as males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included. Provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or where
the subject matter or content may be repugnant thereto. (1963 Code)
1-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
   KNOWINGLY: Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which brings the
act or omission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
   NEGLECT, NEGLIGENCE, NEGLIGENT, AND NEGLIGENTLY: Imports a want of such
attention to the nature or probable consequences of the act or omission as a
prudent man ordinarily bestows in acting in his own concern.
   OFFICER: Shall include officers and boards in charge of departments and
members of such boards. The word "city", "clerk", "treasurer", or other such
title shall mean city clerk, city treasurer, or other city officer as the use
may be applicable.
   OWNER: Applied to a building or land shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
   PERSON: Shall be deemed to include any "person, firm, association, or
corporation" or any organization of any kind.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
   STREETS: Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
   TENANT OR OCCUPANT: Applied to a building or land shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or
with others.
   WILFULLY: When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to injure
another, or to acquire an advantage.
   WRITTEN AND IN WRITING: May include printing.
Words prohibiting anything being done, except in accordance with a license or
permit or authority from a board or officer, shall be construed as giving such
board or officer power to license or permit or authorize such thing to be done.
(1963 Code)
1-1-6: LIABILITY OF EMPLOYERS AND AGENTS:
When the provisions of any section of this official code prohibits the
commission of an act, not only the person actually doing the prohibited act or
omitting the directed act, but also the employer and all other persons
concerned with or in aiding or abetting the said person shall be deemed guilty
of the offense described and liable to the penalty set forth. (1963 Code; amd.
1982 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Pending Suits
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the passage of this code are
hereby repealed, except such as are referred to herein as being still in force
or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the
saving clauses herein contained) from which are excluded the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances, appropriation
ordinances, ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations, franchise
ordinances, and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations, contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants, salary ordinances, ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places,
improvement ordinances, bond ordinances, ordinances relating to elections,
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city and all special ordinances. (1963 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue
of the preceding section, excepting as this code may contain provision for such
matters, in which case this code shall be considered as amending such ordinance
or ordinances in respect of such provisions only. (1963 Code)
1-2-3: PENDING SUITS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance,
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as town act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrue or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinances in force at the time of such proceedings, so far as practicable. If
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied
to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this or the preceding sections shall be construed as
abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of
the city herein repealed; or as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering
any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person,
firm, or corporation, or as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance
or provision thereof in force at the time of adoption of this code. (1963 Code)
CHAPTER 3
CLAIMS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Claims Filed With City Clerk
1-3-2: Claims For Damages
1-3-1: CLAIMS FILED WITH CITY CLERK:
All claims against the city must be filed with the city clerk, in writing, and
by him presented to the council for their auditing, with a full account of the
item, verified by the oath of the claimant, or his agent, that the same is
correct, reasonable and just and that it nor any part thereof has not been
paid, and no claims or demands shall be audited or allowed unless presented and
verified as provided for in this section. (1963 Code)
1-3-2: CLAIMS FOR DAMAGES:
All claims for damages against the city must be filed with the clerk, within
six (6) months after the time when such claim for damages shall have accrued,
specifying, the time, place, character and cause of said damages. No action
shall be maintained against the city for any claim for damages until the same
has been presented to the council, and until sixty (60) days have elapsed after
such presentation. The allowance of any or all damage claims against such city
shall be by ordinance and not otherwise. (1963 Code)
CHAPTER 4
CORPORATE SEAL
SECTION:
1-4-1: Corporate Seal; Design
1-4-2: Adoption Of Seal
1-4-3: City Clerk Custodian Of Seal
1-4-1: CORPORATE SEAL; DESIGN:
The corporate seal of the city of Genesee, Idaho, shall be circular in form
with inner and outer circles of a rope design. The outer circle shall be one
and seven-eighths inches (17/8") in diameter and the inner circle shall be one
and three-sixteenths inches (13/16") in diameter. It shall bear upon the upper
portion of space between the two (2) circles the words "City of Genesee", and
upon the lower portion of the space between the two (2) circles the words
"Latah Co. Idaho", and upon the space within the inner circle shall be the
illustration of grain and harvest tools.
A facsimile of the above described seal is shown below:
[IMAGE]
(1963 Code)
1-4-2: ADOPTION OF SEAL:
The seal described in section
 1-4-1 of this chapter is hereby adopted as the corporate seal of the city of
Genesee, Latah County, Idaho. (1963 Code)
1-4-3: CITY CLERK CUSTODIAN OF SEAL:
The clerk of the city shall be the custodian of the corporate seal and shall
affix said seal imprint upon all official documents, records and licenses.
(1963 Code)
CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER
SECTION:
1-5-1: Official Newspaper Of The City
1-5-1: OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER OF THE CITY:
The "Idahonian Daily News", a newspaper printed in the city of Moscow, is
hereby appointed, designated and constituted the official newspaper of the
city, and all ordinances, notices, statements and other writings required to be
published under and by virtue of the laws of the state and the government of
this city shall be given publication in said newspaper. (Ord. 293, 5-18-1987)
CHAPTER 6
SALARIES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Mayor And Council; Salaries
1-6-2: Salaries Of Appointive Officers
1-6-1: MAYOR AND COUNCIL; SALARIES:
   Commencing January 2, 2024, the salaries of the mayor and the members of the
city council shall be as follows:
   (A)   The mayor shall receive a monthly salary in the sum of seven hundred
dollars ($700.00).
   (B)   Each member of the council shall receive a monthly salary in the sum
of three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00).
(Ord. 394, 2-19-2013; amd. Ord. 394, 8-15-2023)
1-6-2: SALARIES OF APPOINTIVE OFFICERS:
Salaries of appointive officers shall be fixed by resolution of the council.
(1963 Code)
CHAPTER 7
PRECINCT
SECTION:
1-7-1: Precinct Description
1-7-2: Description To Be Filed
1-7-1: PRECINCT DESCRIPTION:
The city of Genesee, Idaho, shall be one precinct, described as follows:
Commencing at the northeast corner of section fourteen (14) in township thirty
seven (37) north, of range five (5) west of the B.M.; thence south along the
east line of section fourteen (14) to the southeast corner of Alder and Willow
Streets, as the same appears on record of the town of Genesee in the office of
the recorder of deeds in and for Latah County and State of Idaho; thence west
along the south line of Willow Street until it intersects the north and south
centerline of section fourteen (14), thence north along said center section
line until it intersects the south line of the right of way of the Spokane &
Palouse Railroad; thence along the south line of the said right of way until it
intersects the west line of section fourteen (14), thence north on the said
west line of section fourteen (14) to the northwest corner of said section
fourteen (14), thence east one-quarter (1/4) of a mile on the north line of
section fourteen (14), thence south one thousand one hundred and seventy feet
(1,170'), to the northwest corner of lot three (3) in block four (4) in the
west addition to the town of Genesee, as appears of record in the office of the
recorder of deeds in and for Latah County, Idaho; thence east to the north and
south centerline of section fourteen (14), thence north on said center section
line to the northwest corner of the northeast quarter of section fourteen (14)
thence east on the north line of said section fourteen (14) to the northeast
corner of said section 14, being the place of beginning.
(Ord. 243, 10-10-1977)
1-7-2: DESCRIPTION TO BE FILED:
The city clerk shall keep on file a description of the precinct or precincts.
Said description shall be amended by the clerk from time to time as directed by
resolution or other order of the city council. (Ord. 243, 10-10-1977)
CHAPTER 8
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-8-1: General Penalty Of The City
1-8-1: GENERAL PENALTY OF THE CITY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any ordinance of the city may be fined
in a sum not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) for any offense and such
person may be confined in jail for a period of not more than six (6) months.
Either or both such fine and imprisonment may be imposed, and in addition
thereto, any person so convicted shall pay such costs as the court may assess.
Any person convicted of driving a motor vehicle while under the influence of
intoxicating liquor or a narcotic drug may be fined in an amount not to exceed
three hundred dollars ($300.00) and may be confined in jail for not more than
six (6) months or both such fine and imprisonment.
The penalty herein provided shall be applicable to every ordinance of the city
the same as though it were a part of each and every separate ordinance. Any
person convicted of a violation of any ordinance of this city shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed for each
day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 213, 1-4-1971;
amd. 1982 Code)
CHAPTER 9
MAYOR
SECTION:
1-9-1: Mayor; Duties
1-9-2: Mayor To Sign Contracts
1-9-3: Qualifications And Term Of Office
1-9-4: Mayor May Grant Pardon (Rep. by 1982 Code)
1-9-5: Veto Power Of Mayor
1-9-6: Accounts And Reports Of Officers
1-9-7: Police Powers Of Mayor
1-9-8: Mayor May Require Aid
1-9-9: Other Powers
1-9-1: MAYOR; DUTIES:
The mayor shall devote so much of his time to the duties of his office as an
efficient and faithful discharge thereof may require. He shall, from time to
time, give the council such information and recommend such measures as he may
deem beneficial to the city. He shall examine the grounds of all complaints
against any of the officers of the city to determine existence of a violation
or neglect of duty, and report the evidence thereof, if deemed sufficient for
the removal of said officer, to the council. He shall require that every
officer, on the expiration of his term of office or resignation or removal from
the same, deliver to his successor all money, books, papers, maps, plats,
furniture, fixtures, apparatus, machinery, tools and instruments and
appurtenances belonging to such office. He shall perform all other duties
imposed on him by the laws of the state. (1963 Code)
1-9-2: MAYOR TO SIGN CONTRACTS:
The mayor is authorized and empowered to sign his name officially for and in
behalf of the city on all contracts, including deeds, bonds, bills, notes,
obligations and other agreements, documents and papers, to which the city is a
party, and to require that the conditions in the said instruments are
faithfully performed and to borrow money on the credit of the city when
authorized by the council. (1963 Code)
1-9-3: QUALIFICATIONS AND TERM OF OFFICE:
Any person shall be eligible to hold the office of mayor who is a qualified
elector of the city at the time of his election and remains a qualified elector
during his term of office. The term of office of mayor shall be for a period of
four (4) years. He shall take office at the time and in the manner provided for
installation of councilmen. (1982 Code)
1-9-4: MAYOR MAY GRANT PARDON:
(Rep. by 1982 Code)
1-9-5: VETO POWER OF MAYOR:
The mayor shall have power to veto or sign any ordinance passed by the city
council, provided that any ordinance vetoed by the mayor may be passed over his
veto by a vote of one-half (1/2) plus one member of the full council,
notwithstanding the veto, and should the mayor neglect or refuse to sign any
ordinance and return the same with his objection, in writing, at the next
regular meeting of the council, the same shall become a law without his
signature. (1963 Code; amd. 1982 Code)
1-9-6: ACCOUNTS AND REPORTS OF OFFICERS:
The mayor shall have the power, when he deems it necessary, to require any
officer of the city to exhibit his accounts or other papers, and to make
reports to the council in writing touching any subject or matter he may require
pertaining to his office. (1963 Code)
1-9-7: POLICE POWERS OF MAYOR:
The mayor shall have jurisdiction over all places within five (5) miles of the
corporate limits of the city for the enforcement of any health or quarantine
ordinance and regulation thereof, and shall have jurisdiction in all matters,
excepting taxation, within one mile of the corporate limits. (1963 Code; amd.
1982 Code)
1-9-8: MAYOR MAY REQUIRE AID:
The mayor is hereby authorized to call on every male inhabitant in the city
over eighteen (18) years of age and under the age of fifty (50) years to aid in
enforcing the laws. (1963 Code)
1-9-9: OTHER POWERS:
The mayor shall have all other powers granted by the laws of the state. (1963
Code)
CHAPTER 10
CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-10-1: Duties Of Councilmen
1-10-2: Qualifications And Terms Of Office
1-10-3: Vacancies; Appointments
1-10-4: Time And Place Of Meetings
1-10-5: How To Conduct Council Meetings
1-10-6: Elect President Of The Council
1-10-7: Consent Calendar
1-10-1: DUTIES OF COUNCILMEN:
The members of the City Council, the legislative and policy making branch of
the government of the City, shall devote so much of their time to the duties of
their office as an efficient and faithful discharge thereof may require. They
shall attend all meetings of the Council, unless lawfully excused therefrom,
and perform all duties which by the nature of their office they should
reasonably perform. (1963 Code)
1-10-2: QUALIFICATIONS AND TERMS OF OFFICE:
The Council shall consist of four (4) members, one-half (1/2) of whom shall be
elected at each general City election. Any person shall be eligible to hold the
Office of Councilman of this City who is, at the time of election, and remains,
a qualified elector under the constitution and laws of the State. Each
Councilman elected at a general City election, except as otherwise specifically
provided, shall hold office for a term of four (4) years, and until his
successor is elected and qualified. Councilmen elected at each general City
election shall be installed at the first meeting in January following election.
The manner of conducting that meeting shall be as herein set forth and not
otherwise. The incumbents shall meet and conduct such business as may be
necessary to conclude fiscal matters of the preceding year; the newly elected
shall then subscribe to the oath of office, be presented certificates of
election, assume the duties of their position and conduct such business as
necessary, one item of which shall be the election of a member as President of
the Council. (1982 Code)
1-10-3: VACANCIES; APPOINTMENTS:
A vacancy on the Council shall be filled by appointment made by the Mayor with
the consent of the majority of the remaining Council, which appointee shall
serve only until the next general City election, at which time such vacancy
shall be filled for the balance of the original term. (1982 Code)
1-10-4: TIME AND PLACE OF MEETINGS:
The City Council shall hold regular sessions of the Council in the City Hall on
the first and on the third Tuesdays of each month at six o’clock (6:00) P.M.
(Ord. 406, 9-6-2016; amd. Ord. 419, 6-16-2020)
1-10-5: HOW TO CONDUCT COUNCIL MEETINGS:
There is hereby adopted by the City for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations for the conduct of Council meetings, the Clerk's duties and the
Mayor's duties, in relation to Council meetings, the 1990 (ninth) edition of
"Robert's Rules of Order", newly revised, of which not less than one copy is
now on file in the Office of the City Clerk and the same is hereby adopted and
incorporated as fully as if set forth at length herein. (Ord. 346, 2-7-2000)
1-10-6: ELECT PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL:
At the time of taking office, the Council shall elect one of the members of the
Council, who shall be styled President of the Council, and who shall preside at
all meetings of the Council in the absence of the Mayor; and, in the absence of
the President, elect one of their own body to occupy his place temporarily, who
shall be styled Acting President of the Council, and the President and Acting
President, when occupying the place of Mayor, shall have the same privileges as
other members of the Council, and all acts of the President and Acting
President, while acting, shall be binding upon the Council and upon the City as
if done by the Mayor. (1963 Code)
1-10-7: CONSENT CALENDAR:
   (A)   When the Mayor determines that any item of business requires action by
the Council, but is of a routine and noncontroversial nature, he may cause such
item to be presented at a regular meeting of the Council as part of a consent
calendar.
   (B)   The consent calendar shall be introduced by a motion "to approve the
consent calendar", and shall be considered by the council as a single item.
   (C)   There shall be no debate or discussion by any member of the council
regarding any item on the consent calendar, beyond asking questions for simple
clarification.
   (D)   On objection by any member of the council to inclusion of any item on
the consent calendar, that item shall be removed from the consent calendar
forthwith. Such objection may be recorded at any time prior to the taking of a
vote on the motion to approve the consent calendar. All such items shall be
considered individually, in the order in which they were objected to,
immediately following consideration of the consent calendar.
   (E)   Approval of the motion to approve the consent calendar shall be fully
equivalent to approval, adoption, or enactment of each motion exactly as if
each had been acted upon individually.
   (F)   Approval of the motion must be made by roll call vote.
   (G)   The city clerk shall record in the council minutes each item passed
under the consent calendar individually and in full or, if possible,
separately. (Ord. 346, 2-7-2000)
CHAPTER 11
APPOINTIVE OFFICERS
SECTION:
1-11-1: Appointment By Mayor
1-11-2: Term Of Office And Removal
1-11-3: Appointments To Offices Hereafter Created
1-11-4: City Clerk, Duties; Journal; Administering Oaths
1-11-5: City Attorney, Duties
1-11-6: Treasurer, Duties; Record Of Outstanding Bonds
1-11-7: City Engineer; Duties
1-11-8: Bonds Of Officers
1-11-1: APPOINTMENT BY MAYOR:
The mayor, with the consent of the council, shall appoint a clerk, treasurer,
attorney, chief of police, chief of fire department and an engineer. (1963
Code; amd. 1982 Code)
1-11-2: TERM OF OFFICE AND REMOVAL:
All appointive officers shall hold office for the term for which they were
appointed and qualified; provided, that any appointive officer may, at any
time, be removed by the action of the mayor with the concurrence of a majority
of the council; provided, further, that all employees holding positions by
virtue of appointment without the approval of the city council, may be removed
or discharged at the pleasure of the appointing power. (1963 Code)
1-11-3: APPOINTMENTS TO OFFICES HEREAFTER CREATED:
The mayor, by and with the consent of the council, shall make appointments to
all city offices now existing which have not been in this chapter specifically
named and which may be hereafter created from time to time by the council.
(1963 Code)
1-11-4: CITY CLERK, DUTIES; JOURNAL; ADMINISTERING OATHS:
The city clerk shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the council
and shall have the custody of all laws and ordinances of the city. He may
administer oaths to any person concerning any matter submitted to him or the
city council. He shall also perform such other duties as may be required by
ordinance. (1982 Code)
1-11-5: CITY ATTORNEY, DUTIES:
The city attorney shall be the legal adviser of the council. He shall commence,
prosecute and defend all noncriminal suits or actions necessary on behalf of
the city, or that may be ordered by the council. When requested, he shall
attend meetings of the council and give them his opinion upon any matters
submitted to him. (1963 Code; amd. 1982 Code)
1-11-6: TREASURER, DUTIES; RECORD OF OUTSTANDING BONDS:
The treasurer of the city shall be the custodian of all monies belonging to the
city. He shall keep a separate account of each fund or appropriation, and the
debits and credits belonging thereto. He shall give a receipt to every person
paying money into the treasury, thereon specifying the date of payment and on
what account paid. He shall also file copies of such receipts with his monthly
reports. He shall, at the end of each and every month and as often as may be
required, render an account to the city council, under oath, showing the state
of the treasury at the date of such account and the balance of money in the
treasury. He shall also accompany such accounts with a statement of all
receipts and disbursements, together with all warrants redeemed and paid by
him, which said warrants, with any and all vouchers held by him, shall be filed
with his said account in the clerk's office, and if said treasurer neglect or
fail for the space of ten (10) days from the end of each and every month, to
render his said account, his office shall be declared vacant, and the city
council shall fill the vacancy by appointment. He shall also keep a record of
all outstanding bonds against the city, showing the number, amount of each and
to whom said bonds were issued; and when any bonds are purchased, paid or
canceled, said record shall show the fact. In his annual report, he shall
describe particularly the bonds issued and sold during the year and the terms
of the sale with each and every item of expense thereof. (1982 Code)
1-11-7: CITY ENGINEER, DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the city engineer to locate the lines and grades of all
streets, sidewalks, alleys, avenues and other public ways and to perform such
other services as may be required of him by statute, ordinance or the mayor and
council. (1963 Code)
1-11-8: BONDS OF OFFICERS:
The several officers herein named shall give bonds to the city with two (2) or
more sufficient sureties in the minimum penal sums as follows; provided, surety
bonds will be furnished at the expense of the city in lieu of personal bonds:
 
City clerk     $5,000.00
City treasurer 5,000.00
 
(1963 Code; amd. 1982 Code)
CHAPTER 12
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-12-1: Poll Hours
1-12-1: POLL HOURS:
The polls for all general and special city elections shall be open from eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. Pacific Time and remain open until eight o'clock (8:00)
P.M. Pacific Time. (Ord. 363, 9-17-2003)
CHAPTER 13
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
SECTION:
1-13-1: Creation Of Right
1-13-2: Number Of Petitioners Required
1-13-3: Form Of Petition
1-13-4: Time For Filing Petitions
1-13-5: Printing Of Petition And Sheets For Signature; Time Limits For
Perfecting Petition
1-13-6: Verification On Sheets For Signatures
1-13-7: Examination And Certification Of Signatures
1-13-8: Sufficiency Of Petition; Notification; Effect Of Council Action;
Election
1-13-9: Form Of Ballot
1-13-10: Conduct Of Election
1-13-11: Costs Of Election
1-13-12: Canvass Of Returns
1-13-13: Prohibited Acts; Penalties
1-13-1: CREATION OF RIGHT:
The people of this city shall have the right to enact ordinances through the
initiative process, and to repeal ordinances through the referendum process,
according to the procedures set forth herein. (Ord. 348, 3-21-2001)
1-13-2: NUMBER OF PETITIONERS REQUIRED:
To enact an ordinance by initiative or to repeal an ordinance by referendum,
there shall be attached or appended to the petition the signatures of the legal
voters of the city equal to at least twenty percent (20%) of the total number
of electors who cast votes at the last general election in the city. "General
election" shall mean the last municipal general election, held in odd numbered
years. (Ord. 349, 6-6-2001)
1-13-3: FORM OF PETITION:
The initiative petition shall be in substantially the following form:
Initiative Petition to the Mayor and Council of the City of Genesee, Idaho:
"We, the undersigned citizens and legal voters of the City of Genesee,
respectfully demand that the following proposed ordinance, to-wit: (setting out
full text of measure proposed) shall be submitted to the legal voters of the
City of Genesee, for their approval or rejection at an election to be called in
accordance with Idaho Code Section 50-501(3), and each for himself says: I have
personally signed this petition; I am a legal voter of the City of Genesee; my
residence and post office are correctly written after my name.
Name                      Street and Number          
   Post Office               
(Here follow numbered lines for signatures)
The petition for referendum on any ordinance passed by the city council shall
be in substantially the same form with appropriate title and changes, setting
out in full the text of the ordinance to be referred to the people for their
approval or rejection. (Ord. 348, 3-21-2001)
1-13-4: TIME FOR FILING PETITIONS:
Referendum petitions with the requisite number of signatures attached shall be
filed with the city clerk not less than sixty (60) days following the final
adoption of the ordinance to be subject to referendum. (Ord. 348, 3-21-2001)
1-13-5: PRINTING OF PETITION AND SHEETS FOR SIGNATURE; TIME LIMITS FOR
PERFECTING PETITION:
   (A)   Before or at the time of beginning to circulate any petition for
initiative or referendum, the person or persons, organization or organizations
under whose authority the petition is to be circulated, shall send or deliver
to the city clerk a copy of such petition duly signed by at least twenty (20)
electors eligible to sign such petition. The clerk shall immediately examine
the petition and specify the form and kind and size of paper on which the
petition shall be printed and circulated for further signatures. All petitions
and sheets for signatures shall be printed on a good quality bond or ledger
paper, on pages eight and one-half inches (81/2") in width by thirteen inches
(13") in length, with a margin of one and three-fourths inches (13/4") at the
top for binding, and the sheets for signatures shall have numbered lines
thereon from one to twenty (20) for signatures. The petition shall be prepared
in sections, with each section numbered consecutively. Each section of a
petition must have a printed copy of the petition as the first page, and each
section shall have attached to it not more than ten (10) sheets for signatures.
   (B)   The city clerk shall indicate in writing on the petition that he/she
has approved it as to form, the clerk shall inform the person or persons,
organization or organizations under whose authority the petition is to be
circulated, in writing, that the petition must be perfected with the required
number of certified signatures within sixty (60) days following the date of
approval as to form. Any petition that has not been perfected with the required
number of certified signatures within the sixty (60) days allowed shall be
declared null and void ab initio in its entirety. (Ord. 348, 3-21-2001)
1-13-6: VERIFICATION ON SHEETS FOR SIGNATURES:
Each and every signature sheet of each petition containing signatures shall be
verified on the face thereof in substantially the following form by the person
who circulated said sheet of the petition, by his or her affidavit thereon, as
a part thereof:
State of Idaho   )
         ) ss.
   County of Latah    )
   I,                         , swear, under penalty of perjury, that every
person who signed this sheet of the foregoing petition signed his or name
thereto in my presence. I believe that each has stated his or name and the
accompanying required information on the signature sheet correctly, and that
the person was eligible to sign this petition.
         Signature                   
         Post Office Address           
Subscribed and sworn to before me this          day of              , 20     .
(Notary Seal)   Notary Public             
      Post Office Address           
(Ord. 348, 3-21-2001)
1-13-7: EXAMINATION AND CERTIFICATION OF SIGNATURES:
   (A)   All petitions with attached signature sheets shall be presented on the
same day to the city clerk who shall make a cursory examination of them to
determine whether the petitions apparently contain the necessary number of
signatures.
      1.   If a total number of signatures on the petitions is not sufficient
to satisfy the number required by section
1-13-2 of this chapter, all petitions with attached signature sheets shall be
retained by the city clerk who shall notify in writing the person filing the
petition of the number of signatures needed, and further signatures may be
gathered, if within the time limit of section
1-13-5 of this chapter.
      2.   If the cursory examination of the signature sheets reveals:
         (a)   Erasures on any signature;
         (b)   Illegible or undecipherable signatures;
         (c)   Signatures not properly identified by all of the information
required on the sheet;
         (d)   Duplicate signatures;
         (e)   Signatures of persons who have requested in writing to have
their names removed from the petition;
the city clerk shall summarily reject such signatures and they shall not be
counted. Each rejected signature shall be drawn through with ink and initialed
by the clerk. If the total number of signatures not rejected is not sufficient
to satisfy the number required by section
1-13-2 of this chapter, all petitions with attached signature sheets shall be
retained by the clerk who shall notify in writing the person filing the
petition of the number of signatures needed, and further signatures may be
gathered, if within the time limit of section
1-13-5 of this chapter.
   (B)   All petitions presented to the city clerk found to apparently contain
the necessary number of signatures, after the cursory examination provided for
above, shall be filed with the city clerk and become public records of the city
not to be returned. The city clerk shall examine each such signature purported
to be that of a registered elector of the city, and compare each such signature
with the registration documents available to the city clerk. The city clerk
shall summarily reject all signatures which are not the signatures of a
registered elector of the city; and such signature shall be drawn through with
ink and initialed by the city clerk. The city clerk may take not to exceed ten
(10) days after filing of the petition to complete his/her examination. The
city clerk shall certify each signature found to comply with all of the
requirements of this chapter by an appropriate mark following each signature.
(Ord. 348, 3-21-2001)
1-13-8: SUFFICIENCY OF PETITION; NOTIFICATION; EFFECT OF COUNCIL ACTION;
ELECTION:
   (A)   In the event that a petition filed with a city clerk does not contain
the required number of certified signatures, the city clerk shall inform the
person or organization under whose authority the petition was circulated that
the petition is defective for lack of certified signatures, and specify the
number of additional signatures required to make the petition valid. The
petition must be perfected within thirty (30) days of the date that the city
clerk finds the petition defective for lack of certified signatures. If the
petition is not perfected within the thirty (30) day period, the clerk shall
declare the petition null and void ab initio in its entirety.
   (B)   In the event that a petition filed with a city clerk is found by the
city clerk to contain the required number of certified signatures, the city
clerk shall promptly, by certified mail, inform the petitioners, and shall also
notify the city council at its next meeting that the initiative or referendum
petition is in proper form.
      1.   If the petition is for a referendum, the city council shall have
thirty (30) days from the day of certification of the petition to repeal the
ordinance being referred to the voters. In the event the council repeals the
ordinance, the referendum petition shall be declared null and void.
      2.   If the petition is an initiative petition, the city council shall
have thirty (30) days to pass an ordinance substantially as proposed by the
petition. In the event the council passes such an ordinance, the initiative
petition shall be null and void.
      3.   In the event the city council neither repeals the ordinance which is
the subject of a referendum petition, nor enacts an ordinance which is the
subject of an initiative petition, an election shall be ordered by the city
clerk to be conducted citywide. A special election for initiative or referendum
shall be provided not more than ninety (90) days following the certification of
the petition, provided that in the event a municipal election will occur within
the ninety (90) days, the initiative or referendum shall be submitted at the
time of the municipal election. (Ord. 348, 3-21-2001)
1-13-9: FORM OF BALLOT:
The city council shall prepare a ballot for an initiative or referendum
election in one of the following ways:
   (A)   If the full text of the ordinance or proposed ordinance to be voted
upon does not exceed one hundred twenty (120) words in length, it may be set
out in full on the election ballot; or
   (B)   If the full text of the ordinance or proposed ordinance to be voted
upon exceeds one hundred twenty (120) words in length, and the council votes
not to have it printed at length on the election ballot, it shall, with the
assistance of the city attorney, prepare a short title and description of the
ordinance or proposed ordinance which shall clearly and impartially state its
purpose and effect, which short title and description shall be printed on the
election ballot. (Ord. 348, 3-21-2001)
1-13-10: CONDUCT OF ELECTION:
Initiative or referendum elections, whether special or general, shall be
conducted and the results thereof canvassed and certified in all respects as
near as practicable, in like manner as general elections, except as otherwise
provided. (Ord. 348, 3-21-2001)
1-13-11: COSTS OF ELECTION:
Upon the filing of any initiative or referendum petition with the city clerk,
petitioners shall post bond with the clerk in an amount sufficient to offset
the estimated expense of conducting the election, unless such election is to be
held at the time of a regular general municipal election. As near as
practicable after the election, the total actual expenses of the election shall
be tabulated by the city clerk. The petitioners shall be jointly and severally
liable for payment into the city treasury of the whole amount of the expenses
of such election. (Ord. 348, 3-21-2001)
1-13-12: CANVASS OF RETURNS:
The mayor and council shall meet within five (5) days after said election to
canvass the votes cast at such election, and the city clerk shall immediately
announce the results. Any initiative measure approved by a majority of the
votes cast shall be in full force and effect from the date of such
announcement. Any ordinance which is the subject of a referendum receiving less
than a majority of the votes cast shall be repealed, effective on the date of
such announcement. (Ord. 348, 3-21-2001)
1-13-13: PROHIBITED ACTS; PENALTIES:
A person is guilty of a misdemeanor who:
   (A)   Signs any name other than his own on any initiative or referendum
petition;
   (B)   Knowingly signs his name more than once on the same initiative or
referendum petition;
   (C)   Knowingly signs his name to any initiative or referendum petition if
he is not a registered city elector;
   (D)   Wilfully or knowingly circulates, published or exhibits any false
statement or representation concerning the contents, purport or effect of any
initiative or referendum petition for the purpose of obtaining any signature to
any such petition, or for the purpose of persuading any person to sign any such
petition.
   (E)   Presents to any officer for filing any initiative or referendum
petition to which is attached, appended or subscribed any signature which the
person so filing such petition knows to be false or fraudulent, or not the
genuine signature of the person purporting to sign such petition, or whose name
is attached, appended or subscribed thereto;
   (F)   Circulates or causes to circulate any initiative or referendum
petition, knowing the same to contain false, forged or fictitious names;
   (G)   Makes any false affidavit concerning any initiative or referendum
petition or the signatures appended thereto;
   (H)   Offers, proposes or threatens for any pecuniary reward or
consideration, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Attempting to sell, hinder or delay any initiative or referendum
petition or any part thereof or any signatures thereon;
      2.   Desist from beginning, promoting or circulating any initiative or
referendum petition;
      3.   Attempting in any manner or form to use any recall petition or any
power of promotion or opposition in any manner or form for extortion, blackmail
or secret or private intimidation of any person or business interest. (Ord.
348, 3-21-2001)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Planning And Zoning Commission   1
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Definitions
2-1-2: Creation Of Commission
2-1-3: Qualifications And Terms Of Office
2-1-4: Rules; Organization And Meetings
2-1-5: Duties
2-1-6: Maps; Plats And Replats
2-1-7: Employees And Expenditures
2-1-8: Acquisition Of Property
2-1-9: Severability
2-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
   APPOINTIVE MEMBERS: All other members of the planning and zoning commission.
   COMMISSION: The planning and zoning commission created by this chapter.
   EX OFFICIO MEMBERS: The members of the planning and zoning commission chosen
from among the officials or employees of the municipality.
   GOVERNING BODY: The mayor and council of the city of Genesee, Idaho. (Ord.
222, 11-9-1973)
2-1-2: CREATION OF COMMISSION:
There is hereby created an official planning and zoning commission to consist
of seven (7) members to be appointed by the mayor and confirmed by the council.
The commission may consist entirely of appointive members or of both appointive
members and ex officio members with not more than one-third (1/3) ex officio
members. (Ord. 222, 11-9-1973)
2-1-3: QUALIFICATIONS AND TERMS OF OFFICE:
Appointive members of the commission shall be eligible and registered voters of
the city, provided that one such appointive member may be a resident of the
area of city impact. The term of office for the ex officio members shall
correspond to their respective tenure of office as an official or employee of
the city. The term of office for the first appointive members of the commission
shall be two (2), four (4) and six (6) years, to be determined by lot and
thereafter the terms for each appointive member shall be six (6) years.
Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the expiration of terms shall be
filled by the mayor and confirmed by the council. Members may be removed after
a hearing before the council and by a majority vote of the council. Members
shall be selected without respect to political affiliation and shall serve
without compensation. (Ord. 292, 11-9-1973; amd. 1982 Code)
2-1-4: RULES; ORGANIZATION AND MEETINGS:
The commission shall elect its own chairman and create and fill such other
offices as it may determine it requires for the proper conduct of the affairs
and business of the commission. Meetings of the commission shall be held when
duly called by the chairman by written or oral notice. A majority of the
appointive members of the commission shall be necessary to constitute a quorum
at any meeting. All meetings shall be open to the public. Written rules
consistent with this chapter and the laws of the state of Idaho for the
transaction of business of the commission shall be adopted and a written record
of meetings, resolutions, findings and determinations shall be kept, which
record shall be public. (Ord. 222, 11-9-1973)
2-1-5: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the commission to recommend and make suggestions to the
governing body for the adoption of coordinated plans for the physical
development of the municipality, for the formation of zoning districts; to make
suggestions concerning the laying out, widening, extending and location of
streets, roads and highways for the relief of traffic; to make suggestions
concerning density of population and development of land; to make suggestions
concerning the future growth, development and beautification of said
municipality in respect to its public buildings, streets, parks, grounds and
lands in order to promote the public health, morals, safety and welfare of the
inhabitants of said municipality; to give suggestions and advice to individual
citizens concerning landscaping and location of buildings, structures of works
to be erected, constructed or altered by or for such individual. (Ord. 222, 11-
9-1973)
2-1-6: MAPS; PLATS AND REPLATS:
Any and all maps, plats and replats of lands which require the approval of the
governing body or of an officer or employee shall first be submitted to the
commission for its suggestions and the commission shall have a reasonable time,
to be fixed by the governing body, within which to examine such maps, plats or
replats before returning the same with its suggestions. (Ord. 222, 11-9-1973)
2-1-7: EMPLOYEES AND EXPENDITURES:
Any expenditures of the commission (exclusive of gifts) shall be within the
amounts appropriated and set aside by the governing body for the purposes of
the commission as set forth in this chapter. Within such limits the commission
is authorized to employ such employees and technical advisors as it deems
necessary for the accomplishment of its authorized purposes and work. (Ord.
222, 11-9-1973)
2-1-8: ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY:
The commission is authorized to acquire by gift, devise or bequest, lands and
other property in the name of the municipality to carry out the purposes of
this chapter. (Ord. 222, 11-9-1973)
2-1-9: SEVERABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter are hereby declared to be severable and if any
provision of this chapter or the application of such provision to any person or
circumstance is declared invalid for any reason, such declaration shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this chapter. (Ord. 222, 11-9-
1973)
TITLE 3
HEALTH AND SANITATION
Water Department And Regulations   1
Sewer Rates   2
Sewer Regulations   3
Solid Waste Disposal   4
Cross Connection Control   5
Water And Sewer Facilities   6
CHAPTER 1
WATER DEPARTMENT AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Water Connections Required
3-1-2: Water Distributed Through Meters
3-1-3: Meter Connection Requirements
3-1-4: Charges Against Property Owner
3-1-5: Maintenance And Repair Of Meters
3-1-6: Time Of Meter Readings
3-1-7: Due Dates
3-1-8: Water Service Outside City Limits
3-1-9: Water System Property Of City
3-1-10: Water Use Regulations
3-1-1: WATER CONNECTIONS REQUIRED:
   (A)   Connection Standards: The water commissioner is hereby empowered and
it is hereby made his duty in all cases where there is city water available to
compel every owner or occupant where water is to be used on lands, buildings or
premises, fronting or abutting on streets, highways or alleys or within two
hundred feet (200') of the same in case of unplatted land, to construct or
cause to be constructed a water line connection which shall connect such lands,
buildings or premises within the nearest accessible city water line. The water
commissioner shall have power and authority to examine or cause to be examined,
all buildings as to plumbing fixtures and water connections thereof, and, when
in his judgment, the plumbing fixtures or water connections are found to be
defective or unsanitary, he shall have the power to order their removal, repair
or substitution and require them to be placed in a sanitary condition and he
shall thereupon give the owner or any person occupying any building or
premises, notice in writing specifying the time when any defective water
connection or unsanitary fixtures must be completed or corrected. The water
commissioner shall make a copy of such notice which shall be kept in the office
of the clerk and open to the inspection of the public during the hours of said
clerk's office. After the time fixed by the water commissioner for the
completion of said connection and repairs, the owner or occupant shall be held
responsible for refusal to comply with such notice. (Ord. 225, 6-10-1974, eff.
6-15-1974)
   (B)   Public Improvements:
      1.   Plans Must Be Approved; Engineering Costs: Plans must meet all
specifications of this chapter and be brought to and approved by the city
council before any work is done. Within thirty (30) days of completion of
construction, as built plans shall be provided to the city. Owner shall
reimburse the city for all engineering costs incurred by the city.
      2.   Street, Water And Sewer Extensions: Any owner seeking to develop
property within the city or seeking connection to the city water or sewer
system shall be responsible for paying for the extension of such facilities,
including streets and storm water facilities, to the property.
      3.   Additional Requirements: The city may require that water and sewer
lines be sized to provide services beyond the needs of the property being
developed. In such case, the city shall pay the incremental costs related to
increasing the size of the line.
   (C)   Water Facility Standards: Water lines within the city shall comply
with the following standards:
      1.   The Idaho standards for public works construction, 1999, published
by the Idaho standards for public works construction committee are hereby
adopted. Three (3) copies of these standards shall be on file with the city
clerk for public use.
      2.   Fire hydrants shall be constructed every four hundred feet (400').
      3.   All plans shall be subject to approval by the city's engineer.
   (D)   Inspection By City: No water line, sewer line or storm water pipe
shall be covered until it has been inspected by the city. The developer or
contractor shall provide at least twenty four (24) hours' notice to the city of
need for inspection. All public facilities shall be warranted by the developer
or contractor for a period of three (3) years after acceptance by the city.
(Ord. 343, 3-15-1999)
3-1-2: WATER DISTRIBUTED THROUGH METERS:
All property owners upon whose premises water is consumed (by owners, by
tenants or otherwise), must have a water meter to be furnished by the city, at
the expense of the property owner. Such meter shall be installed adjacent to
the private property line, within the public right of way. All city water used
therein or upon said premises shall pass through and be measured by said water
meter. The property owner shall be responsible for the maintenance of the
service line from where it crosses the property line, regardless of the
location of the water meter.
In the event that any property owner shall refuse to allow such meter to be
installed, refuses to pay for the same or refuses to pay for the metered water
used, it shall be the duty of the city supervisor to forthwith discontinue the
water from the premises of such owner and/or property. (Ord. 387, 1-17-2012)
3-1-3: METER CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS:
Each residence and business establishment to which water is supplied by the
city, whether inside or outside the city limits, must have a separate meter
connection directly to the main, excepting, however, those portions of
buildings used principally for office or apartments where the property owner
furnishes water supplied to the tenants. (Ord. 225, 6-10-1974, eff. 6-15-1974)
3-1-4: CHARGES AGAINST PROPERTY OWNER:
   (A)   Water Meter: Before a meter is installed, the property owner shall pay
the city treasurer the cost of said meter together with the cost of
installation thereof, as billed.
   (B)   Tapping Application And Fee: Every person desiring city water must
make application to the clerk for permission to tap the city mains. Said
application to describe the property to be served, purposes for which water is
required, and illustrate the location of the desired tap (this may be
accomplished in conjunction with the building permit application).
Upon payment of the "tapping fee" of five hundred dollars ($500.00), which fee
must accompany the application, the city will have the main tapped and water
brought to the outer curb on the property line of the property indicated.
The following fees are enacted for new service hook-up:
 
Water
Water Connection And Tapping Fee: $10,000.00
Meter and Materials:              Cost + 10%
 
 
Sewer
Sewer Connection fee: $10,000.00
Tapping fee:          $2,000.00
Total:                $12,000.00
 
   (C)   Water Rates: When a meter has been installed, water will not
thereafter be supplied to the premises of such property except upon metered
water rates to be paid by the property owner or tenant for all water used upon
said premises, whether by himself, tenant or otherwise. Property owner is
primarily responsible for payment of water charges.
The following rates are hereby established as the official water rates of the
city for the following types of water uses:
      1.   Types Of Water Uses:
      Single residence.
      Duplex residence - per unit.
      Multiple residence - per unit.
      Dwelling units located in single residences or in commercial business
establishments - per unit.
      Mobile home parks - per unit.
      Commercial business establishments - per unit.
      Public and private schools.
      2.   Rates Inside And Outside City:
         (a)   User Fee: The following monthly water user fees are hereby
enacted:
            (1)   The minimum water user fee for all users connected to the
City's water system will increase twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per month, from
ten dollars and ninety-four cents ($10.94) to thirty-five dollars and ninety-
four cents ($35.94) per month effective November 1, 2020.
            (2)   Residents who qualify for the Latah County Circuit Breaker
Program or the Veterans Property Tax Reduction Program will have a fifteen
dollars ($15.00) per month increase from ten dollars and ninety-four cents
($10.94) to twenty-five dollars and ninety-four cents ($25.94) per month
effective November 1, 2020.
         (b)   Minimum Rate: The following monthly water rates are hereby
enacted:
            (1)   The minimum user fee for all users connected to the City's
water system is ten dollars and ninety-four cents ($10.94) per month, (fifty-
two cents ($0.52) increase over the ten dollars and forty-two cents ($10.42)
current charge) with the charges for residential usage assessed at the
following rates:
               a.   Ten dollars and fifty cents ($10.50) per month for the
first one thousand (1,000) gallons or less; plus
               b.   Seventy-five cents ($0.75) per one thousand (1,000) gallons
for the next four thousand (4,000) gallons; plus
               c.   Eighty-two and a half cents ($0.82½) per one thousand
(1,000) gallons for the next five thousand (5,000) gallons; plus
               d.   Ninety cents ($0.90) per one thousand (1,000) gallons for
the next ten thousand (10,000) gallons; plus
               e.   One dollars and twenty cents ($1.20) per one thousand
(1,000) gallons for the next ten thousand (10,000) gallons; plus
               f.   One dollars and thirty-five cents ($1.35) per one thousand
(1,000) gallons for each additional 1,000 gallons in excess of thirty thousand
(30,000) gallons.
            (2)   The charges for commercial usage is assessed at the following
rates:
               a.   Ten dollars and fifty cents ($10.50) per month for the
first one thousand (1,000) gallons or less; plus
               b.    Seventy-five cents ($0.75) per one thousand (1,000)
gallons for the next four thousand (4,000) gallons; plus
               c.    Eighty-two and a half cents ($0.82 ½) per one thousand
(1,000) gallons for the next five thousand (5,000) gallons; plus
               d.   Ninety cents ($0.90) per one thousand (1,000) gallons for
the next ten thousand (10,000) gallons; plus
               e.   One dollars and twenty cents ($1.20) per one thousand
(1,000) gallons for the next thirty thousand (30,000) gallons; plus
               f.   One dollar and thirty-five cents ($1.35) per one thousand
(1,000) gallons for each additional one thousand (1,000) gallons in excess of
fifty thousand (50,000) gallons.
            (3)   The charges for residential users connected to the city's
water system outside the city limits are assessed as follows:
               a.   Twenty-one dollars ($21.00) per month for the first one
thousand (1,000) gallons or less; plus
               b.   Seventy-five cents ($0.75) per one thousand (1,000) gallons
for the next four thousand (4,000) gallons; plus
               c.   Eighty-two and a half cents ($0.82 ½) per one thousand
(1,000) gallons for the next 5,000 gallons; plus
               d.   Ninety cents ($0.90) per one thousand (1,000) gallons for
the next ten thousand (10,000) gallons; plus
               e.   One dollars and twenty cents ($1.20) per one thousand
(1,000) gallons for the next ten thousand (10,000) gallons; plus
               f.   One dollar and thirty-five cents ($1.35) per one thousand
(1,000) gallons for each additional one thousand (1,000) gallons in excess of
thirty thousand (30,000) gallons
            (4)   The charges for commercial users connected to the City's
water system outside the city limits are assessed as follows:
               a.    Twenty-one dollars ($21.00) per month for the first one
thousand (1,000) gallons or less; plus
               b.   Seventy-five cents ($0.75) per one thousand (1,000) gallons
for the next four thousand (4,000) gallons; plus
               c.   Eighty-two and a half cents ($0.82 ½) per one thousand
(1,000) gallons for the next five thousand (5,000) gallons; plus
               d.   Ninety cents ($0.90) per one thousand (1,000) gallons for
the next ten thousand (10,000) gallons; plus
               e.   One dollars and twenty cents ($1.20) per one thousand
(1,000) gallons for the next thirty thousand (30,000) gallons; plus
               f.   One dollar and thirty-five cents ($1.35) per one thousand
(1,000) gallons for each additional one thousand (1,000) gallons in excess of
fifty thousand (50,000) gallons.
      3.   Nonmetered Water Uses: Nonmetered water uses will be charged a
minimum rate of five dollars ($5.00) per month for each individual mobile home
in the park. One thousand (1,000) gallons of water will be deducted from the
total metered usage for each mobile home so charged and the remaining gallonage
will be charged at the above rates. The mobile home park owner is primarily
responsible for payment of water charges.
      4.   Rate Changes: All charges and rates established in this section may
be changed from time to time as deemed necessary and proper, by resolution duly
adopted at a regular or special meeting of the city council.
      5.   Direct Charge To Tenant: At the request of the property owner the
city shall directly charge the tenant of rented dwelling units, spaces or
business property the user fee. The property owner shall inform the city clerk
at city hall in writing of all changes in the names and addresses of tenants to
be charged directly and all changes of status as to occupancy or vacancy of
rental units, spaces or business properties within forty eight (48) hours of
such changes. In the event the required notice is not given to the city clerk
the owner shall be responsible for all water charges reflected by the most
recent information given to the city clerk.
      6.   Vacancies: No user fee or minimum rate shall be charged for any
period of time during which a rental dwelling unit, space or business property
is vacant, provided proper notice of such vacancy is given to the city clerk.
(Ord. 263, 12-8-1980; amd. Res. 2017-3, 8-15-2017; Res. 2019-5, 9-3-2019; Res.
2020-8, 10-6-2020; Res. 2022-3, 5-17-2022)
3-1-5: MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF METERS:
The city will repair or replace all defective meters with no cost to the
property owner, except in those instances where the meter has been damaged by
reason of the negligence of the water user, or by reason of the defective
condition of the plumbing on the premises of the water user, or by reason of
the backing up of hot water from the premises of the water user.
   (A)   Meter Damage; Liability: When any water meter has been damaged by
reason of the negligence of the user of city water, or by reason of the
defective condition of the plumbing on the premises of the water user, or by
reason of the backing up of hot water from the premises of the water user, then
such water user shall be liable and punishable under the provisions of section
1-8-1 of this code, and must pay for the replacement or repair of said meter in
an amount to be determined by the city council.
   (B)   Requirements After Repairs For Turning On Water: Whenever the city
supervisor is called upon to repair or replace a meter which has been damaged
as set forth in subsection (A) of this section, he may, at his discretion,
refuse to repair or replace said meter, and disconnect the water service line
to said premises; and may, by reason of defective plumbing on the premises of
the water user, refuse to reconnect the same until a check valve is installed
between the water meter and the premises on which water is used, in order to
prevent the water from backing up from said premises.
The city supervisor may require that a safety relief valve or "pop off" be
placed in service to relieve pressure on the hot water tank or other plumbing
fixtures located upon said premises. (Ord. 225, 6-10-1974, eff. 6-15-1974)
3-1-6: TIME OF METER READINGS:
The city supervisor shall commence reading all water meters on the twenty fifth
day of each month and shall continue to continuously read the same until all
the water meters have been read; excepting that, during the winter months, the
monthly usage will be estimated, as directed by the council. (Ord. 304, 12-4-
1989)
3-1-7: DUE DATES:
All water charges for water consumed shall be due and payable to the city
clerk/treasurer between the first day and the fifteenth day of each month. In
the event payment is not timely made, the following procedure shall be
conducted: (Ord. 286, 3-10-1986)
   (A)   Late Charge Added: On the first business day following the last day of
timely payment the city clerk/treasurer shall add a late charge of ten dollars
($10.00) to the unpaid balance which each user shall pay in addition to the
amount of the water charges then due. (Ord. 361, 3-19-2003)
   (B)   Identification Of Unpaid Charges: On the first business day following
the last day for timely payment, the city clerk/treasurer shall identify all
users whose water charges and late charges remain unpaid.
   (C)   Notice Of Delinquency Mailed: On the first business day following the
last day for timely payment, the city clerk/treasurer shall cause a notice of
delinquency to be mailed to each user whose water charges and late charges
remain unpaid. The notice of delinquency shall include the name of the user, a
statement that the water charges have not been paid, and the amount of the
payment due including the late charge. (Ord. 304, 12-4-1989)
   (D)   Identification Of Unpaid Charges After Mailing Delinquency Notice: On
the fifteenth day of the month, following the mailing of a notice of
delinquency, the city clerk/treasurer shall make a list of all users whose
water charges remain unpaid after being mailed a notice of delinquency during
the previous month. (Ord. 286, 3-10-1986)
   (E)   Shutoff Notice: On the sixteenth day of the month, following the
service of the notice of delinquency, the city clerk/treasurer shall cause to
be mailed to the nonpaying user and to the owner of the premises occupied by
said user, if the user is not also the owner, notice of shutoff of service. A
notice of shutoff will also be posted on the premises forty eight (48) hours
before shutoff occurs. The shutoff notice shall include the following:
      1.   The name of the user;
      2.   A statement that the water charges have not been paid;
      3.   The amount of payment due including the late charges;
      4.   A statement that unless the full amount due is paid on or before the
shutoff date, or unless the user has notified the city clerk/treasurer, in
person or in writing, that they will be present at the next city council
meeting, the water service will be discontinued and the water will be shut off;
      5.   A statement that if the water is shut off it will not be turned on
until the past due water charges, including the late charge, plus a charge of
seven dollars fifty cents ($7.50) for reinstatement of water service and a
deposit of thirty dollars ($30.00) as security for the payment of future water
charges are paid in full. (Ord. 361, 3-19-2003)
   (F)   Request For Hearing: Any owner who has received a shutoff notice may
contact the city clerk/treasurer, before the last day of the month in which
they received such notice, and request to be placed on the agenda of the next
regular meeting of the city council for the purpose of requesting that they be
heard by the city council as to any reasons that their water shall not be shut
off. The request to be placed on the agenda of such regular meeting shall delay
the shutting off of such owner's water until such time as such regular meeting
is held. After hearing such owner regarding the reasons that their water shall
not be shut off, the city council may allow such person additional time to make
payment or to take other action deemed appropriate by the city council.
   (G)   Identification Of Unpaid Charges After Mailing Shutoff Notice: On the
first day of each month the city clerk/treasurer shall prepare a list of all
users who have been mailed a shutoff notice and who have either failed to pay
the charges, or failed to request a hearing at the next council meeting. The
city clerk/treasurer shall deliver said list to the city supervisor who shall
cause the water service of each such user to be discontinued by shutting off
the water to the user. (Ord. 286, 3-10-1986; amd. Ord. 361, 3-19-2003)
   (H)   Reinstatement Of Service: Any user whose water service has been
discontinued for nonpayment of water charges shall have water service
reinstated upon the payment of all past due water charges, plus the late
charges, and a charge of seven dollars fifty cents ($7.50) for reinstatement of
water service, and upon the deposit of the sum of thirty dollars ($30.00) as
security for the payment of future water charges. (Ord. 286, 3-10-1986)
   (I)   Rate Changes: All changes and rates established in this section may be
changed from time to time as deemed necessary and proper, by resolution duly
adopted at a regular or special meeting of the city council. (Ord. 361, 3-19-
2003)
3-1-8: WATER SERVICE OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:
In the event of need and/or at the discretion of the council, any service
outside the city limits may be terminated, upon notice, at any time by order of
the council. The fixing of water rates by the council for water service outside
the city is not to be read as imposing a duty upon the city to make such water
service available. (Ord. 225, 6-10-1974, eff. 6-15-1974)
3-1-9: WATER SYSTEM PROPERTY OF CITY:
All mains, laterals, pipes, hydrants and fixtures now laid, constructed or
installed or hereafter to be laid, constructed or installed in, under, across
or through the streets, avenues, alleys and other thoroughfares of the city or
easement rights of way granted to the city or adjacent territory, for supplying
water to said city and the inhabitants thereof are hereby declared to be the
property of the city, under the control thereof and subject to the provisions
of this chapter. No person or persons will be allowed to claim the right to
exclusive use of any such water line. (Ord. 225, 6-10-1974, eff. 6-15-1974)
3-1-10: WATER USE REGULATIONS:
Upon making application to the city for water use, each user hereby agrees to
the following additional regulations:
   (A)   The city reserves the right at any time to cut off water in the main
without notice. (Ord. 225, 6-10-1974, eff. 6-15-1974)
   (B)   When two (2) or more tenants occupy the same dwelling unit, the water
charges will be charged to one person only. (Ord. 263, 12-8-1980)
   (C)   No person or family supplied with water will be permitted to use it
for any other purpose than that stated in the agreement or to supply water in
any other way to other families or person.
   (D)   No alteration or extension shall be made in any water pipe, cock or
fixture without obtaining a permit therefor from the clerk. (Ord. 225, 6-10-
1974, eff. 6-15-1974)
   (E)   The city shall not be held liable under any circumstances for any
damages resulting from a deficiency or failure of water, whether by shutting
off the water to make repairs or connections, or by shutting off the water due
to the nonpayment of water charges, or for any other cause whatsoever. (Ord.
277)
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to waste water or allow it to be
wasted by imperfect or leaking stops, valves, pipes, closets, faucets or other
fixtures or to use water closets without self-closing valves. If such waste of
water continues after receipt of notice from the city supervisor to make
repairs and to desist from the waste of water, the city supervisor shall shut
off the water supply from such premises until the necessary repairs have been
made. (Ord. 263, 12-8-1980)
   (G)   A water user who has had his water service discontinued for failure to
pay water charges shall be charged seven dollars fifty cents ($7.50) to have
water service restored and such water users shall also deposit with the city
the sum of thirty dollars ($30.00) as security for the payment of future water
charges which sum shall be applied against subsequent unpaid water charges
before a notice of delinquency is issued. The deposit of thirty dollars
($30.00) shall be refunded to the depositor after one year of timely payment of
all water charges. (Ord. 286, 3-10-1986)
   (H)   A water user who requests the city supervisor to turn off his water
for any reason whatsoever, will be charged seven dollars fifty cents ($7.50) to
have the water turned on. (Ord. 263, 12-8-1980)
CHAPTER 2
SEWER RATES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Sewer Rates Established
3-2-2: Charges; When Due
3-2-1: SEWER RATES ESTABLISHED:
   (A)   The following monthly sewer user fees are hereby enacted: The minimum
sewer user fee for all users connected to the City's sewer system will increase
ten dollars ($10.00) per month, from twelve dollars and thirteen cents ($12.13)
to twenty-two dollars and thirteen cents ($22.13) per month for the months of
Oct., Nov., Dec. 2018, Jan., Feb., and March 2019.
   (B)   The minimum sewer user fee for all users connected to the City's sewer
system will increase an additional ten dollars ($10.00) per month, from twenty-
two dollars and thirteen cents ($22.13) to thirty-two dollars and thirteen
cents ($32.13) per month beginning April 2019.
   (C)   Residents who qualify for the Latah County Circuit Breaker Program or
the Veterans Property Tax Reduction Program will have a two dollars ($2.00) per
month increase from the current twelve dollars and thirteen cents ($12.13)
sewer fee. The new rate of fourteen dollars and thirteen cents ($14.13) will be
in effect for the months Oct., Nov., Dec. 2018, Jan., Feb. and March 2019.
   (D)   Residents who qualify for the Latah County Circuit Breaker Program or
the Veterans Property Tax Reduction Program will have an additional two dollars
($2.00) fee increase beginning April, 2019. The new rate of sixteen dollars and
thirteen cents ($16.13) will be in place at that time.
   (E)   Genesee School District will have a flat fee for the sewer user fee of
two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) per month. This new rate will take
effect Oct. 1, 2018.
   (F)   The following monthly sewer project fees are hereby enacted: The
minimum sewer project fee for all users connected to the City's sewer system is
ninteen dollars and forty-five cents ($19.45) per month. (Ord. 262, 12-8-1980;
amd. Ord. 302, 10-2-1989; Res. 2018-5-B, 8-21-2018)
3-2-2: CHARGES; WHEN DUE:
All sewer charges shall be charged and paid with and subject to the same
procedures as water charges, as stated in sections
 3-1-6 and
3-1-7 of this title. The late charge established in subsection
3-1-7(A) of this title shall be applied to any delinquency in the combined
charging system but shall not be applied twice in the event of a delinquency in
both the water charges and the sewer charges. (Ord. 304, 12-4-1989)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Purpose
3-3-2: Definitions
3-3-3: Use Of Public Sewer System Required
3-3-4: Connections To System
3-3-5: Sewer Construction Specifications And Inspections
3-3-6: Right To Enter Premises For Inspection
3-3-7: Sewer Fees
3-3-8: Injury To Sewerage System Unlawful
3-3-9: Unpolluted Water Discharges
3-3-10: Prohibited Discharges
3-3-11: Harmful Or Industrial Wastes
3-3-12: Private Sewer Repair Permit Required
3-3-13: Violations And Penalties
3-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public welfare by regulating and
limiting the type of sewage, including industrial waste, that may be discharged
into the city public sewers and storm drains; and authorizing a schedule of
rates and charges for services afforded by the city, revised periodically to
reflect actual operation, maintenance, replacement and debt service costs.
(Ord. 268, 7-6-1982)
3-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
Terms used in this chapter shall have the meanings herein given to them:
   APPROVING AUTHORITY: The city council or the sewer and water commissioner of
the city or his duly authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND OR BOD: The quantity of oxygen, expressed in parts
per million by weight, utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter
under standard laboratory determinations made in accordance with procedures set
forth in "Standard Methods", for five (5) days' BOD determination.
   CITY: The city of Genesee, Idaho.
   DWELLING UNIT: A building or structure including mobile home, designed and/
or used for independent living quarters or residential purposes for family or
household use, including single, duplex or multiple structures howsoever
designed or constructed. Dwelling unit shall include boarding house and/or
lodging house where bed and board are provided for five (5) or more persons for
compensation.
   GARBAGE: The residue from the preparation and dispensing of food, and from
the handling, storage and sale of food products and produce.
   GROUND GARBAGE: The residue from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of
food that has been shredded to such degree that all particles will be carried
freely in suspension under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
   HOUSE SERVICE LINE: The extension from the building drain to the public
sewer and is sometimes referred to as a service connection.
MG: Million gallons.
   MOBILE HOMES: See definition of Manufactured Home in section
 10-2-2 of this code.
   NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   PARTS PER MILLION: A weight to weight ratio; the parts per million value
multiplied by the factor eight and three hundred forty five-thousandths (8.345)
shall be equivalent to pounds per million gallons of water.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation,
group or other entity.
pH: The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration
expressed in moles per liter and is a measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a
solution.
   PRIVATE SEWER: A sewer serving one or more buildings, residences or
properties, constructed by private contract.
   PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
city. It shall also include sewers within or outside the city boundaries that
serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the city sanitary or
combined sewer system or treatment facility, even though those sewers or
facilities may not have been constructed with city funds.
   SANITARY SEWAGE: Wastes that are derived principally from dwellings,
business buildings, institutions and industrial waste, exclusive of storm and
surface waters.
   SANITARY SEWER: A sewer that conveys sanitary sewage or industrial wastes or
a combination of the two, and into which storm, surface and ground waters or
unpolluted industrial wastes are not admitted.
   SERVICE CHARGE: The charge levied on all users of the wastewater treatment
facilities.
   SERVICE TAP: A connection of private sewer to public sewer.
   SEWAGE: See definition of Wastewater.
   SEWER: A pipe or conduit for conveying wastewater or any other waste
liquids.
   STORM DRAIN: Pipe or conduit for conveying storm, surface and ground water
drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS): Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or industrial waste, and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of suspended solids
shall be made in accordance with current state of the art laboratory.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER: Any water or liquid or nutrients containing none of the
following: free or emulsified grease or oil; acids or alkalies, substances that
may impart taste or odor or color characteristics; toxic or poisonous
substances in suspension, colloidal state or solution; odorous or otherwise
obnoxious gases.
   WASTEWATER: The water carrying human, animal or household wastes in a public
or private sewer and may include industrial wastes.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY OR SEWERAGE SYSTEM: All facilities for
collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of domestic, commercial and
industrial wastes and includes sewers as well as the wastewater treatment
facility.
   WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently. (Ord. 268, 7-6-1982; amd. Ord. 324, 5-16-1994)
3-3-3: USE OF PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM REQUIRED:
   (A)   Sewage To Be Discharged Into Wastewater Treatment System: All sanitary
sewage, industrial waste or other polluted waters shall be discharged into the
wastewater treatment facility. It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose
otherwise of said sewage wastes and polluted waters.
   (B)   Sanitary Facilities Required: Where a public sewer is available, every
person owning any land or premises shall install suitable sanitary facilities
in any house, lot or premises requiring same. (Ord. 268, 7-6-1982)
3-3-4: CONNECTIONS TO SYSTEM:
   (A)   Premises To Connect To Public Sewer:
      1.   Street, Water And Sewer Extensions: Any owner seeking to develop
property within the city or seeking connection to the city water or sewer
system shall be responsible for paying for the extension of such facilities,
including streets and storm water facilities, to the property.
      2.   Additional Requirements: The city may require that water and sewer
lines be sized to provide services beyond the needs of the property being
developed. In such case, the city shall pay the incremental costs related to
increasing the size of the line.
      3.   Plans Must Be Approved; Engineering Costs: Plans must meet all
specifications of this chapter and be brought to and approved by the city
council before any work is done. Within thirty (30) days of completion of
construction, as built plans shall be provided to the city. Owner shall
reimburse the city for all engineering costs incurred by the city. (Ord. 343,
3-15-1999)
      4.   Authority To Compel: The approving authority of the city is hereby
empowered and it is hereby made his duty in all cases where there is a public
sewer within two hundred feet (200') of his property boundary, to compel every
owner or occupant of land, buildings or premises requiring sanitary facilities,
to construct or cause to be constructed, at the expense of said owner or
occupant, a sufficient private sewer line which shall connect said land,
building or premises to the nearest accessible public sewer within ninety (90)
days after the date of official notice, unless in the opinion of the approving
authority, such connection is impractical by reason of the topography of the
ground or unless, in the opinion of the approving authority, such connection
would overload the existing sewer or drain.
      5.   Formation Of District: Cases outside the said two hundred foot
(200') limit, have the right to construct and finance a connecting sewer by
forming a utility local improvement district (ULID). The formation of a ULID
shall be in accordance with state law and all utilities constructed under said
ULID shall be in accordance with this chapter and the state of Idaho sewage
works design standards.
      6.   Approval Of Alternate Methods: Alternate methods of sewage
treatment, such as septic tanks and drain fields, shall be reviewed and
approved on a case by case basis. Approval will be by the approving authority
in conjunction with an approved permit from the Latah County health department.
Approval on the part of the said health department does not, however,
constitute approval by the approving authority.
      7.   Connection: A separate and independent house service line shall be
provided for every building, residence, or property, unless specific permission
is obtained from the approving authority for any other arrangement of a
temporary or permanent connection to the facility. (Ord. 268, 7-6-1982; amd.
Ord. 343, 3-15-1999)
   (B)   Permit Required To Connect To A Public Sewer:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to uncover, make any connection
with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance
thereof, without first obtaining a written permit. Permit applications shall be
made on forms provided by the office of the city clerk.
      2.   All applications for permits shall be made by the property owner or
agent and must state the location of the sewer, the number of the lot and
block, and city addition, the number of the buildings to be connected, the type
of occupancy, the estimated cost, and such other information as the approving
authority may require. Applications shall be made at least five (5) days before
the owner's anticipated need for connection. If a permit is granted, such
private connecting sewer shall be of such size, such materials, such location
and such grade and depth as the approving authority may direct, taking into
consideration future connections which may be made with such connecting sewer.
The approving authority may refuse to issue such permit if the proposed
connection would overload any existing sewer or drain.
      3.   Owner shall fulfill requirements of the permit within ninety (90)
days of the issuance date thereof, or a new application shall be required.
   (C)   Revocation Of Permit: All permits to connect sewers shall be upon the
express condition that the council may, at any time, revoke or annul the same
and the person making such connection, or their successors in interest, shall
have no right to claim any damage in consequence of such permit being revoked
or annulled.
   (D)   Notice For Inspection And Installations: Notice shall be given to the
approving authority by any person desiring to make connection with any public
sewer at least three (3) days prior to the time of needing such connection,
stating when such work will be needed. The service tap to the public sanitary
sewer shall be made by the approving authority. The owner shall be responsible
for all excavation, installation of all house service line (from the service
tap to the house of other building), backfill, compaction and pavement,
sidewalk and curb repairs (as may be required under the city's street
ordinance).
   (E)   City Employees Responsible: It shall be the duty of any city employee,
in all cases where they shall find any person engaged in the breaking of ground
for the purpose of making connection with the public sewer, to ascertain at
once if such person is duly authorized to perform such work and in the event
that such person is not duly authorized or does not have a permit, to order
them to desist under penalty of this code and to immediately report the facts
to the sewer-water commissioner. (Ord. 268, 7-6-1982)
3-3-5: SEWER CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS AND INSPECTIONS:
   (A)   Private Line Connections: All construction or reconstruction of
private sewers and house service lines in public rights of way and public
utility easements shall be in accordance with city specifications and subject
to inspection by the proper authority.
   (B)   Connections To Public Sewers: All connections to public sewers shall
have a minimum diameter of four inches (4"), and shall be made of transite,
cast iron, or ABS schedule 40 plastic piping or an approved equivalent.
Commencing from a point on the outer perimeter of the building into the
building, a sewer service line shall be of ABS or cast iron of a diameter of
four inches (4") or larger. ABS pipe joints shall be a rubber ring or solvent
weld. Cast iron or transite pipe joints shall be rubber ring gaskets. All pipes
shall be laid at a uniform grade of not less than one-quarter inch (1/4") per
one foot (1') fall, and on solid bed of earth or selected, approved backfill.
Where excavated material will not permit laying the connection at the full
depth of the main sewer, the approving authority may authorize the use of a
drop. In such event, the tap will be made in the top of the public sewer
bearing on the ground. All the connections shall be laid as straight as
possible, however, all necessary changes in direction shall be not greater than
one- eighth (1/8) bend. All connections shall be without traps, sags or other
obstructions that would prevent the free passage of air from point of public
sewer connection to the main building vent.
   (C)   Pipe Or Fitting Connections: When a service "Y" has been left by
previous construction, the connection shall be made without damage in the "in
place" pipe or fitting.
   (D)   Disturbing Streets: Streets disturbed must be reopened and paving or
planking placed in a manner that will provide for free passage until final
repairs are made. One-half (1/2) of the street must be kept clear at all times
for passage of vehicles, and bridgeways must be provided on sidewalks for
pedestrian traffic. In refilling the trenches, the earth must be deposited in
layers of not more than six inches (6") in depth, and mechanically tamped to
prevent settlements. Backfilling of trenches of streets and sidewalk
reconstruction must be in accordance with the city street repair ordinance,
subsection
10-8-5(E) of this code, and all rubbish and surplus earth immediately removed
and wasted at a site approved by the approving authority.
Any materials not listed in this chapter may be used with the approval of the
approving authority, and only then after proof of having been tested, approved
and sealed by Underwriters Laboratories. (Ord. 268, 7-6-1982)
   (E)   Sewer Facilities: Sewer lines shall comply with the following
standards:
      1.   The Idaho standards for public works construction, 1999, shall be
utilized.
      2.   All plans shall be subject to approval by the city's engineer. (Ord.
343, 3-15-1999)
3-3-6: RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES FOR INSPECTION:
   (A)   The approving authority shall have, after obtaining the permission of
the occupant, or if unoccupied, permission of the owner or after obtaining a
search warrant, the right to enter upon any premises connected with any public
sewer at all reasonable hours to determine that there is compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. If conflict is noted, the owner of said premises or
his agent shall be directed to alter, repair or reconstruct to conform to the
requirements of this chapter within fifteen (15) days. Failure of the owner to
effect said changes shall result in remedial action by the approving authority,
as provided in section
3-3-12 of this chapter.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any house, building or property shall allow
authorized persons at any time to inspect the nature of wastewater discharging
into a public sewer. Authorized persons shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 268, 7-6-
1982)
3-3-7: SEWER FEES:
   (A)   The approving authority shall establish sewer fees which shall be
imposed, levied and fixed to be effective from and after approval by resolution
duly adopted at a regular or special meeting of the city council. Said sewer
fees shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   Sewer tap fee;
      2.   Road repair fee.
   (B)   It shall be noted that the sewer tap fee shall include installation of
the sewer wye or tee and pipe tap only. The road repair fee is a nonrefundable
deposit against future repairs on streets disturbed by the owner during
installation of the private sewer line.
   (C)   In the event the industrial users fail to have flow or sampling
devices in proper operating condition for more than one week, the approving
authority may discontinue city water service or remove or close sewer
connections, and enter upon the property for accomplishing such purposes.
   (D)   The expense of such discontinuance, removal or closing, as well as the
expense of restoring service, is a debt due to the city and may be recovered by
legal action against the sewer user. (Ord. 268, 7-6-1982)
3-3-8: INJURY TO SEWERAGE SYSTEM UNLAWFUL:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to injure, break or
remove any portion of a public sewer or appurtenances.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to deposit any
substance which may have a tendency to obstruct the flow of a public sewer.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to break, damage,
uncover, destroy, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the wastewater treatment facility. (Ord. 268, 7-6-
1982)
3-3-9: UNPOLLUTED WATER DISCHARGES:
   (A)   Unpolluted Water Prohibited In Sanitary Sewer: It shall be unlawful
for any person to discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, ground
water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water, basement drainage or
unpolluted water, to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Unpolluted Water Discharged To Storm Drain: Storm water shall be
discharged to such sewers as are specifically designated as storm drains, or to
a natural outlet approved by the approving authority. (Ord. 268, 7-6-1982)
3-3-10: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES:
Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged into the wastewater treatment facility any toxic or hazardous
material in concentrations in excess of that allowed or approved by the
approving authority, as listed, but not limited to those elements in subsection
(A) of this section.
   (A)   Any solids, liquids or gases which may, by themselves or by
interaction with other substances, cause fire or explosive hazards, or in any
other way be injurious to persons, property or the operation of the wastewater
treatment facility, or any of the following listed heavy metals:
      Antimony
      Arsenic
      Barium
      Beryllium
      Bismuth
      Boron
      Cadmium
      Chromium (hexa)
      Chromium (tri)
      Cobalt
      Copper
      Lead
      Manganese
      Mercury
      Molybdenum
      Nickel
      Rhenium
      Selenium
      Silver
      Strontium
      Tellurium
      Tin
      Uranium
      Zinc
      or any other radioactive element or isotope.
   (B)   Any noxious or malodorous solids, liquids or gases which either singly
or by interaction with other substances are capable of creating a public
nuisance or hazard to life or preventing entry into sewers for their
maintenance or repair.
   (C)   Any solids, grease, wax, slurries or viscous material of such
character or in such quantity that, in the opinion of the approving authority,
may cause an obstruction to the flow in the sewer, or otherwise interfere with
the proper functioning of the wastewater treatment facility.
   (D)   Any toxic substances, chemical elements or compounds in quantities
sufficient to impair the operation or efficiency of the wastewater treatment
facility and cause the effluent thereof to exceed those requirements
established in the city's national pollution discharge elimination system
permit now in effect or which may become effective in the future.
   (E)   Any liquids having a pH lower than six (6.0) or higher than nine
(9.0), or having any corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazards to
structures, equipment or personnel of the wastewater treatment facility.
   (F)   Any radioactive isotopes without obtaining a special permit from the
approving authority.
   (G)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature which might adversely affect
the wastewater treatment facility without specific approval by the approving
authority.
   (H)   Any garbage that has not been properly ground.
   (I)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastic, wood, dead animals, manure, hair or other solid capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with proper
operation of the wastewater treatment facility. (Ord. 268, 7-6-1982)
3-3-11: HARMFUL OR INDUSTRIAL WASTES:
   (A)   Special Agreements: No statement contained in this section shall be
construed as prohibiting any special agreement or arrangement between the city
and any person whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may
be admitted to the wastewater treatment facility, either before or after
pretreatment; provided, that there is no impairment of the functioning of the
wastewater treatment facilities by reason of the admission of such wastes, and
no extra costs are incurred by the city without recompense by the person.
   (B)   Approval Required For Wastewater: Review and acceptance of the
approving authority shall be obtained prior to the discharge into the public
sewers of any industrial wastewater as herein defined.
   (C)   Interceptors And/Or Grease Traps Required To Remove Harmful
Ingredients: Grease, oil and sand interceptors, or other necessary removal
facilities, shall be installed on the premises in all cases where a building is
used as a hotel, boarding house or restaurant, and when, in the opinion of the
approving authority, they are necessary in other service lines for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, high
concentration of blood, fruit, vegetable or grain liquors; milk wastes, sand
and other harmful ingredients. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity
approved by the approving authority and shall be so located as to be readily
accessible for cleaning and inspection. Where installed, all grease, oil and
sand interceptors shall be maintained by the owner or occupant, at his expense,
in continuously efficient operation at all times.
   (D)   Pretreatment: Where required, in the opinion of the approving
authority, to modify or eliminate wastes that are harmful to the structures,
processes or operation of the wastewater treatment facility, the person shall
provide, at his expense, such preliminary treatment or processing facilities as
may be necessary to render his wastes acceptable for admission to the public
sewer.
   (E)   Submission Of Information: Plans, specifications and any other
pertinent information relating to proposed pretreatment or processing
facilities shall be submitted for approval to the approving authority prior to
the start of their construction if the effluent from such facilities is to be
discharged into the public sewers.
   (F)   Refusal Of Use Of System: The approving authority may prohibit the
discharge into the public sewer of sewage that does not comply with the
limitations set forth in this chapter.
   (G)   Control Of Admissible Wastes:
      1.   Each person desiring to make a new connection to a public sewer for
the purpose of discharging industrial wastes, shall prepare and file with the
approving authority a report that shall include actual or predicted data
relating to the quantity and characteristics of the waste to be discharged.
      2.   Said report shall be filed a minimum of sixty (60) days prior to the
person's anticipated need to be connected to the sewer. When it can be
demonstrated that circumstances exist which would create an unreasonable burden
on the person to comply with this time schedule, a request for extension of
time may be presented for consideration by the approving authority.
   (H)   Flow Measurement And Sampling Station
      1.   Each person discharging industrial waste into a public sewer may be
required to construct and maintain, at his expense, an approved measurement,
sample storage station for all waste entering the public sewer. These
facilities shall be used to obtain flow, BOD and suspended solids data or such
other data as required by the approving authority. All devices, access
facilities and related equipment shall be installed by the person discharging
the wastes, at his expense, and shall be maintained by him so as to be readily
accessible to the approving authority during the operating day.
      2.   The flow measurement and sampling stations shall be located and
constructed in a manner acceptable to the approving authority. Complete plans
on all phases of the proposed installation, including all equipment proposed
for use, shall be submitted to the approving authority for approval prior to
construction.
      3.   Each person discharging the waste shall keep flow records as
required by the approving authority and shall provide qualified personnel to
properly maintain and operate the facilities.
   (I)   Industrial Waste Samples: Waste samples shall be collected for tests
to be performed by the approving authority or their authorized representative.
The approving authority shall approve methods for certain analyses of
industrial wastes if he is reasonably satisfied as to the accuracy of such
methods. The approving authority may use data from reliable published
literature to determine the relative strength and characteristics of potential
industrial wastes. (Ord. 268, 7-6-1982)
3-3-12: PRIVATE SEWER REPAIR PERMIT REQUIRED:
When any private sewer connected with any public sewer becomes obstructed,
broken or out of order, the owner, agent or tenant of such premises shall
repair same at the owner's expense. No person shall construct, relay, repair or
extend any private sewer until the person making the same shall obtain a
private sewer permit from the proper issuing agency or department of the city.
Upon obtaining said permit, the owner, agent or tenant shall make said repairs
within the next five (5) day period and notice in writing shall be given to
such owner or occupant, specifying the time within which said repair must be
completed or the approving authority shall have the power in all cases to cause
such repair to be made. If such owner or occupant shall fail, neglect or refuse
to complete repairs within the time specified, the approving authority shall
report the same to the council and the council shall immediately, either at a
regular meeting or at a special meeting called for that purpose, cause said
repairs to be completed and the costs shall be assessed against the lands or
premises of the owner. The same shall be reported to the council as to the
amount of such assessments for said work. The costs shall constitute a lien
upon said land and premises.
It shall be unlawful for any person to extend any private sewer beyond the
limits of the building or property for which a permit has been given without
obtaining an additional permit for the desired extension. (Ord. 268, 7-6-1982)
3-3-13: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   (A)   Penalty Provided: Any person who violates any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be
punishable by a fine of not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00), or by
imprisonment in the county jail for not to exceed six (6) months or both such
fine and imprisonment. Each day that such violation continues shall be deemed
to be a separate offense.
   (B)   Summons To Appear: Whenever it is determined that any person has
violated any provision of this chapter, a written complaint and summons
containing a notice to appear in a court of competent jurisdiction shall be
served upon the person charged, stating the name of the person charged, the
offense charged, the time and place when and where the offense charged
occurred, the time when the person charged must appear in said court, and such
other pertinent information as may appear necessary or advisable. The issuance
and service of such complaint and summons shall not be the exclusive method of
initiating enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Failure To Appear: It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or
neglect to appear in response to, and as required by such summons regardless of
the disposition finally made of the charge upon which such summons was issued.
Appearance in said court shall be deemed complied with by an appearance by the
person charged or by his attorney. (Ord. 268, 7-6-1982)
CHAPTER 4
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
SECTION:
3-4-1: Short Title
3-4-2: Definitions
3-4-3: Solid Waste Collection From Entire City
3-4-4: Separation Of Solid Waste
3-4-5: Compulsory Service
3-4-6: Regulations
3-4-7: Regulations Relating To Hauling
3-4-8: Solid Waste Accumulation Unlawful
3-4-9: Collection From Private Property
3-4-10: Solid Waste Produced By Business Units
3-4-11: Burning Prohibited
3-4-12: Solid Waste Disposal Prohibited
3-4-13: Theft Of Services
3-4-14: Suppression Of Nuisances
3-4-15: Penalties
3-4-16: Rates
3-4-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the SOLID WASTE ORDINANCE OF THE CITY
OF GENESEE, IDAHO. (Ord. 294, 6-1-1987)
3-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely
directory. These definitions shall apply to all rules, regulations or
agreements entered into pursuant to this chapter.
   ASHES: The residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke or other combustible
materials.
   BAGS: See definition of Containers.
   BULKY WASTE: Stoves, refrigerators, water tanks, washing machines,
furniture, appliances, springs, mattresses, carpets, demolition, commercial,
industrial, tree stumps, tree trunks, logs, vehicle bodies and parts, wire,
large dead animals (over 10 pounds), cement, sheetrock, sod, dirt, tires, rock,
loose branches, any item weighing over sixty (60) pounds or four feet (4') in
length.
   BUNDLE: Small trees, branches, shrub and brush trimmings or newspapers and
magazines securely tied together forming an easily handled package not to
exceed four feet (4') in length and/or thirty five (35) pounds in weight.
   BUSINESS: An individual, partnership, association, corporation, company,
trust, firm, estate, joint venture, unit, agent, public agency, industry or
other legal entity operating as a self- contained independent enterprise, such
as a beauty shop, retail shop, professional office, etc.
   BUSINESS UNIT: Each space occupied by an individual business. A business
unit shall be deemed occupied when either occupied or producing solid waste.
   CITY: City of Genesee, Idaho.
   CONTAINERS:
      Bag: Plastic sacks designed to store solid waste with sufficient wall
strength to maintain physical integrity when lifted by top. Total weight of bag
and its contents shall not exceed thirty five (35) pounds for collection
services.
      Compactor Container: A receptacle designed to compact solid waste and to
be moved by mechanical means so that its contents can be emptied.
      Manual Container (Garbage Can): A receptacle with a capacity of greater
than twenty (20) gallons, but not more than thirty six (36) gallons tapered so
that it is larger at the top than at the bottom, made of metal, plastic or
fiberglass having a tight fitting lid which completely covers the top of the
container, rodent proof and having handles of adequate strength for lifting.
      Mechanical Container: A receptacle designed for loose solid waste to be
lifted by mechanical means so that its contents can be emptied.
   COUNCIL: City council of the city of Genesee, Idaho.
   CURB LINE/CURBSIDE: That portion of the right of way or private property
adjacent to the traveled portion of the city right of way used for the
placement of all solid waste containers on collection days. Containers shall be
placed as close as is reasonably possible to the traveled right of way without
obstructing parking lanes or public sidewalks.
   DIRECTOR: City supervisor or such person so designated by city supervisor or
mayor.
   DISPOSAL: Disposing of solid waste in a disposal site; disposal of solid
waste for resource recovery or transportation to another site or facility.
   DISPOSAL SITE: Waste facility or site where solid waste is disposed of,
reduced or recovered, such as sanitary landfills, transfer stations,
incinerators and resource recovery facilities which are licensed or approved to
receive for processing solid waste by all governmental bodies or agencies
having jurisdiction.
   EQUIPMENT: Equipment used by a franchisee within the city for the collection
or disposal of solid waste.
   FRANCHISEE: The person, persons or corporation holding a contract and/or
franchise issued or granted by the city authorizing such person to operate,
conduct or maintain a municipal solid waste collection and disposal system
upon, or over any streets, alleys and public ways of the city.
   GARBAGE CAN: See definition of Containers.
   GENERATOR: Any resident of a residential unit or business unit who creates
or produces hazardous waste.
   HAUL: An individual trip transporting solid waste from the producer, or any
other point within the city to a disposal site.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE: Any chemical, compound, mixture, substance or article,
which is designated by the United States environmental protection agency or
other appropriate agency of the federal government, or state of Idaho, to be
"hazardous" as that term is defined by or pursuant to law.
   HEAVY WASTE: Heavy waste and materials resulting from excavations,
construction, remodeling, repair or demolition operations, including rocks,
tree trunks, logs, cement, concrete and sod.
   HOUSEHOLD WASTE: That waste produced by an ordinary residential unit fitting
into a bag, manual container or bundle less than four feet (4') in length. Does
not include bulky, infectious or hazardous wastes or any type of solid waste
that is not normally collected by the franchisee at residential or business
units, on the regular collection routes.
   INFECTIOUS WASTE: Any material, chemical, compound, mixture, substance or
article known to be infectious by the producer or which is designated by the
United States environmental protection agency or other appropriate agency of
the federal government or the state of Idaho to be "infectious" as that term is
commonly defined or defined by or pursuant to law.
   INSPECTOR: The authorized employee or agent of the city designated by the
director as having the duty of enforcement of this chapter.
   PREMISES: Land and all buildings and structures thereon including, but not
excluding by terms of enumeration, single- or multi-family dwellings, rooming
houses, apartment houses, hospitals, convalescent and nursing homes, hotels and
motels, restaurants, drive-in establishments, schools (kindergartens, academic,
trade or industrial), and any other place of habitation, office, shop or
establishment or place of conducting a business, trade or occupation.
   PRODUCER: "Residential unit" or "business unit", as defined herein.
   PUTRESCIBLE WASTE: Solid waste which has the capacity to become rotten or
foul.
   RESIDENT: Every person in possession, charge, custody or control of any
premises where solid waste is created or accumulated.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT: A dwelling within the corporate limits of the city
occupied by a person or group of persons. A residential unit shall be deemed
occupied when either occupied or producing solid waste. Each unit within an
apartment or condominium shall be treated as an individual dwelling unit,
unless served by a mechanical container or compactor.
   SERVICE: Solid waste collection and disposal of, or resource recovery from
solid waste, as further defined by agreement.
   SOLID WASTE: All solid waste or semisolid waste including, without
limitation: bulky, household, hazardous, infectious, garbage, rubbish, refuse,
trash, ashes or swill, newsprint or wastepaper, corrugated paper or cardboard,
grass clippings, compost, discarded appliances, equipment, furniture, vehicle
parts, tires, vegetable or animal wastes, wire, cement, demolition or other
wastes, resulting from industrial, commercial, agriculture, institutional and
residential activities. Includes material that is no longer directly usable by
the producer, owner, resident or possessor of the material, but may be
recovered by another person. Solid waste shall include materials that may have
value and thus be recovered. The fact that materials are separated or
segregated from other solid waste does not remove the materials from this
definition. Solid waste shall include waste presently in liquid form. No
material shall be considered solid waste until placed for collection. (Ord.
294, 6-1-1987)
3-4-3: SOLID WASTE COLLECTION FROM ENTIRE CITY:
   (A)   All solid waste from the entire confines of the city shall be placed
for collection by the producer as provided for in this chapter, and such
regulations as the council may approve, and shall be collected by a duly
authorized franchisee or contractor in order to maintain and preserve the
sanitation and thereby the health and welfare of the city.
   (B)   The council reserves the right to issue a franchise to such
franchisees as are necessary to carry out the terms of this chapter. The
council reserves the right to award a franchise contract for the entire city or
any portion thereof if deemed to be in the public interest. The council may
advertise for proposals or bids to provide collection services and may award
one or more franchises within the city based on cost and a subjective
evaluation of the services offered by the proponent or bidder. The council may
enter into a contract or contracts for solid waste services after reviewing and
giving fair consideration to proponents.
   (C)   The council shall charge a franchise fee or license fee to all
franchisees. Said fee shall initially be set at five percent (5%) of gross
receipts, but may be revised by the city council from time to time by
resolution. Fees shall be payable on a monthly basis based on the licensee's
gross revenue. Such revenues may be utilized for administration, code
enforcement, maintenance of rights of way, for cleaning programs and for costs
incurred in enforcing this chapter or for any other lawful purpose. The council
may waive a franchise fee where the franchisee is providing a public service
worthy of such subsidy.
   (D)   The city shall have the power to regulate the maximum rate which a
franchisee may charge subject to the provisions contained in any agreement
between the city and the franchisee. Franchisees shall maintain records of
estimated tonnage or yardage of solid waste hauled from the city through actual
weighing of trucks or spot check weighing at reasonable intervals or estimated
yardage. The city may require that franchisees be bonded and maintain minimum
levels of liability insurance.
   (E)   The city shall bill and collect all fees for solid waste collection
within the city unless otherwise agreed. It shall be unlawful for any
franchisee to discount or "kickback" funds or provide gifts to any producer,
government entity or an agent or employee thereof. The city shall not be
responsible for unpaid or bankrupt accounts. (Ord. 294, 6-1-1987)
3-4-4: SEPARATION OF SOLID WASTE:
All solid waste shall be drained of excess water and all wet household solid
waste or putrescible waste and any animal defecation shall be separately
wrapped in tightly secured plastic bags before being placed in a container.
(Ord. 294, 6-1-1987)
3-4-5: COMPULSORY SERVICE:
No producer shall be permitted to refuse collection services provided for
herein, and the failure of any producer to receive such service shall not
exempt such producer from payment of charges herein provided for, save and
except any of those producers residing in areas in which collection service is
not available for the entire area, and in such areas where no service is
rendered. The boundaries within the municipality exempted from such charges
shall be established by the council. Provided however, that the council shall
have authority to grant exemptions from payment of charges, as herein provided,
to churches, nonprofit entities, fraternal organizations, and producers as
defined herein, which satisfy the council that they do not produce or generate
solid waste. The franchisee shall not be obligated to furnish service to such
exempt business or residential units. (Ord. 294, 6-1-1987)
3-4-6: REGULATIONS:
The director is hereby empowered to prepare rules and regulations from time to
time in connection with the preparation, handling, collection and disposal of
solid waste within the city, subject to the approval of the city council. Three
(3) copies of said rules and regulations shall be retained at city hall for use
by the public and the franchisee shall be immediately notified of all changes.
The council may direct that the franchisee shall not collect solid waste from
any premises where said rules and regulations are not complied with, and the
failure to collect the same by such direction shall not relieve the producer of
such premises from the payment of fees or penalties as provided for herein.
(Ord. 294, 6-1-1987)
3-4-7: REGULATIONS RELATING TO HAULING:
No person shall be permitted to haul solid waste over the streets of the city
unless such vehicle so conveying such waste is equipped with a canvas top or
some other device effective to prevent the waste from being strewn and littered
about the streets and alleys. No person whose principal business is the
collection, disposal or resource recovery of solid waste shall convey solid
waste over and across the streets or the alleys of the city for hire unless he
shall have first filed a written application and received a franchise to haul
from the city.
No person, whether having entered into an agreement with the city for
collection of solid waste or not, shall be permitted to transport the solid
waste over public thoroughfares in anything other than watertight containers.
(Ord. 294, 6-1-1987)
3-4-8: SOLID WASTE ACCUMULATION UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or to allow to accumulate in or
about any yard, lot, place or premises; or upon any street, alley or sidewalk
adjacent to such lot, yard, place or premises owned or occupied by such person,
any solid waste so as to cause such yard, lot, premises, or street, or alley or
sidewalk adjacent thereto to be or remain in such condition as to cause or
create a nuisance, obstruction, hazard to the public health, or offensive odor
or rodent harborage or thereby to be or to become, or to cause or create, a
public or private nuisance within the limits of the city. (Ord. 294, 6-1-1987)
3-4-9: COLLECTION FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   (A)   All solid waste, except ashes, shall be placed in authorized
containers. Unless approved otherwise, all solid waste shall be placed at the
curbline (as defined herein) in a manner whereby it may be easily seen.
   (B)   Solid waste producers not abutting public streets or alleys shall
permit access to the franchisee for collection and disposal of solid waste
placed in containers.
   (C)   Solid waste shall not be placed in any type of container except those
defined herein. No manual container (garbage can) may be filled to a weight
exceeding sixty (60) pounds. Worn out manual containers may not be utilized.
Solid waste shall not be compacted in a container to the extent of obstructing
an easy removal from the container.
   (D)   Ashes placed for collection shall be cold and free from any fire, live
coals or other substances which might ignite. Ashes shall be placed in tightly
secured plastic bags, and placed in a separate metal container from any
flammable materials.
   (E)   Small tree limbs, when tied in bundles not over four feet (4') long
and weighing less than thirty five (35) pounds, will be collected.
   (F)   Magazines and papers may be tied in bundles, but must not be put out
in wet weather or any earlier than twelve (12) hours before collection time
unless in a sealed container.
   (G)   Broken concrete, rocks, plaster, discarded building materials, trees,
large tree limbs and other bulky wastes may not be placed for collection as
household waste.
   (H)   Bags containing solid waste will be collected but may not be set out
for service until the morning of the collection day. Bags may be placed for
collection in advance of the collection day, if they contain only leaves, grass
cuttings, weeds and hedge trimmings. Bags containing solid waste must weigh
less than thirty five (35) pounds.
   (I)   Loose paper, waste basket material, wastepaper, etc., must be placed
in covered containers.
   (J)   Dead animals or portions thereof placed for collection must weigh less
than ten (10) pounds and must be placed in a securely tied plastic bag, then in
a container with a tightfitting lid.
   (K)   Hazardous waste must be disposed of in a manner consistent with
federal, state of Idaho, and city regulations. Anyone needing to dispose of
hazardous waste must contact the franchisee. All fees and charges regarding
hazardous wastes shall be the responsibility of the generator. The franchisee
may require a deposit from the generator prior to pick up of hazardous waste.
Title to hazardous waste shall remain with the generator.
   (L)   Infectious solid waste must be disposed of in a manner consistent with
federal and state of Idaho and city regulations. Such waste must be double
bagged and placed in securely tied plastic bags, inside clearly marked
punctureproof plastic containers in a manner approved by the franchisee, who
shall be notified by the producer of the fact that such waste is being placed
for pick up. Title to infectious wastes shall remain with the producer.
   (M)   Owners of premises, residential units and business units where solid
waste is produced or generated shall be responsible for payment of all solid
waste service provided at such premises, if such service is not paid by the
renter or lessee of such premises. (Ord. 294, 6-1-1987)
3-4-10: SOLID WASTE PRODUCED BY BUSINESS UNITS:
   (A)   Every owner or lessee or person in charge of any commercial or
industrial establishment or other similar place where solid waste is produced
or accumulated shall provide or cause to be provided for such producer, a
metal, watertight container into which all solid waste which has been properly
and sanitarily prepared for disposal shall be placed. Said container shall have
a tightfitting cover and shall be kept covered. Individual arrangements shall
be reviewed by the city clerk and franchisee.
   (B)   Loose paper, waste basket material, wastepaper, etc., must be placed
in covered containers.
   (C)   Solid waste resulting from the construction, reconstruction or repairs
of premises shall not be placed with other solid waste for collection, but
shall be disposed of directly by the producer owning, occupying or leasing the
premises, unless specific arrangements have been made with the franchisee.
   (D)   Residents having a commercial use in their home shall be billed a
commercial rate, unless otherwise agreed to by the city and franchisee.
   (E)   Hazardous and infectious waste must be disposed of in a manner
consistent with Federal, State of Idaho, and City regulations and as set forth
elsewhere in this chapter and other reasonable regulations which may be
formulated.
   (F)   Mechanical containers and compactors may not be filled in a manner
which exceeds safe loading weights and volumes. (Ord. 294, 6-1-1987)
3-4-11: BURNING PROHIBITED:
The burning of substances of any kind within the City is hereby prohibited
except as provided in title 8, chapter 2 of this Code. (Ord. 294, 6-1-1987;
amd. Ord. 411, 7-17-2018)
3-4-12: SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL PROHIBITED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to incinerate solid waste or to
deposit the same on vacant lots or private property. No person, including the
franchisee shall drop, spill or permit solid waste to fall upon any private
property, public street, alley or right-of-way without immediately cleaning up
said waste.
   (B)   After emptying any container (except bags), the franchisee's employee
shall return containers to the location in which such containers where taken
and shall replace the covers. Space about the containers shall be left free
from any solid waste spilled during the collection. The franchisee is not
responsible for cleaning up conditions about solid waste containers caused by
the carelessness of the owner or others. (Ord. 294, 6-1-1987)
3-4-13: THEFT OF SERVICES:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit solid waste in any
commercial container placed for a private or public individual, business or
agency unless the person has been so authorized by the owner or individual in
charge of the container.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person not a resident of the City to
leave solid waste with a City resident for pick up pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   Violation of this section shall be construed as a "theft of services".
(Ord. 294, 6-1-1987)
3-4-14: SUPPRESSION OF NUISANCES:
   (A)   The Director shall take cognizance of all solid waste related
nuisances within the limits of its jurisdiction of the City and shall take such
measures as may be effectual to suppress and abate the same, including
contracting to abate such nuisances and billing the property owner for the
expenses of abatement.
   (B)   The improper collection, disposal or discharge into the atmosphere of
hazardous material is hereby declared to be a nuisance and is unlawful. (Ord.
294, 6-1-1987)
3-4-15: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in an amount
not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00). Each day such violation is
committed or permitted to continue and/or each separate incident shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder. (Ord.
294, 6-1-1987)
3-4-16: RATES:
The City Council is hereby authorized to adopt rates to be charged producers
and generators by resolution. (Ord. 294, 6-1-1987)
CHAPTER 5
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: Cross Connections
3-5-3: Use Of Backflow Prevention Devices
3-5-4: Cross Connection Inspection
3-5-5: Additional Remedies
3-5-6: Violations And Penalties
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words shall have the following meanings:
   BACKFLOW: The flow, other than the intended direction of flow, of any
foreign liquids, gases or substances into the distribution system of a public
water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device to counteract back pressure or prevent
back siphonage.
   CONTAMINATION: The entry into or presence in a public water supply of any
substance which may be deleterious to health and/or quality of the water.
   CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical arrangement whereby a public water supply is
connected, directly or indirectly, with any other water supply system, sewer,
drain, conduit, pool, storage reservoir, plumbing fixture or other device which
contains or may contain contaminated water, sewage or other waste or liquids of
unknown or unsafe quality which may be capable of imparting contamination to
the public water supply as a result of backflow.
   ENGINEER: Professional engineer registered in the state of Idaho, retained
to provide engineering services to the city.
   HEALTH OFFICER: The state of Idaho department of health and welfare,
division of environment local representative or his authorized agent.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY: Any system or water supply intended or used for human
consumption or other domestic uses, including source, treatment, storage,
transmission and distribution facilities, where water is furnished to any
collection or number of individuals, or is made available to the public for
human consumption or domestic use.
   SUPERVISOR: The city water department supervisor. (Ord. 266, 4-13-1981)
3-5-2: CROSS CONNECTIONS:
No water service connection to any premises shall be installed or continued in
use by the city unless the water supply is protected by backflow prevention
devices as may be required by this chapter. The installation or maintenance of
a cross connection which will endanger the water quality of the potable water
supply of the city shall be unlawful and is prohibited. Any such cross
connection now existing or hereafter installed is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance and the same shall be abated. The control or elimination of
cross connections shall be in accordance with this chapter and the regulations
set forth in section 1-8306 of the "Idaho Regulations For Public Drinking Water
Systems", together with the latest edition of appropriate manuals of standard
practice pertaining to cross connection control approved by the engineer.
Council shall have the authority to establish requirements more stringent than
state regulations if he deems that the conditions so dictate. The city shall
adopt rules and regulations as necessary to carry out the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 266, 4-13-1981)
3-5-3: USE OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
   (A)   Backflow prevention devices shall be installed at the service
connection or within any premises where, in the judgment of the city, the
nature and extent of activities, or the material stored on the premises, would
present an immediate and dangerous hazard to health and/or be deleterious to
the quality of the water should a cross connection occur; even though such
cross connection does not exist at present, the backflow prevention devices
shall be installed under circumstances including, but not limited to, the
following:
      1.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless the quality of the
auxiliary supply is in compliance with the Idaho drinking water regulations and
is acceptable to the city.
      2.   Premises having internal cross connections that are not correctable,
or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impracticable to ascertain
whether or not cross connections exist.
      3.   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to assure that cross connections do not exist.
      4.   Premises having a repeated history of cross connections being
established or reestablished.
      5.   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as to
permit entry into the public water supply, or where a cross connection could
reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of process
waters and cooling waters.
      6.   Premises where materials of a toxic or hazardous nature are handled
in such a way that if back siphonage should occur, a serious health hazard
might result.
      7.   The following types of facilities will fall into one of the above
categories where a backflow prevention device is required to protect the public
water supply. A backflow prevention device shall be installed at these
facilities unless the city determines that no hazard exists:
         (a)   Sewage treatment plants.
         (b)   Chemical or other industrial plants.
         (c)   Agricultural chemical storage, formulation and distribution
facilities.
         (d)   Petroleum storage facilities.
         (e)   Underground sprinkling devices or systems.
      8.   Other premises, as specified by the city, where backflow prevention
devices are required to protect the public water supply.
   (B)   The type of protective device required shall depend on the degree of
hazard which exists:
      1.   An air gap separation or a reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device shall be installed where the public water supply may be
contaminated with sewage, industrial waste of a toxic nature or other
contaminant which would cause a health or system hazard.
      2.   In the case of a substance which may be objectionable but not
hazardous to health, a double check valve assembly, air gap separation or a
reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device shall be installed.
   (C)   Backflow prevention devices required by this chapter shall be
installed at the meter, at the property line of the premises when meters are
not used, or at a location designated by the city. The device shall be located
so as to be readily accessible for maintenance and testing, and furthermore,
where no part of the device will be submerged.
   (D)   Backflow prevention devices required by this chapter shall be
installed under the supervision of, and with the approval of, the supervisor.
   (E)   Any protective device required by this chapter shall be a model
approved by the city. A double check valve assembly or a reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device will be approved if it has successfully
passed performance tests of the University of Southern California Engineering
Center or other testing laboratories satisfactory to the engineer. These
devices shall be furnished and installed by and at the expense of the customer.
   (F)   Backflow prevention devices installed pursuant to this chapter, except
atmospheric vacuum breakers, shall be inspected and tested annually, or more
often if necessary. Inspections, tests and maintenance shall be at the
customer's expense. Whenever the devices are found to be defective, they shall
be repaired or replaced at the customer's expense. Inspections, tests, repairs
and records thereof shall be accomplished under the city's supervision by
certified testers.
   (G)   No underground sprinkling device will be installed without adequate
backflow prevention devices at the point from which the water for irrigation is
taken from the public water supply.
   (H)   Failure of the customer to cooperate in the installation, maintenance,
testing or inspection of backflow prevention devices required by this chapter
shall be grounds for the termination of water service to the premises, or, in
the alternative, the installation of an air gap separation at the customer's
expense. (Ord. 266, 4-13-1981)
3-5-4: CROSS CONNECTION INSPECTION:
   (A)   No water shall be delivered to any structure hereafter built within
the city or within areas served by city water until the same shall have been
inspected by the city for possible cross connections and been approved as being
free of same.
   (B)   Any construction for industrial or other purposes which is classified
as hazardous facilities pursuant to section
3-5-3 of this chapter, where it is reasonable to anticipate intermittent cross
connections, or as determined by the city, shall be protected by the
installation of one or more backflow prevention devices at the point of service
from the public water supply or any other location designated by the city.
   (C)   Inspections shall be made periodically of all buildings, structures or
improvements of any nature now receiving water through the city's system, for
the purpose of ascertaining whether cross connections exist. Such inspections
shall be made by the city. (Ord. 266, 4-13-1981)
3-5-5: ADDITIONAL REMEDIES:
In the event an improper cross connection is not corrected within the time
limit set by the city, or, in the event the city is refused access to any
property for the purpose of determining whether or not cross connections exist,
delivery of water to the property shall cease until the deficiency is corrected
to the city's satisfaction. In addition, the city may effect the necessary
repairs or modifications at the expense of the property owner and refuse
delivery of water to the property until the cost thereof shall have been paid.
(Ord. 266, 4-13-1981)
3-5-6: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, refuses to comply with or
resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter or the rules
and regulations as adopted by the city, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall for each offense be punished by a fine in
any sum not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00) or imprisonment for a
term not exceeding ninety (90) days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 266, 4-13-1981)
CHAPTER 6
WATER AND SEWER FACILITIES
SECTION:
3-6-1: Purposes And Findings
3-6-2: Basis For Fees
3-6-3: Short Title, Authority, And Applicability
3-6-4: Definitions
3-6-5: Imposition Of Water And Sewer Facilities Connection Fees
3-6-6: Computation Of The Amount Of Water And Sewer Facilities Connection Fee
3-6-7: Payment Of Fee
3-6-8: Water And Sewer Facilities Connection Fee Trust Funds Established
3-6-9: Use Of Funds
3-6-10: Refund Of Fees Paid
3-6-11: Exemptions And Credits
3-6-12: Review
3-6-13: Penalty Provision
3-6-1: PURPOSES AND FINDINGS:
The city council of Genesee finds, determines, and declares that:
   (A)   This chapter is intended to assist in the improvement and increased
capacity of the city of Genesee water and sewer systems.
   (B)   The purpose of this chapter is to assure that new development bears a
proportionate share of the cost of capital expenditures necessary to provide
water and sewer facilities in the city. (Ord. 318, 11-10-1992)
3-6-2: BASIS FOR FEES:
   (A)   The city must expand its water and sewer facilities if new development
is to be accommodated without decreasing current standards of public health.
   (B)   The imposition of connection fees is one of the preferred methods of
ensuring that development bears a proportionate share of the cost of water and
sewer facilities necessary to accommodate such development. This must be done
in order to promote and protect the public health, safety, and welfare.
   (C)   Connecting to the city water and/or sewer system will create a need
for the construction, equipping, or expansion of water and sewer facilities.
   (D)   The fees established by section
 3-6-6 of this chapter do not exceed the costs of providing additional water
and sewer facilities necessitated by the connection to the county's water and
sewer systems.
   (E)   The report prepared by the city engineer dated September 16, 1992,
sets forth a reasonable methodology and analysis for the determination of the
need of and costs for participating in the water and sewer facilities of the
city. (Ord. 318, 11-10-1992)
3-6-3: SHORT TITLE, AUTHORITY, AND APPLICABILITY:
   (A)   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the GENESEE WATER AND
SEWER FACILITIES CONNECTION FEE ORDINANCE.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply in incorporated areas of the city of Genesee.
(Ord. 318, 11-10-1992)
3-6-4: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
   CAPITAL EQUIPMENT: Equipment with an expected use life of three (3) years or
more.
   CITY: The city of Genesee.
   CONNECTION TO THE WATER AND/OR SEWER SYSTEM: The physical connection of a
building, structure, or land use to the city's water and/or sewer lines, no
matter if such connection is made through or by intermediate lines.
   DEVELOPMENT ORDER: A regulatory approval by the city.
   FEE PAYER: A person applying for connection to the city's water and/or sewer
system.
   WATER AND SEWER FACILITIES: City of Genesee owned facilities. (Ord. 318, 11-
10-1992)
3-6-5: IMPOSITION OF WATER AND SEWER FACILITIES CONNECTION FEES:
   (A)   Any person who, after the effective date hereof, seeks to connect to
the city water system is hereby required to pay a water facilities connection
fee in the manner and amount set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Any person who, after the effective date hereof, seeks to connect to
the city sewer system is hereby required to pay a sewer facilities connection
fee in the manner and amount set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 318, 11-10-1992)
3-6-6: COMPUTATION OF THE AMOUNT OF WATER AND SEWER FACILITIES CONNECTION FEE:
   (A)   At the option of the fee payer, the amount of the water and/or sewer
facilities connection fee may be determined by the following fee schedules:
   FEE SCHEDULE FOR WATER FACILITIES
Land Use Type (Unit)  
Land Use Type (Unit)     
Residential structure:   
 Single-family unit    $1,500.00
 Multiple-family unit  1,500.00
 Mobile home each unit 1,500.00
 Hotel/motel per room  Equivalent fee determined by engineer
 
Nonresidential units:    
 Meter size (inches):   
 
  1 or smaller        Equivalent fee determined by engineer
  11/2                Equivalent fee determined by engineer
  2                   Equivalent fee determined by engineer
  4                   Equivalent fee determined by engineer
  6                   Equivalent fee determined by engineer
 
   FEE SCHEDULE FOR SEWER FACILITIES
 
Land Use Type (Unit)     
Residential structure:   
  Single-family unit    $1,100.00
  Multiple-family unit  1,100.00
  Mobile home each unit 1,100.00
 Hotel/motel per room  Equivalent fee determined by engineer
                        
Commercial structures   Equivalent fee determined by engineer
 
   (B)   In the case of change of use, redevelopment, or expansion or
modification of an existing use which requires a new, replacement, or
additional connection to the city's water and/or sewer system, the connection
fee shall be based upon the net increase in the size of the meter for the new
connection over the size of the meter for the previous connection.
   (C)   If a fee payer opts not to have the connection fee determined
according to subsection (A) of this section, then the fee payer shall prepare
and submit to the city administrator an independent fee calculation study for
the land development activity for which a connection to the city's water and/or
sewer system is sought. The independent fee calculation study shall follow the
prescribed format for the study established by the guidelines and procedures
manual adopted by motion of the city council of the city of Genesee. The
documentation submitted shall show the basis upon which the independent fee
calculation was made. The city administrator shall consider the documentation
submitted by the fee payer but is not required to accept such documentation as
he/she shall reasonably deem to be inaccurate or not reliable and may, in the
alternative, require the fee payer to submit additional or different
documentation for consideration. If an acceptable independent fee calculation
study is not presented, the fee payer shall pay water and sewer facilities
impact fees based upon the schedule shown in subsection (A) of this section. If
an acceptable independent fee calculation study is presented, the city council
may adjust the fee to that appropriate to the particular development. (Ord.
318, 11-10-1992)
3-6-7: PAYMENT OF FEE:
   (A)   The fee payer shall pay the water and sewer facilities connection fee
required by this chapter to the city clerk or her designee prior to obtaining a
building and prior to connection to the city's water and/or sewer system.
   (B)   All funds collected shall be properly identified by and promptly
transferred for deposit in the appropriate water and sewer facilities
connection fee trust fund to be held in separate accounts as determined in
section
3-6-8 of this chapter and used solely for the purposes specified in this
chapter. (Ord. 318, 11-10-1992)
3-6-8: WATER AND SEWER FACILITIES CONNECTION FEE TRUST FUNDS ESTABLISHED:
   (A)   There are hereby established two (2) separate dedicated water and
sewer facilities connection fee trust funds: the water facilities connection
fee trust fund and the sewer facilities connection fee trust fund.
   (B)   Funds withdrawn from these accounts must be used in accordance with
the provisions of section
3-6-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 318, 11-10-1992)
3-6-9: USE OF FUNDS:
   (A)   Funds collected from water and sewer facility connection fees shall be
used solely for the purpose of acquiring, equipping, and/or making capital
improvements to water and sewer facilities under the jurisdiction of the city,
and shall not be used for maintenance or operations.
   (B)   Funds from the water facilities connection fee trust fund may only be
used for water facilities purposes and funds from the sewer facilities
connection fee trust fund may only be used for sewer facilities purposes. Funds
shall be expended in the order in which they are collected.
   (C)   In the event that bonds or similar debt instruments are issued for
advanced provision of capital facilities for which water and sewer facilities
connection fees may be expended, connection fees may be used to pay debt
service on such bonds or similar debt instruments to the extent that the
facilities provided are of the type described in subsection (A) of this
section.
   (D)   At least once each fiscal period the city administrator shall present
to the city council a proposed capital improvement program for water and sewer
facilities, assigning funds from the several water and sewer facilities
connection fee trust funds to specific water and sewer facilities improvement
projects and related expenses. Monies not assigned in any fiscal period shall
be retained in the same water and sewer facilities connection fee trust funds
until the next fiscal period, except as provided by the refund provisions of
this chapter.
   (E)   Funds may be used to provide refunds as described in section
3-6-10 of this chapter.
   (F)   Funds may be used to rebate developer costs for providing water and/or
sewer capital facilities in excess of the capacity required to the individual
developer making the provision. Any rebates must be pursuant to a refunding
agreement entered between the developer and city after the effective date
hereof. Prior refunding agreements may be renegotiated in order to bring such
agreements into accord with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 318, 11-10-
1992)
3-6-10: REFUND OF FEES PAID:
Any funds not expended or encumbered by the end of the calendar quarter
immediately following ten (10) years from the date the water and sewer
facilities impact fee was paid shall, upon application of the then current
landowner, be returned to such landowner, provided that the landowner submits
an application for a refund to the city clerk within one hundred eighty (180)
days of the expiration of the ten (10) year period. (Ord. 318, 11-10-1992)
3-6-11: EXEMPTIONS AND CREDITS:
   (A)   Exemptions: The following shall be exempted from payment of the
connection fee:
      1.   Alterations or expansion of an existing building where no additional
or larger water and/or sewer connections are requested and where the use is not
changed.
      2.   The replacement of a building or structure with a new building or
structure of the same size and use where no additional or larger water and/or
sewer connections are requested and where the use is not changed.
      3.   The installation of a replacement mobile home on a lot or other such
site when a water and/or sewer capital facilities connection fee for such
mobile home site has previously been paid pursuant to this chapter or where a
mobile home legally existed on such site on or prior to the effective date
hereof.
      4.   Any claim of exemption must be made no later than the time of
application for connection to the city's water and/or sewer system. Any claim
not so made shall be deemed waived.
   (B)   Credit Or Reimbursement:
      1.   Water and sewer facilities capital improvements may be offered by
the fee payer as total or partial payment of the required connection fee. The
fee payer must request a water and sewer facilities connection fee credit. If
the city administrator accepts such an offer, whether the acceptance is before
or after the effective date hereof, the credit shall be determined and provided
in the following manner:
         (a)   Credit for the dedication of land shall be valued:
            (1)   At one hundred percent (100%) of the most recently assessed
value by the Latah County appraiser;
            (2)   By such other appropriate method as the city council may have
accepted prior to the effective date hereof for particular water and sewer
facilities improvement; or
            (3)   By fair market value established by private appraisers
acceptable to the city. Credit for the dedication of water and sewer facilities
land shall be provided when the property has been conveyed at no charge to, and
accepted by, the county in a manner satisfactory to the city council.
         (b)   Applicants for credit for construction of water and sewer
facilities improvements shall submit acceptable engineering drawings and
specifications, and construction cost estimates to the city administrator. The
city council shall determine credit for construction based upon either these
cost estimates or upon alternative engineering criteria and construction cost
estimates if the city council determines that such estimates submitted by the
applicant are either unreliable or inaccurate. The city clerk shall provide the
applicant with a letter or certificate setting forth the dollar amount of the
credit, the water and sewer facilities connection fee component(s) to which the
credit will apply, the reason for the credit, and the legal description or
other adequate description of the project or development to which the credit
may be applied. The applicant must sign and date a duplicate copy of such
letter or certificate indicating his agreement to the terms of the letter or
certificate and return such signed document to the city clerk before credit
will be given. The failure of the applicant to sign, date, and return such
document within sixty (60) days shall nullify the credit.
         (c)   Except as provided in subsection (B)1(d) of this section, credit
against connection fees otherwise due will not be provided until:
            (1)   The construction is completed and accepted by the city; or
            (2)   A suitable maintenance and warranty bond is received and
approved by the city clerk of Genesee, when applicable.
         (d)   Credit may be provided before completion of specified water and
sewer facilities improvements if adequate assurances are given by the applicant
that the standards set out in subsection (B)1(c) of this section will be met
and if the fee payer posts security as provided below for the costs of such
construction. Security in the form of a performance bond, irrevocable letter of
credit, or escrow agreement shall be posted with and approved by the city clerk
of Genesee in an amount determined by the city administrator. If the water and
sewer facilities construction project will not be constructed within one year
of the acceptance of the offer by the city administrator, the amount of the
security shall be increased by ten percent (10%) compounded for each year of
the life of the security. The security shall be reviewed and approved by the
city council prior to acceptance of the security by the city clerk. If the
water and sewer facilities construction project is not to be completed within
five (5) years of the date of the fee payer's offer, the city council must
approve the water and sewer facilities construction project and its scheduled
completion date prior to the acceptance of the offer by the city clerk.
      2.   Any claim for credit must be made no later than the time of
application for connection. Any claim not so made shall be deemed waived.
      3.   Credits shall not be transferable from one project or development to
another without the approval of the city council.
      4.   Credits shall not be transferable from one component of the water
and sewer facilities connection fee to another component of this fee.
      5.   Determinations made by the city clerk pursuant to the credit
provisions of this section may be appealed to the city council by filing a
written request with the city clerk within ten (10) days of the city clerk's
determination. (Ord. 318, 11-10-1992)
3-6-12: REVIEW:
The fees contained in section
3-6-6 of this chapter shall be reviewed by the city council at least once each
fiscal year. (Ord. 318, 11-10-1992)
3-6-13: PENALTY PROVISION:
A violation of this chapter shall be prosecuted as a misdemeanor and upon
conviction the violator shall be punishable; however, in addition to or in lieu
of any criminal prosecution, the city shall have the power to sue in civil
court to enforce the provisions of this chapter. If convicted a person shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00), by
imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days, or
by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 318, 11-10-1992)
TITLE 4
BUILDING REGULATIONS
Building Codes And Regulations   1
Plumbing Regulations   2
Electrical Code   3
Moving Of Buildings   4
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Composition Of City Of Genesee Building Code
4-1-2: Codes Adopted
4-1-3: Amendments To Certain Adopted Codes
4-1-4: Amendments To Mechanical Code And Fuel Gas Code
4-1-5: Manufactured, Modular, And Mobile Homes
4-1-6: Permanent Living Quarters
4-1-7: Permits Contrary To Law
4-1-8: Enforcement And Penalties
4-1-9: Fees
4-1-1: COMPOSITION OF CITY OF GENESEE BUILDING CODE:
The codes as adopted in this chapter shall be designated as the City of Genesee
Building Code. These regulations apply to all structures and property in the
City of Genesee. (Ord. 424, 12-15-2020)
4-1-2: CODES ADOPTED:
   (A)   In accordance with Idaho Code Title 39 Chapter 41, Idaho Code Title 44
Chapters 21 and 22, and the Idaho Administrative Procedures Act Section 24.39
(7.03), the codes adopted for the City of Genesee as amended herein and by the
State of Idaho, include:
      1.   The International Building Code, 2018 edition;
      2.   The International Residential Code, 2018 edition, parts I through
VI;
      3.   The International Mechanical Code, 2018 edition;
      4.   The International Fuel Gas Code, 2018 edition;
      5.   The International Energy Conservation Code, 2018 edition;
      6.   The International Existing Building Code, 2018 edition; and
      7.   The International Property Maintenance Code, 2018 edition.
   (B)   The following appendices to the International Building Code, 2018
edition, are specifically adopted:
      1.   Appendix C, Group U Agricultural Buildings;
      2.   Appendix E, Supplementary Accessibility Requirements;
      3.   Appendix F, Rodent Proofing;
      4.   Appendix H, Signs;
      5.   Appendix I, Patio Covers; and
      6.   Appendix J, Grading.
   (C)   The following appendices to the International Residential Code, 2018
edition, are specifically adopted:
      1.   Appendix A, Sizing and Capacities of Gas Piping;
      2.   Appendix B, Sizing of Venting Systems Serving Appliances with Draft
Hoods, Category I, Appliances, and Appliances Listed for Use and Type B Vents;
      3.   Appendix C, Exit Terminals of Mechanical Draft and Direct-Vent
Venting Systems;
      4.   Appendix D, Recommended Procedure for Safety Inspection of an
Existing Appliance Installation;
      5.   Appendix H, Patio Covers;
      6.   Appendix J, Existing Buildings and Structures;
      7.   Appendix M, Home Day Care-R-3 Occupancy;
      8.   Appendix Q, Tiny Houses;
      9.   Appendix R, Light Straw-Clay Construction; and
      10.   Appendix S, Strawbale Construction.
   (D)   The following appendices to the International Existing Building Code,
2018 edition, are specifically adopted:
      1.   Appendix A-1, Seismic Strengthening Provisions for Unreinforced
Masonry Bearing Wall Buildings;
      2.   Appendix A-2, Earthquake Hazard Reduction in Existing Reinforced
Concrete and Reinforced Masonry Wall Buildings with Flexible Diaphragms;
      3.   Appendix B, Supplementary Accessibility Requirements for Existing
Buildings and Facilities; and
      4.   Resource A, Guideline on Fire Ratings of Archaic Materials and
Assemblies. (Ord. 424, 12-15-2020)
4-1-3: AMENDMENTS TO CERTAIN ADOPTED CODES:
The following language is hereby added to or amends the adopted codes as
follows:
   (A)   Section [A]105.2 of the International Building Code, 2018 edition,
Section R105.2 of the International Residential Code, 2018 edition, and Section
105.2 of the International Existing Building Code, 2018 edition, are hereby
amended as follows:
      105.2 Work exempt from permit [A]105.2 [R105.2] [105.2]
      Work exempt from permit. Exemption from permit requirements of this code
shall not be deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in any
manner in violation of the provisions of this code or any other laws or
ordinances of this jurisdiction or the State of Idaho. All exemptions from
permits requirements of this code are subject to the following:
      1.   All exempt items that include electrical, plumbing, mechanical or
fuel gas are required to obtain a valid permit and final approval for such and
provide a copy of that to the City.
      2.   No exempt structure shall be used as a cabin, residence, tiny home,
office, studio, or other similar item.
      With respect to the above, building permits shall not be required for the
following:
      105.2 Work exempt from permit [A]105.2 [R105.2] [105.2]
      15. [12.] [8.] Freestanding solar collectors not greater than 200 square
feet and no higher than 10 feet above grade.
      16. [13.] [9.] Commercially available membrane structures erected
according to the manufacturers' instructions intended to provide weather
protection for automobiles and recreational vehicles.
      18. [15.] [11.] Unlit signs less than 12 square feet on poles less than
7' high or attached to the side of a structure.
   (B)   Section [A]105.3 of the International Building Code, 2018 edition, and
Section R105.3 of the International Residential Code, 2018 edition, Section
[A]105.3 of the International Existing Building Code are hereby amended as
follows:
      105.3 [R105.3] Application for permit.
      6.   Be signed by the applicant/owner. When allowed by office policy, the
applicant's authorized agent or contractor may sign the application with
permission of the property owner.
      10.   For structures that have electrical, the electrical permit number.
For structures that have plumbing, the plumbing permit number. If not available
at the time of application, these numbers shall be provided to the City of
Genesee as soon as they are acquired.
   (C)   Section [A]105.5 of the International Building Code, 2018 edition,
Section R105.5 of the International Residential Code, 2018 edition, and Section
[A]105.5 of the International Existing Building Code are hereby amended as
follows:
      [A]105.5 [R105.5] [A]105.5 Expiration. Every permit issued shall become
invalid unless the work authorized by such permit is commenced within 180 days
after its issuance, or if the work authorized by such permit is suspended or
abandoned for a period of 180 days after the time the work is commenced. The
Building Official is authorized to grant, in writing, not more than three
extensions of time, for periods not more than 180 days each. The party must
request an extension and pay the fee as shown in Section
4-1-9 .
      Renewal. When a permit has expired or is going to expire, a renewal
permit must be obtained. No work can be recommenced on an expired project until
a renewal permit has been issued. The fees for such renewal permits are
specified in Section
4-1-9 . At the discretion of the Building Official, and only when deemed
appropriate, in lieu of the fees specifically outlined, the applicant may be
charged the fees set out for remodels or may, if the project is substantially
close to being finished with approximately 90% or more of the project
completed, be charged for individual items or inspections needed to complete a
permit. A Certificate of Occupancy may be issued without all permitted elements
completed provided that these elements are not essential to the completion of
construction of the structure (i.e. garage or carport with a home, cover over a
deck) and so long as construction of the elements has not begun. If these will
be built at a future date, a new permit for these will be required at the time
of construction. All subsequent work, which was not previously approved, shall
adhere to the most current adopted code. No refund shall be given for partial
permit approval.
   (D)   Section [A] 111.3 of the International Building Code, 2018 edition,
Section R110.4 of the International Residential Code, 2018 edition, and
[A]110.3 of the International Existing Building Code are hereby amended as
follows:
      [A]111.3 [R110.4] [A]110.3 Temporary Occupancy. The building official is
authorized to issue a Temporary Certificate of Occupancy before the completion
of the entire work covered by the permit, provided that such portion or
portions shall be occupied safely and the corresponding fee for a Temporary
Certificate of Occupancy has been paid. To occupy a structure safely, the
Building Official shall determine what items must be complete and pass
inspection prior to issuance.
      The Temporary Certificate of Occupancy, when issued, shall contain a list
of all items remaining for final approval and be signed by the applicant. It
shall be valid for a period of 180 days. An applicant can request and receive,
at the discretion of the Building Official, two (2) one-time 180 extensions of
their Temporary Certificate of Occupancy. The fees, as indicated in Section
4-1-9, for a Temporary Certificate of Occupancy and Temporary Certificate of
Occupancy extension shall be paid prior to issuance or extension. This
Temporary Certificate of Occupancy may be recorded by the Building Official and
may be revoked at any time if a safety hazard is deemed to exist that was not
readily apparent at the time of the issuance.
      If a structure is not completed at the time of the expiration of the
Temporary Certificate of Occupancy, a renewal permit shall be required and a
Certificate of Non-Compliance shall be recorded against the structure and shall
not be removed until a valid Certificate of Occupancy has been issued.
Enforcement actions may be taken against the owners of any property when
occupying a structure that has no valid Certificate of Occupancy or Temporary
Certificate of Occupancy.
   (E)   Section 107.1 of the International Building Code is hereby amended as
follows:
      [A] 107.1.1 Design. An Engineer or Architect, licensed in the State of
Idaho, is required to submit all drawings for structures under this code.
Submittals shall include the structural and interior design for the appropriate
occupancy.
(F)   Section 109 of the International Building Code, 2018 edition, Section
R108 of the International Residential Code, 2018 edition, and Section 108 of
the International Existing Building Code are hereby amended as follows:
      [A] 109.3 [R108.3] [[A]108.3] Building permit valuations.  Valuations are
set in Section
4-1-9 . When valuation data for certain projects is not available in Section 4-
1-9, the Building Official shall determine a valuation in accordance with the
policy established in Section
4-1-9 . The corresponding fee shall be paid.
      [A] 109.5.1 [R108.4.1] [[A]108.5.1] Plan Review Fees. When submittal
documents are required by Section 107 [R106], a plan review fee shall be paid.
Said plan review fee shall be as shown in Section 4-1-9. A non-refundable fee
deposit, in an amount set forth in Section
4-1-9 , for commencement of the plan review shall be paid for projects
exceeding $30,000 in valuation.
      The plan review fees specified in this Section are separate fees from the
permit fees and are in addition to the permit fees. Any balance, after
deducting the plan review fee from the deposit, shall be credited to the amount
due for the permit fee, or any amount owing after the deduction of the deposit
from the full plan review fee shall be added to the amount due for the permit
fee. Regardless of circumstance, plan review fees shall not be reduced or
waived.
      [A] 109.6 [R108.5] Refunds.  Prior to plan review and permit issuance,
eighty percent [80%] of any fees paid shall be refunded if the application is
withdrawn prior to commencement of the project. Plan review fees are not
refundable after the plan review has been performed; however, eighty percent
[80%] of any permit fees paid shall be refunded if the application is withdrawn
prior to commencement of the project. No refunds shall be made after
commencement of any work on the project. No refunds shall be made any time
after a permit has expired, whether issued or not issued.
   (G)   Section 113 of the International Building Code, 2018 edition, and
Section R112 of the International Residential Code, 2018 edition, and Section
112 of the International Existing Building Code, 2018 edition, and Section C109
of the International Energy Conservation Code, 2018 edition, are hereby amended
as follows; and that all of the Subsections of Section 111 - Means of Appeal in
the International Property Maintenance Code, 2018 edition are hereby deleted
and replaced as follows:
      [A] 113.1 [R112.1] [112.1] [111.1] [C109.1] General.  In order to hear
and decide appeals of orders, decisions or determinations made by the Building
Official relative to the application and interpretation of this code, there
shall be and is hereby created a Board of Appeals. The Building Official shall
be an ex-officio member of said Board but shall have no vote on any matter
before the Board. This Board shall have three members, not including the
Building Official. The Board of Appeals shall be appointed by the City Council
of Genesee and shall hold office at its pleasure. A member of the Board of
Appeals shall act as Secretary and shall take minutes of the proceedings. The
Board of Appeals shall conform to the City of Genesee Hearing Procedures
Ordinance, and shall render all decisions and findings in writing to the
appellant with a duplicate copy to the Building Official.
      [A] 113.2 [R112.2] [112.2] [111.2] [C109.2] Limitations on authority. An
application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this
code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted,
the provisions of this code do not fully apply, or an equally good or better
form of construction is proposed.
      Any affected person may file an appeal from any notice or action of the
Building Official. A fee, as specified in Section
4-1-9, and written appeal describing the specific issues being appealed, must
be submitted to the City of Genesee within fifteen (15) days of the date of the
notice or action of the Building Official. After receiving the written appeal,
the Board of Appeals shall be appointed by the City Council of Genesee within
thirty (30) days and the Board of Appeals, once appointed, shall first fix a
date, time and place for hearing the appeal. The Board of Appeals shall hear
the appeal within forty-five (45) days after the appointment by the City
Council of Genesee. Written notice of the time and place of the hearing shall
be given at least fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the hearing to each
appellant and to the Building Official. The Board of Appeals must render a
decision within thirty (30) days of the hearing of such appeal. Every decision
of the Board of Appeals must be based upon findings of fact and every finding
must be supported in the record of the proceedings of the Board of Appeals.
      The Board of Appeals shall have no authority to waive any requirement of
this code.
      111.3 [C109.3] Qualifications.  The Board of Appeals shall consist of
members who are qualified by experience and training to pass on matters
pertaining to building construction and property maintenance and are not
employees of the jurisdiction.
   (H)   Section 112.4, Failure to Comply, of the International Property
Maintenance Code, 2018 edition, shall be amended as follows:
      112.4 Failure to comply. Any person who shall continue any work after
having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is
directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable
to a fine of not less than $300 for each day the work continues.
   (I)   Section R202, Definitions, of the International Residential Code, 2018
edition, shall be amended as follows:
      Structure. That which is built or constructed, including roll-off
containers, shipping containers or similar items.
   (J)   Table R301.2(1), Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria, of the
International Residential Code, 2018 edition, shall be completed as follows:
      Ground Snow Load: 57.15 PSF, Roof Snow Load: 40 PSF
      Wind Speed: 90 mph IRC; IBC 115 mph or design using 1609 IBC or Chapter
26-30 ASCE 7
      Seismic Design Category: B
      Subject to Damage from weathering: Severe
      Subject to damage from frost line depth: Frost Depth 30 inches
      Subject to damage from termite: Slight to moderate
      Winter Design Temp: 10 Degrees F
      Ice Shield Underlayment Required: Yes
      Flood Hazards: Date of entry into the National Flood Insurance Program:
4-9-1976, Date of current Flood Insurance Rate Map Index: 12-18-1979 Panel
#1600870001A and #1600870001
      Air Freezing Index: 1,500 or less
      Mean Annual Temperature: 47.3 Degrees F
   (K)   Section R304 of the International Residential Code, 2018 edition,
shall be amended as follows:
      R304.5 Minimum area of a dwelling unit. A dwelling unit shall have at
least 255 square feet, with a separate bathroom containing a water closet,
lavatory and bathtub or shower with a minimum floor area of 35 square feet, an
additional 100 square feet for each occupant in excess of two, and must be on a
permanent foundation. Dwelling units that do not meet these requirements are
considered temporary and are subject to Subsection
4-1-6  of this code.
   (L)   Section 302.1 of the International Building Code, 2018 edition, shall
be amended as follows:
      11.   Office and Studio Accessory to Residential (see section 313): Group
OSA
   (M)   Section 312 of the International Building Code 2018 edition, shall be
amended as follows:
      Section 312.1.2 Utility Occupancy and Pole Structures with Utility
Occupancy. Utility occupancy or pole structures with utility occupancy that are
not exempt from building permits may contain a bathroom but cannot contain a
kitchen or a bar. Any bathroom shall be considered a utility occupancy (not
pole) and shall be charged as such. Kitchens and bars shall be considered R-
3 and shall be charged as such and shall also be subject to required zoning
permits for primary or secondary residential structure.
   (N)   Chapter 3, Occupancy and Use, of the International Building Code, 2018
edition, shall be amended as follows:
      SECTION 313
      OFFICE AND STUDIO ACCESSORY TO RESIDENTIAL GROUP OSA
      313.1 General.  Buildings and structures that are accessory to a built
residential use not classified in a different occupancy shall be constructed,
equipped and maintained to conform to the requirements of this code
commensurate with the fire and life hazard incidental to the Utility occupancy
(Group U) and must meet the following requirements: a permanent foundation
regardless of size, windows/doors that meet egress requirements, insulation and
u-factor windows when a heating or cooling source is implemented, and smoke
detector (when applicable a carbon monoxide detector). Group OSA structures,
when plumbed, shall be permitted as a Group R-3. Group OSA shall include the
following:
      Home pool cabana
      Home office
      Home artist studio
      Home recording studio
      People sheds
      Similar structures at the discretion of the Building Official
   (O)   Section R403 of the International Residential Code, 2018 edition,
shall be amended as follows:
      R403.1.1 Minimum size. The footing width for light frame construction
shall be 16" for 1- and 2-story with soil bearing value of 1500 p.s.f., and 23"
for 3-story with soil bearing value of 1500 psf. Spread footings shall be a
minimum of 8 inches (200 mm) in thickness, or thicker where required by design
loads. Footing projections shall be at least 2 inches (51 mm) and shall not
exceed the thickness of the footing. The size of footings supporting piers and
columns shall be based on the tributary load and allowable soil pressure in
accordance with Table R401.4.1.
   All footings shall have a minimum of two (2) No. 4 (1/2 inch) or larger
reinforcement rods laid continuously in the footing. Lap splices shall be a
minimum of 40 bar diameters.
   (P)   Section R404.1.3 of the International Residential Code, 2018 edition,
shall be amended as follows:
      R404.1.3 Concrete foundation walls.  Concrete foundation walls shall be
constructed as follows or using the appropriate tables associated with Chapter
4 of this Code: For walls less than 48 inches in height from the top of the
footing, horizontal rebar, #4, shall be spaced at intervals of a maximum of 18
inches and vertical rebar, #4, shall be spaced at intervals of a maximum of 48
inches. For walls more than 48 inches in height from the top of the footing,
horizontal and vertical rebar, #4, shall be spaced at intervals of a maximum of
18 inches. The horizontal rebar shall be placed not greater than 9 inches from
the top of the wall. Openings up to 6 feet in concrete walls shall have a
lintel above with two #5 rebar or equivalent on the top and bottom, extending 2
feet past the opening on either side and within 1.5 to 3 inches of the opening.
Openings greater than 6 feet shall be engineered. The minimum thickness shall
be 8 inches for walls which support 2 or 3 stories above grade, all basement
walls, and all supported and unsupported walls over 6 feet with unbalanced
backfill of 4 feet or more. Foundation walls in excess of 10 feet in height or
retaining walls in excess of 8 feet of unbalanced backfill shall be engineered.
(Ord. 424, 12-15-2020)
4-1-4: AMENDMENTS TO MECHANICAL CODE AND FUEL GAS CODE:
   (A)   Section 106.5.2 and 106.5.3 of the International Mechanical Code, 2018
edition, and Section 106.6.2 and 106.6.3 of the International Fuel Gas Code,
2018 edition, are hereby amended as follows:
      106.5.2 [106.6.2 IFGC] Permit Fees.  The fees for each permit shall be as
set forth in Section
4-1-9 . Mechanical fees for new residences shall be considered to be included
in the building permit fee for the new residence, and no separate mechanical
permit shall be issued. All other mechanical installations shall require a
separate permit with attendant fees to be issued.
      106.5.3 [106.6.3 IFGC] Fee refunds.
      2.   Not more than eighty percent [80%] of the permit fee paid shall be
refunded when no work has been done under a permit issued in accordance with
this code.
      3.   Not more than eighty percent [80%] of the plan review fee paid shall
be refunded when an application for a permit for which a plan review fee has
been paid is withdrawn or canceled before any plan review effort has been
expended.
   (B)   Section 109 of the International Mechanical Code, 2018 edition, and
International Fuel Gas Code, 2018 edition, are hereby amended as follows:
      109.1 Application for appeal. An application for appeal shall be based on
a claim that the true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted
thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do
not fully apply, or an equally good or better form of construction is proposed.
      Any affected person may file an appeal from any notice or action of the
Building Official. A fee as specified in Section
4-1-9 and written appeal describing the specific issues being appealed must be
submitted to the City of Genesee within fifteen (15) days of the date of the
notice or action of the Building Official. After receiving the appeal, the
Board of Appeals shall be appointed by the City Council of Genesee within
thirty (30) days and the Board of Appeals, once appointed, shall first fix a
date, time and place for hearing the appeal. The Board of Appeals shall hear
the appeal within forty-five (45) days after the appointment by the City
Council of Genesee. Written notice of the time and place of the hearing shall
be given at least fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the hearing to each
appellant and to the Building Official. The Board of Appeals must render a
decision within thirty (30) days of the hearing of such appeal.
      Every decision of the Board of Appeals must be based upon findings of
fact and every finding must be supported in the record of the proceedings of
the Board of Appeals.
      The Board of Appeals shall have no authority to waive any requirement of
this code.
      109.2 Membership of board.  DELETED.
      109.2.1 Qualifications. In order to hear and decide appeals of orders,
decisions or determinations made by the Building Official relative to the
application and interpretation of this code, there shall be and is hereby
created a Board of Appeals. The Building Official shall be an ex-officio member
of said board but shall have no vote on any matter before the board. This board
shall have three members, not including the Building Official. The Board of
Appeals shall be appointed by the City Council of Genesee and shall hold office
at its pleasure. A member of the Board of Appeals shall act as Secretary and
shall take minutes of the proceedings. The Board of Appeals shall conform to
the City of Genesee Hearing Procedures Ordinance and shall render all decisions
and findings in writing to the appellant with a duplicate copy to the Building
Official. The Board of Appeals shall consist of members who are qualified by
experience and training to pass on matters pertaining to building construction
and are not employees of the jurisdiction.
      109.2.2 Alternate members.  DELETED.
      109.2.3 Chairman.  DELETED.
      109.2.5 Secretary.  DELETED.
      109.3 Notice of meeting.  DELETED.
      109.4.1 Procedure. DELETED.
      109.5 Postponed hearing. DELETED.
      109.6 Board decision. DELETED.
      109.6.1 Resolution.  DELETED. (Ord. 424, 12-15-2020)
4-1-5: MANUFACTURED, MODULAR, AND MOBILE HOMES:
All H.U.D. approved manufactured or modular homes, or mobile homes manufactured
before June 15,1976 with a valid rehabilitation certificate (pre-H.U.D.), that
are in compliance with the requirements of Idaho Code and any rules and
regulations promulgated thereunder, and that bear an insignia of approval by
the state where they were constructed, are considered to be single family
dwellings and shall be treated as such in this code.
In order for any of these manufactured buildings to be installed and occupied
within the City of Genesee a valid installation permit (and foundation or other
permits when applicable) must be issued by the City of Genesee, zoning approval
must be gained, inspections must be passed, and a certificate of occupancy must
be obtained under the same requirements as any other single family dwelling,
(including but not limited to sewer, water and approach approvals and 180 day
limitations), with the following additional requirements and modifications:
   (A)   Applications for installation permits shall also contain the license
number and name of the contractor and licensed installer;
   (B)   All installations shall meet the minimum requirements as set forth in
the State-approved installation instruction for the specific unit or model, or
in the current Idaho Manufactured Home Installation Standard, whichever is
stricter.
   (C)   Every installation requires a permit, including but not limited to
moving from one space to another in a legally approved manufactured home park
or placing a different home in a space that had a previous home in a legally
approved manufactured home park.
   (D)   A building permit is required and must be obtained for any remodel or
change to the interior or exterior of a manufactured building before any work
may be performed. No structural changes or additions can be constructed on a
manufactured building without submittal of plans stamped by an engineer
licensed in the State of Idaho. Manufactured buildings cannot change occupancy.
(Ord. 424, 12-15-2020)
4-1-6: PERMANENT LIVING QUARTERS:
Nothing within this chapter shall be construed to allow a camping trailer,
licensed vehicle or trailer, tent, yurt, recreational vehicle (including park
models), or any other vehicle, accessory structure, or item as a permanent
dwelling. No parcel can be used for temporary living quarters for a period of
more than six (6) months in a twelve (12) month period, except as authorized by
other sections of City of Genesee code or for use in a campground or
recreational vehicle park. If a conflict exists between this section of code
and any other City of Genesee ordinance, the City shall decide which shall
prevail. (Ord. 424, 12-15-2020)
4-1-7: PERMITS CONTRARY TO LAW:
Any permit issued contrary to law under authority of this chapter for
construction or any use contrary to law or any other ordinance of the City of
Genesee shall be void. (Ord. 424, 12-15-2020)
4-1-8: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
The following are available to enforce compliance with the provisions of this
chapter. Nothing herein shall prevent the City Council of Genesee or any other
public official or private citizen from taking such other lawful action as is
necessary to prevent or correct any violation of this Chapter or of the Idaho
Code.
   (A)   Injunction: The City may obtain from a District Court having
jurisdiction, an injunction enjoining the construction or installation of
buildings or structures on any building site upon affidavit of the City that
such building or structure does not conform to the requirements of this
chapter. The affidavit must set forth such violations in detail. The injunction
may be made permanent, at the discretion of the court.
   (B)   Stop work order: Upon notice from the code official that work is being
performed contrary to the provisions of this code or in a dangerous or unsafe
manner, such work shall immediately cease. Such notice can be in the form of a
letter or placed upon any structure or property where the violation is
occurring. Any person who shall continue any work on the item after having been
served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to
perform by the City to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable
for a fine of not less than $300 for each day the work continues.
   (C)   Violation Penalties: Any person who willfully violates or fails to
comply with any provisions of this chapter or any provisions of the codes
enumerated in this chapter or rules promulgated by the Administrator of this
chapter or the Board pursuant to this chapter or the codes enumerated in this
chapter, or who, having obtained a permit hereunder, shall willfully fail to
continue to comply with the conditions as set forth herein, is guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be fined not more than three hundred
dollars ($300.00), or imprisoned for not more than ninety (90) days, or by both
fine and imprisonment. A separate violation is deemed to have occurred with
respect to each building or structure not in compliance with this chapter.
Further, each day such violation continues constitutes a separate offense.
   (D)   Work commencing before permit issuance: In addition to any penalties
assessed under Section
4-1-8 of this ordinance, any work which is started or proceeded prior to
obtaining a permit or approval to include plan or system approval, which is
required by these rules and/or the codes enumerated in Title 39, Chapter 41,
Idaho Code, where any enforcement action has begun, shall be subject to a fee,
as set forth in Section
4-1-9. Such fee shall be in addition to the required permit and/or approval
fees. The fee for work commenced prior to obtaining any required permit or
approvals shall be double the permit fee for any second or additional offenses
by any person, company, contractor, individual, property owner or the like and
is not dependent on any enforcement action. The payment of such fees shall not
relieve any persons from fully complying with the requirements of Title 39,
Chapters 40 or 41, or both, Idaho Code, or these rules in the execution of the
work, nor from any other penalties as prescribed by law.
   (E)   Civil Action: Notwithstanding any other remedies available, any person
damaged as a result of a violation of this chapter or the codes enumerated
herein or promulgated pursuant to this chapter has a cause of action in any
court of competent jurisdiction against the person who committed the violation,
and if such damaged person prevails, they shall be entitled to a reasonable
attorney's fees to be determined by the court, together with court costs.
Further, each day such violation continues constitutes a separate offense.
   (F)   Withholding Of Permits: The Building Official may withhold permits,
including building permits and certificates of occupancy, on lots or parcels of
land where a violation of any provision of this Code or the City of Genesee
Zoning Ordinance exists, unless the permit being requested is to resolve the
violation(s). The Building Official may also suspend issuance of permits,
including building permits and certificates of occupancy to applicants who have
demonstrated a record of unresolved noncompliance with provisions of this Code.
If a permit is withheld, the Building Official shall refer to the notice and
order that details the violations or any letter sent regarding the City of
Genesee Zoning Ordinance. If a notice and order or letter of violation has not
been issued, the Building Official, within thirty (30) days of the denial of a
permit, shall issue a notice and order in accordance with Subsection F of this
Section; or in the case of a violation of the City of Genesee Zoning Ordinance,
the City of Genesee shall issue a letter detailing the violations in accordance
with the procedures set out in City of Genesee Zoning Ordinance.
   (G)   Recordation Of Noncompliance: Notwithstanding any other remedies
available, the Building Official may, to ensure that future owners of
properties are put on notice of noncompliance, record with the Latah County
Auditor any letter, document, or item that describes the matter of
noncompliance on a property. This may be done any time after the issue of
noncompliance is discovered.
   (H)   Notice of Noncompliant Building or Structure or Other Code Violation:
      1.   Commencement of Proceedings: When the Building Official has
inspected or caused to be inspected any building or structure or property and
has found that such building or structure or property is noncompliant, or the
Building Official is unable to verify compliance because the required
inspections have not been requested and performed, the Building Official shall
commence proceedings to cause the repair or inspection of the building or
structure.
      2.   Notice and Order, and Appeal Process: The Building Official shall
issue a notice and order directed to the record owner of the building or
structure. The notice and order shall contain:
         (a)   The street address, if issued, and/or a legal description or
Assessor's parcel number sufficient for identification of the premises upon
which the building or structure is located.
         (b)   A statement that the Building Official has found the building or
structure to be noncompliant with a brief and concise description of the
conditions found to render the building or structure noncompliant under the
applicable provisions of the applicable code.
         (c)   A statement of the action required to be taken as determined by
the Building Official and that any person having any record title or legal
interest in the building or structure may appeal from the notice and order or
any action of the Building Official to the Board of Appeals, in accordance with
the appeal procedures outlined in this code; and that failure to appeal will
constitute a waiver of all right to an administrative hearing and determination
of the matter.
      3.   Service of Notice and Order: The notice and order shall be mailed by
regular mail, or by any other method of service or delivery at the discretion
to the Building Official, to the owner of the property as shown on the tax
record of the property. The failure of the Building Official to serve any
person having an interest in the property that is not shown on the tax records
of the County shall not invalidate any proceedings hereunder as to any other
person duly served or relieve any such person from any duty or obligation
imposed by the provisions of this Section. The failure of any person to receive
notice as set out in this Subsection F3 shall not affect the validity of any
proceedings taken under this Section.
      4.   Proof of Service: The Building Official shall keep a copy of the
notice and order sent with the records of the noncompliance for the property.
      5.   Recordation of Noncompliance: If compliance is not had with the
order within the time specified therein, and no appeal has been properly and
timely filed, the Building Official shall file in the Office of the County
Recorder a certificate describing the property and certifying: a) that the
building or structure is noncompliant and b) that the owner has been so
notified. Whenever the corrections ordered shall thereafter have been completed
or the building or structure demolished so that it no longer exists on the
property described in the certificate, the Building Official shall file a new
certificate with the County Recorder certifying that the building or structure
has been demolished or all required corrections have been made so that the
building or structure is no longer noncompliant, whichever is appropriate.
   (I)   Referral for Further Action: The Building Official shall notify the
City of Genesee and their attorney of completion of any of the above and, when
the City of Genesee's attorney has not already taken action, the City may refer
the matter to their attorney for further action. (Ord. 424, 12-15-2020)
4-1-9: FEES:
BUILDING VALUATION AND FEES
VALUATIONS
BUILDING VALUATION AND FEES
VALUATIONS
All valuations are as stated in the February 2023 ICC Building Safety Journal,
with the following additions and modifications:
Foundations (new construction, not including manufactured home installation/
foundation, is exempt from foundation valuation):
Crawlspace (Headroom < 7 feet)     $100.00 per lineal foot up to 4 ft. in
                                   height plus $10.00 per lineal foot for each
Foundation repair / retaining wall additional foot in height

Unfinished basement                Same as R-3 valuation
Moved Building                     $65.00/sq. ft.
Decks                              $12.50/sq. ft.
Porch Cover/Deck Cover             $12.50/sq. ft.
Pole Buildings                     $24.00/sq. ft.
Group OSA                          $75.00/ sq. ft.
Shell Only Buildings               No reduction
Swimming Pool                      $24.00/sq. ft. based on surface area
Solar Panels                       $5.00/sq. ft. based on surface area of
                                   panels
 
TABLE 1-A - BUILDING PERMIT FEES
Total Valuation Base Fee Additional Units/ Fractions Thereof
TABLE 1-A - BUILDING PERMIT FEES
Total Valuation           Base Fee              Additional Units/ Fractions
                                                Thereof
$1.00 to $500.00          $50.00                 
$501.00 to $2,000.00      $50.00 for the first  $1.30 for each additional
                          $500.00               $100.00
$2,001.00 to $25,000.00   $69.25 for the first  $14.00 for each additional
                          $2,000.00             $1,000.00
$25,001.00 to $50,000.00  $391.25 for the first $10.10 for each additional
                          $25,000.00            $1,000.00
$50,001.00 to $100,000.00 $643.75 for the first $7.00 for each additional
                          $50,000.00            $1,000.00
$100,001.00 and up        $993.75 for the first $7.00 for each additional
                          $100,000.00           $1,000.00
 
GENERAL FEES
GENERAL FEES
Plan Review All structures requiring a
plan review shall be charged an         65% of permit fee
additional 65% of the permit fee for
such
Non-refundable fee deposit for
commencement of the plan review for     $700.00
projects exceeding $30,000 in valuation
Temporary Certificate of Occupancy      $100.00
Temporary Certificate of Occupancy      $100.00
extension
Fee for moving into residence prior to  $200.00 plus the cumulative fees that
obtaining a temporary or regular        would have been paid for a temporary
certificate of occupancy                certificate of occupancy
Temporary Living Quarters with a valid  $50.00
permit and each extension
Re-Roof                                 $50.00
Metal roll off container up to 8' x 40'
unmodified; up to 2 detached with
residential eligible parcel. Used as    $100.00 each container
other than storage or modified shall be
charged as specified under the other
occupancy.
Siding                                  $50.00
Window Replacement (No Change in Size)  $50.00
Manufactured/Modular/Mobile Home        $100.00 per section (foundations
Installation                            charged separately)
                                        $2.00 per ft. in elevation above ground
Residential Wind & Telecommunication    level measured to the highest point of
Towers                                  any part of the tower including the
                                        blades of any wind turbine $100.00
                                        minimum
                                        $11.00 per ft. in elevation above
                                        ground level measured to the highest
Commercial Telecommunication Towers &   point of any part of the tower
Electric Generating Wind Turbines       including the blades of any wind
                                        turbine.
                                        $100.00 minimum
Metal Open-Sided Carport Kits that meet $50.00 (10' walls up to 400 sq. ft.)
Snow Load
Wood stove/Pellet Stove Inspections     $50.00
Signs: If a permit is required:         $50.00
Fences (Over 7 ft.)                     $50.00
Permit extension- Maximum (3)           $50.00 each
Permit renewal - prior to expiration    25% of the original permit fee or $100
                                        per each inspection left; $100 minimum
Permit renewal expired to 5 years       50% of the original permit fee; $100
                                        minimum
Permit renewal expired > 5 years        Full permit fee
Work commencing without a permit        25% of the permit fee
Appeals                                 $500.00
Alterations/Remodels Level 1            10% of full permit fee based on square
                                        footage
Alterations/Remodels Level 2            45% of full permit fee based on square
                                        footage
Alterations/Remodels Level 3            90% of full permit fee based on square
                                        footage
Additions, alterations, or other items not specified in the fee schedule where
square footage on building valuation data sheets cannot be used, shall be
valued at the bona fide contractual price or by doubling material costs to
account for labor costs.
Other Inspections and Fees:
Inspections outside of normal business  $75.00 per hour -minimum charge-two
hours                                   hours
Reinspection fees                       $75.00 per hour
Inspections for which no fee is         $75.00 per hour -minimum charge-one
specifically indicated                  hour
Additional plan review required by
changes, additions, or revisions to     $75.00 per hour
plans
Building Department use of outside      Actual costs. Actual costs include all
consultants for plan review,            actual costs plus administrative and
inspection, or both                     overhead costs
Foundation Inspection: Real Property    $100.00
Fee for paper plan submittal for plans  $50.00
over 11x17 in size
 
MECHANICAL PERMIT FEES
Description of equipment Each
MECHANICAL PERMIT FEES
Description of equipment                                           Each
Minimum permit fee for all mechanical permits is total fees listed below
or $50.00 whichever is greater
Residential Furnace including vent/ducts                           $20.00
Residential Boilers                                                $20.00
Suspended, wall, floor mount or radiant heater                     $15.00
Ground Loop Heat pump, hydronic piping                             $15.00
Gas appliances (range, water heater, dryer, barbecue, log lighter, $15.00
fireplace, inserts, pool/spa heater, other)
Air-Handlers (electric furnace)                                    $15.00
Heat pump, air conditioner, evaporative cooler                     $15.00
Heat Recovery Unit                                                 $15.00
Solid fuel fireplaces, stoves, inserts                             $25.00
Chimney (liner, flue, vent)                                        $15.00
Ductwork                                                           $15.00
Appliance Vents                                                    $15.00
Gas piping system, 1-4 outlets                                     $10.00
Each additional outlet over 4                                      $2.00
Other (non-specified equipment)                                    $15.00
Permit Processing Fee                                              $25.00
Special inspection per hour                                        $50.00
 
BUILDING VALUATION DATA - FEBRUARY 2020
Square Foot Construction Costs
Group (2018 International Building Code) IA IB HA MB MIA 1MB IV VA VB
BUILDING VALUATION DATA - FEBRUARY 2020
Square Foot Construction Costs
Group (2018
International  IA      IB      HA      MB      MIA     1MB     IV      VA      VB
Building Code)
A-1 Assembly,
theaters, with $247.86 $239.47 $233.25 $223.81 $210.17 $204.10 $216.62 $195.46 $188.40
stage
A-1 Assembly,
theaters,      $227.10 $218.71 $212.49 $203.05 $189.41 $183.34 $195.86 $174.70 $167.65
without stage
A-2 Assembly,  $191.96 $186.56 $182.12 $174.70 $164.94 $160.39 $168.64 $149.29 $144.33
nightclubs
A-2 Assembly,
restaurants,   $190.96 $185.56 $180.12 $173.70 $162.94 $159.39 $167.64 $147.29 $143.33
bars, banquet
halls
A-3 Assembly,  $229.69 $221.30 $215.08 $205.64 $192.37 $187.27 $198.45 $177.66 $170.60
churches
A-3 Assembly,
general,
community      $192.20 $183.81 $176.59 $168.15 $153.51 $148.44 $160.96 $138.80 $132.75
halls,
libraries,
museums
A-4 Assembly,  $226.10 $217.71 $210.49 $202.05 $187.41 $182.34 $194.86 $172.70 $166.65
arenas
B Business     $200.26 $192.96 $186.54 $177.38 $161.90 $155.84 $170.40 $142.43 $136.08
E Educational  $209.90 $202.64 $196.82 $188.34 $175.49 $166.60 $181.86 $153.45 $148.75
F-1 Factory
and
industrial,    $117.60 $112.19 $105.97 $101.84 $91.54  $87.26  $97.61  $75.29  $70.95
moderate
hazard
F-2 Factory
and            $116.60 $111.19 $105.97 $100.84 $91.54  $86.26  $96.61  $75.29  $69.95
industrial,
low hazard
H-1 High
Hazard,        $109.99 $104.58 $99.35  $94.22  $85.14  $79.87  $89.99  $68.89  N.P.
explosives
H234 High      $109.99 $104.58 $99.35  $94.22  $85.14  $79.87  $89.99  $68.89  $63.56
Hazard
H-5 HPM        $200.26 $192.96 $186.54 $177.38 $161.90 $155.84 $170.40 $142.43 $136.08
1-
1
Institutional, $197.83 $191.05 $185.12 $177.91 $163.28 $158.81 $178.06 $146.98 $142.33
supervised
environment
I-
2              $335.53 $328.23 $321.81 $312.65 $296.45 N.P.    $305.67 $276.99 N.P.
Institutional,
hospitals
I-
2              $233.12 $225.82 $219.40 $210.24 $195.51 N.P.    $203.26 $176.05 N.P.
Institutional,
nursing homes
I-
3              $227.71 $220.41 $213.99 $204.83 $190.84 $183.78 $197.85 $171.37 $163.02
Institutional,
restrained
I-
4
Institutional, $197.83 $191.05 $185.12 $177.91 $163.28 $158.81 $178.06 $146.98 $142.33
day care
facilities
M Mercantile   $142.95 $137.54 $132.11 $125.68 $115.38 $111.83 $119.62 $99.73  $95.77
R-
1 Residential, $199.70 $192.92 $186.99 $179.78 $164.90 $160.43 $179.93 $148.60 $143.96
hotels
R-
2 Residential, $167.27 $160.49 $154.56 $147.35 $133.71 $129.23 $147.50 $117.40 $112.76
multiple
family
R-
3 Residential, $155.84 $151.61 $147.83 $144.09 $138.94 $135.27 $141.72 $130.04 $122.46
one- and two-
family
R-
4 Residential,
care/assisted  $197.83 $191.05 $185.12 $177.91 $163.28 $158.81 $178.06 $146.98 $142.33
living
facilities
S-1 Storage,
moderate       $108.99 $103.58 $97.35  $93.22  $83.14  $78.87  $88.99  $66.89  $62.56
hazard
S-2 Storage,   $107.99 $102.58 $97.35  $92.22  $83.14  $77.87  $87.99  $66.89  $61.56
low hazard
U Utility,     $84.66  $79.81  $74.65  $71.30  $64.01  $59.80  $68.04  $50.69  $48.30
miscellaneous
 
(Ord. 424, 12-15-2020; amd. Res. 2023-4, 10-17-2023)
CHAPTER 2
PLUMBING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-2-1: When Connection To Sewer Required
4-2-2: Fee For Connection To Sewer
4-2-3: Privies Prohibited; Septic Tanks Approved
4-2-1: WHEN CONNECTION TO SEWER REQUIRED:
Any building or premises which is occupied a portion of the day and is situated
on a lot or parcel of land abutting on a public street or alley in which is
located a city sewer line, shall have sanitary facilities installed in such
building and premises and such facilities shall be connected to said sewer;
provided adequate drainage from said facilities to said sewer can be
maintained, at the expense of the owner of said building or premises. (1963
Code; amd. 1982 Code)
4-2-2: FEE FOR CONNECTION TO SEWER:
A connection fee shall be paid as specified in section
3-3-7 of this code. (1963 Code; amd. 1982 Code)
4-2-3: PRIVIES PROHIBITED; SEPTIC TANKS APPROVED:
Privies are expressly prohibited within the city. If an occupied building is
not within three hundred feet (300') of a city sewer main it shall have
sanitary facilities connected to a standard and approved septic tank. (1963
Code; amd. 1982 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
4-3-1: National Electrical Code Adopted
4-3-2: State License And Bond Required
4-3-3: Persons Making Own Installations
4-3-4: Permit Required; Application; Issuance
4-3-5: Inspection Requirements
4-3-6: Installation Of Meters And Outside Wiring
4-3-7: Specifications Of Service Wires
4-3-8: Certificate Of Inspection
4-3-9: Right To Enter Premises
4-3-10: Damage Not Assumed By City
4-3-11: Right Of Appeal
4-3-1: NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED:
All electric wiring, installation of electrical fixtures, apparatus or
electrical appliances, for furnishing light, heat or power or other electrical
work introduced into or placed in or upon or in any way connected on any
building or structure within the limits of the city shall be in conformity with
the provisions set forth in the latest edition of the national electrical code
adopted by the state of Idaho, standard of the national board of fire
underwriters for electrical wiring and apparatus as recommended by the National
Fire Protection Association, including amendments thereto, and as said code
shall be amended, revised, compiled and published from time to time, and all
fittings and materials used in such construction or installation shall be such
as are sanctioned and approved in the latest list of electrical fittings
published by the national board of fire underwriters. The latest edition of the
national electrical code adopted by the state of Idaho, standard of the
national board of fire underwriters for electric wiring and apparatus as
recommended by the National Fire Protection Association and as the same shall
be amended, revised, compiled and published from time to time, is hereby
adopted as the electrical code of the city under and by virtue of authority
granted by the provisions of section 50-901, Idaho Code, one copy of the above
adopted code being on file in the office of the city clerk and properly
certified as the officially adopted and certified electrical code of the city.
(1963 Code; amd. 1982 Code; Ord. 402, 7-21-2015, eff. 8-15-2015)
4-3-2: STATE LICENSE AND BOND REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to carry on the business of electric wiring
without first having secured a state license so to do and executing to the city
a good and sufficient bond, signed by some surety company authorized to
transact business in the state, in the penal sum of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) running to the city, said bond to be approved by the mayor and city
council and conditioned by the saving of said city harmless and free from all
damages or costs by reason of his operation, or his failure or neglect to
properly perform any duties incumbent upon him, and for faithful performance of
the laws of the state and the city. (1963 Code)
4-3-3: PERSONS MAKING OWN INSTALLATIONS:
If an owner wishes to do wiring in his own building, he may do so without a
state license, but he must first obtain a permit as required by this chapter.
The clerk may refuse to issue a permit to such person, if, in his estimation,
such person is not competent to install the electrical work to be done under
said permit applied for in accordance with the regulations of this chapter.
(1963 Code)
4-3-4: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; ISSUANCE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to place or install in any building any
wiring, apparatus or fixtures for the use of electric current for light, heat
or power, or to make any alterations or changes in, or additions to any wiring,
apparatus or fixtures for such use, without first obtaining from the clerk a
written permit to do such work. Such permit shall state the kind of work to be
done and the amount, and shall cover only work so specified. The contractor,
person, firm or corporation shall submit a plan of wiring system to be
followed, if deemed necessary by the clerk. Said permit shall also state the
exact location of the building where such work is to be done, and shall be
valid only for the location stated. Provided, however, that this section shall
not be construed as requiring a permit for ordinary repairs to old
installations where the cost value of such repairs, including material and
labor, does not exceed eight dollars ($8.00), but in all cases, the clerk must
be notified immediately upon the completion of such work for his inspection and
approval. A fee of one dollar ($1.00) shall be charged for every permit issued
under this chapter. (1963 Code)
4-3-5: INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS:
It shall be the duty of the electrical inspector to inspect or cause to be
inspected any and all work for which permits have been issued within forty
eight (48) hours, Sunday and holidays excluded, after time of notice has been
received, in writing from the person, firm, contractor or corporation doing the
said work. The same will not considered ready for inspection and covering until
all enclosed plumbing, steam heating, furnace work and gas fittings are in
place. Inspection shall, when necessary, be made two (2) or three (3) times
during the progress of installation; first when work is roughed in, and last,
when work is completed; and it shall be the duty of the electrical inspector or
person qualified and delegated by him, to indicate inspection of any work by a
tag or label, which shall specify the date and whether first or final
inspection has been made, and it shall be unlawful for any workman or other
person to lath or otherwise conceal any electrical wiring until such first
inspection tag has been placed.
   (A)   Upon application for inspection of any wiring apparatus, or appliances
as hereinafter provided, the electrical inspector shall after inspection and
examination issue a certificate showing the results of such examinations and
require to be made the necessary corrections.
   (B)   If the said electrical inspector shall find any part of any electric
light or power wiring apparatus or fixtures in or on any building in the city
to have been installed without a permit or not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter or to be dangerous to life or property, the
electrical inspector shall have the right and power and it is hereby made his
duty to disconnect such defective wiring and place a seal upon it. He shall at
the same time give written notice of such disconnection to the owner or
occupant of the building. After such disconnected wiring, apparatus, fixtures
have been put in the condition required by this chapter, the seal or seals so
placed shall be removed by said electrical inspector. It shall be unlawful for
any person to use any current, through, or by means of such disconnected
wiring, apparatus or fixtures or to remove, break or deface any seal so placed.
The electrical inspector shall require all bathroom lights to be equipped with
a receptacle and switch which receptacle shall be so attached as to prevent any
person while standing in the bathtub to reach or touch the same. (1963 Code)
4-3-6: INSTALLATION OF METERS AND OUTSIDE WIRING:
   (A)   Meters must be placed in a dry place, free from vibration and
accessible to the meter readers, testers and inspectors at all times. Under no
circumstances will meters be installed in bathroom, bedroom, clothes closets,
over doors, in stairways, attics or places likely to cause the visits to the
meters to be an annoyance to the occupants.
   (B)   Meters shall be installed on the outside of buildings at height of not
less than five feet (5'), or not more than six feet (6') from the ground. In
office buildings, apartment buildings, and commercial buildings of multiple
occupancy, meters may be mounted inside, providing a readily accessible place
is provided for meters and service equipment. Said meters and service equipment
shall be kept free and clear of all obstructions.
   (C)   All buildings shall be provided with a main disconnecting switch and
all branch circuits shall be fused to match the wire size, in accordance with
the latest national code. All 240-volt circuits such as to ranges, dryers,
water heaters, cooking equipment, and motors above one horsepower shall have a
separate branch circuit to each appliance.
   (D)   Wires carried on the outside of buildings, or attached thereto for
electric signs, outline or decorative and similar lighting, shall run in
approved metal conduit or approved armored cable. If the latter is used, it
shall be of a type having lead covering between the outer braid of the
conductors and the steel armor; all fittings such as outlets, fuses, switches
and similar devices, or on the outside of buildings and attached thereto, or,
otherwise exposed to moisture, shall be enclosed in approved weatherproof metal
boxes or cabinets. (1963 Code)
4-3-7: SPECIFICATIONS OF SERVICE WIRES:
   (A)   All service wiring entering buildings shall be enclosed in conduit
which must be continuous from the service head to the inside of the cutout
cabinet.
All switches must be of the enclosed safety type, with meter trim, and must
have branch fuse accessible to the consumer. Departure from this rule may be
made by special permission only.
   (B)   All buildings hereafter erected to be used for public purposes such as
churches, stores, halls, school buildings, garages, manufacturing
establishments, auto camps, apartment houses and gas service stations,
containing three (3) or more apartments or rooms, must be wired in conduit or
permissible metallic covered wire. (1963 Code)
4-3-8: CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION:
Upon the completion of the wiring in or on any building, it shall be the duty
of the corporation, copartnership, firm or individual doing the same to notify
the electrical inspector, who shall at once inspect the same and if approved by
him, shall issue a certificate of proper inspection which shall contain the
date of such inspection and an outline of the result; and it shall be unlawful
for any person to turn on or connect the current with such installation until
such certificate shall be issued; and it shall be unlawful to make any change,
alteration or extension in or to the wiring of any building after inspection
without first notifying said electrical inspector and procuring a permit
therefor. (1963 Code)
4-3-9: RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES:
The electrical inspector shall have the right to enter any premises at all
reasonable hours for the purpose of inspecting the same. (1963 Code)
4-3-10: DAMAGE NOT ASSUMED BY CITY:
This chapter shall not be construed as to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility of any person owning, operating or installing any electrical
wires, appliances, apparatus, construction or equipment for damages to anyone
injured or damages either in person or property by any defect therein; nor
shall the city or any agent thereof be held as assuming such liability by
reason of inspection authorized herein or certificate of inspection issued.
(1963 Code)
4-3-11: RIGHT OF APPEAL:
Any applicant denied a permit under this chapter shall have the right to appeal
within ten (10) days to the city council, by filing with the clerk written
objections to the ruling and the council shall, after due notice, hold a
hearing and sustain said ruling or order the issuance of said permit. (1963
Code)
CHAPTER 4
MOVING OF BUILDINGS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Permit Required
4-4-2: Sufficient Bond Or Liability Insurance Filed
4-4-3: File Continuous Bond
4-4-4: Permit Fee
4-4-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to move any house, building or other
structure of any kind or nature upon, over, along or across any of the streets
or alleys in the city without first obtaining from the clerk of said city a
permit therefor, which said permit shall state the name of the owner of said
house, building or other structure, the name of the person to whom the said
permit is granted, the place from which and the place to which it is desired to
move the said house, building or other structure, and the streets and alleys
along, over, upon and across which it is desired to move the same, the length
of time required to be fixed by the chief of police. (1963 Code)
4-4-2: SUFFICIENT BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE FILED:
Before a permit shall be granted by the said clerk, said applicant for said
permit must file with the city clerk a good and sufficient bond or liability
insurance policy in a sum to be fixed by the city clerk, saving and holding the
city harmless from any accident or damages that may result from the moving of
such house, building or other structure, which said bond shall be approved by
the attorney for the city. (1963 Code)
4-4-3: FILE CONTINUOUS BOND:
If the person making application for the permit provided for in this chapter
shall be regularly engaged in the business of moving houses, buildings and
other structures in the city, the said person may, upon application to the city
clerk be permitted to file a continuing bond or liability insurance policy
conditioned as provided in this chapter, which said bond or insurance policy
shall cover all the moving of houses, buildings or other structures, in which
the said person may be engaged during the fiscal year in which said application
is made and thereafter it shall not be necessary for said person to file a
separate bond or liability insurance policy with each and every application for
the permit provided for in this chapter. (1963 Code)
4-4-4: PERMIT FEE:
The applicant for the permit provided for in this chapter shall pay to the
clerk the sum stated in the current edition of the uniform building code for
each and every permit so issued by him, which said monies shall be accounted
for by the said clerk in the same manner as are other monies collected by other
officials of the city. (1963 Code; amd. 1982 Code)
TITLE 5
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Idaho Beer And Liquor Laws   1
Beer Regulations   2
Wine   3
Liquor By The Drink   4
Amusements   5
Motels   6
Peddlers And Hawkers   7
Franchises   8
Television Signal Distributing Systems   9
Gas Distribution And Transmission Systems   10
Gas Installation Regulations   11
Business Licenses   12
CHAPTER 1
IDAHO BEER AND LIQUOR LAWS
SECTION:
5-1-1: State Laws Adopted
5-1-2: Hours And Days For Liquor Sales
5-1-1: STATE LAWS ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of governing the licensing, sale and
use of alcoholic beverages within the city, the laws of the state being
particularly title 23, Idaho Code, as presently in effect or as may hereafter
be amended by the legislature and as contained in that certain volume state of
Idaho alcohol beverage code, published by authority of the department of law
enforcement, liquor law bureau, as the same may be revised by the legislature.
And the same are hereby adopted and incorporated as an ordinance of the city as
fully as though set forth at length herein.
Three (3) copies of the state of Idaho alcohol beverage code, together with all
amendments thereto, all duly certified by the city clerk, shall be kept on file
in the office of the city clerk, for use and examination by the public. (Ord.
254, 1980)
5-1-2: HOURS AND DAYS FOR LIQUOR SALES:
Under the authority to extend the hours when liquor may be sold and to increase
the days on which liquor may be sold as expressed in Idaho Code, section 23-927
(2), as presently in effect or as may hereafter be amended, and under the same
authority expressed in Latah County ordinance 84, the city hereby declares that
the hours during which liquor may be sold are extended and that the days on
which liquor may be sold are hereby increased to include Sundays, Memorial Day
and Thanksgiving Day, so that hours and days of service shall be consistent
with those permitted by Latah County. (Ord. 322, 1-18-1994)
CHAPTER 2
BEER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Definitions
5-2-2: Alcoholic Content
5-2-3: License Required
5-2-4: Application Form
5-2-5: Licensing Procedure And Limitation On Number Issued
5-2-6: License Fee
5-2-7: Qualifications Of Licensee
5-2-8: Power To Refuse, Revoke And Inspect
5-2-9: Licenses Transferable
5-2-10: To Post License
5-2-11: Sale In Private Residence Prohibited
5-2-12: Soliciting Sales Prohibited
5-2-13: Loaning Of Money Or Credit Prohibited
5-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
   BEER: Any beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of any infusion or
decoction of barley, malt and/or other ingredients in drinkable water.
   RETAILER: Any person engaged in the sale or distribution of beer to the
consumer. (Ord. 200, 1969)
5-2-2: ALCOHOLIC CONTENT:
Beer containing not more than four percent (4%) of alcohol by weight may be
sold and distributed in the city, or possessed therein in the manner and under
the conditions prescribed in this chapter and not otherwise. It shall be
unlawful to sell and dispose of, or possess for the purpose of retail sale,
beer of any kind or character of any alcoholic content greater than herein
prescribed or other than in the manner permitted by this chapter. (Ord. 200,
1969)
5-2-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell at retail to the consumer any beer
within the corporate limits of the city, without first obtaining a license
therefor from the said city, and a separate license shall be required for each
place of business where beer is sold. (Ord. 200, 1969)
5-2-4: APPLICATION FORM:
All applications for licenses must be in writing and filed with the city clerk
upon forms provided by the city, and such applications must be accompanied by
the license fee prescribed herein, and shall specify:
   (A)   The name, age and citizenship of the applicant if an individual, and
if a corporation, the name of the state or county in which incorporated, its
principal place of business, together with its principal place of business in
Idaho, and the names and places of residence of its designated agent in Idaho,
and if a partnership, the names and residences of all partners.
   (B)   If the application is made by an individual, a statement as to whether
or not he is a citizen of the United States and if so, when and where born, if
a naturalized citizen, the time and place where he was naturalized.
   (C)   The length of time the applicant has resided in the city and if a
corporation, when and where it first commenced to do business in Idaho. (Ord.
200, 1969)
5-2-5: LICENSING PROCEDURE AND LIMITATION ON NUMBER ISSUED:
   (A)   License; Fee; Period: All licenses shall be granted by the mayor and
council for a period of one year beginning January 1 and ending December 31. A
full year's license fee shall be collected for licenses issued for a period
beginning after January 1. The city council shall grant or deny the application
within thirty (30) days of the time it is filed with the city clerk. Prior to
any revocation or suspension the licensee shall be afforded a hearing according
to section 23-1016, Idaho Code. Whenever the mayor and the city council deny an
application, they shall specify in writing:
      1.   The statutes, ordinances and standards used in evaluating the
application;
      2.   The reason for the denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain the
license, transfer or renewal thereof.
   (B)   In all cases where the city council is considering applications for
licenses, transfers or renewals thereof, a transcribable verbatim record of the
proceeding shall be made. If the applications for a license, transfer or
renewal is denied, a transcribable verbatim record of the proceedings shall be
kept for a period of not less than six (6) months after a final decision on the
matter. Upon written request and within the time period provided for retention
of the record, any person may have the record transcribed at his expense. The
city council shall also provide for the keeping of the minutes of the
proceedings. Minutes shall be retained indefinitely or as otherwise provided by
law.
   (C)   There shall not be issued in excess of four (4) licenses of each
classification as described in section
5-2-6 of this chapter per each one thousand (1,000) population or fraction
thereof. (Ord. 274, 12-20-1983)
5-2-6: LICENSE FEE:
The annual license fee shall be as follows:
   (A)   Where such retailer sells only bottled or canned beer, none of which
is consumed on the premises where sold, the annual license fee shall be twenty
five dollars ($25.00). (Ord. 200, 1969; amd. Ord. 274, 12-20-1983)
   (B)   Where such retailer sells only bottled or canned beer which is
consumed on the premises where sold, the annual license fee shall be fifty
dollars ($50.00).
   (C)   Where such retailer sells draught beer and bottled or canned beer, or
draught beer only, consumed on the premises, the annual license fee shall be
fifty dollars ($50.00). (Ord. 300, 3-6-1989)
5-2-7: QUALIFICATIONS OF LICENSEE:
No license to sell beer at retail shall be granted except to a person of good
moral character and/or repute and twenty one (21) years of age or over; nor
shall any such license be granted to any applicant who is not a citizen of the
United States, or who has not been a bona fide resident of the state of Idaho
for a period of one year prior to the date of making application, or who shall
have been convicted for the violation of any law of Idaho or the United States
regulating, governing or prohibiting the sale of alcoholic beverage or
intoxicating liquor; provided, however, that in case the applicant is a
partnership, the requirements relative to residence shall be deemed satisfied
when any member of the partnership, or the actual manager thereof has been a
bona fide resident of the state of Idaho for a period of one year prior to date
of making such application, nor shall any such license be granted to any
applicant who has not been granted a license to sell beer at retail by the
county in the event said county license such sales, nor shall any person be
permitted to receive or hold a license under this chapter for use in connection
with any business not under the personal supervision, management and control of
said person to whom said license is issued. (Ord. 200, 1969)
5-2-8: POWER TO REFUSE, REVOKE AND INSPECT:
The city council shall have the power to refuse a license to any applicant and/
or revoke a license at any time when in the judgment of said city council the
business interests and the welfare of the city and/or the inhabitants thereof,
will be best served by the denial or revocation thereof; and for the purpose of
ascertaining whether or not any licensee is conforming with the provisions of
this and other chapters of this code as well as the laws of the state of Idaho,
the police of the city shall have the right at all reasonable times to inspect
the places where beer is sold under the license issued. (Ord. 200, 1969)
5-2-9: LICENSES TRANSFERABLE:
No person shall be granted more than one license for any one year, but the
council, in its discretion, may permit the location of the place of business
designated in the license to be changed, without any charge therefor.
Licenses issued under the provisions hereof may be transferred upon proper
application, provided that any proposed transferee shall meet all the
conditions and qualifications of a licensee under this chapter. Applications
for a transfer of a license shall be accompanied by a fee of five dollars
($5.00), shall contain all of the information required in a license
application, and shall be subject to the approval of the mayor and council.
Upon approval the license shall be endorsed over to the transferee by said
licensee for the remainder of the period for which said license has been issued
and the city clerk shall note on said license the approval of the transfer by
the mayor and council. (Ord. 200, 1969)
5-2-10: TO POST LICENSE:
It shall be the duty of each person to whom a license is issued under this
chapter to keep the same at all times posted in conspicuous place in his place
of business. (Ord. 200, 1969)
5-2-11: SALE IN PRIVATE RESIDENCE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale beer at any
private dwelling, apartment house, lodging house, or private room used for
dwelling purposes in the city. (Ord. 200, 1969)
5-2-12: SOLICITING SALES PROHIBITED:
No license shall be issued hereunder for the sale of, nor shall any person
acting under such license, sell beer by peddling or in any way soliciting
orders for the same, and no sale shall be made except in the place for which
the license has been granted, provided, however, that any licensee may accept
orders left at his place of business by a purchaser and/or consumer and make
delivery thereof. (Ord. 200, 1969)
5-2-13: LOANING OF MONEY OR CREDIT PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any licensed beer dispenser to advance money or credit
on the security of personal property pledged or deposited in said licensee's
keeping without keeping a written daily record of the following:
   (A)   An accurate description of the personal property pledged or deposited;
   (B)   Name, residence address and description of the person or persons from
whom said personal property is received;
   (C)   The date when said personal property is received. Said record shall be
open to the inspection of any police officer of the city at all times during
regular business hours of said licensee. (Ord. 200, 1969)
CHAPTER 3
WINE
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: License Required
5-3-3: Application For License
5-3-4: Qualifications
5-3-5: License Fee
5-3-6: Issuance Of License
5-3-7: License Restrictions
5-3-8: Revocation Of License
5-3-9: Penalty
5-3-10: Severability
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms as used in this chapter are hereby defined as follows:
   COMMISSIONER: The commissioner of law enforcement of the state of Idaho.
   PERSON: Includes an individual, firm, copartnership, association,
corporation or any group or combination acting as a unit, and includes the
plural as well as the singular unless the intent to give a more limited meaning
is disclosed by the context in which it is used.
   RETAIL WINE LICENSE: A license issued by the commissioner, authorizing a
person to sell wine at retail.
   RETAILER: A person to whom a retail wine license has been issued.
   WINE: Any alcoholic beverage containing not more than fourteen percent (14%)
alcohol by volume obtained by the fermentation of the natural sugar content of
fruits or other agricultural products containing sugar. (Ord. 215, 7-12-1971)
5-3-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be lawful for any person to sell wine at retail within the corporate
limits of the city after having first procured a license therefor. (Ord. 215,
7-12-1971)
5-3-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for license shall be in writing, signed and sworn to by the
applicant upon application forms furnished by the clerk. Such application shall
be filed by the clerk and presented to the mayor and council at the next
meeting of the council for their approval, rejection or further consideration.
(Ord. 215, 7-12-1971)
5-3-4: QUALIFICATIONS:
The applicant for a license shall possess all of the qualifications necessary
to obtain a license from the commissioner of law enforcement of the state, as
prescribed by the laws of the state, and maintain such qualifications
throughout the period for which such license is issued. The possession of
licenses regularly issued by the department of law enforcement and the county
in addition to a city beer license, shall be prima facie evidence of the
applicant's qualifications to receive a license hereunder. (Ord. 215, 7-12-
1971)
5-3-5: LICENSE FEE:
The license fee imposed and collected shall be the sum of twenty five dollars
($25.00) per year. Such license year shall be from one minute after twelve
o'clock (12:01) A.M., January 1 through December 31; provided, however, should
a license be issued for less than a full calendar year, the license fee shall
be prorated in accordance with the actual months of issuance. (Ord. 215, 7-12-
1971)
5-3-6: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Upon filing the application for a license and production of evidence as
required by section
5-3-4 of this chapter as to the qualifications of the applicant and by the
payment of the required license fee, the clerk shall upon approval of the
council, issue to the applicant a license to sell wine at retail within the
municipality for such calendar year or the remainder thereof. (Ord. 215, 7-12-
1971)
5-3-7: LICENSE RESTRICTIONS:
The assignment or transfer of a wine license shall be the same as provided by
section
5-2-9 of this title for the assignment or transfer of a beer license. (Ord.
215, 7-12-1971)
5-3-8: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The right shall be and remain at all times vested in the mayor and council, and
the mayor and council may, as hereinafter provided, revoke or cancel any
license for fraud or misrepresentation in its procurement, or for a violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter, or for any conduct or act of the
licensee or his employees or any conduct or act permitted by him or them on the
premises where such business is conducted, or in connection therewith or
adjacent thereto, tending to render such business or such premises where the
same is conducted as a public nuisance or a menace to the health, peace, safety
or general welfare of the city; provided, that revocation or suspension of the
state license by the commissioner of law enforcement shall be deemed prima
facie evidence for revocation or suspension of the license issued herein. (Ord.
215, 7-12-1971)
5-3-9: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter or fails to
comply with any of the terms and conditions of this chapter shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor. (Ord. 215, 7-12-1971)
5-3-10: SEVERABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter are hereby declared to be severable and if any
provision of this chapter or the application of such provision to any person or
circumstance is declared invalid for any reason, such declaration shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this chapter. (Ord, 215, 7-12-
1971)
CHAPTER 4
LIQUOR BY THE DRINK 1
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: License To Retail Liquor
5-4-3: License Fee
5-4-4: Application For Licenses
5-4-5: Form Of License; Authority; Expiration; Limitations
5-4-6: Termination Of Licenses; Revocation
 
Notes
1 1. For state alcohol beverage law adopted, see chapter 1 of this title.
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall be given the
following interpretations:
   LICENSE: A license issued by the clerk, to a qualified person under which it
shall be lawful for the licensee to sell and dispense liquor by the drink at
retail, as provided by state law.
   QUALIFIED APPLICANT: A person who has a currently valid and existing license
from the director of the department of law enforcement of the state to sell
liquor by the drink at a location in the city, in accordance with the
provisions of state law. (Ord. 200, 1969; amd. 1982 Code)
5-4-2: LICENSE TO RETAIL LIQUOR:
The clerk is hereby empowered, authorized and directed to issue licenses to
qualified applicants as herein provided. Whereby the licensee shall be
authorized and permitted to sell liquor by the drink at retail in the city, and
upon the issue of such license, the licensee therein named shall be authorized
to sell liquor by the drink, but only in accordance with the provisions of
state law, and the rules and regulations promulgated by the director of the
department of law enforcement of the state in regard thereto, and the
provisions of this code. (Ord. 200, 1969; amd. 1982 Code)
5-4-3: LICENSE FEE:
   (A)   Each licensee licensed under the provisions of this code shall pay an
annual license fee to the clerk in the sum of one hundred seventy five dollars
($175.00) per annum; provided that any licensee who operates only a portion of
the year may have his license fee prorated from the date he commences operation
to the end of the calendar year, but in no event for less than six (6) months.
(Ord. 300, 3-6-1989)
   (B)   In the event a licensee who was previously issued a license on a
prorated basis under the provisions hereof desires to have such license renewed
for the same period for the next succeeding year, he shall file his intention
to so apply for such license with the clerk, accompanied by the fee required
for the issuance of such license on or before December 31 of the preceding
year.
   (C)   The license fees herein provided for are exclusive and in addition to
other fees chargeable by the city. (Ord. 275, 3-5-1984)
5-4-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSES:
Prior to the issuance of a license as herein provided, the applicant shall file
with the clerk, an application in writing, signed by the applicant, containing
such information and statements relative to the applicant and the premises
where liquor is to be sold as may be required by the clerk, and accompanied by
the license issued to such person by the department of law enforcement of the
state of Idaho to sell liquor by the drink in the city. The application shall
be verified by the affidavit of the person making the same, before a person
authorized to administer oaths, and shall be accompanied with the license fee
herein required.
If any false statement is made in such application, the applicant or applicants
shall be deemed to have violated the provisions of this code. (Ord. 200, 1969)
5-4-5: FORM OF LICENSE; AUTHORITY; EXPIRATION; LIMITATIONS:
   (A)   Every license issued under this chapter shall set forth the name of
the person to whom issued, the location by street and number, or other definite
designation of the premises, and such other information as the clerk shall deem
necessary. If issued to a partnership, the names of the persons constituting
such partnership shall be set forth. If issued to a corporation or association,
the names of the principal officers and the governing board shall be set forth.
Such license shall be signed by the licensee and prominently displayed in the
place of business at all times. Every license issued under the provisions of
this chapter is separate and distinct and no person except the licensee therein
named except as herein otherwise provided, shall exercise any of the privileges
granted thereunder. Every license issued under this chapter shall constitute a
personal privilege subject to being denied, revoked or canceled for its abuse.
It shall not be alienable or assignable and may be transferred only through the
procedures herein described. All licenses shall expire at one o'clock (1:00)
A.M. on January 31 of the following year and shall be subject to renewal upon
proper application. Renewal applications for liquor by the drink licenses
accompanied by the required fee must be filed with the clerk on or before
January 1. No person shall be granted more than one license in any city for any
one year; and no partnership, association or corporation holding a license
under this chapter shall have as a member, officer or stockholder any person
who has any financial interest of any kind in, or is a member of, another
partnership or association or an officer of another corporation holding a
license in the same city for the same year; provided that this section shall
not prevent any person, firm or corporation, owning two (2) or more buildings
on connected property in a city from making application for and receiving
licenses permitting the sale of liquor by the drink in such building.
   (B)   An application to transfer any license issued pursuant to this chapter
shall be made to the city council. Upon receipt of such an application, the
city council shall make the same determinations with respect to the transferee
as are required under this chapter and if the city council shall determine that
all of the conditions required of a licensee under this chapter have been met
by the proposed transferee, then the license shall be endorsed over to the
proposed transferee by said licensee for the remainder of the period for which
such license has been issued and the clerk shall note approval of the council
thereof upon such license.
   (C)   The fee for transferring a liquor license shall be fifty percent (50%)
of the per annum license fee set forth in section
5-4-3 of this chapter, except no fee shall be collected in the following
events:
      1.   The transfer of a license between husband and wife in the event of a
property division;
      2.   The transfer of a license to a receiver, trustee in bankruptcy or
similar person or officer;
      3.   The transfer of a license to the heirs or personal representative of
the estate in the event of the death of the licensee;
      4.   The transfer of a license arising out of the dissolution of a
partnership where the license is transferred to one or more of the partners; or
      5.   The transfer of a license within a family whether an individual,
partnership or corporation.
   (D)   The controlling interest in the stock ownership of a corporate
licensee shall not be, directly or indirectly, sold, transferred or
hypothecated unless the licensee be a corporation, the stock of which is listed
on a stock exchange in Idaho, or in the city of New York, state of New York or
which is required by law to file periodic reports with the securities and
exchange commission. Provided, however, that in the event of the transfer of
more than twenty five percent (25%) of the authorized and issued stock of the
corporation, it shall create a rebuttable presumption that such transfer
constitutes a transfer of the controlling interest of such corporation. (Ord.
356, 11-7-2001)
5-4-6: TERMINATION OF LICENSES; REVOCATION:
Revocation of license of any person by the commissioner of law enforcement of
the state of Idaho, shall automatically be and become a revocation of the
license of such person issued by the city. (Ord. 200, 1969)
CHAPTER 5
AMUSEMENTS
SECTION:
5-5-1: License To Be Obtained Before Operation
5-5-2: Circuses And Side Shows License Fees
5-5-3: Booth, Stands Or Games
5-5-4: Tent Shows
5-5-5: Fortune Tellers, Palm Readers, Mind Readers, Phrenologists, Astrologers,
Clairvoyants
5-5-6: Merry-Go-Rounds And Rides
5-5-7: Carnivals
5-5-8: Consent Of Property Owners Near Mechanical Rides
5-5-9: Bond
5-5-1: LICENSE TO BE OBTAINED BEFORE OPERATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person, company or corporation to operate, engage
in or carry on any business, amusement or device as referred to in this chapter
without first obtaining a license therefor from the city clerk. (1963 Code)
5-5-2: CIRCUSES AND SIDE SHOWS LICENSE FEES:
The keeper or proprietor of a circus or menagerie shall pay a license fee of
seventy five dollars ($75.00), per day and for each and every side show fifteen
dollars ($15.00) per day. (1963 Code)
5-5-3: BOOTH, STANDS OR GAMES:
The proprietor or conductor of any booth, stand or game operated in connection
with or in proximity to a circus shall pay a license fee of five dollars
($5.00) per day. (1963 Code)
5-5-4: TENT SHOWS:
The keeper or proprietor of every tent show, other than a circus, for which a
charge is made shall pay license fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per day.
(1963 Code)
5-5-5: FORTUNE TELLERS, PALM READERS, MIND READERS, PHRENOLOGISTS, ASTROLOGERS,
CLAIRVOYANTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to carry on the
occupation of fortune telling, palm reading, mind reading, phrenology,
astrology, clairvoyance, or any other means or device whereby the past or
future of any person is intended to be told, without first obtaining a license
from the city clerk to do so. The applicant for such a license must make out an
application form, furnished by the city clerk, giving his or her name, age,
place or location where business is to be carried on and furnish a true
likeness photograph of said applicant, such photograph to be attached to said
application form. The city clerk, before issuing such license shall obtain the
approval of the city council to do so. The license fee for the herein mentioned
occupations shall be thirty dollars ($30.00) per day. No weekly or monthly
license rate reductions are provided for. Licenses are nontransferable. (1963
Code)
5-5-6: MERRY-GO-ROUNDS AND RIDES:
Merry-go-rounds and equipment of all kinds giving rides to people, to which an
admission is charged are declared places of public entertainment and shall pay
a license fee of ten dollars ($10.00) per day if granted for less than a week,
and if granted for one week or more, then forty dollars ($40.00) per week and
sixty dollars ($60.00) per month. (1963 Code)
5-5-7: CARNIVALS:
A carnival, operated on the streets or in a vacant lot or place other than in a
building, shall be required to take out a license for each merry-go-round and
other apparatus giving rides, at the rates hereinbefore provided for the same,
and in addition shall pay a license at the rate of five dollars ($5.00) per day
for every booth, stand or game. (1963 Code)
5-5-8: CONSENT OF PROPERTY OWNERS NEAR MECHANICAL RIDES:
Any person who shall make application to the city clerk for a license to
conduct or operate any merry-go-round or mechanical device giving rides to
people shall at the same time of making such application file with the city
clerk a written statement, particularly describing the location of the place
where he desires to conduct or operate such mechanical rides which statement
shall have attached to it the written consent of four- fifths (4/5) of the
occupants of residence and business property within a radius of four hundred
feet (400') and no license shall be issued without such written consent being
filed. (1963 Code)
5-5-9: BOND:
Before a license be issued to a manager, owner or operator of a circus,
menagerie or carnival, such person shall be required to deposit with the city
clerk a cash bond of fifty dollars ($50.00), such bond to be a guarantee that
after the period during which the circus, menagerie or carnival is operated the
grounds or street or streets used for such operation be cleaned of all trash,
paper and other debris caused to be deposited thereon by said circus, menagerie
or carnival. Before returning said bond to the depositor, the city clerk shall
have such grounds, street or streets inspected for the purpose of ascertaining
that such cleaning has been done. (1963 Code)
CHAPTER 6
MOTELS
SECTION:
5-6-1: Building Permit Required
5-6-2: Service Station Restrictions
5-6-3: Parking Space On Premises
5-6-4: Minimum Size; Equipment
5-6-5: To Conform With Fire And Building Code
5-6-6: Application To Include Plan
5-6-7: Guests Required To Register
5-6-1: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
Before construction of a motor court is started, a permit for such construction
shall be obtained from the city clerk of the city for its approval. (1963 Code)
5-6-2: SERVICE STATION RESTRICTIONS:
Automobile service stations incidental to the facility shall be located no
closer than one hundred feet (100') to any unit. (1963 Code)
5-6-3: PARKING SPACE ON PREMISES:
Each unit of a motel or tourist court shall be provided with an assigned
parking space entirely on the premises. (1963 Code)
5-6-4: MINIMUM SIZE; EQUIPMENT:
The minimum space for each unit shall be twelve feet by twenty feet (12' x 20')
and shall contain a full bath, toilet facilities, dressing compartment and
sleeping room. (1963 Code)
5-6-5: TO CONFORM WITH FIRE AND BUILDING CODE:
The plumbing, heating, fenestration and ventilation components shall meet all
local fire and building code requirements. (1963 Code)
5-6-6: APPLICATION TO INCLUDE PLAN:
Each application for a motel or tourist court shall be submitted with a
complete plan, including the plot plan and adjacent buildings, parking
arrangement and driveways, unit sizes, plumbing and heating layout, accessory
uses, materials to be used, front and rear elevations and architectural design.
Permits shall be issued by the city clerk. (1963 Code)
5-6-7: GUESTS REQUIRED TO REGISTER:
Every operator of a motor court shall maintain a register in which each guest
of such motor court shall register his name, home address and license number of
the motor car in which he is traveling. The date of his arrival and departure
shall also be recorded. Such register shall be available to any authorized
person inspecting the motor court, and shall be preserved for a period not less
than one year. (1963 Code)
CHAPTER 7
PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS
SECTION:
5-7-1: Definitions
5-7-2: License Application
5-7-3: Fees
5-7-4: Display Of License
5-7-5: Revocation Of License
5-7-6: Bond Required
5-7-7: Reduction Of Fees
5-7-8: Nuisance Declared
5-7-9: Penalties
5-7-10: Enforcement Authorization
5-7-11: Agricultural Sales Excepted
5-7-12: Severability
5-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
Words not defined herein shall be given the meaning ordinarily applied to such
words.
   HAWKER: Any person who offers goods, wares or merchandise of any kind at
outcry upon any street or vacant lot in the city whether by auction or
otherwise.
   PEDDLER: Any person who goes from house to house and offers for sale goods,
wares or merchandise of any kind or description carried with him or taking
orders for future delivery of goods, wares or merchandise of any kind or
description. (Ord. 223, 12-17-1973, eff. 1-1-1974)
5-7-2: LICENSE APPLICATION:
Application for a license to be issued under the provisions of this chapter
shall be made to the city clerk or treasurer and shall contain a statement
concerning the type of business contemplated. (Ord. 223, 12-17-1973, eff. 1-1-
1974)
5-7-3: FEES:
A license fee shall be paid by hawkers and peddlers. The fee shall be ten
dollars ($10.00) per day, fifty dollars ($50.00) per month, or one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) per year unless otherwise provided in this chapter. (Ord.
223, 12-17-1973, eff. 1-1-1974; amd. 1982 Code)
5-7-4: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Any hawker or peddler is required to exhibit their license upon request of any
citizen or police officer. (Ord. 223, 12-17-1973, eff. 1-1-1974)
5-7-5: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked by the
mayor and/or council for any of the following causes:
   (A)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement(s) contained in the
application for license;
   (B)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on a business;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conducting the business in an unlawful manner or in such manner as to
constitute a breach of the peace or to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or general welfare of the public. (Ord. 223, 12-17-1973, eff. 1-1-1974)
5-7-6: BOND REQUIRED:
Every applicant shall file with the city clerk or treasurer a surety bond in
the amount of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) with the surety acceptable to
and approved by the mayor, conditioned that the said applicant shall comply
fully with all the provisions of this chapter. Action on such bond may be
brought in the name of the municipality for the use or benefit of any aggrieved
person. (Ord. 223, 12-17-1973, eff. 1-1-1974)
5-7-7: REDUCTION OF FEES:
The mayor and/or council shall have authority to reduce the license fee for
hawkers, peddlers or salesmen in any of the following instances: when the
applicant is a resident of the city; when the applicant owns and/or operates a
business in the city; when the applicant represents a civic organization and
the funds derived from such hawking or peddling are used for charitable
purposes; when the applicant is engaged in selling books, encyclopedias, Bibles
or religious materials and the sale of such materials is deemed by the mayor
and/or council to be in the public interest.
The mayor and council have the authority, at their discretion, to waive the
bond requirement in the above instances.
In all cases the decision of the mayor and/or council in the amount of the fee
shall be final. (Ord. 223, 12-17-1973, eff. 1-1-1974)
5-7-8: NUISANCE DECLARED:
The practice of going in and upon private residences in the city by unlicensed
solicitors, unlicensed peddlers, unlicensed hawkers, unlicensed itinerant
merchants, and unlicensed transient vendors of merchandise, not having been
requested or invited so to do by the owner of said private residence, for the
purpose of soliciting orders for the sale or future delivery of goods, wares,
and merchandise of any kind or description, and/or for the purpose of disposing
and/or peddling or hawking the same is hereby declared to a nuisance. (Ord.
223, 12-17-1973, eff. 1-1-1974)
5-7-9: PENALTIES:
Any apparent violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punishable by the provisions of section
1-8-1 of this code. (Ord. 223, 12-17-1973, eff. 1-1-1974)
5-7-10: ENFORCEMENT AUTHORIZATION:
It shall be the duty of any police officer or employee of the city to enforce
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 223, 12-17-1973, eff. 1-1-1974)
5-7-11: AGRICULTURAL SALES EXCEPTED:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to require a license or prohibit the
door to door selling of agricultural products grown or produced within the
state. (Ord. 223, 12-17-1973, eff. 1-1-1974)
5-7-12: SEVERABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter are hereby declared to be severable and if any
provision of this chapter or the application of such provision to any person or
circumstance is declared invalid for any reason, such declaration shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this chapter. (Ord. 223, 12-
17-1973, eff. 1-1-1974)
CHAPTER 8
FRANCHISES
SECTION:
5-8-1: Gas Franchise
5-8-2: Cable Television Franchise
5-8-3: Electrical Franchise
5-8-4: Franchise Agreements
5-8-1: GAS FRANCHISE:
The city of Genesee, a municipal corporation of the state of Idaho, grants a
ten (10) year franchise to the Avista Corporation, a Washington corporation,
for the construction, operation and maintenance of natural gas facilities
within the city of Genesee. (Ord. 364, 11-17-2004)
5-8-2: CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE:
The city of Genesee, a municipal corporation of the state of Idaho, grants a
ten (10) year franchise to Elk River Cable TV, Inc., for the construction,
operation and maintenance of a cable television system in the city of Genesee,
Idaho. This franchise shall begin when the city of Genesee and Elk River Cable
TV, Inc., execute a cable television franchise agreement, subject to approval
by city council, and the franchise shall be subject to the terms and conditions
contained in the cable television franchise agreement. (Ord. 380, 12-1-2009)
5-8-3: ELECTRICAL FRANCHISE:
The city of Genesee, a municipal corporation of the state of Idaho, grants a
ten (10) year franchise to the Avista Corporation, a Washington corporation,
for the construction, operation and maintenance of electric facilities within
the city of Genesee. (Ord. 367, 3-7-2006)
5-8-4: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS:
Each and every franchise agreement entered into by the city shall remain on
file with the clerk for review and use by the public during the term of such
franchise agreement and during regular business hours of the city. (Ord. 380,
12-1-2009)
CHAPTER 9
TELEVISION SIGNAL DISTRIBUTING SYSTEMS
SECTION:
5-9-1: Definitions
5-9-2: Permit Required
5-9-3: Fees
5-9-4: Application Data
5-9-5: Electrical Inspector's Duties, Rights And Powers
5-9-6: Notice Of Inspection
5-9-7: Bond Requirement
5-9-8: Technical And Safety Requirements
5-9-9: Minor Repairs Without Permit
5-9-10: Street Excavations
5-9-11: Owner Not Prevented From Doing Own Work
5-9-12: Coordination With Other Adopted Codes
5-9-13: Prior Installations
5-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretations and enforcement of
this chapter:
   ANTENNA: As used in this chapter shall mean the outdoor portion of the
receiving equipment used for receiving or radiating television or radio waves.
   ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR: The state electrical inspector for the city or any of
his authorized assistants.
   HEIGHT: The overall vertical length of the antenna system above the ground,
or, if such system be located on a building, then, above that part of the level
of such building upon which the system rests.
   MAST: The portion of the outside antenna system to which the antenna is
attached, and the support or extension required to elevate the antenna to a
height deemed necessary for adequate operation. (Ord. 247, 6-4-1979)
5-9-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, maintain or repair any
central mast, receiving antenna, transmission line, or booster amplifier for a
television signal distributing system unless and until an inspection permit
shall have first been obtained from the city clerk. (Ord. 247, 6-4-1979)
5-9-3: FEES:
An inspection fee of ten dollars ($10.00) shall be paid to the city clerk for
each permit issued hereunder. A reinspection fee of two dollars ($2.00) shall
be paid for each trip when extra inspections are necessary due to any of the
following reasons:
   (A)   Wrong address,
   (B)   Condemned work resulting from faulty construction,
   (C)   Repairs or corrections not made when inspection is called,
   (D)   Work not ready for inspection when called. (Ord. 247, 6-4-1979)
5-9-4: APPLICATION DATA:
An application for a permit shall be made to the city clerk and shall contain
or have attached thereto the following information:
   (A)   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant.
   (B)   Whether it is a new installation, repair or maintenance work.
   (C)   A brief description of the intended work.
   (D)   A plat and specification shall be filed showing the location of any
mast, booster, amplifier and transmission lines. (Ord. 247, 6-4-1979)
5-9-5: ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR'S DUTIES, RIGHTS AND POWERS:
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the electrical inspector and his authorized
assistants to inspect all television receiving antenna installations, all
central masts, all booster amplifiers and all transmission lines for a
television signal distributing system and also all power and service
connections in accordance with the provisions of the current edition of the
national electrical code and the provisions of the industrial accident board
and electrical board of the state of Idaho.
   (B)   The electrical inspector and his assistants are hereby empowered to
inspect or reinspect all masts, antenna, wiring, transmission lines, booster
amplifiers, service lines, equipment or apparatus conducting or using
electrical current for a television signal distributing system in the city, and
if any such masts, antenna, wiring, transmission lines, booster amplifiers,
service lines, equipment or apparatus, are found to be unsafe to life or
property, or not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, the
electrical inspector shall notify the person owning or operating the hazardous
wiring, transmission lines, equipment or apparatus to correct the condition
within a forty eight (48) hour period or within the time specified by the
electrical inspector. Failure to correct violations within the specified time
shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder or interfere with the
electrical inspector or his authorized representatives in the discharge of
their duties under the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 247, 6-4-1979)
5-9-6: NOTICE OF INSPECTION:
The person to whom a permit has been granted for the installation, maintenance
or repair of a central mast, transmission lines, or booster amplifiers for a
television signal distributing system, shall immediately notify the clerk when
the work covered by the permit has been completed and is ready for final
inspection. Upon such notice, the electrical inspector or his authorized
representatives shall promptly inspect and approve the installations if the
work complies in all respects with the provisions of this chapter and the
permit issued, and shall disapprove said installation if it fails to comply,
stating in writing the reasons for disapproval and specify a time within which
said defects must be corrected. A reinspection shall be made after notice to
the electrical inspector that the defects have been corrected. (Ord. 247, 6-4-
1979)
5-9-7: BOND REQUIREMENT:
Every person engaged in the business of making installations of central masts,
receiving antenna, transmission lines or booster amplifiers for a television
signal distributing system or service connections to said transmission lines or
in the business of doing repair work or maintenance work on same shall annually
file with the clerk a good and sufficient bond in the sum of ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00), executed by a bonding or surety company authorized to do
business in the state of Idaho, and approved by the city attorney. Said bond
shall be conditioned upon the faithful observance of all laws of the city and
shall indemnify, save and keep harmless the city from any and all damages,
judgments, costs or expenses which the said city may incur or suffer by reason
of the granting of a permit to install, repair or maintain antenna or
transmission lines for television signal distributing systems or any services
thereto. Said bond shall run to the city for its use and benefit for any
damages suffered by it by reason of the permit granted hereunder or for the use
and benefit of any person who may suffer injuries or property damages by reason
of the permit granted hereunder. The maintenance of said bond in full force and
effect shall be a prerequisite to the issuance of any permit required under the
provisions of this chapter. A liability insurance policy issued by an insurance
company authorized to do business in the state of Idaho which conforms to the
above requirements may be permitted in lieu of a bond. (Ord. 247, 6-4-1979)
5-9-8: TECHNICAL AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS:
All installations of television receiving antenna, central masts, transmission
lines and booster amplifiers for television signal distributing systems, and
all television service installations made from transmission lines, shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of the current edition of the national
electrical code. All of said installations shall be made in conformity with the
safety rules and regulations of the state industrial accident board and of the
electrical board of the state of Idaho. (Ord. 247, 6-4-1979)
5-9-9: MINOR REPAIRS WITHOUT PERMIT:
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, minor repairs to antenna and
transmission lines may be made without a permit, provided, however, that a
prompt report thereof is made to the electrical inspector showing the extent
thereof. Should an investigation of said minor repairs by the electrical
inspector showing the extent thereof. Should an investigation of said minor
repairs by the electrical inspector disclose defects, the same shall be pointed
out and corrected as required by this chapter. (Ord. 247, 6-4-1979)
5-9-10: STREET EXCAVATIONS:
All street excavations required for the purpose of installing transmission
lines, including pole and coaxial cable shall be governed by the provisions
contained elsewhere in this code. (Ord. 247, 6-4-1979)
5-9-11: OWNER NOT PREVENTED FROM DOING OWN WORK:
This chapter is not intended to prevent the home owner from installing
television receiving antenna on his own property or repairing and maintaining
same. (Ord. 247, 6-4-1979)
5-9-12: COORDINATION WITH OTHER ADOPTED CODES:
The provisions of this chapter shall be coordinated with the provisions of the
electrical, building and fire prevention codes of the city. (Ord. 247, 6-4-
1979)
5-9-13: PRIOR INSTALLATIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to any installation, maintenance or repair of a
television signal distributing system made prior to the effective date of this
chapter, but the future operation of such a system and all future
installations, maintenance and repairs made to any existing system shall be
done in accordance with this chapter. (Ord. 247, 6-4-1979)
CHAPTER 10
GAS DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION SYSTEMS
SECTION:
5-10-1: Definitions
5-10-2: Codes Adopted
5-10-3: Inspection Of Gas Distribution Systems
5-10-4: Testing Of Piping On Construction
5-10-5: Location Of Service Shutoffs
5-10-6: Location Of Pipes
5-10-7: Protection And Removal Of Utilities
5-10-8: Trenches
5-10-9: Water In Trenches
5-10-10: Breaking Through Pavement
5-10-11: Tunnels
5-10-12: Backfilling
5-10-13: Protection Of Property
5-10-14: Preservation Of Monuments
5-10-15: Damage To Existing Improvements
5-10-16: Property Lines And Easements
5-10-17: Care Of Excavated Material
5-10-18: Interference With Other Services
5-10-19: Provision For Watercourses
5-10-20: Routing And Maintenance Of Traffic During Construction
5-10-21: Insurance
5-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
Terms used in this chapter shall have the meanings herein given to them.
   DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM: Any system of mains, pipes, service lines, regulators,
meters, fixtures, connections and attachments used in the distribution of gas.
   GAS: Natural, manufactured or mixed gas suitable for domestic or industrial
fuel.
   PERMITTEE: Any person holding a franchise to distribute gas in the city.
   PUBLIC PROPERTIES: Any street, alley, roadway, sidewalk, viaduct, highway,
bridge, park drive or public ground open as a matter of right to public travel.
   SERVICE LINE: Pipe, regulator and meter which conveys gas from a main or
other distribution or transmission line to and on a consumer's premises.
   TRANSMISSION SYSTEM: A system of pipelines installed to transmit gas from a
source or sources of supply to one or more distribution centers or a pipe
installed to interconnect sources of supply. (Ord. 200, 1969)
5-10-2: CODES ADOPTED:
The "Rules And Regulations Pertaining To Matters Of Public Safety In The
Construction And Operation Of Facilities For The Transmission And Distribution
Of Gas" of the public service commission of the state of Washington, appendix A
to order in consolidated cause nos. U-8799 and U-8800, adopted June 28, 1955,
and the provisions of "Gas Transmission And Distribution Piping Systems,
Section 8 Of The American Standard Code For Pressure Piping", 1963 edition,
(ASA) B31.9-1963, on file in the office of the clerk, are each hereby adopted
by reference as standards for gas installations in the city. Provided that, in
the event any of the provisions of said rules and regulations or said ASA code
should conflict with any of the provisions of this chapter, the chapter and the
state rules and regulations shall govern and be observed.
All amendments and additions to said rules and regulations and said ASA code,
when printed and filed with the clerk, shall thereupon become amendments and
additions thereto if not in conflict with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
200, 1969)
5-10-3: INSPECTION OF GAS DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS:
All construction of a gas distribution or transmission system shall be
inspected by the gas inspector for the permittee. (Ord. 200, 1969)
5-10-4: TESTING OF PIPING ON CONSTRUCTION:
Before any newly constructed distribution or transmission system is placed in
service, it shall be tested by the permittee in conformity with the codes
adopted by this chapter. (Ord. 200, 1969)
5-10-5: LOCATION OF SERVICE SHUTOFFS:
Service shutoffs shall be installed on all new services, including
replacements, at the curb or property line for each service, or at an easily
accessible place on the outside of the building served. If the latter method is
used, such service shall not enter a building directly without coming
aboveground. (Ord. 200, 1969)
5-10-6: LOCATION OF PIPES:
All mains shall be laid in alleys or easements whenever possible, or at
locations generally on the south and west sides of streets and alleys. Mains
shall have a lateral clearance not less than four feet (4') from water mains
and twelve inches (12") from any other subsurface structure; provided, that
under exceptional circumstances, the city may authorize less clearance. Mains
shall have a vertical clearance of twelve inches (12") when crossing another
pipe. Mains shall be laid with a cover not less than thirty inches (30"),
except under unusual circumstances less coverage may be used. Where the trench
is in rock, the cover may be twenty four inches (24") if the main is properly
cushioned as required in section
5-10-8 of this chapter. Where the trench is in a parking strip, the cover may
be eighteen inches (18"). In the event interference with other subsurface
structures make it impractical to maintain the above depths, the city may
permit gas pipe lines and mains to be constructed so as to avoid such
subsurface structures. Minimum depth of service lines shall be twelve inches
(12") at the service terminal and shall normally slope to required depth at the
main. No person shall install a gas service line on consumer's premises, in the
same ditch as the water service line without written approval by the city.
(Ord. 200, 1969)
5-10-7: PROTECTION AND REMOVAL OF UTILITIES:
The permittee shall inform itself as to the existence and location of any
underground utilities and protect the same against damage.
The permittee shall be responsible for any damage done to any public or private
property by reason of the breaking of any water pipe, sewer, gas pipe, electric
conduit or other utility.
The permittee shall support and protect, by timbers or otherwise, all pipes,
conduits, poles, wires or other apparatus which may be in any way affected by
the construction or maintenance work, and do everything necessary to support,
sustain and protect the same under, over, along or across said work. In case
any of the said pipes, conduits, poles, wires or apparatus should be damaged,
they shall be repaired by the authorities having control of the same and the
expense of such repairs shall be charged to the permittee.
If it should be necessary to move an existing a utility, the work shall be done
by the owner of such utility. Whenever the permittee's utility interferes with
the actual construction of any public improvement, such utility shall be moved
by the permittee. No utility, either publicly or privately owned, shall be
moved to accommodate the permittee unless the cost of such work be borne by the
permittee. (Ord. 200, 1969)
5-10-8: TRENCHES:
Trenches shall not be excavated more than three hundred feet (300') in advance
of pipe laying, nor left unfilled for more than seven hundred feet (700') where
pipe has been laid, except by permission from the city. The length of the
trench that may be opened at any time shall not be greater than the length of
pipe and the necessary accessories which are available to the site ready to put
in place. The completed trench shall be kept not less than thirty feet (30')
ahead of the pipe layers. Trenches shall be at least six inches (6") wider on
each side or a total width of twelve inches (12") more than the exterior
diameter of the pipe, except where pipes are four inches (4") or less in
diameter. Wherever excavation is made in rock, a minimum of six inches (6") of
noncorrosive soil, sands or fines of existing spoils shall be used as a padding
beneath the pipe and an additional six inches (6") above the pipe.
Excavation for manholes and other structures shall be sufficient to leave at
least twelve inches (12") between their outer surfaces and the sides of the
excavation. (Ord. 200, 1969)
5-10-9: WATER IN TRENCHES:
The permittee shall pump, bail or otherwise remove any water which accumulates
in trenches. Dewatering trenches may be accomplished in any manner approved by
the city. Water shall not be permitted in trenches at any time during
construction nor until backfilling over the top of the pipe has been completed
unless otherwise specifically permitted by the city. The ground water level in
trenches shall not be permitted to rise above an elevation of six inches (6")
below the pipe. The permittee shall perform all work necessary to keep the
trenches clear of water while the foundations and masonry are being constructed
or the pipe laid. (Ord. 200, 1969)
5-10-10: BREAKING THROUGH PAVEMENT:
Whenever it is necessary to break through existing pavement for the purpose of
constructing gas service facilities, and where trenches are to be four feet
(4') or over in depth, the pavement and the base shall be removed at least six
inches (6") beyond the outer limits of the subgrade that is to be disturbed in
order to prevent settlement, and a six inch (6") shoulder of undisturbed
material shall be provided on each side of the excavated trench. The face of
the remaining pavement shall be approximately vertical. (Ord. 200, 1969)
5-10-11: TUNNELS:
Tunnels under pavement shall not be permitted except by permission of the city
and, if permitted, shall be adequately supported by timbering and backfilling
under the direction of the gas inspector. (Ord. 200, 1969)
5-10-12: BACKFILLING:
Backfilling in all public streets and improved areas, both public and private,
shall be completed to a degree equivalent to that of the undisturbed ground in
which the trench was dug. Compacting shall be done by mechanical tampers or
vibrators, or by rolling in layers as required by the soil in question. (Ord.
200, 1969)
5-10-13: PROTECTION OF PROPERTY:
The permittee shall, at its own expense, shore up and protect all buildings,
walls, fences or other property likely to be damaged during the progress of the
construction or maintenance work and shall be responsible for all damage to
public or private property. Wherever it may be necessary for the permittee to
trench through any lawn area, the sod shall be carefully cut and rolled and
replaced after ditches have been backfilled, and the area restored as nearly as
possible to its original condition.
Permittee shall not remove, even temporarily, any trees or shrubs which exist
in parking strip areas or easements across private property without first
having notified the property owner, or in the case of public parks, the city
park department. (Ord. 200, 1969)
5-10-14: PRESERVATION OF MONUMENTS:
The permittee shall not disturb any surface monuments or hubs found on the line
of the improvements unless authorized by the city. (Ord. 200, 1969)
5-10-15: DAMAGE TO EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS:
All damage done to existing improvements during the progress of construction or
maintenance work shall be repaired by the permittee. Materials for such repair
shall conform to the requirements of applicable ordinances. If, upon being
ordered, the permittee fails to furnish the necessary labor and materials for
such repairs, the city may cause said necessary labor and materials to be
furnished by other parties and the cost thereof charged against permittee.
(Ord. 200, 1969)
5-10-16: PROPERTY LINES AND EASEMENTS:
Property lines and limits of easements shall be indicated on the plans and it
shall be the permittee's responsibility to confine its construction activities
within these limits. Any damage resulting from trespassing beyond these limits
shall be the sole responsibility of the permittee. (Ord. 200, 1969)
5-10-17: CARE OF EXCAVATED MATERIAL:
All material excavated from trenches and piles adjacent to the trench, or in
highways, shall be piled and maintained in such a manner that the toe of the
slope of the excavated material is at least eighteen inches (18") from the edge
of the trench. When the confines of the area through which the gas pipes are to
be laid are too narrow to permit the piling of excavated material beside the
trench, the permittee may be required to haul excavated material to a storage
site and then rehaul it to the trench site at the time of backfilling. It shall
be the permittee's responsibility to secure the necessary permission and make
all necessary arrangements for all storage and disposal sites required. (Ord.
200, 1969)
5-10-18: INTERFERENCE WITH OTHER SERVICES:
The work shall be conducted so as not to interfere with access to fire
stations, fire hydrants. Material or obstruction shall not be placed within
fifteen feet (15') of fire hydrants. Passageways leading to fire escapes or
firefighting equipment shall be kept free of material piles or other
obstructions. (Ord. 200, 1969)
5-10-19: PROVISION FOR WATERCOURSES:
The permittee shall provide for the flow of all watercourses, sewers or drains
intercepted during the progress of the work, and shall replace the same in as
good condition as it found them or shall make final provisions for them as the
city may direct. The permittee shall not obstruct the gutter of any street, but
shall use all proper measures to provide for the free passage of surface water.
The permittee shall make provisions to take care of all surplus water, mud,
silt, or other runoff pumped from excavations or resulting from sluicing or
other operations, and shall be responsible for any damage resulting from its
failure so to provide. (Ord. 200, 1969)
5-10-20: ROUTING AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC DURING CONSTRUCTION:
During construction, traffic shall be maintained at all times so as to cause as
little inconvenience as possible to the occupants of abutting property and to
the general public, provided that the city may permit the closing of public
properties to all traffic for a designated period of time, if necessary. Before
any public property may be closed or restricted to traffic, the permittee must
obtain the approval of the city and notify the chief of the fire department and
the chief of police department. The permittee shall route and control all
traffic, including its own vehicles, as directed by the chief of the police
department. Upon completion of construction work, the chief of the police
department and the chief of the fire department shall again be notified before
traffic is returned to its normal route. Where flagmen are deemed necessary by
the chief of the police department, they shall be furnished by the permittee at
its expense.
Through traffic shall be maintained without detours if possible. When it is
necessary to construct a detour, the permittee shall construct same at its
expense. The permittee will be responsible for any unnecessary damage caused to
any public properties by the operation of its equipment.
The permittee shall erect and maintain suitable timber barriers to confine
earth from trenches or other excavations in order to minimize encroachment upon
highways. It shall construct and maintain adequate and safe crossings over
excavations and across highways during construction to accommodate vehicular
and pedestrian traffic at all street intersections, under the supervision of
the city. Decking shall be not less than four inches (4") thick and shall be
securely fastened together with heavy wire and staples. Pedestrian crossings
shall consist of planking three inches (3") thick, twelve inches (12") wide and
of length required, together with necessary blocking. The walk shall not be
less than four feet (4') wide and shall be provided with a railing if required
by the city. (Ord. 200, 1969)
5-10-21: INSURANCE:
The permittee shall have and maintain in force adequate public liability and
property damage insurance, which insurance may contain a self-insured
deductible amount as shall be approved by the city council. (Ord. 200, 1969)
CHAPTER 11
GAS INSTALLATION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-11-1: Definitions
5-11-2: Code Adopted
5-11-3: License Required
5-11-4: Bond And Insurance Of Gas Installer
5-11-5: Permit Required
5-11-6: Rough Gas Piping Test
5-11-7: Final Piping Test; Pressure Tests
5-11-8: Test Required If Gas Not Used For Period Of Time
5-11-9: Gas Service And Final Test
5-11-10: Defective Work Or Unapproved Materials
5-11-11: Discontinuance Or Refusal Of Service By Gas Company
5-11-12: Responsibility Of Gas Installer
5-11-13: Liability Of City Officials Or Employees
5-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words, terms and phrases are
hereby defined and shall have the meaning herein given to them:
   CONSUMER: Any person using gas, including residential, commercial and
industrial users.
   GAS: Natural, manufactured or mixed gas.
   GAS APPLIANCES: Any appliance or device used for burning gas.
   GAS COMPANY: Any person holding and exercising a franchise to distribute gas
within the corporate limits of the city.
   GAS FITTER: Any person who does gas fitting work on any gas system or gas
appliance.
   GAS FITTING SYSTEM: All gas piping, duct work, appliances and accessories
installed or used in connection with consumption of gas on consumer's premises.
   GAS FITTING WORK: The installation, alteration, extension, repair or
maintenance, from the outlet of the gas meter, of gas piping, venting and
appliances.
   GAS INSTALLER: Any person who is licensed and who engages or employs
licensed gas fitters, servicemen, and/or apprentices, to install gas equipment
and accessories in the city or county of Nez Perce acceptable to the council
and may be licensed by the city only.
   GAS PIPING SYSTEM: All gas piping from the outlet of the gas meter installed
or used in connection with consumption of gas on a consumer's premises.
   PREMISES: The property of the consumer up to the property line and including
any buildings or structures thereon.
   USED GAS APPLIANCES: A gas appliance which has been previously sold,
installed or used. (Ord. 200, 1969)
5-11-2: CODE ADOPTED:
The provisions of the "Inland Empire Natural Gas Association Standards For The
Installation Of Gas Appliances And Gas Piping, Domestic Gas Conversion Burners
And Gas Equipment In Excess Of 400,000 B.T.U.'s, Per Hour Input", second
edition, 1965, "NBFU No. 58, Storage And Handling Of Liquefied Petroleum Gases"
dated 1965. "NBFU No. 59 Storage And Handling Of Liquefied Petroleum Gases At
Utility Gas Plants", dated 1963, on file in the office of the clerk are hereby
adopted by reference as to installation, conversion, maintenance, operation and
safety standards of the city. Provided, that in the event any provisions of
this standard conflict with any of the provisions of this chapter, the
provisions of this chapter shall govern and be observed.
All amendments and additions to said "Inland Empire Natural Gas Association
Standards For The Installation Of Gas Appliances And Gas Piping, Domestic Gas
Conversion Burners And Gas Equipment In Excess Of 400,000 B.T.U.'s Per Hour
Input", second edition, 1965, when printed and filed with the clerk, shall
thereupon become amendments and additions hereto, if not in conflict with the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 200, 1969)
5-11-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Before starting an installation, a gas installer shall have in his possession
an up to date valid gas fitter's license issued by the city indicating said gas
installer has successfully passed a gas fitter's examination; provided,
however, that the owner of any single-family dwelling occupied by him shall not
be required to have a gas fitter's license or procure the bond and insurance
hereinafter provided for to do gas fitting work on said premises if said work
is to be done by the owner or a member of his immediate family, in which case
such owner shall obtain the necessary permit, perform the works and tests in
accordance with other provisions of this chapter, subject to the approval of
the designated enforcement officer except, however, that an owner not be
permitted to do gas fitting work in any building which is used as a place of
business, apartment house, rental unit or a house to be offered for sale. (Ord.
200, 1969)
5-11-4: BOND AND INSURANCE OF GAS INSTALLER:
Before any installation work is started, the gas installer shall have a bond in
the sum of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) executed by the applicant, as
principal, and a surety company authorized to do business in the state of
Idaho, running to the city, conditioned that the licensee, his agents and
servants, shall fully comply with all provisions of law and ordinances of the
city relating to gas fitting work, and that any person injured by failure of
the principal to comply with such laws and ordinances, or with any of the
provisions thereof, shall have a right of action against the principal and
surety of his own name; provided, that the liability of any surety upon the
bond required to be given by the gas installer, as herein provided, shall be
limited to the amount specified in the bond and in case of recoveries had by
two (2) or more persons for violation of the conditions of such bond in excess
of the amount of the bond, such recoveries shall be prorated and the total
recovery against the surety shall not exceed the amount of the bond; provided
further, that any person wishing to avail himself of the benefits of the bond
shall commence action thereon within one year after the date of completion of
the work alleged to have been improperly done. The gas installer shall also
have a general liability insurance policy or a written certificate of the same,
issued by an insurance carrier authorized to do business in the state of Idaho,
with bodily injury limits in the amount of one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) per person, two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00) per
accident, two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00) aggregate, and property
damage limits of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per accident,
aggregate one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00); provided further, that an
applicant may qualify as a self-insured in lieu of furnishing the general
liability insurance herein prescribed to the extent of ten percent (10%) of his
net assets, as established by a current financial statement signed by a
certified public accountant and placed on file with the city council. The bond
and insurance shall be presented in a manner and form acceptable to the
corporation counsel of the city. The right of a gas installer or fitter to do
gas fitting work in the city may be revoked by the council upon his failure to
faithfully perform and adhere to the terms and conditions of this chapter.
Bonds, insurance and self-insurance shall be renewed annually. Insurance herein
provided for shall continue in force until the gas fitting work has been
completed. The United States government, state of Idaho, county of Nez Perce,
and the city shall not be required to furnish a bond under this section. (Ord.
200, 1969)
5-11-5: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall do gas fitting work without first obtaining a permit from the
clerk. Such permit shall indicate the licensed gas installer or home owner
personally responsible for performing the work. The council may establish fees
for such permits. (Ord. 200, 1969)
5-11-6: ROUGH GAS PIPING TEST:
Rough gas piping test shall be made by the installer after all piping
authorized by a permit has been installed and before such piping has been
covered or concealed or any fixture or gas appliance has been attached thereto.
(Ord. 200, 1969)
5-11-7: FINAL PIPING TEST; PRESSURE TESTS:
Final test of piping shall include pressure tests. After the installer
determines that such piping has been installed in conformity with this chapter,
he shall advise the gas company and authorize it to grant gas service. (Ord.
200, 1969)
5-11-8: TEST REQUIRED IF GAS NOT USED FOR PERIOD OF TIME:
A new permit shall be required for a consumer's premises that has already been
piped for gas, but where no gas has been used for a period of twelve (12)
consecutive months or more. (Ord. 200, 1969)
5-11-9: GAS SERVICE AND FINAL TEST:
It shall be unlawful for any person to turn gas into any appliances for which
gas service has been authorized until the gas company is notified. This notice
shall serve as a request for a final inspection on the appliance, and the
installer shall cause said appliance to be tested within a reasonable time.
(Ord. 200, 1969)
5-11-10: DEFECTIVE WORK OR UNAPPROVED MATERIALS:
If an inspection indicates that unapproved materials have been used or
defective workmanship has been performed in the installation, repair or
extension of any gas piping, fixture or appliance in or on any consumer's
premises, such defective materials or work shall be replaced by the installer
within three (3) days, and another inspection shall be made. (Ord. 200, 1969)
5-11-11: DISCONTINUANCE OR REFUSAL OF SERVICE BY GAS COMPANY:
The gas company is authorized to discontinue or refuse to supply gas for any
gas pipe, fixture or appliance which it may find to be defective or leaking, or
in such condition as to endanger life or property. In such case, the gas
company shall immediately give notice of discontinuance or refusal of service
to the occupant of the consumer's premises, where such gas supply is
discontinued or refused. The installer shall immediately correct the conditions
reported by the gas company, and it shall be unlawful for any person to
reconnect said gas piping, fixture or appliance until authorized by the gas
company. (Ord. 200, 1969)
5-11-12: RESPONSIBILITY OF GAS INSTALLER:
The gas installer shall have full responsibility for all gas appliances or
parts thereof. (Ord. 200, 1969)
5-11-13: LIABILITY OF CITY OFFICIALS OR EMPLOYEES:
This chapter shall not be construed as imposing upon the city any liability or
responsibility for damages resulting from defective gas piping or appliances or
the installation thereof, nor shall the city or any official or employee
thereof be held as assuming any such liability or responsibility by reason of
inspections. (Ord. 200, 1969)
CHAPTER 12
BUSINESS LICENSES
SECTION:
5-12-1: Definitions
5-12-2: Fee Levied; Amount; Effect Upon Other License Fee Provisions
5-12-3: Engaging In Business Without Obtaining License Prohibited
5-12-4: Application For Business License; Contents; License Fee To Accompany
Application
5-12-5: Appeal Procedure
5-12-6: Contents Of Business License
5-12-7: Use Of Funds
5-12-8: Violation; Penalty
5-12-9: Revocation
5-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
indicated, unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
   BUSINESS OR OCCUPATION: All activities, occupations, callings, trades,
pursuits or professions located or engaged in within the city with the object
of gain, profit, benefit or advantage. Each business location shall be deemed a
separate business, unless it is a specific annex to the main location of the
business.
   COMMISSION: The city of Genesee planning and zoning commission.
   ENGAGING IN BUSINESS: Commencing, conducting or continuing in any business
or occupation, the exercise of corporate and franchise powers and the
liquidating of a business where the liquidators hold themselves out to the
public as conducting such business. Any person shall be deemed to be engaged in
doing business when he does one act of:
   (A)   Selling any goods or performing any services;
   (B)   Soliciting business or offering or holding out goods or services for
sale or hire;
   (C)   Acquiring or using any vehicle or any premises in the city for
business purposes;
   (D)   Delivery of any goods, either at wholesale or retail; or
   (E)   Sponsoring, organizing or promoting an exhibition, fair or market at
which five (5) or more vendors will offer goods or services for sale.
   PERSON: Any person doing business in the city.
   PREMISES: All lands, structures, places and equipment and appurtenances
connected or used therewith in any business and, also, any personal property,
including any vehicle which is either affixed to or is otherwise used in
connection with any such business conducted on said premises. (Ord. 393, 1-15-
2013)
5-12-2: FEE LEVIED; AMOUNT; EFFECT UPON OTHER LICENSE FEE PROVISIONS:
There shall henceforth be collected from every person initiating, starting or
establishing any new business or occupation within the city, and every person
expanding, altering or changing the nature of an existing business or
occupation within the city, a license fee for the privilege of engaging in
business within the city limits in the amount of ten dollars ($10.00).
The business license fee imposed hereunder is not intended to repeal any other
license fee provision of this code or any ordinance of the city. (Ord. 393, 1-
15-2013)
5-12-3: ENGAGING IN BUSINESS WITHOUT OBTAINING LICENSE PROHIBITED:
No person shall initiate, start or establish any new business or occupation
within the city, or expand, alter or change the operation of an existing
business or occupation within the city, without first having obtained a
business license as provided herein. (Ord. 393, 1-15-2013)
5-12-4: APPLICATION FOR BUSINESS LICENSE; CONTENTS; LICENSE FEE TO ACCOMPANY
APPLICATION:
   (A)   The application for a business license shall be made to the city clerk
on a form provided by the city. The application shall set forth:
      1.   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
      2.   Date of the application;
      3.   Location and nature of applicant's business or occupation; and
      4.   Signature of the applicant or applicant's agent.
   (B)   Within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the application for a business
license, the city clerk shall provide a copy of such application to the
commission.
   (C)   Within forty five (45) days of receipt of the application for a
business license, the planning and zoning commission shall review the
application to determine whether the applicant's business or occupation
conforms to zoning requirements. In the event that the commission determines
that the applicant's business or occupation conforms to zoning requirements,
the application shall be approved by the commission and a business license
issued by the city clerk upon receipt of the fee for a business license
provided in section
5-12-2 of this chapter. In the event that the commission determines that the
applicant's business or occupation does not conform to zoning requirements, the
commission shall deny issuance of a business license to the applicant. The city
clerk shall notify the applicant of such denial and shall provide to the
applicant an application for a special review use permit. (Ord. 393, 1-15-2013)
5-12-5: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
Any applicant who is denied issuance of a business license by the commission
may appeal such decision to the city council by filing a written notice of
appeal with the city clerk within ten (10) days of such decision by the
commission.
The city clerk shall transmit said notice of appeal to the city council, which
shall schedule a public hearing on said appeal, to be held at any regular
meeting or special meeting of the council, not later than thirty (30) days
after the filing of such notice of appeal with the city clerk. At such hearing,
the applicant may appear and speak on his own behalf, be represented by
counsel, call witnesses and cross examine any witnesses of the city.
In the event that the city council decides in favor of the applicant, it shall
pass a motion to that effect and the city clerk shall, on the next business day
thereafter, and upon receipt of the proper fee, issue such business license.
The city council may defer action upon said appeal for not longer than fifteen
(15) days from the date of the public hearing. (Ord. 393, 1-15-2013)
5-12-6: CONTENTS OF BUSINESS LICENSE:
Each license issued hereunder shall state upon its face the following:
   (A)   The name of the licensee and any other name under which the business
or occupation is to be conducted;
   (B)   The name and address of each business or occupation so licensed;
   (C)   The amount of license fee therefor;
   (D)   The dates of issuance thereof; and
   (E)   Such other information as the city clerk shall determine to be
necessary. (Ord. 393, 1-15-2013)
5-12-7: USE OF FUNDS:
All funds received by the city under the terms of this chapter shall be paid
into the general fund of the city and budgeted annually for general municipal
purposes. (Ord. 393, 1-15-2013)
5-12-8: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
A person who violates any provision of this chapter or operates any business or
occupation for which a business license is required by this chapter without
having first obtained a license as herein provided shall be guilty of an
infraction. Each day that a violation of this chapter occurs shall be deemed a
separate offense. (Ord. 393, 1-15-2013)
5-12-9: REVOCATION:
   (A)   Any business license issued pursuant to this chapter may be revoked by
the city council for any of the following:
      1.   A violation of any law of the city, of the state, or of the United
States, applicable to the business or occupation for which the license was
issued;
      2.   The commission determines that the nature of the business or
occupation for which the business license was issued has been expanded, altered
or changed and, as a result, no longer conforms to zoning requirements; or
      3.   The city council determines that the operation of the business or
occupation for which the business license was issued constitutes a public
nuisance as provided for in title 6, chapter 8 of this code.
   (B)   Such revocation must be preceded by notice in writing to the licensee
from the mayor or the city clerk informing the licensee that the city council
has ordered the holding of a public hearing at a date and time certain, not
less than ten (10) days from the date of such notice, at which hearing the
licensee will be required to appear personally and show cause why the license
should not be revoked. At such hearing the licensee may be represented by
counsel, may testify personally, may call witnesses, and may cross examine any
witnesses called by the city.
   (C)   In the event that the city council determines that such license should
be revoked, it shall pass a motion to that effect, and such license shall
thereupon be revoked; provided, however, that no such motion shall be deemed
passed without the affirmative vote of one-half (1/2) plus one of the members
of the full council. (Ord. 393, 1-15-2013)
TITLE 6
POLICE REGULATIONS
Police Department   1
General Offenses   2
Curfew   3
Firearms   4
Animals   5
Fumigating Permit Required   6
Abandoned Containers   7
Public Nuisances   8
Parades   9
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
6-1-1: Chief Of Police
6-1-2: Chief Of Police To Keep Record
6-1-3: Police Training Aid
6-1-1: CHIEF OF POLICE:
The chief of police, under the direction of the mayor, shall direct and control
the police of the city. He shall preserve the peace and good order of the city,
quell all riots, arrest and bring all violators of the provisions of this code
before the magistrate for trial, either with or without process, serve all
processes issued by the magistrate to him directed, and enforce all orders and
judgments of said court and take such measures as shall secure the peace and
good order of all public meetings. The chief of police, in the execution of his
duty, without warrant, in arresting any person accused or suspected of crime or
in the suppression of any riot or unlawful assembly, or in the prevention of
violation of the provisions of this code, shall have the power to call upon any
citizen or bystander to assist him in the execution of his duty. He shall
inquire into and report to the magistrate all violations of the provisions of
this code and criminal laws of this state, and cause all ordinances passed by
the council to be enforced. He shall take into custody with or without process,
any person found violating the provisions of this code and bring such person
before the magistrate to be dealt with according to law. (1963 Code; amd. 1982
Code)
6-1-2: CHIEF OF POLICE TO KEEP RECORD:
The chief of police shall keep a record in a book provided for that purpose, of
all monies belonging to the city which may come into his hands from whatever
source, stating from whom and on what account received and pay the same into
the city treasury. He shall also record the name, if known, of every person
arrested, the date and cause of arrest, and such other facts as may be deemed
important, and report an abstract thereof to the council quarterly, or more
often if required. (1963 Code)
6-1-3: POLICE TRAINING AID:
The city of Genesee declares that it desires to qualify to receive aid for
police training from the law enforcement planning commission under the
provisions of chapter 51, section 19-5118 of the Idaho Code.
Pursuant to section 19-5117 of said chapter 51, the city of Genesee, while
receiving aid from the law enforcement planning commission pursuant to said
chapter 51, will adhere to the standards for recruitment and training
established by the Idaho law enforcement planning commission. (Ord. 239, 4-4-
1977)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
6-2-1: False Representation
6-2-2: Crossing Fire Hose
6-2-3: Deposits Of Injurious Material
6-2-4: Loudspeakers Or Sound Trucks
6-2-5: Lug Wheels Prohibited
6-2-6: Penalties
6-2-1: FALSE REPRESENTATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to represent falsely himself or herself to
be an officer of the municipality or who shall attempt to impersonate any such
officer or who shall without authority perform any official act therein on
behalf of an officer. (Ord. 350, 8-8-2001)
6-2-2: CROSSING FIRE HOSE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or permit any vehicle to be driven
over any unprotected hose of the fire department when laid down on any street
or private driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of fire without the consent
of the fire department official in command. (Ord. 350, 8-8-2001)
6-2-3: DEPOSITS OF INJURIOUS MATERIAL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, place, throw or allow to remain
in or upon any public thoroughfare or other property any material or other
substance without the permission of the owner. (Ord. 350, 8-8-2001)
6-2-4: LOUDSPEAKERS OR SOUND TRUCKS:
It shall be unlawful to play, operate or use any device known as a sound truck,
loudspeaker or sound amplifier, radio or phonograph, with loudspeaker or sound
amplifier or any instrument of any kind or character which emits loud and
raucous noises and is attached to and upon any vehicle unless such person in
charge of such vehicle shall have first applied to and received a permit from
the city to operate any such equipment. (Ord. 350, 8-8-2001)
6-2-5: LUG WHEELS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for tractors with wheels injurious to pavement to be
permitted upon the public thoroughfares unless the operator of such vehicle
shall first plank such streets. (Ord. 350, 8-8-2001)
6-2-6: PENALTIES:
Any violation of section
 6-2-1 of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor. Any person convicted of a
misdemeanor violation of this section shall be fined in a sum not to exceed
three hundred dollars ($300.00), or up to thirty (30) days in the county jail,
or both such fine and imprisonment. Any violation of any other provision of
this chapter shall be an infraction, punishable by a fine not to exceed one
hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 350, 8-8-2001)
CHAPTER 3
CURFEW
SECTION:
6-3-1: Purpose
6-3-2: Minors Under Sixteen Years Of Age
6-3-3: Minors, Special Permits
6-3-4: Minors, Attend Special Events
6-3-5: Parental Violation Of Curfew Hours
6-3-6: Violation Of Curfew Hours By Business Establishment
6-3-7: Defenses
6-3-8: Enforcement
6-3-9: Penalties
6-3-1: PURPOSE:
Purposes of this chapter are:
   (A)   To regulate and prohibit minors from remaining in public places during
certain hours of the day;
   (B)   To promote and protect minors from each other and adult perpetrators
of crime;
   (C)   To reduce nocturnal juvenile crime and juvenile delinquency;
   (D)   To promote family responsibility and parental control over their
children; and
   (E)   To protect and promote the peace, health, safety, welfare, and
tranquillity of the inhabitants of the city. (Ord. 350, 8-8-2001)
6-3-2: MINORS UNDER SIXTEEN YEARS OF AGE:
It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of sixteen (16) years of age
to be upon any public thoroughfare or in any public place between the hours of
ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. of each day unless
accompanied by his parent or guardian. (Ord. 355, 11-7-2001)
6-3-3: MINORS, SPECIAL PERMITS:
The parent, or lawful guardian, of a minor under the age of sixteen (16) years
may provide said minor with a written permit as an excuse and justification to
be upon any public thoroughfare during restricted hours for the purpose of
performing any lawful or necessary errand. The written permit shall specify the
errand to be performed and the date and shall be signed by the parent or
guardian. (Ord. 355, 11-7-2001)
6-3-4: MINORS, ATTEND SPECIAL EVENTS:
Any minor under the age of sixteen (16) years may attend a function or activity
of any church or school of which he or his parent or guardian is a member, or
which he might logically be expected to attend, and he may attend such function
or activity without the necessity of a special permit; provided, however, any
minor attending such function or activity shall not be upon any public
thoroughfare within a reasonable time after the official close of such function
or activity. (Ord. 355, 11-7-2001)
6-3-5: PARENTAL VIOLATION OF CURFEW HOURS:
Any parent or guardian of a minor is guilty of a violation of this chapter if
he or she knowingly permits, or by culpable indifference allows, such minor to
remain in any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the
city during curfew hours. (Ord. 350, 8-8-2001)
6-3-6: VIOLATION OF CURFEW HOURS BY BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT:
Any owner, operator, or any other person in control of an establishment is
guilty of an infraction if he or she knowingly or willingly allows a minor to
remain upon the premises of the establishment during curfew hours. (Ord. 350,
8-8-2001)
6-3-7: DEFENSES:
   (A)   It is a defense to prosecution under this chapter that the offending
minor was:
      1.   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
      2.   On an errand at the express direction of the minor's parent or
guardian without detour or stop;
      3.   In a vehicle involved in intrastate or interstate travel;
      4.   Engaged in employment activity, or going to employment activity or
returning to the minor's place of residence, without any detour or stop;
      5.   Involved in an emergency (an "emergency" shall be defined as an
unforeseen combination of circumstances, or the resulting state, that calls for
immediate action to prevent, control, or minimize serious bodily injury, death,
or significant loss of property);
      6.   Within the yard or upon the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence
or abutting the residence of another adult with whom the parent of such minor
has expressly placed temporary custody of the minor;
      7.   Exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution or the constitution of the state of Idaho;
      8.   Is engaged in an activity under section
 6-3-4 of this chapter; or
      9.   Has had the disabilities of minority removed in the manner provided
by law.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution under section
6-3-6 of this chapter that owner, operator, or employee of an establishment
asked the minor(s) to leave the premises and promptly notified the city police
division that a minor(s) is present on the premises of the establishment during
curfew hours and refuses to leave. (Ord. 350, 8-8-2001)
6-3-8: ENFORCEMENT:
Before taking any enforcement action under this section, the police officer
shall ask the apparently offending minor's age and reason for being in the
public place or establishment. The police officer shall not issue a citation or
make an arrest under this chapter unless the officer reasonably believes that a
violation has occurred and that, based on any response and all other
circumstances, no defense is present. Any police officer who arrests a minor
under this chapter shall immediately take the minor to the police station and
summon the minor's parents or guardian. If the minor's parents or guardian
arrive within a reasonable period of time, the minor shall be remanded to the
custody of the parent or guardian and shall be released upon the recognizance
of the minor's parent or guardian. If the parent or guardian cannot be located
or does not appear at the police station within a reasonable period of time,
the minor shall be kept in the custody of the police or shall be turned over to
juvenile authorities and thereafter shall remain in their custody in the manner
provided by law. (Ord. 350, 8-8-2001)
6-3-9: PENALTIES:
Violations of a parental responsibility provision of this chapter shall be a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00). Violation by a juvenile of a curfew shall be punishable by a fine
not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00), detention or both. (Ord. 355,
11-7-2001)
CHAPTER 4
FIREARMS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definitions
6-4-2: Discharge Of Firearms Prohibited
6-4-3: Exceptions; Permits
6-4-4: Penalties
6-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
"Firearms" shall mean any instrument used in the propulsion of shot, shell or
bullets or other potentially harmful objects by the action of gunpowder, gas or
other explosive, exploded within it or by the action of compressed air within
it or by the power of springs and including what are commonly known as air
rifles, BB guns, slings or flippers or any instrument, bow or weapon commonly
known as a "peashooter", "slingshot" or "beany", or any bow made for the
purpose of throwing or projecting missiles of any kind by any means whatever,
whether any such instrument is called by any name herein set forth or by any
other name. (Ord. 350, 8-8-2001)
6-4-2: DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge firearms of any kind or
description within the limits of the city; provided, however, that this shall
not apply to police officers in the discharge of their duties. (Ord. 350, 8-8-
2001)
6-4-3: EXCEPTIONS; PERMITS:
At any time the city council may, upon application, grant permits to shooting
galleries, gun clubs and others for shooting within the limits of the city in
fixed localities and under fixed rules. Such permits shall be in writing,
attested by the clerk, conforming to such requirements as the city council
shall demand and the permit thus issued shall be subject to revocation at any
time by action of the city council. (Ord. 350, 8-8-2001)
6-4-4: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction in
and by a court of competent jurisdiction, be punished by a fine not to exceed
three hundred dollars ($300.00) or by imprisonment not exceeding six (6)
months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 350, 8-8-2001)
CHAPTER 5
ANIMALS 1
SECTION:
6-5-1: Definitions
6-5-2: Animal Control Regulations
6-5-3: Other Acts Prohibited
6-5-4: Dog License Required; Voluntary Licensing Of Other Household Pets
Permitted
6-5-5: Licenses; Prohibited Acts
6-5-6: Disposition Of Dangerous Animals
6-5-7: Impoundment
6-5-8: License Fees
6-5-9: Revocation Of License
6-5-10: Penalties
6-5-11: Additional Remedies
6-5-12: Liability Of Parents
6-5-13: Appeals From Orders Of Destruction
6-5-14: Fees By Resolution
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 10, chapter 19 of this code.
6-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings assigned to them herein. When not inconsistent with the context, words
used in the singular includes the plural. The word "shall" as used herein, is
always mandatory and not merely discretionary. The masculine includes the
feminine.
   ALLOW: To permit by neglecting to restrain or prevent.
   ALTERED ANIMAL: Male or female animals rendered incapable of producing
offspring.
   ANIMAL: Every nonhuman species of animal, both domesticated and wild,
including, but not limited to, dogs, cats, livestock and fowl.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: Any person designated as such by the city council
for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
   ANIMAL SHELTER: Any premises designated by the city for the purpose of
impounding and caring for animals held under the authority of this chapter.
   ANIMAL UNDER CONTROL: An animal secured by a leash or lead not exceeding
eight feet (8') in length; or is within eight feet (8') and under voice or sign
control of a responsible person; or is confined within a vehicle.
   AT LARGE: Off the premises of the owner and not under control of the owner
or another responsible person.
   BITE: Any aggressive or voluntary closure by an animal's mouth causing
either redness, breaking or tearing of the skin of any person, or which damages
or destroys the personal property of another.
   CRUELTY: Any act, omission or neglect whereby unnecessary or unjustifiable
physical or mental pain or suffering is caused or permitted, including failure
to provide proper drink, air, space, shelter or protection from the elements,
veterinary care, or nutritious food in sufficient quantities, with respect to
an animal. In the case of an activity in which physical pain is necessarily
caused, such as food processing, hunting, ranching, or pest elimination,
cruelty shall mean the failure to employ the most reasonable humane method
available under the circumstances.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL: Any animal which attacks, bites, or injures human beings
or domesticated animals without adequate provocation, or which, because of
temperament, conditioning, or training, has a known propensity to attack, bite,
or injure human beings or domesticated animals. An animal which has previously
attacked or bitten any human or other animal without adequate provocation may
be deemed to be a dangerous animal.
   HARBORING: The keeping of any animal. The occupant of any premises on which
an animal remains, or to which it customarily returns daily for food and care,
for five (5) consecutive days or more is presumed to be harboring or keeping
the animal for the purposes of this chapter.
   KENNEL, COMMERCIAL: Any lot or premises or portion thereof, other than a
veterinary hospital or animal shelter, on which animals are maintained,
harbored, possessed, boarded, bred or cared for in return for compensation or
kept for sale.
   LIVESTOCK: Any animal normally kept for breeding, product or work including,
but not limited to, cow, calf, ox, steer, bull, horse, mare, colt, stallion,
mule, jack, jenny, hog, pig, goat, kid, llama, sheep, lamb, rabbit or guinea
pig.
   OWNER, CUSTODIAN OR KEEPER: Any person, including any firm, association,
partnership or corporation or their agents, or persons acting with their
permission, owning, keeping or harboring an animal.
   PREMISES: All of the real property under a person's or persons' ownership,
lease or control inside the inner line of a sidewalk; or if there is no
sidewalk, inside the curb, ditch or shoulder marking the edge of the traveled
or used portion of the public right of way. "Premises" also includes a motor
vehicle.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE ANIMAL: Any animal which unreasonably: a) annoys humans, b)
endangers the life or health of other animals or person, c) gives offense to
human senses, or d) which substantially interferes with the rights of citizens
other than its owner, to enjoyment of life or property. The term "public
nuisance animal" shall mean and include, but is not limited to, any animal
which:
   (A)   Is repeatedly found at large; or
   (B)   Damages the property of anyone other than its owner; or
   (C)   Chases vehicles; or
   (D)   Excessively makes disturbing noises, including, but not limited to,
continued and repeated howling, barking, whining, or other utterances causing
unreasonable annoyance, disturbance, or discomfort to neighbors or others; or
   (E)   Causes fouling of the air by odor and causing thereby unreasonable
annoyance or discomfort to neighbors or others; or
   (F)   Causes unsanitary conditions in enclosures or other surroundings where
the animal is kept or harbored; or
   (G)   By virtue of the number or types of animals maintained, is offensive
or dangerous to the public health, safety, or welfare; or
   (H)   Attacks other domestic animals.
   WILD ANIMAL: Any live monkey or ape, raccoon, skunk, fox, snake or other
reptile, leopard, wolf, coyote, panther, tiger, bear, lion, lynx or any other
animal or any bird of prey which can normally be found in a wild state. (Ord.
350, 8-8-2001)
6-5-2: ANIMAL CONTROL REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Keeping Animals In General:
      1.   No person who owns, keeps, maintains or harbors an animal shall
permit such animal to be or become a "public nuisance animal" (as defined in
section
6-5-1 of this chapter), to scatter garbage, refuse or debris, or to deposit
fecal material on any property not that of its owner or custodian without the
owner or custodian immediately removing it.
      2.   No person or household shall own, harbor or keep more than four (4)
dogs and/or four (4) cats over the age of six (6) months. Current residents in
possession of more than four (4) dogs and/or four (4) cats may, within thirty
(30) days of the adoption of ordinance 327, register such animals with the city
clerk by providing the clerk with the number and description of such animals
owned or kept on the date of adoption of ordinance 327 and those specific
animals shall be exempt from the above stated number limitation until their
death or other disposition. This limit shall not apply to any animal shelter,
veterinary hospital, commercial kennel, or pet shop.
      3.   No owner or custodian shall permit any animal owned by him or under
his control to run at large in or on any public property, vacant lot, or
unenclosed private property not that of the owner in the city.
      4.   Any animal found running at large may be taken up and impounded.
      5.   A cat shall not be deemed to be at large unless it is causing a
disturbance, or is a nuisance, or has been complained of, or is sick, injured
or obviously uncared for.
      6.   No owner or custodian shall permit any animal owned by him or under
his control to be upon the premises of another without the consent of the owner
of such premises.
      7.   No person shall keep, harbor or maintain an animal or animals within
the city in such a manner that the keeping of the same results in a nauseous,
foul or offensive condition.
      8.   No owner or custodian of an animal shall fail to provide it with
adequate food, water, shelter and necessary veterinary care which shall include
a current rabies vaccination.
      9.   Rabies vaccinations shall not be required for animals not normally
so immunized, nor for dogs and cats under six (6) months of age, nor where a
written statement from a licensed veterinarian indicates that such vaccination
would be injurious to the animal's health.
      10.   No person shall allow an animal to ride in the back of a pickup
truck upon a public roadway unless the bed is covered by a canopy or unless the
animal is confined or secured in such a manner that it cannot jump or fall out.
      11.   No person shall beat, torment, torture, cruelly ill treat or abuse
any animal.
      12.   No person who owns, keeps or harbors an animal shall abandon the
same. The delivery of a sick animal to a veterinarian for humane euthanasia, or
to the animal shelter for disposition shall not be considered abandonment.
      13.   Every animal in heat shall be confined in a building in such a
manner that such female animal cannot come in contact with another animal
except for planned breeding. This does not apply to livestock operations.
   (B)   Dangerous Animals:
      1.   No person shall keep or harbor within the city a "dangerous animal"
(as defined in section
6-5-1 of this chapter), unless such animals are restrained by a cage, fence, or
other adequate means from contact with the general public or with persons who
enter the premises with the actual or implied permission of the owner or
occupant and from any children who may wander onto the property; furthermore,
that notices of the presence of such animal are conspicuously displayed,
whereby the same may be seen by passing persons within the vicinity where such
animal may be kept, (and such additional conditions as may be imposed by the
city council, the animal control officer, or any court of competent
jurisdiction).
      2.   The owner of a dangerous animal shall consent to periodic
inspections by the animal control officer, city council or its designee.
      3.   A dangerous animal shall not be upon any roadway or public place
except while securely restrained, humanely muzzled if appropriate to the
species, and in the charge of a responsible person.
      4.   Any animal which has attacked or bitten any person or other animal,
without adequate provocation, may be seized by any police officer, animal
control officer or other citizen. Upon establishment, to the satisfaction of
any court of competent jurisdiction, of the vicious character of the animal,
said animal may be destroyed by a police officer or other agent of the city,
county, or state.
      5.   Provided, however, this section shall not apply to animals under the
control of a law enforcement or military agency.
      6.   No owner may keep a dangerous dog without a certificate of
registration issued under this chapter. The certificate of registration shall
be acquired within fourteen (14) days from the incident giving rise to the
classification, within fourteen (14) days of such animal being brought into the
city or within fourteen (14) days of termination of any criminal action. The
animal control authority of the city shall issue a certificate of registration
to the owner of a dangerous dog upon payment of the fee set forth herein,
provided the owner presents evidence of the restrains and notices enumerated in
this section.
      7.   Any person owning or harboring a dangerous animal shall be strictly
liable for damages caused by such animal.
   (C)   Kennels:
      1.   No person shall operate or maintain a kennel, except as authorized
by the zoning ordinance, within the city of Genesee, without first obtaining a
license therefor.
      2.   All kennels shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary manner,
provide adequate food and water, maintain temperatures suitable and comfortable
for every species of animal housed therein, provide cages of sufficient size to
allow each animal to stand up, turn around and stretch out to its full length,
provide for removal of feces and urine as often as necessary, but in no case
less often than daily, and provide for adequate veterinary care.
      3.   Periodic inspections by the animal control officer or mayor or his
designee shall be made of all kennel facilities.
   (D)   Pet Shops: No person shall operate or maintain a kennel which is a pet
shop, except as authorized by the zoning ordinance, within the city of Genesee,
without first obtaining a license therefor.
   (E)   Wild Animals:
      1.   No person shall keep or permit to be kept on his premises any wild
animal for display or exhibition purposes. This shall not be construed to apply
to humane research programs, zoological parks, or circuses.
      2.   No person shall keep or permit to be kept, any wild animal as a pet,
unless a permit has been granted by the director of the departments of fish and
game of the state for said animal. The animal control officer is authorized to
require such person to provide such secure enclosures and safeguards as are
necessary to protect residents from injury and ensure the peaceful enjoyment of
their property.
      3.   Any person owning or harboring any wild animal shall be strictly
liable for damages caused by such animal.
   (F)   Livestock And Fowl:
      1.   No person shall keep or maintain any livestock or fowl within the
city, except as authorized by the zoning ordinance 1 .
      2.   Every person keeping or maintaining livestock and fowl within the
city shall keep and maintain the same in a clean and sanitary condition, shall
at all times comply with the sanitary regulations imposed by the animal control
officer, and shall not permit such livestock or fowl to become or remain public
nuisance animals.
      3.   No person shall permit any livestock or fowl to be at large in or
upon any street, avenue, alley or public grounds of the city or upon the
premises of another within the city without the consent of the owner of such
premises. (Ord. 350, 8-8-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10, chapter 19 of this code.
6-5-3: OTHER ACTS PROHIBITED:
   (A)   Killing Or Other Mistreatment Of Animals:
      1.   Every person who maliciously kills, maims or wounds an animal, the
property of another; or whoever, having the charge or custody of any animal,
either as owner or otherwise, subjects any animal to needless suffering or
inflicts any unnecessary cruelty upon the same; or, in any manner, abuses an
animal or fails to provide the same with proper food, drink, veterinary care,
shelter or protection from the elements; or who cruelly drives, rides or
otherwise uses the same when unfit for labor, is in violation of this chapter.
      2.   No person shall kill or injure any wild birds within the city;
provided, however, that this section shall not apply to the destruction of
starlings.
      3.   No person shall set a "leg hold type" trapping device to catch an
animal.
   (B)   Interference With Impoundment: No person shall interfere with, hinder,
delay or impede a police officer or animal control officer in the enforcement
of the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   False Representation: No person shall falsely represent to any police
officer or animal control officer his or her address, nonownership of impounded
animals or other required information.
   (D)   Enticement And Provocation: No person shall wilfully open any door or
gate on any private premises or unleash or coax away any dog or other animal
for the purpose of enticing or enabling any dog or other animal to leave such
premises and be "at large" as defined in section
 6-5-1 of this chapter; neither shall any person tease, torment, or harass a
dog or other animal in such a manner as to cause the animal to emit loud or
disturbing noises or to exhibit dangerous behavior. Such person shall be
strictly liable for violations of this code and/or damages caused by said
animal. (Ord. 350, 8-8-2001)
6-5-4: DOG LICENSE REQUIRED; VOLUNTARY LICENSING OF OTHER HOUSEHOLD PETS
PERMITTED:
   (A)   The keeping of any adult dog (over the age of 6 months) or a juvenile
dog (an animal from 2 months of age to 6 months of age) within the city is
hereby forbidden and made an infraction, unless the owner, custodian, keeper or
person harboring the dog shall procure a license from the city for such dog.
Other household pets may be licensed at the option of the owner hereof.
   (B)   License applications, (containing the age, breed, sex, color, rabies
vaccination data, unaltered or neuter status of the animal and name, address
and telephone number of the owner) shall be obtained from the city clerk.
   (C)   Each applicant for a license shall present to the city clerk
satisfactory evidence that every animal over six (6) months of age has been
inoculated against rabies according to standard veterinary practices.
   (D)   Applicants for an altered dog license or for a lifetime dog license
shall be required to swear under penalties of perjury that the animal has in
fact been altered.
   (E)   No late payment penalty shall be charged on new license applications
if the owner has acquired the animal within the preceding thirty (30) days; or
the owner has moved into the city within the preceding thirty (30) days; or the
animal is currently or has been within the preceding thirty (30) days, under
the age which requires a license.
   (F)   All licenses shall expire on December 31 of the year for which they
are issued. A license for the succeeding calendar year can be obtained prior to
the expiration of the current year's license but shall not be effective until
the expiration of the current license. No part of any dog license fee shall be
refundable.
   (G)   Upon payment of the required license fee, the city clerk or designate
shall issue a license to the person applying therefor, which license shall
remain in force until December 31 of that year. The city clerk shall furnish
with such license a metal tag which shall be stamped with a number
corresponding to the number of such license and the year for which it is
issued. Such tag shall be appended to a collar to be worn by the dog at all
times the dog is in view of the public. If a dog tag is lost or destroyed, a
duplicate shall be issued upon proof of payment for the current year and the
payment of one dollar ($1.00) for a replacement tag.
   (H)   This provision shall not apply to an unweaned dog; nor shall it apply
to a nonresident keeping a dog within the city for no longer than sixty (60)
days; nor shall it apply to the keeping of any dog within a properly licensed
kennel or pet shop; nor shall it apply to the keeping of any dog within a
veterinary hospital or animal shelter; nor shall it apply to dogs used in law
enforcement.
   (I)   In any prosecution for violation of this section, the absence of a tag
to be appended to a dog as herein provided, shall be prima facie evidence that
the dog has not been legally licensed.
   (J)   Whenever any person, after applying for and receiving a city dog
license, shall move from the address named in such application, such person
shall, within ten (10) days thereafter, notify the city clerk by telephone or
in writing of such address change. (Ord. 350, 8-8-2001)
6-5-5: LICENSES; PROHIBITED ACTS:
   (A)   To remove, steal, mutilate or destroy the license identification tag
of any animal.
   (B)   To refuse to show or exhibit, at any reasonable time, to any animal
control officer or other police officer any dog in his possession or custody,
or to show any license or identification tag issued therefor.
   (C)   To use any license tag for any animal other than the one for which it
was issued.
   (D)   To transfer ownership of a dog without transferring the license
thereto. The person who sold or transferred the pet shall notify the animal
control authority of the name, address, and telephone number of the new owner.
A fee for the transfer of the license is provided for herein. (Ord. 350, 8-8-
2001)
6-5-6: DISPOSITION OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
Whenever it shall reasonably appear to an officer, attempting to impound a dog
under the provisions of this chapter, that such dog is dangerous to other
persons and if capture cannot be effected safely and promptly, said officer is
authorized to destroy the dog. (Ord. 350, 8-8-2001)
6-5-7: IMPOUNDMENT:
   (A)   In General:
      1.   The animal control officer or any other public safety officer may,
when any animal is found running at large, or is endangering the health, safety
and welfare of the inhabitants of the city, immediately impound the same at the
animal shelter and notify the owner thereof, if known.
      2.   Any officer taking such action or receiving an impounded animal
shall make a registry of such action, entering the breed, color and sex of such
animal and any available license information. If the animal is licensed, an
entry shall be made showing the name and address of the owner and the number of
the license tag.
      3.   If the owner is known or may be determined, the officer may, as an
alternative, or in addition to the impoundment, issue to the owner or custodian
of the animal a citation in the form and manner prescribed by law.
   (B)   Notice Of Impounding:
      1.   Not later than forty eight (48) hours after the impounding of any
animal, the owner or custodian of the animal, if known, shall be notified of
said impoundment. After notice, the owner or custodian of the animal shall have
four (4) days to redeem or file notice of appeal for said animal, describing
the animal and the place and time of taking.
      2.   If the owner or custodian is unknown, written notice of impound
describing said animal shall be posted for not less than five (5) calendar days
at city hall and any other location designated by the city council. Such notice
shall include whether the animal has been declared dangerous.
   (C)   Destruction Of Dangerous Or Diseased Animals:
      1.   Any dangerous animal impounded under the provisions of this article,
or any animal which has bitten any person and is suspected to have rabies or
other disease rendering said animal dangerous to persons, shall be destroyed
and, in the case of suspected rabies, tested according to state health law.
      2.   No animal shall be destroyed during the pendency of any proceeding
to determine whether or not the animal is dangerous.
   (D)   Redemption Of Impounded Animals:
      1.   The owner or custodian of any animal impounded under the provisions
of this chapter may reclaim such dog within six (6) days, or, if the animal is
under quarantine restrictions, ten (10) days, or at the conclusion of any
hearing or court proceeding to determine the dangerous character of the animal
if the conclusion of such hearing is that the animal may be returned to the
owner. Provided that said animal shall be released to the owner or custodian
only upon payment of the dog license fee (including any late fees), if unpaid,
and all impoundment charges, and all charges of maintaining said animal by the
animal shelter (including any veterinary fees incurred).
In no event will an animal under quarantine be released during the quarantine
period without written authorization from the animal control officer.
   (E)   Impound Fees: The owner or other keeper of any animal impounded under
the provisions hereof may recover possession of such animal by payment of the
license fee, if any, and additional sums as follows:
      1.   Daily: Three dollars ($3.00) per day for board and kennel fees.
      2.   Per Offense: For the first three (3) impoundments within a twelve
(12) month period, twenty dollars ($20.00) per impoundment. For any additional
impoundment within any twelve (12) month period, thirty dollars ($30.00).
The fees as stated in this section shall be in addition to whatever penalty may
be imposed as a result of any citation which may be issued for a violation of
this chapter, which penalty is prescribed by section 1-8-1 of this code. Fees
for redemption of livestock are prescribed in section
10-19-4 of this code.
   (F)   Disposition Of Unclaimed Animals: All impounded animals shall be kept
six (6) days, if not sooner redeemed. At the expiration of such time all rights
and interest of the former owner shall terminate and ownership of the animal
shall vest in the city. The animal may be placed in a suitable home or humanely
euthanized.
   (G)   License Required For Release: No unclaimed animal shall be released
from the animal shelter without an appropriate license.
   (H)   Quarantine: Any animal that bites and breaks the skin of any person
shall be quarantined for ten (10) days at the animal shelter or a veterinary
clinic or hospital. If an owner of an animal required to be quarantined under
this section has facilities in which the animal can be securely confined within
an enclosure from which it cannot escape and which is not accessible to the
public, the animal control officer may permit the animal to be quarantined in
such a facility. The owner shall be responsible for all costs of quarantine.
Such animal shall be securely confined within an enclosure from which it cannot
escape and which is not accessible to the public. The animal control officer
shall maintain a record of every animal that bites a person without
provocation. (Ord. 350, 8-8-2001)
6-5-8: LICENSE FEES:
License fees are hereby established as follows:
(A) Dog Licenses:
   Annual - unaltered                            $ 10.00
   Annual - altered                              5.00
   Lifetime - available only to altered animals  25.00
   Replacement tag                               1.00
   Transfer fee                                  4.00
   Voluntary registration and licensing of other 4.00
    household pets (each)
(B) Dangerous Dog Registration:
   Annual                                        20.00
(C) Kennels:
   Commercial - annual                           150.00
   Pet shop - annual                             150.00
(D) Late Payment Penalty:
   First 30 days                                 None
   Second 30 days                                10.00
   Thereafter                                    20.00
 
   (E)   Amendments: All fees may be amended by resolution. (Ord. 350, 8-8-
2001)
6-5-9: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   (A)   The city clerk may, after ten (10) days' written notice, revoke any
license if the person holding the license fails or refuses to comply with any
provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person whose dog license is revoked shall, within ten (10) days
thereafter, remove the dog from the city or humanely dispose of the dog, and no
part of the license fee shall be refunded.
   (C)   It shall be condition of the issuance of any dog or kennel license
that any police officer or animal control officer shall be permitted to inspect
all dogs and/or kennels, at any reasonable time, and, if permission for such
inspection is refused, the license shall be revoked.
   (D)   The withholding or falsification of any required information on an
application shall be grounds for refusal to issue a license or for revocation
of a license which has been issued. (Ord. 350, 8-8-2001)
6-5-10: PENALTIES:
   (A)   The violation of the following provisions of this chapter shall be a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not to exceed three hundred dollars
($300.00), or imprisonment for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days, or by
both such fine and imprisonment:
      1.   Killing, cruelty or mistreatment of animals 1 .
      2.   Harboring a dangerous animal 2 .
      3.   Interfering with impoundment 3 .
   (B)   Any other violation of this chapter shall be an infraction, punishable
by a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   (C)   Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   In addition to the fines set forth above, upon a conviction of any
violation under this chapter a court may order an animal forfeited and placed
with the animal shelter for disposition, where the court finds any of the
following circumstances:
      1.   The animal has been cruelly treated, and the cruel treatment is
likely to continue.
      2.   The owner(s) has been convicted of allowing the animal to run at
large on two (2) or more previous occasions, and the animal is likely to
continue to run at large.
      3.   Upon a determination that a dog is dangerous, where the owner(s)
will not or cannot comply with the conditions necessary to keep the animal 4 .
(Ord. 350, 8-8-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
   6-5-3 of this chapter.
2 2. See subsection
  6-5-2(B) of this chapter.
3 3. See subsection
  6-5-3(B) of this chapter.
4 1. See subsection
  6-5-2(B) of this chapter.
6-5-11: ADDITIONAL REMEDIES:
Any violation of this chapter which continues for more than twenty four (24)
hours is hereby declared to be a public nuisance; and, in addition to any other
civil or criminal remedies, the city may cause such condition to be abated in
the manner provided by law. (Ord. 350, 8-8-2001)
6-5-12: LIABILITY OF PARENTS:
In the event that the owner of any animal is a minor, the parent or guardian of
such minor shall be liable for all injuries, property damage, fines and
impoundment fees caused or incurred by such animal. (Ord. 350, 8-8-2001)
6-5-13: APPEALS FROM ORDERS OF DESTRUCTION:
   (A)   If the owner of an animal, impounded under an alleged violation of any
regulation of this chapter which could result in the destruction of the animal,
shall believe that there shall not have been a violation thereof, such owner
may appeal the issue to the mayor, praying that the impounded animal not be
destroyed. The impounded animal shall not be destroyed pending resolution of
such owner's appeal.
   (B)   If the owner disagrees with the decision rendered by the mayor, such
owner may petition the magistrate court, praying that the impounded animal not
be destroyed. The impounded animal shall not be destroyed pending resolution of
such owner's appeal.
   (C)   If the court finds that there shall have been a violation and the
animal is destroyed, the owner shall be liable for the cost of impoundment
during the appeal.
   (D)   If the court shall find that there shall not have been a violation,
the animal will be returned to the owner and the city shall be liable for the
cost of impoundment during the appeal.
   (E)   Such matter shall be heard by the court within ten (10) days, or as
soon as the court is able to hear such matter. (Ord. 350, 8-8-2001)
6-5-14: FEES BY RESOLUTION:
Any fee required by this chapter may be revised by the city council by
resolution. (Ord. 350, 8-8-2001)
CHAPTER 6
FUMIGATING PERMIT REQUIRED
SECTION:
6-6-1: Notice Posted When Fumigating
6-6-2: Permit Required
6-6-3: Penalties
6-6-1: NOTICE POSTED WHEN FUMIGATING:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to fumigate any
dwelling, room, rooms or buildings within the city without first having posted
notices, plainly visible from the outside, on all outside doors of such
dwellings, room, rooms, or buildings. Such notices to give warning that
fumigation is under process within and to give information as to the nature of
the fumigant being used. (Ord. 350, 8-8-2001)
6-6-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Before undertaking fumigating as in this chapter described it is hereby
required that a permit be obtained from the city clerk for such fumigating.
(Ord. 350, 8-8-2001)
6-6-3: PENALTIES:
Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall be an infraction,
punishable by a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 350, 8-
8-2001)
CHAPTER 7
ABANDONED CONTAINERS
SECTION:
6-7-1: Abandoned Containers Unlawful
6-7-2: Penalties
6-7-1: ABANDONED CONTAINERS UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to leave or permit to remain outside of any
dwelling, building or other structure, or within any unoccupied or abandoned
building, structure or dwelling under his control, in a place accessible to
children, any abandoned, unattended or discarded icebox, refrigerator or other
container which has a door or lid, snaplock or other locking device which may
not be released from the inside, without first removing said door or lid,
snaplock or other locking device. All such iceboxes, refrigerators or other
containers must have locks removed. (Ord. 350, 8-8-2001)
6-7-2: PENALTIES:
Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall be an infraction,
punishable by a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 350, 8-
8-2001)
CHAPTER 8
PUBLIC NUISANCES
SECTION:
6-8-1: Public Nuisances Defined
6-8-2: Trash Defined
6-8-3: Junk; Keeping Of Restricted
6-8-4: Penalty
6-8-5: Separate Offense
6-8-6: Civil Penalties
6-8-1: PUBLIC NUISANCES DEFINED:
   (A)   A "public nuisance" is a thing, act, omission, occupation or use of
property which:
      1.   Shall annoy, injure, or endanger the safety, health, comfort or
repose of any considerable number of persons;
      2.   Shall offend the public decency;
      3.   Shall in any way render any considerable number of persons insecure
in life or in use of property.
   (B)   The Genesee city council hereby finds and declares the following
specific acts, omissions, places, conditions and things to be public nuisances:
      1.   Any accumulation of trash, junk, waste, or manure on public or
private property which is not in a proper garbage receptacle;
      2.   Any loud or unusual noises and annoying vibrations which offend the
peace and quiet of two (2) or more persons having ordinary sensibilities;
      3.   All hanging signs, awnings and other similar structures located over
the streets or sidewalks so situated or constructed as to endanger any person;
      4.   Any thing or place whatsoever in which flies, other insects, rats or
rodents are likely to breed or multiply;
      5.   Any accumulation of material or circumstance which may be a fire
danger;
      6.   Any unsightly building, billboard or other structure which is
dangerous, abandoned, or partially destroyed, or any building or structure
commenced and left unfinished (for more than 4 months) or any abandoned well or
excavation not properly protected;
      7.   All places used or maintained as junkyards or dumping grounds or for
the wrecking or disassembling of automobiles, trucks or machinery of any kind,
or for the storing or leaving of worn out, wrecked or abandoned automobiles,
trucks, or machinery of any kind, or of any parts thereof, or the storing or
leaving of any machinery or equipment used by contractors or builders or by
other persons which are not properly zoned or fenced or screened for such use.
Storage of nonoperable vehicles, boats, campers and trailers, equipment and
parts is unlawful unless enclosed in a building or within sight obscuring fence
(fence must be kept in good condition). The storage of materials defined as
"trash" shall not constitute a nuisance if owner maintains a fence which
screens the view of such materials and can demonstrate a reasonable use for
said materials;
      8.   Abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment including, but
not limited to, refrigerators, freezers, furniture, stoves, cans, automobile
parts and containers;
      9.   All noxious weeds and unmaintained grass (grass must be kept at 6
inches or less in height);
      10.   Any substance emitting an odor which annoys any person of ordinary
sensibilities;
      11.   Any tree or shrub, whether living or dead, which:
         (a)   Harbors pathogens or injurious insects which reasonably may be
expected to injure or harm other trees or shrubs;
         (b)   Obstructs the free passage of pedestrian or vehicular traffic or
which obstructs a streetlight or traffic control device;
         (c)   By reason of location or condition, constitutes an imminent
danger to the health, safety, or welfare of the general public; or
         (d)   Shall endanger or damage the usefulness of any "street",
"roadway", "sidewalk", "parkway", as those terms are defined in section
9-2-8 of this code, or public sewer or water line, whether growing on private
property or on a parkway;
      12.   Any dead standing or fallen tree or shrub. (Ord. 373, 9-4-2007)
6-8-2: TRASH DEFINED:
"Trash" is defined to include litter, rags, empty barrels, boxes, crates,
packing cases, used tires, used building materials or lumber (not neatly
stacked), used cabinets, used pipe or plumbing fixtures, firewood (not neatly
piled), scrap iron, tin and other metal (not neatly piled). (Ord. 350, 8-8-
2001)
6-8-3: JUNK; KEEPING OF RESTRICTED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to store or keep any old articles or
materials which may be classified as junk adjacent to or in close proximity to
any schoolhouse, church, public parks, public grounds, business buildings or
residences or in a place visible from a public right of way or adjacent
property. (Ord. 350, 8-8-2001)
6-8-4: PENALTY:
Any person who shall knowingly cause or create any public nuisance, or permit
any public nuisance to be created, or to be placed upon, or to remain upon any
premises owned, used or occupied by him or them, shall be guilty of an
infraction and upon conviction thereof, shall be penalized by a fine not to
exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00), together with costs of such action. The
imposition of one penalty for any violation of this chapter shall not excuse
the violation, or permit it to continue and all such persons shall be required
to correct or remedy such violations, conditions or defects immediately. (Ord.
350, 8-8-2001)
6-8-5: SEPARATE OFFENSE:
Each day's or part of day's continuance of any nuisance set forth in this
chapter shall be a separate offense. (Ord. 350, 8-8-2001)
6-8-6: CIVIL PENALTIES:
   (A)   The city or any citizen may utilize any civil remedy available by law
to abate said nuisance or obtain a judgment for damages resulting from any of
the nuisances described in this chapter. (Ord. 373, 9-4-2007)
CHAPTER 9
PARADES
SECTION:
6-9-1: Permit Required
6-9-2: Time And Route
6-9-3: Penalties
6-9-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Before a parade of any nature is conducted upon the streets of the city a
permit shall be obtained from the city clerk. Traffic or crowd control expenses
will be the responsibility of the applicant and the city clerk may establish a
fee by resolution. (Ord. 350, 8-8-2001)
6-9-2: TIME AND ROUTE:
In order that authorities of the city may take proper steps for the protection
of participants in a parade and to properly control traffic a representative of
the group or organization planning on holding a parade shall at the time of
application for a permit for same give the city clerk information as to the
date of the parade, time of day, nature of the parade and the route planned.
(Ord. 350, 8-8-2001)
6-9-3: PENALTIES:
Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall be an infraction,
punishable by a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 350, 8-
8-2001)
TITLE 7
TRAFFIC
Definitions, General Provisions And Penalties   1
Traffic Control Devices   2
Stopping, Standing And Parking   3
Removal Of Vehicles   4
Bicycles   5
CHAPTER 1
DEFINITIONS, GENERAL PROVISIONS AND PENALTIES
SECTION:
7-1-1: Definitions
7-1-2: Adoption By Reference
7-1-3: Authority Of Police And Fire Department Officials
7-1-4: Speed Limits Designated
7-1-5: Police Department To Investigate Accidents
7-1-6: Abandonment Unlawful
7-1-7: Penalties
7-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
   (A)   Adoption: The city hereby adopts definitions contained in Idaho Code
title 49 for the purposes of enforcement of this title, except as specifically
listed in this section.
   (B)   General Interpretation: Words used in the singular number include the
plural and words used in the plural number include the singular, unless the
context clearly indicates the contrary.
   (C)   Definitions Enumerated: The following listed specified words and terms
are defined as follows:
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE OR OTHER PERSONAL PROPERTY: An automobile or
personal property which remains upon the streets or other public property for a
continuous period of thirty (30) days, the owner of which cannot be located or
the owner of which refuses to remove the same.
   CHIEF OF POLICE: The individual designated by city council to provide the
duties and obligations described at title 6, chapter 1 of this code. In the
event that no such individual has been designated by city council, the mayor
shall provide such duties and obligations.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT: The public law enforcement agency composed of individuals
employed by the chief of police or the public law enforcement agency contracted
with by city council to provide law enforcement services.
   STOLEN MOTOR VEHICLE OR OTHER PERSONAL PROPERTY: That property which the
police department has reasonable grounds to believe to be stolen.
   UNIDENTIFIED MOTOR VEHICLE OR OTHER PERSONAL PROPERTY: As used in this
chapter is hereby defined to be such motor vehicles or other personal property
where ownership thereof cannot be ascertained. (Ord. 395, 4-16-2013)
7-1-2: ADOPTION BY REFERENCE:
Pursuant to Idaho Code section 49-208(4), the Idaho motor vehicle laws provided
at title 49, Idaho Code are hereby adopted as and for the motor vehicle laws of
the city as though fully set forth herein. (Ord. 395, 4-16-2013)
7-1-3: AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS:
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the police department or such
officers as are assigned by the chief of police to enforce all street traffic
laws of the city and all the state vehicle laws applicable in the city.
   (B)   Officers of the police department or such officers as are assigned by
the chief of police are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand
or signal; provided that, in the event of a fire or other emergency or to
expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers of the police department
may direct traffic as conditions may require notwithstanding the provisions of
the traffic laws.
   (C)   Officers of the fire department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic through or in the immediate
vicinity. (Ord. 395, 4-16-2013)
7-1-4: SPEED LIMITS DESIGNATED:
   (A)   Any person driving a vehicle on the streets or highways shall obey any
and all speed limits, as posted by the chief of police. Furthermore, regardless
of the posted speed limit, any person driving a vehicle on the streets or
highways shall drive the same at a careful and prudent speed not greater than
is reasonable and proper, having due regard to traffic, surface and width of
the street or highway and of any other conditions then existing, and no person
shall drive any vehicle upon the street or highway at such a speed as to
endanger the life, limb or property of any person.
   (B)   Unless otherwise posted, or is reasonable and proper, it shall be
unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle at a speed exceeding the following:
      1.   Twelve (12) miles an hour when passing a school during school recess
or while children are going to or leaving school during opening or closing
hours.
      2.   Fifteen (15) miles an hour when approaching within fifty feet (50')
and in traversing an intersection of streets when the driver's view is
obstructed.
      3.   Fifteen (15) miles an hour when approaching within fifty feet (50')
of a grade crossing of any railway when the driver's view is obstructed.
      4.   Twenty (20) miles an hour on all streets in the business district
and twenty five (25) miles an hour on all streets in the residence district,
except under conditions above described. (Ord. 395, 4-16-2013)
7-1-5: POLICE DEPARTMENT TO INVESTIGATE ACCIDENTS:
It shall be the duty of the police department to investigate traffic accidents,
to arrest and to assist in the prosecution of those persons charged with
violations of law causing or contributing to such accidents. (Ord. 395, 4-16-
2013)
7-1-6: ABANDONMENT UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any owner or any person in charge of a motor vehicle
or other personal property to leave or abandon the same upon the streets or
other public places. (Ord. 395, 4-16-2013)
7-1-7: PENALTIES:
Any persons violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of an
infraction and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished pursuant to this
code and the Idaho Code. (Ord. 395, 4-16-2013)
CHAPTER 2
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
SECTION:
7-2-1: Authority To Install Traffic Control Devices
7-2-1: AUTHORITY TO INSTALL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
The chief of police shall place and maintain traffic control signs, signals and
devices when and as required under the traffic regulations of the municipality
to make effective the provisions of said regulations, and may place and
maintain such additional traffic control devices as he may deem necessary.
(Ord. 395, 4-16-2013)
CHAPTER 3
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
SECTION:
7-3-1: Stop Signs, Yield Signs And Parking Signs
7-3-2: Parking Signs Required
7-3-3: Stopping, Standing Or Parking Prohibited; No Signs Required
7-3-1: STOP SIGNS, YIELD SIGNS AND PARKING SIGNS:
The chief of police may designate through roadways and erect stop signs or
yield signs at specified entrances thereto or may designate any intersection as
a stop intersection or as a yield intersection and erect stop signs or yield
signs at one or more entrances to such intersection. The chief of police may
designate areas within the city as no parking areas and as restricted parking
areas and erect appropriate signs giving notice regarding the extent of the no
parking area and the nature and the extent of the restricted parking area.
(Ord. 395, 4-16-2013)
7-3-2: PARKING SIGNS REQUIRED:
Whenever any parking time limit is imposed or parking is prohibited on
designated streets, it shall be the duty of the chief of police to erect
appropriate signs giving notice thereof and such regulations shall not be
effective unless said signs are erected and in place at the time of any alleged
offense. (Ord. 395, 4-16-2013)
7-3-3: STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED; NO SIGNS REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park a vehicle, except
when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law
or the direction of a law enforcement officer or a traffic control device in
any of the following places:
   (A)   In any place or manner prohibited by title 49, Idaho Code.
   (B)   In any place where signs prohibiting the stopping, standing or parking
of vehicles have been erected at the direction of the chief of police. (Ord.
395, 4-16-2013)
CHAPTER 4
REMOVAL OF VEHICLES
SECTION:
7-4-1: When Police May Remove And Impound A Vehicle; Costs
7-4-2: Enforcement Of Lien On Properties Impounded
7-4-3: Proof Of Ownership; Appeal; Redemption After Sale
7-4-4: Method Of Advertisement And Sale
7-4-1: WHEN POLICE MAY REMOVE AND IMPOUND A VEHICLE; COSTS:
   (A)   The police department may, in its discretion, in addition to the
penalty provided therefor, remove, or cause to be removed, and impound:
      1.   Any vehicle that is parked in a prohibited place, in a prohibited
manner, or at a time when parking is prohibited for a period of ten (10)
minutes or more, when such vehicle is obstructing the free movement of traffic
or is causing a traffic hazard or is directly interfering with the maintenance
or care or emergency use of the streets and the person in charge cannot be
immediately located, or if located, fails, neglects or refuses to move said
vehicle at once.
      2.   Any vehicle that is parked in a time limited area and is in
violation for a period of one hour.
      3.   Any vehicle that is unidentified or wrecked, is a "stolen motor
vehicle or other personal property" as herein defined, or is an "abandoned
motor vehicle or other personal property" as herein defined, found upon any
public street or other property of the city.
      4.   Any vehicle that is parked upon private property without the consent
of the owner of said property, provided the owner of such private property has
first signed a complaint against the owner or operator of said vehicle and
submitted the complaint to the police department.
   (B)   The police department shall store any vehicle it removes and impounds
pursuant to this section in its custody or under its control at such place as
may be designated by the police department until the owner or his authorized
agent applies for same and has paid the costs of removing and storing said
vehicle, which costs shall be assessed and collected by the police department.
The cost of redemption of a removed vehicle shall be the total of the cost of
towing the vehicle to the location of storage and the cost of storage of the
vehicle. Said costs shall be a lien in favor of the city on said vehicle. (Ord.
395, 4-16-2013)
7-4-2: ENFORCEMENT OF LIEN ON PROPERTIES IMPOUNDED:
All motor vehicles and other personal property impounded or heretofore
impounded by the police department and unredeemed by the owner thereof for a
period of sixty (60) days shall thereafter be subject to sale by the chief of
police to the highest bidder for cash as hereinafter provided, and the proceeds
of said sale shall be applied first to all removal and storage charges
accumulated against each article and the remaining balance shall be deposited
with the treasurer and credited with him and shall be kept in a separate fund
for a period of one year from the date of receipt and if at the end of said
year the former owner of said property has not made satisfactory proof of claim
as hereinafter provided then the balance of said proceeds of sale shall be
credited to the general fund of the municipality and the former owner shall
have no further rights to reimbursement. (Ord. 395, 4-16-2013)
7-4-3: PROOF OF OWNERSHIP; APPEAL; REDEMPTION AFTER SALE:
   (A)   Any person claiming to be the owner of any impounded property shall
make written application therefor to the police department and shall furnish
such additional proof as may be required to establish said ownership. If he
shall present to said department the proof of his ownership of said impounded
property prior to the date of actual sale thereof, then the property itself
shall be delivered to said owner under these conditions; but if said property
has been sold then said department shall endorse its findings of ownership with
a copy of the written application, which application and findings shall be
addressed to the clerk and if presented within one year after said sale, then
such balance of the proceeds of the sale, after deductions, shall be paid to
the owner.
   (B)   Any appeal from the removal, storage and publication costs, if any,
assessed by the police department shall be in the same manner as provided by
law. (Ord. 395, 4-16-2013)
7-4-4: METHOD OF ADVERTISEMENT AND SALE:
Whenever the chief of police shall in his discretion, decide to offer impounded
properties for sale, he shall make a complete and detailed list of said
properties to be included in a publication notice of said sale. The notice of
the sale shall be published by the city clerk at least ten (10) days prior to
the sale of said properties in the official newspaper of the municipality.
(Ord. 395, 4-16-2013)
CHAPTER 5
BICYCLES
SECTION:
7-5-1: Obedience To Traffic Control Devices
7-5-2: Speed
7-5-3: Emerging From Alley Or Driveway
7-5-4: Clinging To Vehicles
7-5-5: Carrying Articles
7-5-6: Parking
7-5-7: Riding On Sidewalks
7-5-1: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic control signs, signals and other control devices applicable to vehicles
unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Wherever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right, left
or U-turn is permitted, it shall be unlawful for any person operating a bicycle
to disobey the direction of any such sign, except where a person dismounts from
the bicycle to make such turn in which event such person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians. (1963 Code; amd. 1982 Code; Ord. 395, 4-
16-2013)
7-5-2: SPEED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bicycle at a speed greater
than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing. (1963 Code;
amd. 1982 Code; Ord. 395, 4-16-2013)
7-5-3: EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY:
The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall,
upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway,
yield the right of way to all pedestrians approaching on said sidewalk and upon
entering the roadway shall yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching
on said roadway. (1963 Code; amd. 1982 Code; Ord. 395, 4-16-2013)
7-5-4: CLINGING TO VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person riding upon any bicycle to attach the same
or himself to any vehicle upon any public thoroughfare. (1963 Code; amd. 1982
Code; Ord. 395, 4-16-2013)
7-5-5: CARRYING ARTICLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person operating a bicycle to carry a package,
bundle or article which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon
the handle bars. (1963 Code; amd. 1982 Code; Ord. 395, 4-16-2013)
7-5-6: PARKING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to park a bicycle in such a manner as to
interfere or obstruct pedestrian traffic. (1963 Code; amd. 1982 Code; Ord. 395,
4-16-2013)
7-5-7: RIDING ON SIDEWALKS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk
within a business district.
   (B)   The clerk is authorized to erect signs on any sidewalk or roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon and when such signs are in place, it
shall be unlawful for any person to disobey the same. (1963 Code; amd. 1982
Code; Ord. 395, 4-16-2013)
TITLE 8
FIRE REGULATIONS
Fire Department   1
Fire Code   2
Fireworks   3
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
8-1-1: Fire Department Established
8-1-2: Personnel; Duties Of Chief
8-1-3: Duties Of Volunteer Members
8-1-4: State Laws To Prevail
8-1-1: FIRE DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a department herein designated as the city fire
department. (1963 Code)
8-1-2: PERSONNEL; DUTIES OF CHIEF:
The city fire department shall consist of a chief of the fire department, to be
appointed by the mayor and city council, and such other personnel as the mayor
and council may, from time to time, determine necessary.
The duties of the chief of the city fire department shall be as follows:
   (A)   To direct the fighting of fires;
   (B)   To have charge of, be responsible for, and keep in good repair all
equipment and apparatus connected with or belonging to the city fire
department.
   (C)   To call and direct such fire drills and meetings as he deems necessary
for the training of men in efficient firefighting.
   (D)   To have authority over the personnel of the city fire department
during their activities while firefighting and during drills and meetings.
   (E)   To have police authority while on duty as fire chief.
   (F)   To keep records of all fires and make reports of same to each regular
meeting of the city council. (1963 Code)
8-1-3: DUTIES OF VOLUNTEER MEMBERS:
It shall be the duty of volunteer members of the city fire department to
respond to all fire calls, unless prevented from so doing by unavoidable
circumstances. They shall attend fire department drills and meetings and obey
such rules and regulations as are established for the city fire department.
(1963 Code)
8-1-4: STATE LAWS TO PREVAIL:
All public traffic during a fire run and the use and equipment of fire
apparatus shall be governed by state law. (1963 Code)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
8-2-1: Fire Code Adopted
8-2-2: Definitions
8-2-3: Open Burning Prohibited
8-2-4: Exemptions
8-2-5: Open Burning On Public Property
8-2-6: Penalties
8-2-1: FIRE CODE ADOPTED:
See section
4-1-2 of this Code. (Ord. 402, 7-21-2015, eff. 8-15-2015)
8-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: Means any law enforcement duly authorized by the
Mayor and the City Council to act as a law enforcement officer within the
Genesee City limits.
   OPEN BURNING: Means the combustion of any material outside of a building,
house, shop, shed, or other similar structure. (Ord. 411, 7-17-2018)
8-2-3: OPEN BURNING PROHIBITED:
Except as otherwise provided herein, it shall be unlawful to burn garbage,
refuse, weeds, grasses, or any other combustible material within the Genesee
City limits. (Ord. 411, 7-17-2018)
8-2-4: EXEMPTIONS:
The following activities are exempted from the prohibition on open burning:
   (A)   The open burning of leaves, branches and other similar yard debris
from October 1 through May 31 of each year between the hours of eight o'clock
(8:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M., with the following provisions: Open
burning is prohibited during windy days; leaves, branches and yard debris only.
No processed materials. Fires must be a safe distance from all structures. A
pressurized garden hose must be at the fire site.
   (B)   Barbecues, barbecue pits, and fireplaces, provided that all burning
material remains in a non-combustible enclosure and is situated in such manner
that fire cannot spread to any structure, tree, or other item or material.
   (C)   Firefighting training under the direction of the Genesee Fire Chief.
   (D)   Weed or fire hazard control under the direction of the Genesee Fire
Chief.
   (E)   Buildings, structures, and material deemed a hazard to public safety
or health by and under the direction of the Genesee Fire Chief.
   (F)   Any open burn privileges may be revoked by the Mayor, the Genesee Fire
Chief or any law enforcement officer at any time prior to its expiration under
the following circumstances:
      1.   It is deemed that open burning of materials is being done, or will
be done, in a manner that does not comply with the requirements and the
provisions of this chapter.
      2.   It is deemed that the open burning of materials is contrary to the
public health or safety, or is being done in an unsafe or unreasonably
dangerous manner.
      3.   An air quality advisory is issued. (Ord. 411, 7-17-2018)
8-2-5: OPEN BURNING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
No person shall engage in open burning on any street, public right-of-way,
public easement, alley, or other public property. (Ord. 411, 7-17-2018)
8-2-6: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not
to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00), or imprisonment for a period not to
exceed thirty (30) days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 411, 7-
17-2018)
CHAPTER 3
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Enactment Of Regulations
8-3-2: Definitions
8-3-3: Dangerous Fireworks; Public Display
8-3-4: Safe And Sane Fireworks
8-3-5: Applications For Permits
8-3-6: Investigation Of Applicant
8-3-7: Grant Or Deny Permit
8-3-8: Term Of Permit; Filing
8-3-9: Liability Insurance
8-3-10: Hours Of Sale
8-3-11: Fireworks Stands; Regulation Of Sales
8-3-12: Evidence Of Source Of Fireworks
8-3-13: Removal Of Stands; Bond Or Deposit
8-3-14: Compliance With State Law
8-3-15: Violation
8-3-1: ENACTMENT OF REGULATIONS:
The city council does hereby enact regulations for the sale and discharge of
fireworks in the city as set forth in this chapter. (1982 Code)
8-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
   DANGEROUS FIREWORKS: Shall include any of the following:
   (A)   Firecrackers, cannon crackers, giant crackers, salutes, silver tube
salutes, cherry bombs, mines, ground bombardment, grasshoppers and other
explosive articles of similar nature;
   (B)   Blank cartridges;
   (C)   Skyrockets and rockets, including similar devices employing any
combustible or explosive material and which rise in the air during discharge,
except model rockets and model rocket engines designed, sold and used for the
purpose of repelling of recoverable aero model rockets;
   (D)   Roman candles, including all devices which discharge balls of fire
into the air;
   (E)   Chasers and whistles, including all devices which dart or travel about
the surface of the ground during the discharge;
   (F)   Snakes and hats containing bichloride of mercury;
   (G)   Sparklers more than ten inches (10") in length or one-quarter inch (1/
4") in diameter;
   (H)   All articles for pyrotechnic display such as aerial shells, salutes,
flash shells, sky battles, parachute shells, mines, dago bombs and similar
devices;
   (I)   All torpedoes which explode by means of friction or which contain
arsenic and all other similar fireworks devices including cracker balls;
   (J)   Fire balloons or balloons of any type which have burning material of
any kind attached thereto.
   FIREWORKS: Blank cartridges, toy pistols, toy cannons, toy canes or toy guns
in which explosives are used, fire balloons (balloons of a type which have
burning material of any kind attached thereto or which require fire underneath
to propel them), firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, rockets, Roman candles,
fountain wheels, dago bombs, sparklers and other fireworks of like construction
and any fireworks containing any combustible or explosive substance for the
purpose of producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, deflagration,
explosion or detonation.
Exempted from this definition are all toy pistols, toy cannons, toy canes and
toy guns and similar devices such as party poppers or party favors in which
paper caps containing not more than twenty five hundredths (0.25) grain of
explosive compound per cap are used and such caps whether single, roll or tape
type.
   SAFE AND SANE FIREWORKS: Shall include any of the following:
   (A)   Cone fountains with pyrotechnic composition not exceeding fifty grams
(50 g) each;
   (B)   Cylindrical fountains, whether base, spike or handle, with pyrotechnic
composition not exceeding seventy five grams (75 g) each and inside tube
diameter not exceeding three-quarters inch (3/4");
   (C)   Sparklers and "dipped sticks" not more than ten inches (10") in length
or one-quarter inch (1/4") in diameter and Suzuki and morning glories with
pyrotechnic composition not exceeding four grams (4 g) each;
   (D)   Snakes which do not contain bichloride of mercury and pyrotechnic
composition not exceeding two grams (2 g) each;
   (E)   Wheels with pyrotechnic composition not exceeding sixty (60) grains
for each driver unit or two hundred forty (240) grains for each complete wheel.
The inside tube diameter of driver unit shall not exceed one-half inch (1/2");
   (F)   Whistles, without report and which do not dart or travel about the
ground during discharge with pyrotechnic composition not exceeding six grams (6
g) and containing no picric or gallic acid. (1982 Code)
8-3-3: DANGEROUS FIREWORKS; PUBLIC DISPLAY:
   (A)   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to
import, export, offer for sale, sell, possess, keep or store or permit the
keeping or storing of any "dangerous fireworks" for any use or purpose, except
that a person holding a "dangerous fireworks permit" issued pursuant to the
terms and conditions of this chapter may use "dangerous fireworks" for a safely
supervised and conducted public display of fireworks and said fireworks may be
stored for a period of not exceeding four (4) days immediately preceding the
date of said public display; provided the fireworks are to be used exclusively
for the public display.
   (B)   Application; Fee: Any reputable person in reasonable pursuit or
furtherance of any legitimate personal, business or charitable purpose,
desiring to make a public display of "dangerous fireworks" shall first make
written application to the city clerk for a "dangerous fireworks permit". Each
applicant shall pay to the city clerk a fee of five dollars ($5.00) at the time
he files his application. At the time and as a condition of such filing, and
with each application, each applicant shall pay an additional fee to defray
costs of preliminary investigations required hereunder, and to be conducted by
the fire chief, which fee shall be five dollars ($5.00) per site applied for,
and shall not be refundable in any event. (1982 Code)
8-3-4: SAFE AND SANE FIREWORKS:
   (A)   Permit Required: No person, without having a valid "safe and sane
fireworks permit" issued pursuant to terms and conditions set forth in this
code shall import, export, possess for the purpose of sale, offer for sale,
give away, or sell any "safe and sane fireworks" for any use or purpose.
   (B)   Application; Fee: Any reputable person in reasonable pursuit or
furtherance of any legitimate personal, business or charitable purpose,
desiring to engage in the sale of "safe and sane fireworks" within the city
shall first make written application to the city clerk for a "safe and sane
fireworks permit". Each applicant shall pay to the city clerk a fee of five
dollars ($5.00) at the time he files his application. In the event no "safe and
sane fireworks permit" is issued by the city council by June 15 in the year
during which the application is made, the city clerk shall refund the
application fee. At the time and as a condition of such filing, and with each
application, each applicant shall pay an additional fee to defray costs of
preliminary investigations required hereunder and to be conducted by the fire
chief, which fee shall be five dollars ($5.00) per site applied for, and shall
not be refundable in any event. (1982 Code)
8-3-5: APPLICATIONS FOR PERMITS:
Each applicant for a "safe and sane fireworks permit" or a "dangerous fireworks
permit" shall file his application with the city clerk. Each application shall
show the following:
   (A)   Name and address of applicant.
   (B)   The purpose for which the applicant is primarily existing and for
which it is organized.
   (C)   The names and addresses of the officers, trustees or directors, if
any, of the applicant.
   (D)   The location where the applicant requests permission to sell "safe and
sane fireworks" or display "dangerous fireworks".
   (E)   When and where the applicant was organized and established, or, if a
natural person, the applicant's age.
   (F)   The location of the applicant's principal and permanent meeting place
or places, or principal place or places of business.
   (G)   The applicant's state sales tax permit number.
   (H)   If the applicant is an entity other than a sole proprietorship, the
name and a general description of the business activities of each parent or
subsidiary company, business or entity, and a general description of the
ownership organization of each parent or subsidiary, if any.
   (I)   Such other information as the city clerk may require on a standard
form submitted to all applicants and which is reasonably necessary to protect
the public health, safety and morals. (1982 Code)
8-3-6: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
The city clerk shall cause an investigation to be made of each application and
applicant and shall submit a written report of his findings and recommendations
for or against the issuance of the permit, together with his reasons therefor,
to the city council, which report shall not be public information except on
request of the applicant or by order of the city council. (1982 Code)
8-3-7: GRANT OR DENY PERMIT:
The city council shall have the power in its discretion to grant or deny any
application, subject to such reasonable conditions, if any, as it shall
prescribe so long as the denial of the application or any conditions imposed on
the granting of the application are reasonably necessary for protection of the
public health, safety and morals. (1982 Code)
8-3-8: TERM OF PERMIT; FILING:
A "safe and sane fireworks permit" or a "dangerous fireworks permit" issued
pursuant to this chapter shall be valid only within the calendar year in which
issued. A permit shall be valid only for the specific premises or location
designated in the permit. However, subject to reasonable conditions necessary
for protection of the public health, safety and morals, an applicant may be
granted permits for more than one site or location within the city. No permit
shall be transferable or assignable.
Each application for a permit to sell "safe and sane fireworks" at retail shall
be filed with the city clerk on or before May 30 of the calendar year for which
the permit is sought. (1982 Code)
8-3-9: LIABILITY INSURANCE:
Each applicant for a "safe and sane fireworks permit" or for a "dangerous
fireworks permit" shall have filed with the city clerk prior to the issuance
and validity of any permit, a policy, or a certified true copy thereof, of
public liability and products liability insurance, including both "accident"
and "occurrence" coverage. The insurance coverage limits for both public
liability coverage and for products liability coverage shall be at least one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per person per occurrence bodily injury,
three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) per occurrence aggregate bodily
injury and one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per occurrence aggregate
property damage. Each policy shall be in form and substance acceptable to the
city council, and shall name as insured parties under the terms of the policy
the city, all officials of the city in the performance of official functions
regarding all operations under or pertaining to said permit, any licensee or
licensor of the applicant, and all vendors of the fireworks covered by the
permit to be issued to the applicant. Said policy of insurance shall be so
written that it cannot be canceled without at least ten (10) days' prior
written notice to the city from the underwriting insurance company. The policy
of insurance shall be underwritten through or by a qualified and duly licensed
insurance company or companies doing or authorized to do insurance business in
Idaho. (1982 Code)
8-3-10: HOURS OF SALE:
No "safe and sane fireworks" shall be given away, sold or offered for sale,
except from twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on June 15 to twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight on July 5 of each year. (1982 Code)
8-3-11: FIREWORKS STANDS; REGULATION OF SALES:
   (A)   Temporary fireworks stands from which "safe and sane fireworks" are to
be sold shall be subject to the following provisions:
      1.   The stand in which the fireworks will be stored or sold shall not be
located within twenty five feet (25') of any other building nor within one
hundred feet (100') of any gasoline station or flammable liquid dispensing
device or installation.
      2.   All such stands shall meet the structural stability requirements of
the building regulations of the city and all lighting circuits and other
electrical equipment shall meet the requirements of the electrical regulations
of the city.
      3.   The stand shall have exit doors at least thirty inches (30") wide at
both ends of the structure and one additional door for each twenty five feet
(25') of rear wall in excess of twenty five feet (25'). All doors shall open
outward from the stand and all doorways shall be kept free and clear from all
supplies and materials at all times.
      4.   Each stand shall be provided with a minimum of two (2) 21/2-gallon
"soda and acid" type fire extinguishers, in good working order, and easily
accessible for use in case of fire, which shall be kept in immediate proximity
to the location where the fireworks are retailed.
      5.   There shall be at least one supervisor, twenty one (21) years of age
or older on duty at all times. All fireworks shall be effectively kept away
from any kind of self-service by the public, and shall be placed in a location
which is unavailable and inaccessible to members of the public in capacities
other than as legal customers.
No person under sixteen (16) years of age shall be allowed inside the temporary
stand at any time, nor shall any person under sixteen (16) years of age work at
or about any stand where safe and sane fireworks are sold or offered for sale.
      6.   No person employed as a watchman shall be permitted to remain inside
any stand when it is not open for business.
      7.   "No Smoking" signs shall be prominently displayed both inside and
outside the stand. No smoking shall be permitted within the stand or within
fifteen feet (15') of the stand.
      8.   No temporary stand shall be erected before June 10 of any year. The
premises on which the stand is erected shall be cleared of all structures and
debris, not later than twelve o'clock (12:00) noon of July 7.
      9.   No fireworks shall be discharged in or within twenty five feet (25')
of any fireworks stand.
      10.   No person shall allow any rubbish to accumulate in or around any
fireworks stand or permit a fire nuisance to exist.
      11.   No fireworks shall remain unattended at any time regardless of
whether the fireworks stand is open for business or not. If any fireworks are
stored, they shall only be stored at such places as are approved for storage of
fireworks by the fire chief.
      12.   No stand shall have a floor area in excess of seven hundred fifty
(750) square feet.
   (B)   Permanent business structures from which "safe and sane fireworks" are
to be sold shall be subject to the following provisions:
      1.   All such buildings shall meet the structural stability requirements
of the building regulations of the city and all lighting circuits and other
electrical equipment shall meet the requirements of the electrical regulations
of the city.
      2.   The building shall have exit doors at least thirty inches (30") wide
at both ends of the structure and shall otherwise conform to the exit
regulations established by the city building regulations for structures of the
size and nature of said building. All doorways shall be kept free and clear
from all supplies and materials at all times.
      3.   Each building shall be provided with such number of fire
extinguishers as the fire chief of the city shall deem adequate, but in all
cases the number shall be not less than two (2). The fire extinguishers shall
be two and one-half (21/2) gallon "soda and acid" type extinguishers or other
types approved by the fire chief. The fire extinguishers shall be in good
working order, easily accessible for use in case of fire and kept in immediate
proximity to the location where the fireworks are retailed.
      4.   There shall be at least one supervisor, twenty one (21) years of age
or older on duty at all times. No person under sixteen (16) years of age shall
be allowed at any time to sell such fireworks.
      5.   "No Smoking" signs shall be prominently displayed in the immediate
area. No smoking shall be permitted within fifteen feet (15') of such area
where fireworks are displayed.
      6.   No fireworks shall be discharged in or within twenty five feet (25')
of the area where fireworks are kept.
      7.   No person shall allow any rubbish to accumulate, or permit a fire
nuisance to exist in or around the area where fireworks are sold.
      8.   If fireworks are stored, they shall only be stored in such places as
are approved for storage of fireworks by the fire chief.
      9.   No building where alcoholic beverages are sold for consumption on
the premises shall be used for the retail sale of "safe and sane fireworks".
      10.   The city council may establish other regulations for permanent
structures where fireworks are to be sold so long as said regulations are
reasonably necessary to protect the public health, safety and morals, and apply
uniformly to all applicants. (1982 Code)
8-3-12: EVIDENCE OF SOURCE OF FIREWORKS:
Each permittee shall be required to retain at the licensed premises while said
premises are open, and at his principal place of business for a year
thereafter, copies of all invoices, receipts and orders evidencing the source
from which he acquired the fireworks which he handled. (1982 Code)
8-3-13: REMOVAL OF STANDS; BOND OR DEPOSIT:
In those cases where the applicant conducts the sale of fireworks from a
temporary fireworks stand, he shall post with the city clerk a cash bond or
cash deposit in the amount of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) (or such
other security as may be acceptable to the city clerk) conditioned upon the
prompt removal of the temporary fireworks stand and the cleaning up of debris
from the site of the temporary fireworks stand, which deposit or security shall
be returned to the applicant only in the event he removes said temporary
fireworks stand and cleans up all debris to the satisfaction of the city
council, or such other official as the city council may designate. In the event
of the applicant's failure to so remove the stand and debris, said cash bond or
cash deposit shall be forfeited to the city. In no event shall the applicant be
entitled to the return of said cash bond or cash deposit if he has failed to
remove said temporary fireworks stand and clean up all debris by twelve o'clock
(12:00) noon of July 7 of any year. It shall be the legal duty of each
permittee to clear such sites and remove all debris therefrom on or before July
6 of the year in which the permit is granted, and failure to do so shall be
punishable as hereinafter provided. (1982 Code)
8-3-14: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW:
It shall be the duty of every person issued a "fireworks permit" to comply with
all the provisions of the Idaho state fireworks act 1  and this chapter. The
conviction of violation of the aforesaid Idaho state fireworks act or any of
the provisions of this chapter by the permittee, or by any of its agents,
employees or officers shall constitute a cause, in and of itself, to deny any
subsequent application for a permit. (1982 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 39-2605 et seq.
8-3-15: VIOLATION:
Any person who violates this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be punished accordingly. (1982 Code)
TITLE 9
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Removal Of Snow And Ice   1
Trees And Shrubbery   2
Sidewalks And Curbs   3
Weed Control   4
Public Right Of Way Construction, Excavation And Repair   5
CHAPTER 1
REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE
SECTION:
9-1-1: Remove Snow And Ice
9-1-2: Notice To Be Given
9-1-3: Upon Failure To Comply, City To Remove
9-1-1: REMOVE SNOW AND ICE:
It shall be the duty of any owner, tenant or occupant of any premises abutting
or adjoining any public sidewalk to remove all snow and ice from any such
sidewalk. (1963 Code)
9-1-2: NOTICE TO BE GIVEN:
Failure of any owner, occupant or tenant to remove snow and ice from public
sidewalks, as specified in section
9-1-1 of this chapter, within a period of four (4) hours shall be deemed a
violation of the provisions of this chapter. (1963 Code)
9-1-3: UPON FAILURE TO COMPLY, CITY TO REMOVE:
Upon failure of the owner, tenant or occupant of said premises to comply with
the provisions of this chapter, then the city shall have the right to remove
such snow and ice and assess the cost thereof against the premises abutting the
sidewalks. Such assessment to be certified to the county assessor or other
proper county official having charge of the making of the assessment roll, and
such assessment to be placed on the assessment roll and collected in the same
manner as other municipal taxes are collected. (1963 Code)
CHAPTER 2
TREES AND SHRUBBERY
SECTION:
9-2-1: Policy Statement
9-2-2: City Tree Administrator
9-2-3: Shade Tree Commission
9-2-4: Organization And Meetings
9-2-5: Duties Of Commission
9-2-6: Authority And Control Over Trees
9-2-7: Permit Required; Application
9-2-8: Definitions
9-2-9: Trimming Trees
9-2-10: Unlawful To Abuse Trees
9-2-11: Hedges And Shrubbery
9-2-1: POLICY STATEMENT:
The city hereby declares that it shall be the policy of the city to protect
trees planted and growing within the public rights of way, city parks, the city
cemetery and within or on all other property owned or otherwise under the
control of the city. (Ord. 312, 4-6-1992)
9-2-2: CITY TREE ADMINISTRATOR:
The office of city tree administrator is hereby established. The city tree
administrator may be a member of the city council or an appointed official or
an employee of the city, appointed to the office of city tree administrator by
the mayor and confirmed by the city council. The city tree administrator shall
administer the provisions of this chapter and shall have all administrative
powers in connection therewith which are not specifically assigned to some
other person or body. The city tree administrator shall have the following
authority and duties:
   (A)   Supervise in planting, pruning, spraying, preserving and removal of
trees on all city properties and rights of way.
   (B)   Supervise all work done in accordance with this chapter.
   (C)   Prepare and distribute rules and regulations containing guidelines for
the pruning of trees located on all city properties and within city rights of
way.
   (D)   Prepare a tree list consisting of acceptable varieties of trees,
acceptable size of trees, proper planting and spacing instructions for trees
located within the rights of way. (Ord. 312, 4-6-1992)
9-2-3: SHADE TREE COMMISSION:
There is hereby created an official shade tree commission to consist of five
(5) members to be appointed by the mayor and confirmed by the city council. The
members of the commission shall be eligible and registered voters of the city,
and provided that one of the members may be a resident of the area of city
impact. The term of office for the first members shall be one, two (2) and
three (3) years, to be determined by lot and thereafter the term for each
member shall be three (3) years. Vacancies occurring otherwise than through
expiration of terms shall be filled by the mayor and confirmed by the city
council. Members may be removed after a hearing before the city council by a
majority vote of the city council. Members shall be selected without respect to
political affiliation and shall serve without compensation. (Ord. 312, 4-6-
1992)
9-2-4: ORGANIZATION AND MEETINGS:
The city tree administrator shall serve as the chairman of the shade tree
commission and shall be a voting member of the commission. Meetings of the
commission shall be held when duly called by the chairman by written or oral
notice. A majority of the members of the commission shall be necessary to
constitute a quorum at any meeting. All meetings shall be open to the public.
Written rules consistent with this chapter and the laws of the state of Idaho
for the transaction of business of the commission shall be adopted and a
written record of meetings, resolutions, findings and determinations shall be
kept, which record shall be public. (Ord. 312, 4-6-1992)
9-2-5: DUTIES OF COMMISSION:
The duties of the shade tree commission shall include, but is not limited to,
the following:
   (A)   Assist the city tree administrator in developing a comprehensive city
forest plan.
   (B)   Assist the city tree administrator in taking an inventory of all
existing trees on all city properties.
   (C)   Assist the city tree administrator in providing information to the
public through educational campaigns, published materials and other
opportunities.
   (D)   Assist the city tree administrator in implementing Arbor Day
celebrations and activities.
   (E)   Encourage and solicit donations and other funding for the city tree
program.
   (F)   Identify and implement landscaping projects which improve the city
forest.
   (G)   Assist the city tree administrator to plan and review the city forest
program budget and to make recommendation to the city council. (Ord. 312, 4-6-
1992)
9-2-6: AUTHORITY AND CONTROL OVER TREES:
The mayor and the city council have complete authority and control over all
trees on or within the city properties. (Ord. 312, 4-6-1992)
9-2-7: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to plant, remove, trim, cut or in
any way damage any tree on or within the city properties without first
procuring a permit so to do from the city tree administrator; provided, that no
permit shall first be required in situations where public inconvenience would
result from the delay entailed in obtaining a permit or where such delay would
place life, limb or property in jeopardy.
   (B)   Any person desiring a permit to plant, remove, cut or in any way
damage a tree on or within the city properties shall file with the city tree
administrator an application so to do on forms to be furnished by the city tree
administrator setting forth therein in detail the work that is contemplated and
the location and address of the same. Upon the filing of such application, the
city tree administrator shall investigate the contemplated work and if in his
judgment it is desirable and should be done, shall issue a written permit
therefor; provided that the work authorized in such permit shall be done under
the supervision of the city tree administrator. (Ord. 312, 4-6-1992)
9-2-8: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter whenever the following words are used, the
intent and meaning shall be interpreted as follows:
   CITY PROPERTIES: Real property dedicated, deeded or leased to the city or
otherwise under the physical control of the city, including, but not limited
to, public rights of way, city parks, and the city cemetery.
   OWNER: The legal owner or owners of the real property adjacent to a street
in the city.
   PARKWAY: That portion of a street between a roadway and a sidewalk.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, copartnership, association, corporation, or
group or combination acting as a unit; and the plural as the singular number
unless the intent to give a more limited meaning is disclosed by the content;
and the masculine shall include the feminine and the feminine the masculine.
   ROADWAY: That portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used by
the public for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK: That portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used by
the public for pedestrian travel.
   STREET: The entire width between the boundary lines of a public right of way
dedicated or deeded to the city for use of the public for purposes of vehicular
travel, whether or not maintained by the city and whether or not open for
vehicular traffic.
   TREES: As used in this chapter shall be defined to include, but not be
limited to, any plant which at maturity would exceed a height of more than
eight feet (8'). (Ord. 312, 4-6-1992)
9-2-9: TRIMMING TREES:
   (A)   Trees on or within the city properties shall at all times be so
trimmed and pruned that there shall be at least seven and one- half feet (71/
2') clear space between the surface of the sidewalk or parkway, as the case may
be, and the overhanging branches and leaves, and so that there is at least
twelve feet (12') of clear space between the surface of the roadway and the
overhanging branches and leaves.
   (B)   The branches or leaves of any tree, which overhang any sidewalk,
parkway or roadway present in such manner as to create a hazard to, or
impediment to the progress or vision of, any person traveling on any street,
sidewalk or roadway, or which covers, endangers or impairs the view of any
traffic control device by a person operating a motor vehicle on a roadway,
including any branch or leaves within the restricted areas mentioned in
subsection (A) of this section, are hereby declared to be a public nuisance,
whether or not within the restricted areas mentioned in subsection (A) of this
section.
   (C)   Each owner of property abutting on a street shall at all times keep
pruned and trimmed all trees on his property and on parkways on the streets
which abut his property so as at all times to prevent such branches and leaves
from protruding within the restricted area mentioned in subsection (A) of this
section and from constituting a public nuisance under subsection (B) of this
section; each owner of property shall also treat or remove any tree or plant so
diseased or insect ridden as to constitute a hazard to trees or plants in
public places.
   (D)   Any tree which shall endanger or damage the usefulness of any street,
roadway, sidewalk, parkway or public sewer or water line, whether growing on
private property or on a parkway, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance,
and each owner of property abutting on a street shall at all times keep trimmed
and pruned all trees, including the pruning and trimming of branches, leaves
and roots, growing on his property or on parkways on the streets which abut his
property so as to prevent such trees from damaging or endangering the
usefulness of any street, sidewalk, roadway, parkway, or public sewer or water
line. (Ord. 312, 4-6-1992)
9-2-10: UNLAWFUL TO ABUSE TREES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to abuse, damage or mutilate any tree in
any parkway, or in any public place, or to attach or place any rope or wire,
other than one used to support a young or broken tree, or any sign, poster,
handbill, advertisement or other thing to or on any tree growing on any parkway
or public place, or to cause or permit any wire charged with electricity to
come in contact with any such tree, or to cause or permit any gaseous, liquid
or solid substance which may be harmful to any such tree to come in contact
with the tree. (Ord. 312, 4-6-1992)
9-2-11: HEDGES AND SHRUBBERY:
Any owner, agent, tenant or occupant of any real property shall trim all hedges
and shrubbery adjacent to public sidewalks so that no part of said hedges and/
or shrubbery shall extend over any part of a public sidewalk in the city. (Ord.
312, 4-6-1992)
CHAPTER 3
SIDEWALKS AND CURBS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Mayor And Council To Determine
9-3-2: Definitions
9-3-3: Specifications
9-3-4: Notice
9-3-5: Service Of Notice
9-3-6: Affidavit Of Notice
9-3-7: City Engineer To Supervise
9-3-8: Failure To Construct Or Repair
9-3-9: Voluntary Construction; Permits; Specifications; Supervision
9-3-10: Extension Of Time
9-3-11: Permit Required To Cut Curb
9-3-12: Excavation Under Sidewalks; Trapdoors
9-3-13: City Supervisor Designated Agent
9-3-1: MAYOR AND COUNCIL TO DETERMINE:
Whenever the mayor and council, in their judgment, deem it necessary to require
property owners within the city to construct or repair sidewalks or curbs
within the city, they shall take recorded action in an official council meeting
naming the owner and location of property abutting the sidewalk or curb to be
constructed or repaired. (1963 Code)
9-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
   CURB: Any retaining wall adjoining a public street or way and lying between
a sidewalk and said street.
   SIDEWALK: A path or way used predominantly by foot passengers abutting on
any dedicated street or alley, whether improved or unimproved. (1963 Code)
9-3-3: SPECIFICATIONS:
All sidewalks and curbs hereinafter constructed, replaced or repaired within
the city shall be of such materials and of such construction so as to create a
hard, smooth, impervious surface; and shall be of such grade, width, depth,
length and material as specified in the diagram and description designated as
"standard curb and gutter" as follows:
STANDARD CURB AND GUTTER
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9288f9d5ae954c8bfc68c3e691b0afa5914c1a05/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1231.png]
 
Notes:
   1.   Forms shall be true to line and grade, securely staked, and made from
steel materials.
   2.   "Dummy" curb joints shall be placed not to exceed 15 feet c/c nor less
than 10 feet c/c; shall be not less than 3/16 inch thickness; shall be the same
dimensions of the curb and gutter, except it shall extend only 21/4 inches into
the gutter section.
   3.   "Through" curb joints shall be placed only at points of tangency on
streets, alley, and driveway returns. All curb joints shall be clean, edged in
the gutter section.
   4.   Concrete shall be 3,000 psi, 28 day strength mix design, cured by
spraying with an approved curing compound.
   5.   3/8 inch sidewalk expansion joints at 25 feet 0 inches c/c.
   6.   3/16 x 11/2 inch deep sidewalk dummy joints at 5 feet 0 inches c/
c except where there are expansion joints.
(1963 Code; amd. 1982 Code; Ord. 414, 5-21-2019)
9-3-4: NOTICE:
Whenever it has been determined by the mayor and council that construction and
repair of a sidewalk or curb is to be ordered, they shall instruct the city
supervisor to notify the owner of property where the sidewalk or curb is to be
constructed or repaired on the order of the council, and that such construction
or repair shall be completed at the property owner's expense within sixty (60)
days of the date of said notice. (1963 Code; amd. 1982 Code)
9-3-5: SERVICE OF NOTICE:
The city supervisor shall serve the notice called for in section
9-3-4 of this chapter by:
   (A)   Depositing in the U.S. mail, a certified, return receipt requested,
duplicate original of a notice of the council's order to the address of the
property owner;
   (B)   By personal delivery of a duplicate original of a notice of the
council's order to the property owner;
   (C)   By delivering a duplicate original of a notice of the council's order
to any tenant or occupant of any dwelling or structure of said property;
provided that such tenant or occupant is over the age of eighteen (18) years;
   (D)   By posting securely on the door or near the door of the most used
entrance of any structure on said property a duplicate original of a notice of
the council's order; or
   (E)   If the premises be unoccupied and the owner's whereabouts and address
be unknown, by publication of a duplicate original of a notice of the council's
order in one issue of a legal newspaper of general circulation within the city.
(1963 Code; amd. 1982 Code)
9-3-6: AFFIDAVIT OF NOTICE:
Upon service of a notice to a property owner to construct or repair a sidewalk
or curb, the city supervisor shall file an affidavit with the city clerk
setting forth the name of the property owner upon whom the notice was served,
the location of the property where sidewalk or curb was ordered constructed or
repaired and the date of service of such notice. (1963 Code; amd. 1982 Code)
9-3-7: CITY ENGINEER TO SUPERVISE:
It shall be the duty of the city engineer or the designated agent of the city
council to furnish specifications for and supervise the construction and
repairs of all sidewalks and curbs in the city. (1963 Code)
9-3-8: FAILURE TO CONSTRUCT OR REPAIR:
If an owner of property fails to construct or repair sidewalks or curbs
abutting his property within the time specified by the notice served upon him,
the city supervisor shall arrange for such construction or repair and the cost
thereof shall be assessed against said abutting property and become a lien
thereto and at the time provided by law for the certification to the county tax
collector to be placed on the proper tax roll to be collected as other taxes
are collected and shall be in addition to all other taxes assessed against such
property. (1963 Code; amd. 1982 Code)
9-3-9: VOLUNTARY CONSTRUCTION; PERMITS; SPECIFICATIONS; SUPERVISION:
No person, firm or corporation shall construct or install or cause to be
constructed or installed any sidewalk or curb within the city without first
having secured a permit from the city to perform such work pursuant to section
9-5-2 of this title. The same specifications provided for in section
9-3-3 of this chapter shall apply to such work and the issuer of the permit
shall provide therein all necessary specifications so as to maintain a standard
of sidewalks and curbs within the city. The issuer of the permit shall also
inspect the construction as often as may be necessary to ensure compliance with
specifications made. (Ord. 391, 10-2-2012)
9-3-10: EXTENSION OF TIME:
The city council may, for good cause shown by the property owner or his agent,
extend the time within which any sidewalk or curb may be constructed or
repaired at their discretion. (1963 Code)
9-3-11: PERMIT REQUIRED TO CUT CURB:
It shall be unlawful for any owner of abutting property to cut or demolish any
sidewalk or curb within the city without first having secured a permit from the
city to perform such work pursuant to section
9-5-2 of this title. (Ord. 391, 10-2-2012)
9-3-12: EXCAVATION UNDER SIDEWALKS; TRAPDOORS:
Subsurface excavation adjacent to any building for the purpose of lighting,
ventilation or storage under any sidewalk within the city shall not be
constructed, repaired or altered without first having secured a permit from the
city to perform such work pursuant to section
 9-5-2 of this title. All such excavations shall be engineered to
specifications approved by the city engineer or a designated agent of the city
council in such manner as to support a live load of not less than two hundred
(200) pounds per square foot of surface or area of such sidewalk; and all
opening in sidewalks into any excavations under the same shall be covered by a
grating or trapdoor which will support a like load and the same shall, at all
times, be securely closed when not in use and shall be properly and securely
guarded when open; and under no circumstances shall such trapdoor or grating
let floodwaters from the street or sidewalk enter nor shall they constitute an
obstruction to foot traffic; and any such trapdoors or gratings installed shall
have an approved finish that will form a grip for the feet of pedestrians.
(Ord. 391, 10-2-2012)
9-3-13: CITY SUPERVISOR DESIGNATED AGENT:
Wherever the term "designated agent of the city council" appears in this
chapter, the term shall be construed to mean the city supervisor. (1982 Code)
CHAPTER 4
WEED CONTROL
SECTION:
9-4-1: Definitions
9-4-2: Removal Of Weeds
9-4-3: Removal Continuous
9-4-4: City May Remove; Cost Collected
9-4-5: Penalty
9-4-6: Separate Offense
9-4-7: Labor Authorized
9-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
"Weeds" shall be defined as any undesired, uncultivated plant that crowds out
desired plants. (Ord. 308, 4-15-1991)
9-4-2: REMOVAL OF WEEDS:
Every person residing or doing business within the incorporated limits of the
city, either as owner, tenant, lessee or merely as occupant of any such lots,
lands or premises as well, and all persons, whether resident or nonresident
owner, or owners of any lot, lands or premises within such corporate limits of
the city, shall at all times and continuously, after being given five (5) days'
notice, during the time and dates hereinafter stated, destroy, cut down, weed
out and obliterate all such weeds, grasses and growths growing on any such lot,
lands or premises, and also such person, during the time hereinafter stated,
shall keep continuously cut down, weeded out, destroyed and obliterated, all
such weeds, grasses and growths from and off all that part or portion of said
lots, lands and premises which lie and are situated between the property line
of such respective lots, lands or premises, so owned, used or occupied by such
person and the street curb line of any street or alley running or lying
immediately adjacent or contiguous to such lots, lands or premises; that
portion of land or premises herein last referred to, being the sidewalk ground,
as well as the parking ground fronting, adjacent or contiguous to any such
lots, lands or premises. (Ord. 308, 4-15-1991)
9-4-3: REMOVAL CONTINUOUS:
All such weeds, grasses and growths which are deleterious, unsightly and
injurious to the public or to the residents or owners of adjacent property
within the city shall, at all times continuously be kept weeded out, cut down,
obliterated and destroyed between May 1 and October 1 of each year. (Ord. 308,
4-15-1991)
9-4-4: CITY MAY REMOVE; COST COLLECTED:
Every person owning or occupying any lots, lands or premises situated within
said incorporated limits of the city shall, within the time fixed by section
 9-4-3 of this chapter, and after the notice as provided in section
9-4-2 of this chapter, keep continuously destroyed, weeded out, cut down and
obliterated all such deleterious, unsightly and injurious weeds, grasses and
growths in or on any and all such lots, lands or premises so owned or occupied
by such person, in the manner prescribed by and in accordance with the
provisions of section
9-4-2 of this chapter, and in the event that such deleterious, unsightly and
injurious weeds, grasses and growths are not so continuously destroyed, weeded
out, cut down and obliterated, the administrative authority may cause such
deleterious, unsightly and injurious weeds, grasses and growths to be cut down,
weeded out and destroyed and the costs and charges, plus a service charge to be
set by resolution of the council duly adopted, shall be collected from the
owner, tenant, lessee or occupant of said lots, lands or premises. Such costs
and expenses shall be collected directly by the city, from the owner, tenant,
lessee or occupant, or shall be collected from the owner or reputed owner of
the lots, lands or premises by action in the name of the municipal corporation
before any court of competent jurisdiction as is provided by law; and said
judgment therefor shall be levied directly against the real estate involved or
any other property belonging to any of said parties, or in the discretion of
the administrative authority, when notice has been given to the owner or
reputed owner of the premises, shall require the city clerk to keep an accurate
account of the costs and expenses for destroying, cutting down, weeding out or
obliterating and shall make a return of the same to the city council before
passage of the annual appropriation bill and levy of taxes for such year, the
mayor and city council shall, at the time of levying the taxes for general city
purposes for the following year, levy the amount of such costs and expenses
made hereunder and then unpaid, to each lot, land or premises where said costs
and expenses were incurred as a special tax against said lot, land or premises,
and the special assessment shall be certified to the county auditor, and the
same shall be levied and collected in all respects like any other city taxes
upon real estate. No lot, land or premises shall be exempt from the payment of
such special tax. (Ord. 308, 4-15-1991)
9-4-5: PENALTY:
Any person owning or occupying any lots, lands or premises within such
incorporated limits of the city who shall fail, refuse or neglect to
continuously keep weeded out, cut down, obliterated or destroyed all such
deleterious, unsightly and injurious weeds, grasses and growths above named, in
the manner prescribed, and accordingly to the provisions of section
 9-4-2 of this chapter, and during the time provided for in section
 9-4-3 of this chapter after five (5) days' notice as provided in section
9-4-2 of this chapter, shall be deemed guilty of an infraction, and upon
conviction thereof shall be penalized by a fine not to exceed one hundred
dollars ($100.00) together with costs of such action. The imposition of one
penalty for any violation of this chapter shall not excuse the violation, or
permit it to continue and all such persons shall be required to correct or
remedy such violations, conditions or defects immediately. (Ord. 351, 8-8-2001)
9-4-6: SEPARATE OFFENSE:
Each and every five (5) days any such person mentioned and described in section
9-4-2 of this chapter, after five (5) days' notice as provided in section
 9-4-2 of this chapter, shall fail, refuse or neglect to comply with the
provisions of this chapter, shall constitute a separate and distinct offense
against the provisions of this chapter, and each of such separate offenses
shall be punishable as provided by the provisions of section
9-4-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 308, 4-15-1991)
9-4-7: LABOR AUTHORIZED:
The mayor and city are hereby given the power and authority to employ such
labor as is necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter and allow the
bills therefor. (Ord. 308, 4-15-1991)
CHAPTER 5
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY CONSTRUCTION, EXCAVATION AND REPAIR
SECTION:
9-5-1: Definitions
9-5-2: Permit Required
9-5-3: Completion Of Work And Backfilling
9-5-4: Time To Complete Repairs
9-5-5: Maintenance And Safeguards
9-5-6: Warranty Of Repairs
9-5-7: Repairs By City
9-5-8: Remedy For Noncompliance
9-5-9: No Duty
9-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
   CONSTRUCTION: The construction, placement or laying of any asphalt or
concrete pavement; sidewalk; driveway; curb; gutter; water line; sanitary sewer
line; storm drain line; telephone line, conduit or facilities; electrical line,
conduit or facilities; cable TV line, conduit or facilities; gas line or
facilities; or any other structure or facilities in any street, alley, easement
or public right of way of the city.
   EXCAVATION: Any operation in which earth, rock or other material in the
ground is moved or otherwise displaced by any means, including, but not limited
to, explosives.
   EXCAVATOR: Any person who engages directly in excavation.
   REPAIR: The improvement, alteration, modification or replacement of any
asphalt or concrete pavement; sidewalk; driveway; curb; gutter; water line;
sanitary sewer line; storm drain line; telephone line, conduit or facilities;
electrical line, conduit or facilities; cable TV line, conduit or facilities;
gas line or facilities; or any other structure or facilities in any street,
alley, easement or other public right of way of the city.
   UNDERGROUND FACILITY: Any item buried or placed belowground for use in
connection with the storage or conveyance of water, unless being delivered
primarily for irrigation, sewage, electronic, telephonic or telegraphic
communications, cable television, electrical energy, petroleum products, gas,
gaseous vapors, hazardous liquids or other substances, including, but not
limited to, pipes, sewers, conduits, cables, valves, lines, wires, manholes,
attachments and those parts of poles or anchors located belowground. (Ord. 391,
10-2-2012)
9-5-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   (A)   No person shall engage in any construction, repair or excavation in
any street, alley, easement or other public right of way within the city
without first obtaining a permit from the city. No permit under this chapter
shall be valid until or unless the notice provisions of Idaho Code section 55-
2201 et seq., have been complied with. The permit shall clearly define the area
within which the permittee may do such construction, repair or excavation. A
copy of the permit shall be kept on file with the city for a period of not less
than five (5) years after its issuance.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued pursuant to this chapter unless the
applicant presents with the application, or has on file with the city clerk, a
certificate of insurance from an insurance company qualified to write insurance
contracts within the state of Idaho, certifying that the applicant has a policy
of public liability insurance in an amount of not less than five hundred
thousand dollars ($500,000.00) single limit liability for personal injury,
death and property damage along with proof of workers' compensation insurance;
provided, however, if the work to be done under the permit is limited to
excavation in an easement situated entirely on private property or is for
construction of a concrete sidewalk, driveway or curb and gutter within a
street right of way, but parallel with and adjacent to private property, the
amount of such insurance shall be not less than one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) single limit liability for personal injury, death and property
damage. Said insurance policy shall contain a clause requiring the city be
given at least thirty (30) days' advance written notice in the event of
expiration or anticipated cancellation. The permit shall be revoked at the time
such insurance expires or is canceled unless a certificate of comparable
insurance is filed with the city clerk prior to the time of cancellation or
expiration of the original policy of insurance.
   (C)   Applications for construction, repair and excavation permits shall be
made at the office of the city clerk. The permit application shall include a
construction bond in the amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) and
conditioned that such work done during that year shall be done in accordance
with the city's standards and requirements of the right of way work permit.
Such bond shall be renewed annually. The application shall state the
applicant's name, business or home address, the applicant's state of Idaho
contractor's license number, telephone number, the location of the
construction, repair or excavation, the date notification was given to all one
number locater services or the owner of any underground public facility
pursuant to the act 1 , and the nature of the work to be performed at the
location specified. If the applicant demonstrates compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and the construction, repair or excavation work
complies with this code and will not endanger public health, safety or welfare,
the city shall issue the permit, provided the city may issue the permit subject
to such conditions as are necessary to protect the public health, safety and
welfare. Permit fee shall be ninety dollars ($90.00). (Ord. 391, 10-2-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 55-2201 et seq.
9-5-3: COMPLETION OF WORK AND BACKFILLING:
All work shall be expeditiously performed and completed as soon as reasonably
possible. Upon completion of construction or repair, the permittee shall
promptly backfill any street, alley, easement or other public right of way in
which permittee has made any excavation. Such backfilling shall be done in
accordance with the city engineer. (Ord. 391, 10-2-2012)
9-5-4: TIME TO COMPLETE REPAIRS:
Right of way repairs shall be completed by the permittee no later than ten (10)
working days after the excavation has been backfilled. If weather conditions
prohibit permanent repair, installation of temporary cold patch is required the
day of backfill and inspection and before the street/alley is opened to
traffic. Such temporary cold patches shall be replaced by the permittee as soon
as weather permits. (Ord. 391, 10-2-2012)
9-5-5: MAINTENANCE AND SAFEGUARDS:
The permittee shall continuously maintain the construction, repair or
excavation site in a safe condition and keep the site free from any condition
that may cause risk of harm to any person or property at all times after the
work has commenced and until all work, including permanent patching, has been
completed and accepted by the city. During such time, permittee also shall
provide, install and continuously maintain proper safeguards, signs and
barricades at the construction, repair or excavation site. Such signs and
barricades shall conform to the requirements and standards set forth in the
most recent edition of the "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices"
published by the U.S. department of transportation, federal highway
administration, or any other manual adopted by the Idaho department of law
enforcement pursuant to the provisions of Idaho Code section 49-201. (Ord. 391,
10-2-2012)
9-5-6: WARRANTY OF REPAIRS:
The permittee shall warrant to the city the adequacy and continued satisfactory
condition and function of all backfill and permanent patches installed by
permittee or by any agent or employee of permittee for a period of one year
after the permanent patch has been accepted by the city engineer. Such warranty
shall extend only to any unsatisfactory condition or function caused by
inferior design, workmanship and materials furnished by permittee or by any
agent or employee of permittee. (Ord. 391, 10-2-2012)
9-5-7: REPAIRS BY CITY:
If the permittee fails to install permanent patching within three (3) days
after completion of backfill, or if the permittee fails to honor the warranty
set forth in the preceding section after demand by the city, the city may
complete the work and make such repairs. If such repairs are completed by the
city, the city will charge the cost of the repairs to the permittee. The cost
of repairs shall be based upon the actual charges and cost to the city of
repairs at the time the repair was completed. If the permittee is charged with
the city's costs of repairs, the permittee shall pay such cost within five (5)
days after the city has given written notice to permittee of the cost. (Ord.
391, 10-2-2012)
9-5-8: REMEDY FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
If any permittee fails to perform any duty imposed by this chapter or if any
permittee fails to pay the costs assessed pursuant to the preceding section
within the time provided therein, the city, at its option and upon prior
written notice to permittee, may suspend or revoke any contractor's license
issued by the city to the permittee, cancel or revoke all permits held by the
permittee and refuse to issue to the permittee further permits for
construction, repair or excavation in public rights of way or easements of the
city. (Ord. 391, 10-2-2012)
9-5-9: NO DUTY:
Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed or construed to impose any private duty
or obligation upon the city to properly or accurately locate any utility line
or facility or to ensure a result of the failure of any permittee to comply
with the provisions hereof. (Ord. 391, 10-2-2012)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
General Zoning Provisions   1
Definitions   2
Zoning Districts; Map   3
District Requirements   4
Use Regulations   5
Off Street Parking And Loading Regulations   6
Recreational Vehicle Regulations   7
Performance Standards; Additional Duties   8
Nonconforming Uses   9
Sign Regulations   10
Mobile Home Parks   11
Planned Unit Development (PUD)   12
Floodplain Overlay District   13
Administration And Enforcement   14
Board Of Adjustment   15
Rezoning Policy And Standards; Conflicts   16
Annexations   17
City Impact Area   18
Latah County Area Of City Impact   18A
Nez Perce County Area Of City Impact   18B
Livestock And Fowl   19
Manufactured Housing   20
Small Wind Energy Systems   21
Flood Damage Prevention   22
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Declaration Of Purpose And Scope
10-1-3: Application
10-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited as the GENESEE ZONING ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-1-2: DECLARATION OF PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   (A)   The land use regulations and districts, as herein set forth have been
made in accordance with the Genesee comprehensive plan as adopted by resolution
75-4 dated September 8, 1975, and any subsequent amendments thereto.
Consideration was given to the character of each district and its peculiar
suitability for particular uses with view to conserving the value of properties
and encouraging the most appropriate use of land in the city of Genesee.
   (B)   This title is designed to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure
safety from fire, panic and other dangers; to provide adequate light and air;
to prevent the overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of
population; to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water,
sewerage, schools, parks and other public requirements; to protect and promote
the public health, safety, morals, convenience, prosperity and general welfare;
in addition, to aid in realizing the policies, objectives and goals of the
city's comprehensive plan by orderly development of the city, protecting the
character and the social and economic stability of all facilities and
activities from other facilities and activities which are unrelated or
incompatible; and to promote an attractive urban environment and to preserve
the natural beauty of Genesee's setting.
   (C)   The provisions of this title may be regarded as the minimum
requirements for the protection of the public health, safety, comfort,
convenience, prosperity and welfare.
   (D)   Any use or occupation of land as of the effective date of this title
shall be permitted to continue as a lawful use or occupation. However, any
proposed change or modification in the use or occupation of such land shall be
made in accordance with the standards and procedures of this title. (Ord. 230,
6-21-1976)
10-1-3: APPLICATION:
   (A)   No building, structure or parcel may hereafter be used or occupied and
no building or structure or part thereof may hereafter be erected, constructed,
moved or altered except in conformity with all the regulations applicable to
the district in which it is located.
   (B)   No part of a lot area, open space, off street parking area or yard
required about or in connection with any building for the purpose of complying
with this title may be included as part of a lot area, an open space, off
street parking area or yard similarly required for any other building or use.
   (C)   No parcel shall hereafter be altered to have narrower or smaller rear
yard, front yard, side yards or other open space, and no parcel shall be
reduced in size at any time to contain less than the minimum lot and area
required. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: General Interpretation
10-2-2: Words And Terms
10-2-1: GENERAL INTERPRETATION:
The words and terms used, defined, interpreted or further described in this
title shall be construed as follows:
Words used in the singular number include the plural and words used in the
plural number include the singular, unless the context clearly indicates the
contrary.
The phrase "used for" includes "arranged for", "designed for", "intended for",
"maintained for" and "occupied for".
The word "building" includes the word "structure".
The word "lot" includes the words "plot", "parcel" and "tract".
The word "city" means the city of Genesee, in the county of Latah, state of
Idaho.
The term "city council" or "council" means the city council of said city.
The term "planning and zoning commission or commission" means the planning and
zoning commission of said city.
The word "administrator" means the zoning administrator.
The word "board" means the board of adjustment. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-2-2: WORDS AND TERMS:
The following listed specific words and terms are defined as follows:
   ACCESSORY BUILDING, STRUCTURE OR USE: A building, structure or use located
or conducted upon the same lot (or on a contiguous lot in the same ownership)
as the principal building, structure or use to which it is related, and which
is:
   (A)   Clearly incidental to, and customarily found in connection with, such
principal building or use, and
   (B)   Is operated and maintained for the benefit or convenience of the
owners, occupants, employees, customers or visitors of the lot with the
principal use.
   AGRICULTURE, AGRICULTURAL PURPOSES OR USES: The raising of farm products for
use or sale, including animal or poultry husbandry and the growing of crops
such as grain, vegetables, fruit, grass for pasture or sod, trees, shrubs,
flowers and similar products of the soil.
   ALLEY: A public right of way which is a narrow way, not over twenty feet
(20') in width, which is used primarily as a means of access to the rear of
residences or business establishments and which generally affords only a
secondary means of access to the property abutting its length.
   AMUSEMENT ARCADE: A structure used for the purpose of operating, as a
commercial business, an establishment consisting of electronic games and other
amusement devices.
   BOARDING HOUSE OR ROOMING HOUSE: A building other than a hotel, cafe or
restaurant where, for compensation, directly or indirectly, lodging and/or
meals are provided for three (3) or more boarders and/or roomers exclusive of
the occupant's family.
   BUFFERING: A means such as landscaping, fencing, or berming of separating
properties or uses.
   BUILDING: A structure designed, built or occupied as a shelter or roofed
enclosure for persons, animals or property.
   BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance above "grade" as defined herein to
the highest point of the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard
roof or to the average height of the highest gable of a pitched or hip roof.
The measurement may be taken from the highest adjoining sidewalk or ground
surface with a five foot (5') horizontal distance along the exterior wall of
the building when such sidewalk or ground is not more than ten feet (10') above
grade.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: One building housing the principal (primary or most
important) uses permitted for the lot upon which it is located.
   BUILDING SETBACK: The minimum distance in linear feet measured on a
horizontal plane between the outer perimeter of a building or structure and
each of its lot lines (however, balconies may not project into an interior side
yard). A maximum of thirty inches (30") of roof may project into a required
yard where it does not conflict with building codes.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY: A permit to occupy a premises issued by the
administrator after inspection has verified compliance with the requirements
and provisions of this title and applicable building code.
   CLUB OR LODGE, PRIVATE: An association of persons for the promotion of some
nonprofit common object, such as: literature, science, politics, guests or good
fellowship; meeting periodically, limited to members with not more than one-
third (1/3) of the "gross floor area" used for residential occupancy. Examples:
Elks, Masons, Kiwanis, etc.
   CORNER LOT: A lot abutting upon two (2) or more streets at their
intersection or upon two (2) parts of the same street and where in either case
the interior angle formed by intersection of the street lines does not exceed
one hundred thirty five degrees (135°).
   DAY NURSERY SCHOOL: A school designed to provide daytime care or instruction
for seven (7) or more children from two (2) to five (5) years of age, operated
on a regular basis and licensed by the state of Idaho.
   DAYCARE CENTER: A childcare service in which children of various age groups,
receive care, maintenance and supervision for less than twenty four (24) hours
per day.
   DENSITY: The number of "dwelling units" per net acre.
   DIVISIONAL STRUCTURE: A fence, wall, hedge or retaining wall.
   DWELLING: Any building or part thereof, occupied, in whole or in part, as
the home residence or sleeping place of one or more persons; either
continuously, permanently, temporarily or transiently.
   DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms connected together but physically divided
from any other rooms or dwelling units in the same structure and constituting a
separate, independent housekeeping unit for permanent residential occupancy by
humans.
   ESTABLISHMENT: A place of business, industry or professional office with its
furnishing and staff.
   FAMILY: A single individual doing his own cooking and living upon the
premises as a separate, independent housekeeping unit; or, a collective body of
persons doing their own cooking and living together upon the premises as a
separate housekeeping unit in a domestic relationship based upon birth or
marriage; or a group of not more than three (3) unrelated persons doing their
own cooking and living together on the premises as a separate housekeeping
unit.
   FLAMMABLE MATERIAL: Any material that will readily ignite from common
sources of heat or material that will ignite at a temperature of six hundred
degrees Fahrenheit (600°F) or less.
   FLOOD AREA: The area included within the outside walls of a building or
portion thereof, including habitable penthouses and attic space, but not
including vent shafts, courts or uninhabitable areas below ground level or in
attics.
   FLOOD YARD: A yard extending across the full length of a lot line and
parallel to a street right of way.
   FLOODPLAIN: The relatively flat or lowland area adjoining a river, stream,
watercourse, lake or other body of standing water which has been or may be
covered temporarily by floodwaters. The floodplain includes the channel,
floodway and floodway fringe, as established per the engineering practices as
specified by the army corps of engineers, as follows:
      Channel: A natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible extent, with
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct continuously or periodically
flowing water.
      Flood: The temporary inundation of land adjacent to and inundated by
overflow from a river, stream, lake or other body of water.
      Flood Of 100-Year Frequency: A flood magnitude which has a one percent
(1%) chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
      Floodway: The channel or a watercourse and those portions of the
floodplain adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to carry and
discharge the floodwater of any watercourse.
      Floodway Fringe: That part of the floodplain which is beyond the
floodway. Such areas will include those portions of the floodplain which will
be inundated by a flood of 100-year frequency.
   FLOODPROOFING: A combination of structural provisions, changes or
adjustments to properties and structures subject to flooding primarily for the
reduction or elimination of flood damages to properties, water and sanitary
facilities, structures and contents of buildings in a flood hazard area.
   GASOLINE SERVICE STATION: A building or premises in or on which the
principal use is the retail sale of gasoline, oil or other fuel for motor
vehicles and which may include, as an incidental use only, facilities used for
polishing, greasing, washing or otherwise cleaning or light servicing of motor
vehicles.
   GOLF COURSE (EXCLUDING MINIATURE GOLF): A large unobstructed acreage,
involving enough room over which to walk or ride, point to point, over a
generally prescribed course and to strive to send a ball long distances with
variable accuracy without unreasonably endangering other players or intruding
upon them. Minimum acreage: Nine (9) hole, fifty (50) acres; eighteen (18)
hole, one hundred (100) acres.
   GRADE: The lowest point of elevation of the finished surface of the ground,
paving or sidewalk within the area between the building and the property line,
or when the property line is more than five feet (5') from the building,
between the building and a line five feet (5') from the building.
   GROSS FLOOR AREA (GFA): The total area in square feet of all floors of a
building measured from exterior walls.
   HOME OCCUPATION: Any use of a dwelling, conducted solely by a member or
members of the household residing therein, which is incidental or subordinate
to the main use of the building for dwelling purposes; which utilizes not more
than twenty five percent (25%) of the floor space of the dwelling; which does
not generate vehicular parking or nonresidential traffic to an extent
significantly greater than would normally result from residential occupancy;
and which does not produce or constitute objectionable or harmful substances or
conditions, or operations.
   HOTEL: An establishment that provides temporary lodging in guestrooms and in
which meals, entertainment and various personal services for the public may or
may not be provided.
   LANDSCAPED AREA: Land set apart for the planting of grass, shrubs, trees or
similar living plants. Such land may be used in an arcade, plaza or pedestrian
area and include fences, walls or nonorganic displays as a part thereof.
   LOT: A parcel of land, whether or not platted, in single ownership and not
divided by a street.
   LOT COVERAGE: The percentage of the lot area that is occupied by all covered
structures.
   LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINE: A line marking a boundary of a lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT: The property line dividing a lot from the right of way of a
street. On a corner lot, the shorter street right of way shall be considered as
the front line.
   LOT LINE, REAR: The property line opposite the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE: Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD: A lot which is recorded in the office of the county recorder,
or a lot or parcel described by metes and bounds, the description of which has
been so recorded.
   MANUFACTURED HOME: A house built on a chassis designed and constructed for
transportation to a site for permanent installation and use as a single-family
dwelling when connected to required utilities and meeting the criteria
established in chapter 20 of this title. May also be commonly referred to as
"mobile home" or "modular home".
   MINISTORAGE WAREHOUSE: A structure designed for the purpose of renting space
to others for the storage of property and operated as a commercial business.
Storage shall be within an enclosed building with interior space
compartmentalized into individual units of rental space.
   MOBILE HOME PARK: Any site or tract of land under single ownership upon
which two (2) or more mobile homes for habitation are parked, either free of
charge or for revenue purposes, supplying all utilities and services needed for
year round dwelling; including any roadway, building, structure, vehicle or
enclosure used or intended for use as part of the facilities of such park.
   MOTEL: A hotel which usually is arranged in such a manner that individual
guestrooms are directly accessible from an automobile parking area.
   MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING: Occupied by three (3) or more families.
   NONCONFORMING USE, BUILDING AND LOT: Any legally existing use, building or
lot which does not conform to the requirements of this title for the district
in which it is located, either on the effective date hereof, or, as a result of
any subsequent amendment thereto, and more specifically:
   (A)   A nonconforming use is any use within a building or upon a lot which
does not conform to the "use" regulations of this title, including minimum size
lot, minimum lot area per dwelling unit, usable open space or required off
street parking.
   (B)   A nonconforming building is any building which does not conform to the
minimum setbacks, maximum height or floor area ratio or maximum number of
principal buildings on a lot.
   (C)   A nonconforming lot is any lot which does not conform to the minimum
lot area or frontage upon a public street.
   OBJECTIONABLE OR HARMFUL SUBSTANCES, CONDITIONS OR OPERATIONS: These include
any use or operation which causes one or more of the following environmental
problems:
   (A)   Creation of a physical hazard by fire, explosion, radiation or other
cause to persons or property at or beyond the property line of the premises in
question;
   (B)   Discharge of any liquid or solid waste into any stream or body of
water or into any public or private disposal system or into the ground so as to
contaminate any water supply, including underground water supply;
   (C)   Maintenance or storage of any material either indoors or outdoors so
as to cause or to facilitate the breeding of vermin;
   (D)   Emission of smoke or gas which constitutes a hazard to the health,
safety or welfare of any person;
   (E)   Fly ash, gas or dust which can cause hazard, damage or injury to
persons, animals or plant life or to other forms of property at or beyond the
property line of the premises in question;
   (F)   Creation or causation of any offensive odors or noise at or beyond any
property line of the premises in question;
   (G)   Creation or maintenance of any distracting or objectionable vibration
and/or electrical disturbances at or beyond any property line of the premises
in question;
   (H)   Any public nuisance.
   ON PREMISES SIGN: A sign which advertises only goods, services, facilities,
events or attractions available on the premises where located, or identifies
the owner or occupant, or directs traffic on the premises. All other signs are
off premises signs.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD): A process of development by which tracts of
land may be developed through an overall approach in conformance with the
provisions of this title.
   PREMISES: A lot as otherwise used in this title.
   PRINCIPAL USE: The primary purpose or function that a parcel serves or is
intended to serve.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICE: The office of a person or persons engaged in any
occupation, vocation or calling, not purely commercial, mechanical or
agricultural, in which a professed knowledge or skill in some department of
science or learning is used by its practical application to the affairs of
others, either advising or guiding them in serving their interest or welfare
through the practice of any act founded thereon.
   PUBLIC BUILDING: Any building held, used or controlled exclusively for
public purposes by any department or branch of government (state, county or
municipality) without reference to the ownership of the building or of the
realty upon which it is situated.
   REAR YARD: A yard extending across the full width of the lot and measured
between the rear line of the lot and the rear line of the main building.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Any pickup camper, motor home, travel trailer, or
similar mobile unit designed specifically for recreation purposes.
   RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land for public purpose such as: utilities, roads,
streets, pedestrian walkways, bicycle paths and alleys.
   RINGELMANN NUMBER: A Ringelmann number is a number on the Ringelmann chart
as standardized by the United States bureau of mines, used to measure the light
obscuring capacity of smoke, with a higher Ringelmann number corresponding to
denser smoke.
   SALVAGE YARD: Any area used for the collection, storage and sale of
wastepaper, rags, scrap metal or discarded materials, or for the collection,
dismantling, storage, salvaging or sale of parts of machinery or vehicles not
in running condition.
   SCHOOL, ELEMENTARY, JUNIOR AND SENIOR HIGH: Elementary, junior or senior
high school includes any public, parochial or private school for any grades
between first and twelfth that is either accredited by the Idaho department of
education or recognized by and in good standing with the Idaho department of
education for the purpose of compulsory education requirements.
   SIDE YARD: An open unoccupied space within the lot between a side lot and
the parts of the building, structure or outbuilding nearest thereto. Such side
yard shall extend on both sides of the lot from the street line to the rear
line of said lot.
   SIGN: Any advertisement, announcement, direction or communication produced
in whole or in part by the construction, erection, affixing or placing of a
structure on any land or on any other structure, or produced by painting on or
posting or placing any printed, lettered, pictured, figured or colored material
on any building, structure or surface.
   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING: Occupied by only one family.
   SPECIAL REVIEW USE: Allowed use in any specific districts with approval of
the board of adjustment.
   TRAVEL TRAILER, CAMPER: A portable structure, mounted on wheels and drawn by
a stock passenger automobile or designed to be loaded onto, or affixed to, the
bed and chassis of a truck, or portable structure mounted on wheels and
constructed with collapsible partial side walls of fabric, plastic or other
pliable material which fold for towing by another vehicle and unfold at the
campsite to provide temporary living quarters for recreational camping or
travel use. The term "travel trailer" shall include units designed as "motor
homes" or "camper buses".
   TRAVEL TRAILER COURT: An area for a temporary parking of travel trailers and
campers as defined in this section.
   TWO-FAMILY DWELLING: Occupied by two (2) families.
   VARIANCES: Deviations from the terms of this title as will not be contrary
to public interest and owing to special conditions under which a literal
enforcement of the provisions of this title would result in unnecessary
hardship.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: A duly appointed officer of the city of Genesee
charged with the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this
title.
   ZONING PERMIT: A permit issued by the administrator authorizing the
construction, erection, remodeling, movement, structural alteration or similar
work on a building or structure when such work is not in violation of any
provision of this title or other applicable ordinances and regulations of the
city of Genesee. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976; amd. Ord. 260, 11-17-1980; Ord. 267, 5-
4-1981; Ord. 271, 5-9-1983; Ord. 273, 7-11-1983; Ord. 276, 3-5-1984 Ord. 281,
11-4-1985; Ord. 324, 5-16-1994)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING DISTRICTS; MAP
SECTION:
10-3-1: Establishment Of Zoning Districts
10-3-2: Intent Of The Zoning Districts
10-3-3: Zoning District Map
10-3-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS:
The city of Genesee and the area of city impact is hereby divided into the
following zoning districts:
 
R    Residential district
C1   Central business district
C2   General service district
IL   Light industrial district
IH   Heavy industrial district
A-OS Agricultural-open space district
 
(Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-3-2: INTENT OF THE ZONING DISTRICTS:
The purpose of the intent section is to show the present character and to guide
future development of each zoning district.
   (A)   Residential District (R): The intent of the R district is to
establish, develop and protect a quiet residential area with variety of
residential dwellings and densities, free from other uses except those which
are both compatible with and convenient to the residents of such districts.
   (B)   Central Business District (C1): The intent of the C1 district is to
establish and preserve a central business district convenient and attractive
for a wide range of retail uses and business, government and professional
offices and places of amusement in a setting conducive to and safe for
pedestrian traffic.
   (C)   General Service District (C2): The intent of the C2 district is to
establish and preserve areas for commercial uses which require large parking
and storage spaces and are located on major collector thoroughfares.
   (D)   Light Industrial District (IL): The intent of the IL district is to
establish and preserve areas for industrial and related uses which depend on
outdoor activities and display, fabrication, assembling, manufacturing and
processing in limited scope. Provisions are made for certain kinds of
commercial uses which are necessary to service the immediate needs of people in
the IL areas. Performance standards are herewith established to protect the
health, safety and welfare of the permanent and temporary inhabitants of this
and neighboring zones.
   (E)   Heavy Industrial District (IH): The intent of the IH district is to
establish and preserve areas for industrial and related uses of such a nature
that they require isolation from nonindustrial land uses and have a reasonable
access to major collector thoroughfares. Provisions are made for certain kinds
of commercial uses which are necessary to service the immediate needs of people
in the IH areas. Performance standards are herewith established to protect the
health, safety and welfare of the permanent and temporary inhabitants of this
and neighboring zones.
   (F)   Agricultural-Open Space District (A-OS): The intent of the A-OS
district is to establish and preserve areas of agriculture, conservation,
amenities and economic development which require substantial areas of land.
(Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-3-3: ZONING DISTRICT MAP:
The boundaries of the zoning districts are hereby established as shown on the
maps entitled "the zoning map of Genesee, Idaho", which maps together with all
explanatory matter are hereby adopted as part of this title. As evidence of the
authenticity of said maps, they shall be signed by the mayor, attested by the
city clerk on the adoption of these regulations.
   (A)   Change Of The Map: All changes made in district boundaries or other
matter portrayed on the zoning maps shall be entered promptly after the
amendment has been approved by the city council.
   (B)   Interpretation Of The Zoning Map:
      1.   District boundary indicated as approximately following the easement
of highways shall be construed to follow such easement.
      2.   District boundaries indicated as approximately following the
centerlines of streets, highways or alleys shall be construed to follow such
centerlines.
      3.   District boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot
lines shall be construed as following such lot lines.
      4.   District boundaries indicated as approximately following city limits
or county boundaries shall be construed as following such city limits or county
boundaries.
      5.   District boundaries indicated as approximately following section
lines shall be construed to follow such section lines.
      6.   Where a district boundary line divides a lot the location of any
such district boundary line, unless indicated by dimensions shown on the zoning
map, shall be determined by the use of the map scale shown thereon.
      7.   If after application of the foregoing rules, uncertainty still
exists as to the exact location of a zoning district boundary line, the
boundary line shall be determined in a reasonable manner, considering the
history of uses of property as well as all other relevant facts. (Ord. 230, 6-
21-1976)
CHAPTER 4
DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Schedule Of District Requirements
10-4-1: SCHEDULE OF DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS:
To facilitate public understanding of this title and for the better
administration and convenience thereof, the following schedules of "uses
permitted", "uses allowed by special review" and "bulk and dimension
requirements", regulations for all zoning districts are hereby adopted.
   (A)   Uses Not In The Schedule: The commission shall interpret the
appropriate district for land uses not specifically mentioned in the schedule
by determining the district in which similar uses are permitted. (Ord. 230, 6-
21-1976)
P: Use permitted
S: Use allowed by special review
   (B)    Schedule Of District Land Use:
     Districts
     Residential Commercial Industrial Agricultural- Open Space
Uses R           C1 C2      IL IH      A-OS
                       Districts
                       Residential Commercial Industrial Agricultural- Open
                                                         Space
Uses                   R           C1 C2      IL IH      A-OS
Accessory buildings    P           P  P       P  P       P
and uses
Agricultural and other              P       P  P        
equipment rental yard
Agricultural chemical                      S  P        
operations and sales
Agricultural crops                                  P
Amusement arcade                  P  P                 
Amusement centers -               S  S                 
indoor only
Art galleries, museums            P  P                 
Artificial ponds                                    P
Automobile parking lot            P  P                 
garage or facility
Bakery or bakery goods            P  P                 
stores
Beverage bottling                          P  P        
plant
Boarding and rooming   P             S                 
houses
Bowling alleys                    P  P                 
Car wash                          S  P       P          
Church                 P           S                   
Commercial storage                         P  P        
Community parks                                     P
Community parks and
playgrounds -          P           P  S                 
neighboring parks
County clubs                                        S
Crop production and    P                              
orchards
Dairy farms                                         P
Dairy products                             P  P        
processing
Day nursery schools    P                              
for preschool children
Daycare center                    P                   
Fire stations                     S  P       P  P        
Food processing plants                     S  P        
Food stores,
delicatessens,
provided no individual            P                   
use shall exceed 2,000
square feet in total
floor area
Frozen food locker                P  P                 
Fuel yard - gas and                        S  P        
petroleum storage
Furniture refinishing                      P          
Gasoline service
stations and car                  S  P       P          
repair services
Gift shops and                    P  P                 
newsstands
Golf courses                                        P
Grain elevators and                        P  P        
other grain storage
Greenhouses and                                     P
nurseries
Greenhouses for
private use with no    P                              
retail sales
Home occupations -
where meeting the
requirements of        P           P                  P
section
10-5-3 of this title
Laundromat - self-                P  P                 
service cleaner
Laundry, commercial                 P       P          
plant
Library                           P                   
Lumberyards - retail                       P  P        
Machine shop and                    P       P  P        
cabinet shop
Maintenance yard -                  P       P          
city
Manufactured home      P           S  S       S  S        
Manufacturing and                          S  P        
fabrication
Medical and dental                P  P                 
clinics and offices
Medical, dental and               P  P                 
optical labs
Mining - processing
and storage of                             S  P        
minerals (materials)
Ministorage                       P  P                 
Mobile home parks      S                              
Mortuaries                          S                 
Motels and hotels                 P  P                 
Multi-family dwellings P           S  S       S  S        
Municipal buildings               P  P                 
Nursing homes,                                           Offices - including
retirement homes and   P                             professional, finance,
rest homes                                               insurance and other
                                                         services and banksPP
Outdoor eating
establishments, drive-              P                 
in
Planned unit           S           S  S       S  S        
development (PUD)
Police stations                   P  P                 
Printing, blueprinting
and photographic                  P  P                 
studio
Private clubs or                  P  P                 
lodges
Raising of farm
animals - not                                       P
including commercial
feedlots
Residential dwelling
over commercial                     S                 
establishments
Restaurant-bar                    P  P                 
Restaurants                                S  S        
Retail stores and
services, provided no
individual use in C1
district shall exceed
6,000 square feet in
total floor area,                 P  P                 
including, but not
limited to, variety,
sporting goods,
hardware, furniture
stores
Riding schools and                                  S
corrals
Roadside stand                                      P
Salvage yard                                 S        
Schools: elementary,
junior and senior high P                              
schools
Single-family          P           S  S       S  S       P
dwellings
Small wind energy      P           P  P       P  P       P
systems1
Swimming pool - public S           S  S                 
Tire shop including                        P          
recapping
Trailer, mobile home,
farm equipment sales                P       P          
yard
Travel trailer court                P       P          
Truck, tractor and
other heavy equipment                      P  P        
repair
Two-family dwellings   P           S  S       S  S        
Vocational schools,               P  P                 
dance, music and voice
Warehousing                         S       P  P        
Wholesale operations                       P          
Wholesaling                         P                 
 
Note:
   1.    See chapter 21 of this title.
(Ord. 230, 6-21-1976; amd. Ord. 241, 10-10-1977; Ord. 260, 11-17-1980; Ord.
273, 7-11-1983; Ord. 279, 8-6-1984; Ord. 281, 11-4-1985; Ord. 309, 4-1-1991;
Ord. 382, 11-18-2010)
    (C)      Bulk And Dimension Requirements:
                 Minimum Yard Setback
                 Requirements                Maximum  Minimum Minimum Minimum
         Maximum                      Side   Lot      Lot     Lot     Landscaped
District Height  Front Rear  Interior Street Coverage Area    Width   Open Space
         (In     (In   (In   Side (In Side   (In      (In     (In     (In
         Feet)   Feet) Feet) Feet)    (In    Percent) Square  Feet)   Percent)
                                      Feet)           Feet)
                         Minimum Yard Setback
                 Maximum Requirements                Maximum  Minimum  Minimum Minimum
                 Height                       Side   Lot      Lot Area Lot     Landscaped
District         (In     Front Rear  Interior Street Coverage (In      Width   Open Space
                 Feet)   (In   (In   Side (In Side   (In      Square   (In     (In Percent)
                         Feet) Feet) Feet)    (In    Percent) Feet)    Feet)
                                              Feet)
A-OS             None    60    None  None     45     None     25 acres None    None
                                                              7,000
R Single-family  35      20    20    5        10     30       per      50      30
dwelling                                                      dwelling
                                                              unit
    Accessory               5                               
buildings3
                                                              4,000
R Two-family     35      20    20    5        10     30       per      60      30
dwelling                                                      dwelling
                                                              unit
    Accessory               5                               
buildings3
                                                              2,000
R Multi-family   35      20    20    5        10     30       per      70      30
dwellings1                                                    dwelling
                                                              unit
    Accessory               5                               
buildings3
C12              50      None  None  None     None   100      5,000    None    None
                                                                               NoneIL601020N
C2               60      20    None  None     None   80       10,000   50      one108010,000
                                                                               NoneNone
IH               100     None  20    None     10     60       10,000   None    None
 
Notes:
   1.    The maximum number of units per building shall be 8 and the maximum
stories per building shall be 2.
   2.    The maximum stories per building shall be 4.
   3.    Accessory buildings for rear end side yards, bordering on an alleyway
require only a 5 foot setback.
(Ord. 259, 10-6-1980)
CHAPTER 5
USE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Uses Permitted And Uses Allowed By Special Review
10-5-2: Renting Of Rooms
10-5-3: Home Occupations
10-5-4: Accessory Buildings And Uses
10-5-5: Fences, Hedges And Walls
10-5-1: USES PERMITTED AND USES ALLOWED BY SPECIAL REVIEW:
Uses permitted by right and uses allowed by special review may be located in
the same building. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-5-2: RENTING OF ROOMS:
   (A)   Single-Family Dwellings: The renting of rooms to one or two (2)
persons, not members of the family residing in the same single-family dwelling,
may be permitted as an accessory use provided the following conditions are met:
      1.   The total number of unrelated persons, including roomers in any one
dwelling unit, must not exceed three (3);
      2.   Quarters used by the roomers must not be more than one-third (1/3)
the total floor area of the dwelling unit;
      3.   The dwelling unit must have only one electric meter; and
      4.   Where the renting of rooms is to two (2) roomers, at least one
additional off street parking space must be provided.
   (B)   Multi-Family Dwellings: The renting of rooms to one or two (2)
persons, not members of the family residing in the same multi-family dwelling,
may be permitted as an accessory use provided that the total number of
unrelated persons, including roomers, in any dwelling unit must not exceed
three (3). (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-5-3: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
A home occupation shall be allowed as a permitted accessory use provided the
following conditions are met:
   (A)   Such use must be carried on by the inhabitants living there and no
others.
   (B)   Such use must be clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
dwelling for dwelling purposes and must not change the residential character
thereof.
   (C)   The total area used for such purposes may not exceed twenty five
percent (25%) of the floor area of the user's dwelling unit.
   (D)   There shall be no permanent and substantial change in the outside
appearance of the building or premises other than accessory buildings which
comply with the provisions of section
10-5-4 of this chapter.
   (E)   No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation which
creates any glare, fumes, odors or other objectionable conditions 1  detectable
to the normal senses off the lot.
   (F)   The traffic generated by such home occupation shall not be
significantly greater in volume than would normally be expected in a
residential neighborhood.
   (G)   Under no circumstances shall any of the following be considered a home
occupation: antique shop, barbershop, beauty parlor, wig styling clinic,
mortuary, nursing home, restaurant, veterinarian's clinic or dancing studio.
(Ord. 276, 3-5-1984)
 
Notes
  1. See definition of Objectionable Or Harmful Substances, Conditions Or
1 Operations in section
  10-2-2, "Definitions", of this title.
10-5-4: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND USES:
Accessory buildings, except as otherwise permitted in this title, shall be
subject to the following regulations:
   (A)   Accessory buildings and uses are permitted in each district provided
they are strictly incidental to and do not alter the character of the principal
uses permitted on the same lot;
   (B)   Accessory buildings shall comply with applicable yard requirements for
the primary use on the lot and be calculated as part of the allowable lot
coverage. Accessory buildings not attached to the primary use on the lot shall
be no closer than three feet (3') to the primary use;
   (C)   A swimming pool may be permitted in any district subject to the
following additional requirements:
      1.   No public or private swimming pool may be located in any required
front yard or side yard abutting a street;
      2.   Every swimming pool must be completely surrounded by a fence or wall
not less than forty two inches (42") in height with no openings large enough to
permit children to pass through other than gates or doors that can be fastened
to protect against entry. A dwelling house or accessory building may be used as
part of such required enclosure;
      3.   All gates or doors opening through such enclosures must be equipped
with a self-closing and self-latching device for keeping the gate or door
securely closed at all times when not in actual use. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-5-5: FENCES, HEDGES AND WALLS:
A fence, hedge, wall, column, pier, post, or any similar structure, or any
combination of such structures, may be permitted in the required yards of the
various districts, subject to the following conditions and requirements. It is
intended that these conditions and requirements shall provide privacy and
protection and screening and accenting of shrubs and landscaping without unduly
interfering with the view from neighboring properties or jeopardizing the
safety of pedestrians or vehicles.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to locate all
property lines.
   (B)   No fence, hedge or wall may extend beyond or across a property line
unless in joint agreement with the abutting property owner.
   (C)   No fence, hedge or wall shall be placed nearer than twelve inches
(12") to any public sidewalk, except eighteen inches (18") when meeting the
requirements of subsection (F) of this section. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
   (D)   No barbed wire or other sharp, pointed, or electrically charged fence
shall be permitted, except as follows:
      1.   Temporary fences on construction sites may be as high as required to
protect the property during the period of construction and may have barbed wire
where it is not less than eight feet (8') aboveground.
      2.   In the industrial districts fences may have barbed wire at a height
of not less than eight feet (8') above the ground.
      3.   In the agricultural-open space district and on all boundaries of
said district, freestanding, electrically charged fences may be permitted if
used to contain livestock.
      4.   Electrically charged fences may be allowed in zone B and zone C as
defined in subsection
10-19-1(A) of this title. Electrically charged fences in zones B and C must be
inside a fence in good repair. An electric fence shall not be used to enhance a
collapsing, unkept fence. However, properly fenced pastures may be subdivided
by a freestanding electric fence.
      5.   Electrically charged fences must be marked by commercially
manufactured signs which designate an electric fence at every entrance and at
intervals of fifty feet (50') around the fence.
      6.   Only commercially manufactured fence chargers may be used. Chargers
that will charge under adverse conditions, yet be safe if touched by pets and
people, which cannot start fires, which use a maximum of seven thousand five
hundred (7,500) volts, and which are on for 1/4000th of a second each second
must be used. These specifications are comparable to model 66 Red Snap'r fence
controller.
   (E)   Fences, walls or compact hedges in the residential district shall not
exceed six feet (6') in height. Height, including retaining walls or other
structures shall be measured as follows:
      1.   In required yards abutting a street, it shall be the total effective
height measured from the finished grade on the side nearest the street.
      2.   In other required yards, it shall be the total effective height
above the finished grade measured on the side nearest the abutting property.
      3.   On property lines the height may be measured from the finished grade
of either side when the abutting property owners are in joint agreement. (Ord.
295, 8-17-1987)
   (F)   On corner lots no fence, hedge, structure, wall or landscaping display
shall interfere with the unobstructed view over thirty six inches (36") above
the nearest street in a restricted triangular area formed by three (3) points
established by:
      1.   The intersection of the property lines at the corner; and
      2.   By measuring thirty feet (30') back from its intersection on each
property line, except that rail type fences not exceeding forty two inches
(42") in height, with not more than two (2) 4-inch rails mounted on a minimum
number of four inch (4") posts, may be permitted in the restricted triangular
area. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
CHAPTER 6
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Intent
10-6-2: Off Street Parking Regulations
10-6-3: Off Street Parking Design And Dimensional Tables
10-6-4: Off Street Loading Regulations
10-6-1: INTENT:
To provide for adequate off street parking and loading, thereby promoting
traffic flow, safety of pedestrians and passing motor vehicles and more
efficient loading and unloading operations. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-6-2: OFF STREET PARKING REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Location: In R district off street parking shall be provided on the
same lot with the buildings they are required to serve. In other districts such
parking may be provided either on the same lot or on another lot on which the
parking spaces are located if not farther than three hundred feet (300') from
the building or use they are required to serve, measured along a street or
streets.
   (B)   Joint Use: Owners of two (2) or more nonresidential uses may jointly
provide and use parking spaces when the hours of operation do not overlap,
provided that satisfactory legal evidence is presented to the administrator in
the form of deeds, leases or contracts to establish the joint use.
   (C)   Use: The use of any required parking space for the storage of any
motor vehicle for sale or for any other purpose than the parking of motor
vehicles is prohibited unless such motor vehicle is stored in an enclosed
garage or other accessory building.
   (D)   Calculation Of Space: Where calculation in accordance with the
foregoing list results in requiring a fractional space, any fraction less than
one-half (1/2) shall be disregarded and any fraction of one-half (1/2) or more
shall require one space.
   (E)   Not Specified Use: In case of a use not specifically mentioned below,
the requirements for off street parking facilities shall be determined by the
commission. Such determination shall be based upon the requirements for the
most comparable use listed. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
   (F)   Number Of Spaces: Except as otherwise provided in this section, at
least two (2) off street parking spaces shall be provided for every residential
unit hereafter constructed or placed on a site within the city. Commercial and
office facilities shall provide at least one parking space per employee and at
least one customer parking space for every four hundred (400) square feet of
building space. The city council may reduce this requirement upon a showing by
the property owner that the requirement is excessive. Except with respect to C1
district, commercial uses (where parking lots and garages are recommended),
there shall be provided off street parking for motor vehicles and the minimum
parking spaces to be provided shall be as shown in the following list: (Ord.
230, 6-21-1976; amd. Ord. 343, 3-15-1999)
Use Spaces Required
Use                                       Spaces Required
Commercial:
 Bank                                    1 per 150 square feet of floor area
 Barbershop and beauty parlor            1 per employee plus 1.5 per chair
 Funeral parlor                          1 per 50 square feet of floor area
 Gas station                             1 per pump plus 2 per lift
 Hotel or motel                          1.2 per unit or room and additional
                                          spaces for restaurant facilities
 Laundromats                             0.5 per machine
 Offices                                 1 per 300 square feet of floor area
 Restaurants and other eating and        1 per 200 square feet of floor area
  drinking establishments
  Retail stores, except as provided under
 "service or repair shop" of this        1 per 400 square feet of floor area
  section
  Service or repair shop; retail store
 handling exclusively bulky merchandise  1 per 600 square feet of floor area
  such as automobiles, furniture, carpet;
  contractor's showroom
 Wholesale establishment                 1 per 700 square feet of floor area
Commercial Amusements:                     
                                          6 per lane plus 1 per 2 employees and
 Bowling establishments                  additional spaces required for
                                          restaurant
 Dance hall or skating rink              1 per 100 square feet of floor space
                                          plus 1 per employee
 Golf courses                            7 per hole
 Outdoor swimming pool                   1 per each 5 persons capacity
 Public or community club                0.35 times seating capacity
                                          Number of parking spaces to be
 Stable and riding academy               prescribed by the planning and zoning
                                          commission based on location and
                                          frequency of use
 Theater, auditorium, sports arena and   0.35 times the seating capacity
  similar uses
Industrial:                                
 Storage warehouse and manufacturing     1 per employee
Institutional:                             
 Churches                                0.35 times the seating capacity
 Elementary and junior high school       1 per each employee and teacher
 High school                             1 per each 20 students plus one for
                                          each employee and teacher
 Library                                 1 per 400 square feet of floor space
 Medical and dental clinic               1 per 100 square feet of waiting room
 Museum                                  1 per 800 square feet of floor area
 Nursing homes, retirement homes and     1 per 2 beds or residents
  rest homes
 Preschool nursery or kindergarten       2 per classroom
Residential:                               
 Mobile home subdivisions and parks      2 per mobile home
 Multi-family dwellings                  11/2 per 0 to 2 bedrooms
                                          2 per 3 or more bedrooms
 Rooming house, boarding house or        1 per sleeping unit
  similar uses
 Single- or two-family dwellings         2 per dwelling unit
 
   (G)   Plan: The plan of the proposed parking area shall accompany an
application for a building permit. The plan shall clearly indicate the proposed
development and construction of the parking areas, showing that the provisions
of this section will be fully complied with.
   (H)   Access:
      1.   Access aisles shall be of sufficient width to permit easy turning
and maneuvering.
      2.   Except for single-family and two-family dwellings, groups of more
than two (2) parking spaces shall be so located and served by a driveway that
their use will require no backing directly into the street.
      3.   Service drives to off street parking areas shall be designed to
provide maximum safety for vehicles and pedestrians. The number of service
drives shall be limited to the minimum that will accommodate anticipated
traffic.
   (I)   Control Devices:
      1.   Parking areas with a capacity over twelve (12) vehicles shall be
striped to designate stalls.
      2.   Directional arrows or signs, full rails, curbs and other
developments shall be installed and completed as shown on the approved plans.
   (J)   Maintenance: Maintenance of all areas provided for off street parking
shall include removal and replacement of dead and dying trees, grass and
shrubs, removal of trash and weeds, repair of traffic control devices, signs,
light standards, fences, walls, surfacing material, curb and railings.
   (K)   Lighting: Any parking area which is intended to be used during
nondaylight hours shall be properly illuminated. The lighting shall be so
arranged as to not constitute a nuisance or hazard to passing traffic and the
illuminating devices shall be so shaded and directed as not to shine or create
glare in residential zones or any adjacent dwelling.
   (L)   Drainage: All parking areas shall provide for proper drainage of
surface water to prevent the drainage of such water onto adjacent properties or
walkways.
   (M)   Screening: Where the parking lot is located in or adjacent to a
residential district, it shall be effectively screened on all sides which
adjoin or face any property used for residential purposes by an acceptably
designed wall, fence or dense hedges. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
 
10-6-3: OFF STREET PARKING DESIGN AND DIMENSIONAL TABLES:
 
[IMAGE]
 
 
                           45°60°90°Parallel
A. Width of parking space  13' 10' 9'  9'
B. Length of parking space 15' 18' 19' 23'
C. Width of driveway aisle 13' 17' 25' 12'
 
(Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-6-4: OFF STREET LOADING REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Location:
      1.   Off street loading berths shall be on the same lot as the activity
served unless the nature of the activity allows several owners to share a
common location.
      2.   When possible, loading berths shall be located so that the vehicles
are not required to back or maneuver in a public street.
      3.   Vehicles in berth shall not protrude into public right of way or
sidewalk.
   (B)   Size:
      1.   Each loading berth for civic uses shall measure not less than thirty
feet by twelve feet (30' x 12') with vertical clearance of fourteen feet (14').
      2.   Each loading berth for industrial and commercial uses shall measure
not less than forty feet by twelve feet (40' x 12') with vertical clearance of
fourteen feet (14').
   (C)   Number Of Berths: All business and professional establishments shall
have one off street loading space for each ten thousand feet (10,000') of gross
floor area. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
CHAPTER 7
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Parking, Storage And Use Of Recreational Vehicles, Etc.
10-7-2: Travel Trailer Courts
10-7-1: PARKING, STORAGE AND USE OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES, ETC.:
The following regulations shall apply in all residential districts to the
parking, storage and use of travel trailers, tent trailers, pickup campers or
coaches, motorized dwellings, boats and boat trailers, snow vehicles, cycle
trailers, utility trailers and vans, horse trailers and vans and similar
vehicular equipment:
   (A)   Such vehicular equipment shall not be stored or parked closer than
eighteen inches (18") to any proposed or existing public sidewalk and in no
instance shall it project into the public right of way.
   (B)   On corner lots any such vehicular equipment which exceeds thirty six
inches (36") in height shall not be parked in the triangular area formed by the
three (3) points established by:
      1.   The intersection of property lines at the corner, and
      2.   By measuring thirty feet (30') back from this intersection on each
property line.
   (C)   Travel trailers, tent trailers, pickup campers or coaches, motorized
dwellings and/or vans shall not be used for living or housekeeping purposes
except when located in an approved travel trailer court providing adequate
sanitary facilities and no business shall be conducted within any such
equipment parked or stored in a residential district.
   (D)   Travel trailers, tent trailers, detached pickup campers or coaches,
boats and boat trailers, cycle trailers, utility trailers and vans, horse
trailers and vans which are parked or stored out of doors shall be adequately
blocked and/or tied down or otherwise secured so that such vehicles do not roll
off the lot and are not moved about by high winds.
[IMAGE]
(Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-7-2: TRAVEL TRAILER COURTS:
In any district in which travel trailer courts are permitted the following
standards and regulations shall apply:
   (A)   Any travel trailer court established under the standards of this title
shall have a minimum of forty feet (40') of frontage upon a street designated
by the comprehensive plan, as a major collector; no entrance to, or exit from a
travel trailer court shall be through a residential district or shall provide
access to any street other than a major collector as required above.
   (B)   The condition of the soil, the ground water level, drainage or
topography shall not create hazards to the property or the health and safety of
the occupants. The site shall not be exposed to any objectionable level of
smoke, noise, odors or other adverse influences of subsidence or erosion which
would expose persons or property to hazards.
   (C)   Spaces in travel trailer courts may be used by travel trailers,
equivalent facilities constructed on automobile vehicles, tents or short term
housing or shelter arrangements or devices. The occupants of such space shall
remain in the same trailer court a period not to exceed fifteen (15) days.
   (D)   A site plan is required. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
CHAPTER 8
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS; ADDITIONAL DUTIES
SECTION:
10-8-1: Performance Standards
10-8-2: Storage Of Wastes
10-8-3: Height Limitation Exceptions
10-8-4: Domestic Animals (Rep. by Ord. 290, 2-2-1987)
10-8-5: Earth Resources And Other Earthmoving Activities
10-8-6: Special Review Use; Permit
10-8-1: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
No land or building in any district shall be used or occupied in any manner
creating dangerous, injurious, noxious or otherwise objectionable conditions
which could adversely affect the surrounding areas of adjoining premises,
except that any use permitted by the provisions herein may be undertaken and
maintained if acceptable measures and safeguards are met by following
performance standards:
   (A)   Smoke: No smoke shall be emitted at a density which exceeds #2 on the
Ringelmann chart and unless it conforms to the standards established by the
Idaho department of health and welfare.
   (B)   Particulate Matter: No particulate matter shall be emitted which
exceeds the standards established by the Idaho department of health and
welfare.
   (C)   Dust, Odor, Gas, Fumes, Glare Or Vibrations: No emission of these
matters shall result in a concentration at or beyond the property line which is
detrimental to the public health, safety or general welfare or which causes
injury or damage to property.
   (D)   Radiation Hazards And Electrical Disturbances: No operation shall be
conducted unless it conforms to the standards established by the U.S. bureau of
standards.
   (E)   Noise: Objectionable noise as determined by the administrator, which
is due to volume, frequency or beat shall be muffled or otherwise controlled.
   (F)   Water Pollution: No water pollution shall be emitted by the
manufacturing process or other processing. In a case in which potential hazards
exist, it shall be necessary to install safeguards acceptable to the health
authority.
   (G)   Fire Hazards: Any activity involving the use or storage of flammable
or explosive materials shall be protected by adequate firefighting and fire
prevention equipment and by such safety devices as are normally used in the
handling of any such materials and as specified in the fire code. (Ord. 230, 6-
21-1976)
   (H)   Statements And Plans: The administrator, prior to the issuance of a
zoning permit, may require the submission of statements and plans indicating
the manner in which dangerous and objectionable elements involved in processing
and in equipment operations are to be eliminated or reduced to acceptable
limits and tolerance. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976; amd. Ord. 267, 5-4-1981)
10-8-2: STORAGE OF WASTES:
   (A)   Storage of liquid and solid wastes, storage of animal wastes or
vegetable wastes which create a health hazard or public nuisance shall be
prohibited.
   (B)   Open storage shall be located within an area not closer than twenty
feet (20') from the street right of way line and enclosed with a fence or hedge
six feet (6') high.
      1.   In case of open storage of lumber, coal or other combustible
material, a roadway shall be provided and maintained from the street to the
rear of the property to permit access for the firetrucks. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-8-3: HEIGHT LIMITATION EXCEPTIONS:
Height limitations shall not apply to chimneys, church spires, flagpoles,
public monuments, domes, water tanks and similar structures provided such
structure does not require a special use permit. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-8-4: DOMESTIC ANIMALS:
(Rep. by Ord. 290, 2-2-1987)
10-8-5: EARTH RESOURCES AND OTHER EARTHMOVING ACTIVITIES:
   (A)   Site Places And Specifications: Site places and specifications shall
show and adequately describe all measures and improvements which can reasonably
be undertaken to reduce, control or eliminate erosion during development.
Exposure of bare ground shall be in the smallest amount and for the shortest
time feasible. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
   (B)   Rehabilitation: The extent and method of rehabilitation shall be
determined in advance of issuing a zoning permit with due consideration given
to what is suitable and compatible with the surrounding area. (Ord. 230, 6-21-
1976; amd. Ord. 267, 5-4-1981)
   (C)   When To Remove Equipment: Upon depletion of an area, or finishing of
other activities, all temporary buildings and structures and machinery, except
property line fences, material in storage and other necessary equipment, shall
be entirely removed from the property.
   (D)   Safety Fencing: Safety fencing shall be erected around all pits that
create a safety hazard. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
   (E)   Backfilling Excavations In Streets And Alleys:
      1.   Streets: All excavations in the streets of the city will be
backfilled in the following manner:
         (a)   Excavation of three feet (3') or less will be backfilled to
grade with crushed rock, three-fourths inch (3/4") minus, where the excavation
is in the traffic bearing portion of the street. See subsection (E)3 of this
section for excavations not in the traffic bearing portion of the street.
         (b)   Excavations over three feet (3') in depth will be backfilled
with six inch (6") lifts of soil to within a three foot (3') depth of the
surface of the street for that part which is in the traffic bearing portion of
the street. Each six inch (6") lift will be compacted to ninety five percent
(95%) of standard procter density. The moisture content of the backfill
material shall be satisfactory to the city supervisor or not more than three
(3) percentage points above or below optimum moisture as determined by ASTM
testing. The remaining three feet (3') of excavation will be backfilled to
grade as required in subsection (E)1(a) of this section except for that portion
of a paved street which will be finished as stated in subsection (E)2 of this
section. Nontraffic bearing excavation of the street will be backfilled as
stated in subsection (E)3(a) of this section.
      2.   Paved Streets: Excavations in paved streets will be backfilled as
stated in subsection (E)1 of this section, except for the oil mat which will be
finished to grade with a hot mix of oil of not less than two inches (2") of
compacted thickness. The oil mat replacement will be equal to or will exceed
the thickness of the existing oil mat.
      3.   Excavations In Alleys:
         (a)   Excavation in alleys on the nontraffic bearing portions of
streets, having excavations over two feet (2') in depth, will be backfilled by
twelve inch (12") lifts of soil having a moisture content between eighteen
percent (18%) and twenty percent (20%). Each lift will be compacted with four
(4) passes of an appropriate compactor to within two feet (2') of the surface.
The remaining two feet (2') will then be backfilled with crushed gravel, three-
fourths inch (3/4") minus, to the surface of the alley or the nontraffic
bearing portion of the street.
         (b)   Excavation in alleys or the nontraffic bearing portions of
streets two feet (2') or less will be backfilled to the surface with crushed
gravel, three-fourths inch (3/4") minus.
      4.   Costs Involved: The party or parties requesting any excavation will
agree to incur all costs that are involved in the excavation and backfilling
procedure as outlined above except if the work to be done is contracted by the
city for the city.
      5.   Soil Moisture Content: No excavations in the city streets or alleys
will be performed unless of an emergency nature, if the moisture content of the
backfill material (soil) cannot be maintained between eighteen percent (18%)
and twenty percent (20%).
      6.   Authorized Personnel To Supervise: All work will be done under the
supervision and inspection of authorized personnel of the city. (Ord. 258, 8-4-
1980)
10-8-6: SPECIAL REVIEW USE; PERMIT:
   (A)   Intent: Although each zoning district is primarily intended for a
predominant type of use (e.g., dwellings in residential districts), there are a
number of uses which are not specifically allowed in a particular zoning
district and which may or may not be appropriate in a particular district
depending upon all the circumstances of the individual case. For example, the
location, nature of the proposed use, character of surrounding development,
traffic capacities of adjacent streets and potential environmental effects, all
may dictate that the circumstances of development should be individually
reviewed. It is the intent of this section to provide review of such uses and,
in the event that such a use is approved, for the requirement that a special
use permit be obtained providing the terms by which such a use shall be
permitted so that the community is assured that they are compatible with their
locations and surrounding land uses and will further the purposes of this
chapter.
   (B)   Processing:
      1.   An application for approval of a special use permit may be filed by
a person having an interest in the property for which the special use permit is
requested and shall be made on a form provided by the city. The council shall
establish the cost of application for a special use permit by resolution. The
application must include:
         (a)   A complete site plan showing the major details of the proposed
development consisting of the following: location of buildings and structures;
off street parking areas; off street loading areas; service and refuse areas;
means of ingress and egress; major landscaping or screening proposals; signs;
and pedestrian areas;
         (b)   A time schedule for development;
         (c)   Such other information as the commission shall by written rule
require;
         (d)   Any other information the applicant believes will support his
request; and
         (e)   Payment of the application fee.
      2.   The applicant for a special use permit shall include with his
application a list of owners of abutting properties and properties located
within three hundred feet (300') of his property line along with the current
addresses of all such owners. After receipt of an application for a special use
permit, the city clerk shall notify by regular mail the owners of abutting
properties located within three hundred feet (300') of the property lines of
the land included in the special review use that an application for a special
use permit has been filed and that they may review the application at the
office of the city clerk.
      3.   The commission shall consider the application for a special use
permit at a public hearing. At least fifteen (15) days prior to the public
hearing, notice of time and place and a brief summary of the proposed special
review use and its location shall be published by the city clerk in a newspaper
of general circulation within the jurisdiction. Notice may also be made
available to other newspapers and radio or television stations serving the
jurisdiction for use as a public service announcement.
      4.   Within thirty (30) days after the public hearing the commission
shall submit to the council a recommendation to either approve, conditionally
approve or disapprove the application for a special use permit as presented.
      5.   Within forty five (45) days of receiving the commission's
recommendation regarding the application for a special use permit, the council
shall either approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the application. In
considering the application and the recommendation of the commission, the
council may hold additional public hearings.
      6.   Upon granting or denying an application for a special use permit,
the council shall specify:
         (a)   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
         (b)   The reasons for approval or denial; and
         (c)   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
special use permit.
      7.   Within ten (10) days after a decision has been rendered by the
council, the city clerk shall provide the applicant with written notice of the
action on the request.
      8.   The applicant, the owners of properties located within three hundred
feet (300') of the property lines of the land included in the special review
use, or any other interested party may appeal such decision to the council,
provided the appeal is submitted to the council within fifteen (15) days from
the council's action approving, conditionally approving or disapproving the
application. The notice of appeal shall set forth in detail the basis for the
appeal.
      9.   The council, upon receipt of an appeal, shall set a hearing date to
consider all information, testimony and commission's minutes of the public
hearing to reach a decision to uphold, conditionally uphold or overrule the
decision approving, conditionally approving or disapproving the application.
      10.   Within forty five (45) days of the hearing, the council shall
determine whether to sustain its decision to either approve, conditionally
approve or disapprove the application.
      11.   Within ten (10) days after a decision has been rendered by the
council on the appeal, the city clerk shall provide the appellant with written
notice of the council's decision.
      12.   Any person applying to the courts for a review of any decision made
under the terms of this section shall be required to pay the cost of preparing
a transcript of proceedings.
   (C)   General Criteria, Conditions And Modifications:
      1.   No application for a special use permit shall be approved unless the
council finds that the application:
         (a)   Complies with all requirements imposed by this section and with
all applicable written rules of the commission;
         (b)   Is consistent with the objectives and purposes of this zoning
title as declared in subsections
10-1-2(A) and (B) of this title; and
         (c)   Is designed to be compatible with surrounding land uses and the
area of its location.
      2.   In considering an application for a special use permit, the council
will consider and may impose modifications or conditions concerning the
following development features, to the extent such modifications or conditions
are necessary to ensure compliance with the criteria of subsection (C)1 of this
section:
         (a)   Size and location of site;
         (b)   Street and road capacities in the area;
         (c)   Ingress and egress to adjoining public streets;
         (d)   Location and amount of off street parking;
         (e)   Internal traffic circulation system;
         (f)   Fencing, screening and landscaped separations;
         (g)   Building bulk and location;
         (h)   Usable open space;
         (i)   Signs and lighting; and
         (j)   Noise, vibration, air pollution and other environmental
influences.
      3.   As a condition of approval of a special review use, the council may
require that the duration of the special use permit is temporary so that the
period of approval for a particular special review use is limited.
      4.   No approved special review use may be modified, structurally
enlarged or expanded in ground area unless the site plan is amended and
approved in accordance with the procedures applicable to initial approval of a
special review use. (Ord. 392, 1-15-2013)
CHAPTER 9
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
10-9-1: Intent
10-9-2: Restriction On Enlargement And Maintenance
10-9-3: Termination
10-9-4: Damage
10-9-5: Use Change Permitted
10-9-6: Uses Under Special Review Use Provisions
10-9-7: District Changes
10-9-1: INTENT:
It is the intent of these regulations to control, mitigate or terminate uses
which do not conform to the regulations specified by this title for the
district in which such use is located. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-9-2: RESTRICTION ON ENLARGEMENT AND MAINTENANCE:
The lawful use of a building or of land which exists at the time of adoption of
the provisions herein, although such use does not conform to the regulations
specified for the district in which the use is located, may be continued
provided that no such use shall be enlarged or increased nor be extended to
occupy a greater area than that occupied by such use at the time of adoption of
this title. Ordinary maintenance and repair may be made to any nonconforming
building providing that no structural alterations are made and providing that
the cost of such work shall not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the
assessed valuation of such building in any one year period. (Ord. 230, 6-21-
1976)
10-9-3: TERMINATION:
If the nonconforming use of land, or a building or operation within a building,
ceases for a continuous period of two (2) years or more, such use or operation
shall be considered abandoned and the subsequent use of such land, or building
or operation within it, shall be resumed only in accordance with the
regulations specified by the provisions herein for the district in which such
land or building or operation is located. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-9-4: DAMAGE:
A nonconforming building damaged or destroyed by fire, flood or other disaster
to an extent of more than fifty percent (50%) of the appraised value, may be
restored only if made to conform with all the regulations of the district in
which it is located. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-9-5: USE CHANGE PERMITTED:
The commission may permit any nonconforming use to be changed to any specified
use, provided that the commission determines at a public hearing, notice of
which has been sent to all property owners in the neighborhood, that the
proposed use is not detrimental or objectionable to the neighborhood. (Ord.
230, 6-21-1976)
10-9-6: USES UNDER SPECIAL REVIEW USE PROVISIONS:
Any use that is permitted as a special review use in a district under the terms
specified herein shall not be deemed as a nonconforming use in such district
but shall, without further action, be considered a conforming use. (Ord. 230,
6-21-1976)
10-9-7: DISTRICT CHANGES:
Whenever the boundaries of a district shall be changed so as to transfer an
area from one district to another district of a different classification, the
foregoing provisions shall also apply to any nonconforming uses existing
therein. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
CHAPTER 10
SIGN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-10-1: Intent
10-10-2: Signs Permitted In All Zoning Districts And Not Subject To Permit
10-10-3: Signs Prohibited In All Zoning Districts
10-10-4: Sign Requirements For Various Zoning Districts
10-10-5: Nonconforming Signs
10-10-6: Sign Permit Required
10-10-7: Measurement
10-10-8: Sign Setback Requirements
10-10-1: INTENT:
The intent of this chapter shall be to permit certain signs within the several
zoning districts to encourage erection of signs which are attractive and
compatible with the adjacent property, which will preserve property value,
which will enhance and protect the physical appearance of the community and
which will provide for the public safety. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-10-2: SIGNS PERMITTED IN ALL ZONING DISTRICTS AND NOT SUBJECT TO PERMIT:
The following signs are permitted in all zoning districts and are exempt from
the provisions herein and require no permit for erection:
   (A)   Public Signs: Any sign erected by a governmental agency including, but
not limited to, federal, state, county and city governments and schools.
   (B)   Interior Signs: Any sign within any structure and not visible from
adjacent properties or from the public street. Any memorial or commemorative
plaque built into the building or mounted flat against the wall of the
building.
   (C)   Address Signs:
      1.   Any sign designed to identify a particular parcel of land, provided
such contains only street address and name of owner, or the name of the
property, and does not exceed one square foot in area.
      2.   Signs having an area of not more than six (6) square feet each, the
message of which is limited to warning of any danger, prohibition or regulation
of the use of property or traffic or parking thereon.
   (D)   Special Event Signs: Special events, such as political or other
campaigns, carnival, community celebration and any other temporary sign,
provided that such are removed promptly at the termination of the event of
which they are a part.
   (E)   Real Estate Signs: Signs not larger than five (5) square feet in area
in R district or twenty (20) square feet in C1, C2, IL, IH and A-OS districts
advertising the sale, rental or lease of the property on which located. One
sign is permitted per street frontage, provided the sign does not obstruct
traffic visibility at street or highway intersections. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-10-3: SIGNS PROHIBITED IN ALL ZONING DISTRICTS:
The following signs are prohibited in all districts:
   (A)   Signs Within Streets: Any sign erected upon or over the public right
of way of any street, roadway or alley, except those erected by governmental
entity and except those instances where existing buildings are contiguous with
the right of way.
   (B)   Flashing Signs: Any sign displaying flashing or intermittent lights,
or lights of varying intensity, except those portions of a sign indicating time
and temperature.
   (C)   Lighting: No lighting shall be permitted in conjunction with any sign
which causes any direct glare into or upon any residential building or premises
other than the building or premises to which the sign may be related.
   (D)   Window Signs: Any sign that obstructs any window, door, fire escape,
stairway, ladder or openings intended to provide light, air, ingress or egress
for any building as required by law.
   (E)   Violation Of Law: Any sign that violates any provision of any law of
the state of Idaho relative to outside advertising.
   (F)   Freestanding Signs: No freestanding signs are permitted within one
hundred feet (100') of R district. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-10-4: SIGN REQUIREMENTS FOR VARIOUS ZONING DISTRICTS:
   (A)   R District: One sign identifying each subdivision or mobile home park,
per vehicle entrance, having an area not exceeding twenty (20) square feet and
height not exceeding eight feet (8') is permitted.
   (B)   C1 District:
      1.   On premises signs are permitted having an area not exceeding two (2)
square feet for each foot of street frontage for occupants of the ground floor,
with a maximum of one hundred (100) square feet for each sign and one square
foot for each one hundred (100) square feet of floor space for each occupant of
the other floors, with a maximum of thirty two (32) square feet per occupant.
      2.   Where any ground floor space is shared by more than one occupant the
permitted area shall be divided among them in the same proportion as floor
space is occupied by them.
      3.   Where any floor space is shared by more than one occupant on floors
other than the ground floor the permitted area shall be divided among them in
the same proportion as floor space is occupied by them.
      4.   Where the premises have more than two (2) occupants and a name
distinct from that of any occupant, as in an arcade or office building, an
additional one square foot for each foot of street frontage, with a maximum of
thirty two (32) square feet is permitted for signs advertising only the name of
the premises.
      5.   Where an occupant has an entrance on an alley an additional ten (10)
square feet is permitted for signs visible in such alley.
      6.   No sign shall be placed on the roof of any building, except those
signs whose supporting structure is screened.
      7.   No projecting sign shall be erected or maintained from the front or
face of a building a distance of more than two feet (2'). In general,
projecting signs are discouraged.
   (C)   C2 And IL Districts:
      1.   On premises signs are permitted having an area not exceeding six (6)
square feet for each ten feet (10') or fraction of street frontage, or sixty
(60) square feet for each acre or additional fraction of acre of the premises,
whichever is larger. No sign shall have an area exceeding one hundred (100)
square feet.
      2.   Where any premises has more than one occupant the permitted area
shall be divided among them in the same proportion as floor space and outdoor
sales space is occupied by them.
      3.   Where the premises have more than two (2) occupants and have a name
distinct from that of any occupant, an additional two (2) square feet of sign
area for each ten feet (10') or fraction of street frontage, with a maximum of
two hundred (200) square feet, is permitted only for signs advertising the
premises.
   (D)   IH District:
      1.   Signs as permitted in the preceding subsection subject to the
regulations pertaining thereto, except that both on premises and off premises
signs are allowed and the maximum area of a single sign shall be three hundred
fifty (350) square feet.
      2.   Area limits for off premises signs shall be the same as, but in
addition to, those for on premises signs, but not more than one off premises
sign shall be erected or maintained on any premises having an on premises sign.
   (E)   A-OS District: On premises signs are permitted having an area not
exceeding one square foot for each ten feet (10') of street frontage with a
maximum of one hundred (100) square feet for each sign. Signs permitted by this
subsection are exempt from the front setback requirement of subsection
10-4-1(C) of this title. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-10-5: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
   (A)   It is intended to eliminate nonconforming signs, except as otherwise
specifically set forth in this section, as rapidly as the police power of the
city permits. Any lawfully erected sign, the maintenance of which is made
unlawful by the provisions herein may continue to be maintained exactly as such
existed at the time when the maintenance thereof became otherwise unlawful
under the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   No nonconforming sign:
      1.   Shall be changed to another nonconforming sign;
      2.   Shall have any changes made in the words or symbols used or the
message displayed on the sign unless the sign is an off premises advertising
sign or a bulletin board, or substantially similar type of sign, specifically
designed for periodic change of message;
      3.   Shall be structurally altered so as to prolong the life of the sign
or so as to change the shape, size, type or design of the sign;
      4.   Shall be reestablished after the activity, business or usage to
which it relates has been discontinued for thirty (30) days or longer; or
      5.   Shall be reestablished after damage or destruction if the estimated
expense of reconstruction exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the reproduction cost.
   (C)   The commission shall permit variances from subsection (B) of this
section or variances permitting the erection or maintenance of a nonconforming
sign only upon the grounds established by law for the granting of zoning
variances or upon a finding that the grant of a variance will reduce the degree
of nonconformance of an existing sign or will result in the removal of one or
more lawfully nonconforming signs and replacement of a sign or signs more in
keeping with the spirit, purpose and provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   For any sign which has fallen into such a state as to be deemed
hazardous by an authorized official, the city shall have the right after ten
(10) days' notice to the owner to remove or repair, to cause the removal of
said sign from the premises and to store it. The owner of the sign shall be
notified of the removal and storage of said sign and shall have a period of
thirty (30) days after which the sign may be disposed of by the city. The city
shall have the authority to levy against the owner of the sign whatever costs
are incurred by the city for removal, storage and/or disposition of the sign.
(Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-10-6: SIGN PERMIT REQUIRED:
A sign permit will be secured from the city for any sign except those in
section
10-10-2 of this chapter. The procedure for securing such permit shall be as
follows:
   (A)   Application for the sign permit will be filed with the administrator.
Accompanying the application will be:
      1.   An elevation of the proposed sign drawn to scale of not less than
one-fourth inch equals one foot (1/4" = 1'), showing the sign that is proposed
to be erected and the message that it will carry;
      2.   The color scheme of the sign;
      3.   A plot plan of the property on which the sign will be located
showing the location of the sign on the property. If the sign is to be attached
to the face of the building the elevation shall also show the outline of the
building and the materials of which the sign will be constructed. This may be
shown on one of the required drawings;
      4.   If the requirements of the provisions herein are met a sign permit
shall be issued to the applicant. The fee for a sign permit shall be as
specified under the schedule of fees adopted by the city of Genesee. (Ord. 230,
6-21-1976)
10-10-7: MEASUREMENT:
In determining the size of any sign, the following procedure shall be used:
   (A)   For the signs involving individual letters which are placed flat
against the facade of a building, or which are to be supported on individual
standards and which will be freestanding, the area of said sign will be
considered to be that of a rectangle or a square encompassing all of the
letters used to convey the message of the sign and shall include the open space
between letters of words within that square or rectangle. Height of letters
will be measured of the upper case letters.
   (B)   For signs, either freestanding or facade mounted, with background
material, the area measurements shall be determined by the area of the entire
sign including the background material.
   (C)   For all two (2) faced freestanding or projecting signs, or outdoor
advertising signs, the area measured shall be determined by measurement of one
face of the sign only. No sign shall have more than two (2) faces.
   (D)   The height of any sign shall be determined by the distance between the
topmost portion of the sign, or the structure supporting the sign, and the
elevation of the ground at the base of the sign. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-10-8: SIGN SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
Signs shall be subject to the height and setback rules applicable to buildings
in the zoning district where located, except that a special review use, a
greater height shall be permitted in C2 district in such amount as may be
necessary to assure visibility of the sign to motorists on the adjacent major
thoroughfare. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
CHAPTER 11
MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
10-11-1: Definitions
10-11-2: Permits
10-11-3: Inspection Of Mobile Home Parks
10-11-4: Notices, Hearing And Orders
10-11-5: Environmental Open Space And Access Requirements
10-11-6: Water Supply
10-11-7: Sewage Disposal
10-11-8: Electrical Distribution System
10-11-9: Service Buildings And Other Community Service Facilities
10-11-10: Refuse Handling
10-11-11: Fire Protection
10-11-12: Miscellaneous Requirements
10-11-13: Requirements For Mobile Homes On Individual Lots Applicable
10-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
   ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY: The Genesee city council.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR: A duly appointed officer of the city charged with the
administration and enforcement of the provisions of this title.
   INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME: A mobile home which has a flush toilet and a bath
or shower.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE: A plot of ground within a mobile home park, designed and
designated for the accommodation of one mobile home.
   PERMIT: A written permit/license issued by the city clerk permitting the
mobile home park to operate under the provisions of this title and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company or
association.
   SERVICE BUILDING: A building housing toilet facilities and lavatory and such
other facilities as may be required by this title. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-11-2: PERMITS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, maintain or operate
any mobile home park within the limits of Genesee, Idaho, unless he holds a
valid permit issued annually by the city clerk in the name of such person for
the specific mobile home park. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
   (B)   All applications for permits shall be made to the administrative
authority, through the city clerk, who shall issue a permit upon compliance by
the applicant with provisions provided for herein, and of any regulations
adopted pursuant thereto, and of any other applicable legal requirements. Every
person holding such a permit shall give notice in writing to the city clerk
within twenty four (24) hours after having sold, transferred, given away or
otherwise disposed of interest in or control of any mobile home park. Such
notice shall include the name and address of the person succeeding to the
ownership or control of such mobile home park.
      1.   Application for original permits shall be in writing, signed by the
applicant and accompanied by an affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of
the application and shall contain the following:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   The interest of the applicant in the location and legal
description of the mobile home park;
         (c)   A complete plan of the mobile home park showing compliance with
all applicable provisions herein provided and regulations promulgated
hereunder.
         (d)   Such further information as may be requested by the city clerk
and administrative authority to enable them to determine that the proposed
mobile home park will comply with legal requirements.
      2.   A complete plan for the purpose of obtaining an original permit to
be issued by the city clerk and approved by the administrative authority shall
show:
         (a)   The area and dimensions of the tract of land;
         (b)   The number, location and size of all mobile home spaces;
         (c)   The location and width of roadways;
         (d)   The location of service buildings and any other proposed
structures;
         (e)   The location of water and sewer lines; and
         (f)   Plans and specifications of all buildings and other improvements
constructed or to be constructed within the mobile home park.
      3.   Applications for renewals of permits shall be made in writing by the
holder of the permit and shall contain the following:
         (a)   Any change in the information submitted since the time the
original permit was issued or the latest renewal granted.
   (C)   Any person whose applications for a permit provided for herein has
been denied may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the
administrative authority under the procedure provided by section
10-11-4 of this chapter.
   (D)   Whenever, upon inspection of any mobile home park, the building
inspector finds that conditions or practices exist which are in violation of
any provision of this chapter, or of any regulations adopted pursuant thereto,
the city clerk shall give notice, in writing, in accordance with section
 10-11-4 of this chapter to the person to whom the permit was issued that
unless such conditions or practices are corrected within a reasonable period of
time specified in the notice by the city clerk, the permit will be suspended.
At the end of such period the building inspector shall reinspect such mobile
home park and, if such conditions or practices have not been corrected, he
shall suspend the permit upon approval of the administrative authority and the
city clerk shall give notice in writing of such suspension to the person to
whom the permit is issued. Upon receipt of notice of suspension such person
shall cease operation of such mobile home park, except as provided in section
10-11-4 of this chapter.
Any person whose permit has been suspended, or who has received notice from the
city clerk that his permit will be suspended unless certain conditions or
practices at the mobile home park are corrected, may request and shall be
granted a hearing on the matter before the administrative authority under the
procedure provided by section
10-11-4 of this chapter; provided that when no petition for such hearing shall
have been filed within ten (10) days following the day on which notice of
suspension was served, such permit shall be deemed to have been automatically
revoked at the expiration of such ten (10) day period. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976;
amd. Ord. 265, 1-5-1981)
10-11-3: INSPECTION OF MOBILE HOME PARKS:
The building inspector is hereby authorized and directed to make inspections to
determine the condition of mobile home parks located within the city limits in
order that he may perform his duty of safeguarding the health and safety of
occupants of mobile home parks and of the general public.
The building inspector shall have the power to enter at reasonable times upon
any private or public property for the purpose of inspecting and investigating
conditions relating to the enforcement of the provisions herein or of
regulations promulgated hereunder.
It shall be the duty of the owners or occupants of mobile home parks and mobile
homes contained therein, or of the person in charge thereof, to give the
building inspector free access to such premises at reasonable times for the
purpose of inspection.
It shall be the duty of every occupant of a mobile home park to give the owner
thereof or his agent or employee access to any part of such mobile home park or
its premises at reasonable times for the purpose of making such repairs or
alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with the provisions herein or
with any lawful order issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
230, 6-21-1976)
10-11-4: NOTICES, HEARING AND ORDERS:
Whenever the administrative authority determines that there are reasonable
grounds to believe that there has been a violation of any provision of this
chapter, or of any regulation adopted pursuant thereto, the city clerk shall
give notice of such alleged violation to the person to whom the permit was
issued, as hereinafter provided.
Such notice shall:
   (A)   Be in writing;
   (B)   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
   (C)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act it requires;
   (D)   Be served upon the owner or his agent as the case may require;
provided, that such notice or order shall be deemed to have been properly
served upon such owner or agent when a copy thereof has been sent by registered
mail to his last known address; or when he has been served with such notice by
any other method authorized or required by the laws of this state.
   (E)   Contain an outline of remedial action, which if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and with regulations adopted
pursuant thereto.
Any person affected by any notice which has been issued in connection with the
enforcement of any provisions of this chapter, or of any regulation adopted
pursuant thereto, may request and shall be granted a hearing on the manner
before the administrative authority, provided that such person shall file in
the office of the city clerk a written petition requesting such hearing and
setting forth a brief statement of the grounds therefor within ten (10) days
after the date the notice was served. The filing of the request for a hearing
shall operate as a stay of the notice and of the suspension except in the case
of an order issued under this section. Upon receipt of such petition the
administrative authority shall set a time and place for such hearing and shall
give the petitioner written notice thereof. At such hearing the petitioner
shall be given an opportunity to be heard and to show why such notice should be
modified or withdrawn. The hearing shall be commenced not later than fifteen
(15) days after the day on which the petition was filed; provided, that upon
application of the petitioner the administrative authority may postpone the
date of the hearing for a reasonable time beyond such fifteen (15) day period
when, in his judgment, the petitioner has submitted good and sufficient reasons
for such postponement.
After such hearing the administrative authority shall make findings as to
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and regulations issued hereunder
and shall issue an order in writing sustaining, modifying or withdrawing the
notice which shall be served as provided in this section. Upon a failure to
comply with any order sustaining or modifying a notice the permit of the mobile
home park affected by the order shall be revoked.
The proceedings at such a hearing, including the findings and decision of the
administrative authority, and together with a copy of every notice and order
related thereto shall be entered as a matter of public record in the office of
the administrative authority, but the transcript of the proceedings need not be
transcribed unless judicial review of the decision is sought as provided by
this section. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the administrative
authority may seek relief therefrom in any court of competent jurisdiction, as
provided by the laws of this state.
Whenever the building inspector finds that an emergency exists which requires
immediate action to protect the public health he may, upon authorization of the
administrative authority and without notice or hearing, issue an order reciting
the existence of such an emergency and requiring that such action be taken as
he may deem necessary to meet the emergency including the suspension of the
permit. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter such order shall
be effective immediately. Any person to whom such an order is directed shall
comply therewith immediately, but upon petition to the administrative authority
shall be afforded a hearing as soon as possible. The provisions of this section
shall be applicable to such hearing and the order issued thereafter. (Ord. 230,
6-21-1976)
10-11-5: ENVIRONMENTAL OPEN SPACE AND ACCESS REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   General Requirements: Condition of soil, ground water level, drainage
and topography shall not create hazards to the property or the health or safety
of the occupants.
   (B)   Soil And Ground Cover Requirements: Exposed ground surfaces in all
parts of every mobile home park shall be paved, covered with stone screening,
or other solid material, or protected with a vegetable growth that is capable
of preventing soil erosion and of eliminating objectionable dust.
   (C)   Site Drainage Requirements: The ground surface in all parts of every
mobile home park shall be graded and equipped to drain all surface water in a
safe, efficient manner.
   (D)   Required Separation Between Mobile Homes:
      1.   Each independent mobile home space shall contain a minimum width of
twenty five feet (25'). Each dependent mobile home space shall be at least
fifteen feet (15') wide.
Every mobile home space shall abut on a driveway or other clear area with
unobstructed access to a public street. Such spaces shall be defined. Mobile
homes shall be parked so the minimum distance between trailers is ten feet
(10') with the minimum distance on the entry side not less than fifteen feet
(15') and so that no mobile home will be less than ten feet (10') from the
exterior boundary of the mobile home park.
Independent mobile home spaces in existence on the effective date of this
chapter which have a width or area less than the minimum prescribed above may
continue to operate for a period not to exceed three (3) years from the
effective date of this chapter, provided that the administrative authority
finds:
         (a)   That immediate compliance with such minimum width and area
requirements would constitute an unreasonable hardship; and
         (b)   That the owner is undertaking action reasonably calculated to
comply with such requirements during the time prescribed herein. Upon such a
finding the administrative authority may order the city clerk to issue a
temporary permit pending such corrective action. Such temporary permit shall be
in force only so long as the owner is undertaking action reasonably calculated
to comply with such requirements.
      2.   An accessory structure which has a horizontal area exceeding twenty
five (25) square feet and has walls, is attached to a mobile home or located
within ten feet (10') of its window and has an opaque top or roof that is
higher than the nearest window shall, for purposes of all separation
requirements, be part of the mobile home.
   (E)   Required Setbacks, Buffer Strips And Screening:
      1.   All mobile homes shall be located at least fifteen feet (15') from
any park property boundary line abutting upon a public street or highway and at
least ten feet (10') from other park property boundary lines.
      2.   There shall be a minimum distance of ten feet (10') between an
individual mobile home and adjoining pavement of a park street or common
parking area or other common areas.
      3.   All mobile home parks located adjacent to industrial or commercial
land uses shall be provided with screening such as fences or natural growth
along the property boundary line separating the park and such adjacent
nonresidential uses.
   (F)   Park Street Systems:
      1.   General Requirements: All mobile home parks shall be provided with
safe and convenient vehicular access from abutting public streets or roads to
each mobile home lot. Alignment and gradient shall be properly adapted to
topography.
      2.   Access: Access to mobile home parks shall be designed to minimize
congestion and hazards at the entrance or exit and allow free movement of
traffic on adjacent streets.
      3.   Internal Streets: Surfaced roadways shall be of adequate width to
accommodate anticipated traffic.
      4.   Required Illumination Of Park Street Systems: All parks shall be
furnished with lighting units so spaced and equipped with luminaries placed at
such mounting heights as will provide the following average maintained levels
of illumination for the safe movement of pedestrians and vehicles at night:
         (a)   All parts of the park street systems, 0.6 foot-candle, with a
minimum of 0.1 foot-candle.
         (b)   Potentially hazardous locations, such as major street
intersections and steps or stepped ramps, individually illuminated with a
minimum of 0.3 foot-candle.
      5.   Street Construction And Design Standards:
         (a)   Pavement: All streets shall be provided with a surface which
shall be durable and well drained under normal use and weather conditions.
Street surfaces shall be maintained free of cracks, holes and other hazards.
         (b)   Grades: Grades of all streets shall be sufficient to ensure
adequate surface drainage but shall be not more than eight percent (8%).
         (c)   Intersections: Within one hundred feet (100') of an
intersection, streets shall be at approximately right angles. Intersections of
more than two (2) streets at one point shall be avoided.
   (G)   Required Off Street Parking Areas:
      1.   Off street parking areas shall be provided in all mobile home parks
for the use of park occupants and guests. Such areas shall be furnished at the
rate of at least two (2) car spaces for each mobile home lot.
      2.   Required car parking spaces shall be so located as to provide
convenient access to the mobile home but shall not exceed a distance of two
hundred feet (200') from the mobile home that it is intended to serve. (Ord.
230, 6-21-1976)
10-11-6: WATER SUPPLY:
   (A)   General Requirements: An accessible, adequate, safe and potable supply
of water shall be provided in each mobile home park. Where a public supply of
water of satisfactory quantity, quality and pressure is available, connection
shall be made thereto and its supply used exclusively.
When a satisfactory public water supply is not available a private water supply
system may be developed and used as approved by the health authority.
   (B)   Water Distribution System: The water supply system of the mobile home
park shall conform to the plumbing regulations of the city. (Ord. 230, 6-21-
1976)
10-11-7: SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
An adequate and safe sewerage system shall be provided in all mobile home parks
for conveying and disposing of all sewage in compliance with the plumbing
regulations of the city. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-11-8: ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM:
Every park shall contain an electrical wiring system which complies with the
electrical code adopted by the city. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-11-9: SERVICE BUILDINGS AND OTHER COMMUNITY SERVICE FACILITIES:
   (A)   Required Community Sanitary Facilities: Every park that accommodates
dependent mobile homes shall be provided with the following emergency sanitary
facilities:
      For each ten (10) dependent mobile home lots, or fractional part thereof,
there shall be one flush toilet and one lavatory for each sex.
      The building containing such emergency sanitary facilities shall be
accessible to all mobile homes.
   (B)   Structural Requirements For Buildings: All portions of the structure
shall comply with the building code of the city of Genesee.
   (C)   Barbecue Pits, Fireplaces, Stoves And Incinerators: Cooking shelters,
barbecue pits, fireplaces, wood burning stoves and incinerators shall be so
located, constructed, maintained and used as to minimize fire hazards and smoke
nuisance both on the property on which used and on neighboring property. No
open fire shall be permitted except in facilities provided. No open fire shall
be left unattended. No fuel shall be used and no material burned which emits
dense smoke or objectionable odors. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-11-10: REFUSE HANDLING:
   (A)   The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in the mobile home park
shall be conducted as to create no health hazards, rodent harborage, insect
breeding areas, accident or fire hazards or air pollution.
   (B)   All refuse shall be stored in flytight, watertight, rodentproofed
containers which shall be located not more than one hundred fifty feet (150')
from any mobile home lot. Containers shall be provided in sufficient number and
capacity to properly store all refuse. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-11-11: FIRE PROTECTION:
The mobile home area shall be subject to the rules and regulations of the city
fire regulations. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-11-12: MISCELLANEOUS REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Responsibilities Of The Park Management:
      1.   The person to whom a license for a mobile home park is issued shall
operate the park in compliance with the provisions of this chapter and
regulations issued hereunder; shall provide adequate supervision to maintain
the park, its facilities and equipment in good repair and in a clean and
sanitary condition, and keep a current register of all mobile homes using the
mobile home park.
      2.   The park management shall notify park occupants of all applicable
provisions of this chapter and inform them of their duties and responsibilities
provided under this chapter and regulations issued hereunder.
      3.   The park management shall supervise the placement of each mobile
home on its mobile home space which includes securing its stability and
installing all utility connections.
   (B)   Responsibilities Of Park Occupants: The park occupant shall comply
with all applicable requirements of this chapter and regulations issued
hereunder and shall maintain his mobile home lot, its facilities and equipment
in good repair and in a clean and sanitary manner.
   (C)   Restrictions On Occupancy: An independent mobile home shall not be
occupied for dwelling purposes unless it is properly placed in a mobile home
space and connected to water, sewerage and electrical utilities. (Ord. 230, 6-
21-1976)
10-11-13: REQUIREMENTS FOR MOBILE HOMES ON INDIVIDUAL LOTS APPLICABLE:
The provisions of chapter 20 of this title shall apply to all mobile homes in a
mobile home park which are installed after the effective date hereof. (Ord.
283, 2-10-1986)
CHAPTER 12
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD)
SECTION:
10-12-1: Intent
10-12-2: Scope
10-12-3: Application
10-12-4: Review And Approval
10-12-5: Conclusions And Findings
10-12-6: Planned Unit Development Permit Criteria
10-12-7: Modifications
10-12-8: Development And Time Of Approval
10-12-9: Changes
10-12-10: Zoning Administrator's Review
10-12-11: Completion Of Planned Unit
10-12-12: Subdivision And Resale
10-12-13: Fee
10-12-14: Performance Bond
10-12-1: INTENT:
To permit flexibility in the use and design of structures and land in
situations where modification and specific provisions of this chapter will not
be contrary to its intent and purpose or significantly inconsistent with the
planning on which it is based and will not be harmful to the neighborhood in
which they occur. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-12-2: SCOPE:
   (A)   Application for planned unit development may be made for land located
in any zoning district except the agricultural-open space (A-OS) district.
   (B)   Any lot considered for planned unit development must contain a minimum
of two (2) acres.
   (C)   The requirements of this chapter shall apply to planned unit
developments, except for criteria modifications and standards as specified in
this section or approved by the commission. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-12-3: APPLICATION:
An application for approval of a planned unit development shall be made by the
owner(s) to the administrator. The application will be made on a form provided
by the commission. The application shall consist of the following items as
appropriate:
   (A)   A site plan showing the major details of the proposed planned unit
development prepared to a scale of not less than one inch equals one hundred
feet (1" = 100'). The site plan must contain, insofar as practicable, the
following information:
      1.   The existing topographic character of the land;
      2.   Proposed land uses;
      3.   The location and size of all existing and proposed buildings,
structures and improvements;
      4.   The maximum height of all buildings;
      5.   The density and type of dwellings;
      6.   The internal traffic and circulation systems, off street parking
areas, service areas, loading areas and major points of access to public rights
of way;
      7.   The location, height and size of proposed signs, lighting and
advertising devices;
      8.   Areas which are to be conveyed, dedicated or reserved as common park
areas, including public parks and recreational areas, and as sites for schools
or other public buildings;
      9.   Areas subject to a 100-year flooding cycle;
      10.   A general landscape plan at the time of initial submission to be
followed by a detailed landscaping plan once the site plan has been approved,
showing the spacing, sizes and specific types of landscaping material.
   (B)   A written statement to be submitted with the planned unit development
application must contain the following information:
      1.   A statement of the present ownership and a legal description of all
the land included in the planned unit development;
      2.   An explanation of the objectives to be achieved by the planned unit
development including building descriptions, sketches or elevations as may be
required to describe the objectives;
      3.   A development schedule indicating the approximate date when
construction of the planned unit development or stages of the planned unit
development can be expected to begin and be completed;
      4.   Copies of any special agreements, conveyances, restrictions or
covenants which will govern the use, maintenance and continued protection of
the planned unit development and any of its common park areas; and
      5.   A list of the owners of abutting properties and properties located
within three hundred feet (300') of the property lines of the land included in
the planned unit and their addresses.
   (C)   The applicant may submit any other information or exhibits he deems
pertinent in evaluating his proposed planned unit development. (Ord. 230, 6-21-
1976)
10-12-4: REVIEW AND APPROVAL:
   (A)   After receipt of an application for a planned unit development the
administrator shall post the property indicating that a planned unit
development application has been filed and that more detailed information may
be obtained from the administrator. The administrator shall also notify by mail
the owners of abutting properties and properties located within three hundred
feet (300') of the property lines of the land included in the planned unit
development, that a planned unit development application has been filed and
that they may review the application at the office of the administrator.
   (B)   For all planned unit developments the commission shall review the
application, and, within thirty (30) days of the filing of a complete
application, submit an advisory report to the council. The applicant shall be
furnished a copy of such report.
   (C)   Within thirty (30) days after receiving such advisory report the
council, after giving notice, shall hold a public hearing on the application.
The council shall, within sixty (60) days of the public hearing or within such
time as is mutually agreed by the council and the applicant, either grant the
proposed planned unit development in whole or in part, with or without
modifications and conditions, or deny it.
   (D)   At least fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing notice of time
and place and a brief summary of the proposed planned unit development and its
location shall be published in the newspaper of general circulation within the
jurisdiction. Notice may also be made available to other newspapers, radio or
television stations serving the jurisdiction for use as a public service
announcement.
   (E)   Within ten (10) days after a decision has been rendered the
administrator shall provide the applicant with written notice of the action on
the request.
   (F)   Any person applying to the courts for a review of any decision made
under the terms of this section shall be required to pay the cost of preparing
a transcript of proceedings. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-12-5: CONCLUSIONS AND FINDINGS:
When the council either grants an application in part, with or without
modifications or denies an application, its decision shall be in the form of a
written opinion setting forth not only conclusions but also findings of fact
related to the specific application and shall set forth specifically why and in
what manner the application is or is not consistent with the requirements of
this section. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-12-6: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT PERMIT CRITERIA:
The application for a planned unit development shall be considered in its
relationship to the comprehensive plan and to the intent and purpose of this
chapter. Approval of a planned unit development may be granted only if the
proposal conforms to all of the following criteria and to any specific purpose
and criteria established within the district regulations pertaining to the
district under consideration.
   (A)   The proposed development is designed to produce an environment of
stable and desirable character and must provide overall standards of population
densities of open space, of circulation and of off street parking at least
equivalent to those required by the terms of this chapter for the zoning
district in which the development is located.
   (B)   The various elements of the development plan relate to one another in
such a way as to justify exceptions to the normal regulations of this chapter.
   (C)   The location, design, size and uses are such that the residents or
establishments to be accommodated will be adequately served by existing or
proposed facilities and services.
   (D)   The proposed development will be well integrated into its setting,
will not destroy desirable natural features of the site and will harmonize
visually with its surroundings. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-12-7: MODIFICATIONS:
   (A)   The uses in planned unit development must be uses "permitted" and/or
"allowed by special review" in the zoning district in which the planned unit
development is located. In addition, uses permitted in the C-1 district may be
included in residential planned unit development, provided such uses in the
opinion of the commission are primarily for the service and convenience of the
residents of the development and the immediate neighborhood. Such uses, if any,
shall not change or destroy the predominately residential character of the
planned unit development. The amount of area and type of uses to be allowed in
residential planned unit development shall be established by the commission on
the basis of the above criteria.
   (B)   The following requirements may be altered by the commission:
      1.   Off street parking regulations;
      2.   Setback requirements, height limits, building size and lot size;
      3.   Landscaping rules;
      4.   Open space requirements;
      5.   Density and intensity limits. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-12-8: DEVELOPMENT AND TIME OF APPROVAL:
   (A)   The applicant must begin and substantially complete the development of
the planned unit development within two (2) years from the time of its final
approval. If the planned unit development is to be developed in stages the
applicant must begin and substantially complete the development of each stage
within two (2) years of the time provided for the start of construction of each
stage in the development schedule.
   (B)   If the applicant does not begin and substantially complete the planned
unit development or any stage of the planned unit development within the time
limits imposed by the preceding subsection, the commission shall review the
planned unit development and may recommend that the time for completion of the
planned unit development be extended, that the approval of the planned unit be
revoked or that the planned unit development be amended. The commission's
recommendation shall be subject to the procedures authorized by section
10-12-4 of this chapter governing the approval of an initial application for a
planned unit development. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-12-9: CHANGES:
   (A)   Minor changes in the location, siting or character of buildings or
structures may be authorized by the commission if required by engineering or
other circumstances not foreseen at the time the final development program was
approved.
   (B)   All other changes in the planned unit development including changes in
the site plan and in the development schedule must be made under the procedures
that are applicable to the initial approval of a planned unit development.
(Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-12-10: ZONING ADMINISTRATOR'S REVIEW:
At least once every twelve (12) months the administrator shall review all
zoning permits which have been issued for the planned unit development and
shall examine the construction which has taken place on the site. If he finds a
violation he shall forward a report of this information to the council. The
council shall hold a hearing on the report of violations submitted by the
administrator, having first given notice to the planned unit development
applicant and all owners of abutting property. Upon review of the alleged
violations the council may, if it deems necessary, require that appropriate
action be taken to remedy the violations, amend or modify the planned unit
development or revoke approval of the planned unit. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976; amd.
Ord. 267, 5-4-1981)
10-12-11: COMPLETION OF PLANNED UNIT:
   (A)   The administrator shall issue a certificate for the planned unit
development certifying the completion of the planned unit.
   (B)   After completion the use of land and the construction, modification or
alteration of any building within the planned unit will be governed by the
approved site plan. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-12-12: SUBDIVISION AND RESALE:
A planned unit development may be subdivided or resubdivided for purposes of
sale or lease.
An application for approval of the subdivision or resubdivision must be made if
the subdivision will create a new plat line. The procedures applicable to the
initial approval of a planned unit development are also applicable to the
approval of a subdivision of a planned unit development.
The subdivision or resubdivision may be approved if it does not increase the
dwelling unit density of the planned unit development and if the planned unit
development, following the subdivision or resubdivision, is in compliance with
the standards for planned unit development provided in this chapter. (Ord. 230,
6-21-1976)
10-12-13: FEE:
The council may establish a fee schedule for planned unit development
applications to cover the costs of processing and review. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-12-14: PERFORMANCE BOND:
The commission may require a performance bond to ensure that the proposed
development is completed as approved and within the time limits agreed upon.
The bond shall be in a form approved by the city attorney in the sum of one
hundred percent (100%) of the estimated cost of the work and conditioned upon
the faithful performance of the work within the time specified. (Ord. 230, 6-
21-1976)
CHAPTER 13
FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT (FP)
SECTION:
10-13-1: Statement Of Purpose
10-13-2: Definitions
10-13-3: General Provisions
10-13-4: Administration
10-13-5: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
10-13-1: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to protect human life and
health; to minimize expenditure of public money and costly flood control
projects; to minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public; to
minimize prolonged business interruptions; to minimize damage to public
facilities and utilities such as water and gas mains, electric telephone and
sewer lines, streets and bridges located in areas of special flood hazard; to
help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and development
of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood blight areas;
to ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an area of
special flood hazard; and to ensure that those who occupy the areas of special
flood hazard assume responsibility for their actions. (Ord. 292, 3-16-1987)
10-13-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meanings they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application:
   APPEAL: A request for a review of the planning and zoning commission's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
Designation on maps always includes the letter A or V.
   BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. Same is also referred to as the "100-year flood".
Designation on maps always includes the letter A or V.
   DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazard.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): The official map on which the federal
insurance administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the federal insurance
administration that includes flood profiles, the flood boundary-floodway map
and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   (A)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
   (B)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot (1').
   LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of this chapter found in subsection
10-13-5(B)1 of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME: As defined in section
 10-2-2 of this title.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the "start of construction" commenced
on or after the effective date of this chapter.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvements and means the date
the building permit was issued; provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, placement or other improvement was within one hundred
eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling, nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footing, piers or foundation or the erection of temporary forms; nor
does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such
as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure.
   STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally aboveground.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT:
   (A)   Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure, the cost of
which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
structure either:
      1.   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
      2.   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred. For the purposes of this definition, "substantial improvement"
is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   (B)   The term does not, however, include either:
      1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      2.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
   VARIANCE: A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which
permits construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this
chapter. (Ord. 292, 3-16-1987; amd. Ord. 324, 5-16-1994)
10-13-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Lands To Which This Chapter Applies: This chapter shall apply to all
areas of special flood hazards within the jurisdiction of the city.
   (B)   Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard: The areas of
special flood hazard identified by the federal insurance administration in a
scientific and engineering report entitled "The Flood Insurance Study For The
City Of Genesee", dated June 1979, with accompanying flood insurance maps is
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. The
flood insurance study is on file at city hall, East 122 Walnut Street, Genesee,
Idaho.
   (C)   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and another ordinance, easement,
covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (D)   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   (E)   Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may be increased by manmade or
natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of
special flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part
of the city, any officer or employee thereof, or the federal insurance
administration for any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter
or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder. (Ord. 292, 3-16-1987)
10-13-4: ADMINISTRATION:
   (A)   Development Permit Required: A development permit shall be obtained
before construction or development begins within any area of special flood
hazard established in subsection
10-13-3(B) of this chapter. The permit shall be for all structures including
manufactured homes, as defined in section
10-2-2 of this title and for all development including fill and other
activities, also as defined in section
10-13-2 of this chapter.
   (B)   Application For Development Permit: Application for a development
permit shall be made on forms furnished by the city and may include, but not be
limited to: plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions and elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities, and the location
of the foregoing. Specifically, the following information is required:
      1.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all structures;
      2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any structure has
been floodproofed;
      3.   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet the
floodproofing criteria in subsection
10-13-5(F)2 of this chapter; and
      4.   Description of the extent to which a watercourse will be altered or
relocated as a result of proposed development.
   (C)   Designation Of The Zoning Administrator: The zoning administrator is
hereby appointed to administer and implement this chapter by granting or
denying development permit applications in accordance with its provisions.
   (D)   Duties And Responsibilities Of The Zoning Administrator: Duties of the
zoning administrator shall include, but not be limited to:
      1.   Permit Review:
         (a)   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
         (b)   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local government
agencies from which prior approval is required.
         (c)   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development is located in the floodway. If located in the floodway, assure that
the encroachment provisions of subsections
10-13-5(G)1 and (G)2 of this chapter are met.
      2.   Use Of Other Base Flood Data: When base flood elevation data has not
been provided in accordance with subsection
10-13-3(B), "Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard", of this
chapter, the zoning administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize
any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state or
other source, in order to administer subsections
10-13-5(F), "Specific Standards", and
10-13-5(G), "Floodways", of this chapter.
      3.   Information To Be Obtained And Maintained:
         (a)   Where base flood elevation data is provided through the flood
insurance study or required as in subsection (D)2 of this section, obtain and
record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures and
whether or not the structure contains a basement.
         (b)   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed structures:
            (1)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean
sea level); and
            (2)   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in
subsection (B)3 of this section.
         (c)   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Alteration Of Watercourse:
      1.   Notify adjacent communities and the Idaho department of water
resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit
evidence of such notification to the federal insurance administration.
      2.   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is not
diminished.
   (F)   Interpretation Of FIRM Boundaries: Make interpretations, where needed,
as to exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards
(for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary
and actual field conditions). The person contesting the location of the
boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation
as provided in this title. (Ord. 292, 3-16-1987)
10-13-5: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
   (A)   General Standards: In all areas of special flood hazard, the following
standards are required:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
      2.   All manufactured homes must likewise be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement and shall be installed using methods
and practices that minimize flood damage. Anchoring methods may include, but
are not limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors 1 .
   (B)   Construction Materials And Methods:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      2.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      3.   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or otherwise
elevated or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components during conditions of flooding.
   (C)   Utilities:
      1.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
      2.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system; and
      3.   On site disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (D)   Subdivision Proposals:
      1.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
      2.   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage;
      3.   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage; and
      4.   Where base flood elevation data has not been provided or is not
available from another authoritative source, it shall be generated for
subdivision proposals and other proposed developments which contain at least
fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres (whichever is less).
   (E)   Review Of Building Permits: Where elevation data is not available
either through the flood insurance study or from another authoritative source 2
, applications for building permits shall be reviewed to assure that proposed
construction will be reasonably safe from flooding. The test of reasonableness
is a local judgment and includes use of historical data, high water marks,
photographs of past flooding, etc., where available. Failure to elevate at
least one foot (1') above grade in these zones may result in higher insurance
rates.
   (F)   Specific Standards: In all areas of special flood hazards where base
flood elevation data has been provided as set forth in subsection
10-13-3(B), "Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard", or
subsection
10-13-4(D)2, "Use Of Other Base Flood Data", of this chapter, the following
provisions are required:
      1.   Residential Construction:
         (a)   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to one foot
(1') above base flood elevation.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to
flooding are prohibited or shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or must meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
            (1)   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding shall be provided.
            (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
(1') above grade.
            (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other
coverings or devices; provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      2.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the level
of the base flood elevation or together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall:
         (a)   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood level the structure
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
         (b)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
         (c)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice for meeting provisions of this subsection based on their
development and/or review of the structural design, specifications and plans.
Such certifications shall be provided to the official as set forth in
subsection
10-13-4(D)3(b) of this chapter;
         (d)   Nonresidential structures that are elevated, not floodproofed,
must meet the same standards for space below the lowest floor as described in
subsection (F)1(b) of this section.
         (e)   Applicants floodproofing nonresidential buildings shall be
notified that flood insurance premiums will be based on rates that are one foot
(1') below the floodproofed level (e.g., a building constructed to the base
flood level will be rated as 1 foot below that level).
      3.   Manufactured Homes: All manufactured homes to be placed or
substantially improved within zones A1-30, AH, and AE shall be elevated on a
permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at
one foot (1') above the base flood elevation and be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of
subsection (A)2 of this section.
   (G)   Floodways: Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
subsection
10-13-3(B) of this chapter are areas designed as floodways. Since the floodway
is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters which carry
debris, potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions
apply:
      1.   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development unless certification by a
registered professional engineer or architect is provided demonstrating that
encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      2.   If subsection (G)1 of this section is satisfied, all new
construction and substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable
flood hazard reduction provisions of this section. (Ord. 292, 3-16-1987)
 
Notes
1 1. Reference FEMA's manufactured home installation in flood hazard areas
  guidebook for additional techniques.
2 1. See subsection
  10-13-4(D)2 of this chapter.
CHAPTER 14
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-14-1: Administrative Standards
10-14-2: Zoning Administrator
10-14-3: Penalty
10-14-4: Complaints
10-14-5: Variances
10-14-6: Schedule Of Fees
10-14-1: ADMINISTRATIVE STANDARDS:
Whenever, in the course of administration and enforcement of the provisions in
this title, it is necessary or desirable to make any administrative decision,
then, unless other standards in this title are provided, the decision shall be
made so that the result will not be contrary to the spirit and purpose of this
title or injurious to the surrounding neighborhood. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-14-2: ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
The office of the zoning administrator is hereby established. The administrator
shall be appointed by the council. The administrator may also serve in some
other capacity as an employee or appointed officer of the city of Genesee. He
shall administer the provisions of this title and shall have all administrative
powers in connection therewith which are not specifically assigned to some
other officer or body. He shall have no power to vary or waive ordinance
requirements.
   (A)   Zoning Permit: No building or structure shall be erected, added to or
structurally altered unless a zoning permit has been issued by the
administrator or his authorized representative. Any person desiring to obtain
such a permit shall file with the administrator a zoning permit application
describing fully the premises whereon such work is proposed and setting out in
detail the location of all such proposed work on the premises. The fee for a
zoning permit shall be as specified under the schedule of fees adopted by the
city.
   (B)   Zoning Permit For Manufactured Homes: No manufactured home shall be
assembled, erected, added to or structurally changed unless a zoning permit has
been issued by the administrator or his authorized representative to ensure
that the manufactured home is assembled to standards regulating the anchoring
of the structure to its foundation and other building requirements that meet or
exceed the standards of the uniform building code. Any person desiring to
obtain such a permit shall submit a zoning permit application on a prescribed
form which shall include, in addition to such information as is generally
required for zoning permits and is necessary for administrative purposes, all
information necessary to determine the manufactured home's conformity with
chapter 20 of this title, including exterior dimensions, roofing pitch, roofing
material, size of overhangs, exterior siding material, foundations fascia and
other applicable information. The zoning permit application shall be signed by
the applicant and the applicant shall provide all information necessary to
verify such structure does meet the definition of manufactured home and does
meet the standards of chapter 20 of this title, prior to moving said structure
to the building site. The administrator or his authorized representative,
following the issuance of the zoning permit and upon inspection of the site for
the attachment of the structure to a foundation base, shall verify in writing
that all standards of chapter 20 of this title have been met as certified by
the applicant in the application form.
   (C)   Responsibility Of Applicant: It shall be the responsibility of the
applicant to locate and establish all property lines to the reasonable
satisfaction of the administrator. The administrator may obtain the advice of
the council regarding the location and establishment of property lines and may
require a survey of the premises.
   (D)   Inspection: The administrator and his authorized representative are
hereby empowered to cause any building, other structure or tract of land to be
inspected and examined and to order in writing the remedying of any condition
found to exist therein or thereat in violation of any provisions of this title.
After any such order has been served no work shall proceed on any building,
other structure or tract of land covered by such order, except to correct or
comply with such violation.
   (E)   Injunction: In addition to any of the foregoing remedies the city
attorney, acting in behalf of the council, may maintain any action for the
injunction to restrain; any violation of this title. (Ord. 281, 11-4-1985)
10-14-3: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this title, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than three hundred dollars
($300.00) or imprisoned not more than one hundred eighty (180) days, or both.
Each day during which the illegal erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, maintenance or use continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-14-4: COMPLAINTS:
Any person aggrieved by a violation of the provisions of this title may file a
written complaint with the administrator, who shall immediately investigate
such complaint and take action to have the violation removed, if such a
violation is, in fact, found to exist. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-14-5: VARIANCES:
   (A)   Power To Grant Variances: The commission may grant a variance only if
all the following requirements, insofar as applicable, have been satisfied:
      1.   There are unique physical circumstances or conditions such as
irregularity, narrowness or shallowness of the lot or exceptional topographical
or other physical conditions peculiar to the property;
      2.   The unusual circumstances or conditions do not exist throughout the
neighborhood or district in which the property is located;
      3.   Because of such physical circumstances or conditions, the property
cannot reasonably be developed in conformity with the provisions of this zoning
title;
      4.   Such unnecessary hardship has not been created by the applicant;
      5.   The variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character of
the neighborhood or district in which the property is located nor substantially
or permanently impair the appropriate use or development of adjacent property;
      6.   The variance, if granted, is the minimum variance that will afford
relief and is the least modification possible of the zoning ordinance
provisions which are in question.
   (B)   Hearing Procedure For Variances: Upon receipt of the application for a
variance the commission shall follow the notice and hearing procedures provided
in subsection
10-8-6(B) of this title. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-14-6: SCHEDULE OF FEES:
   (A)   The council shall establish a schedule of fees for zoning permits,
appeals, amendments and other matters pertaining to the provisions of this
title. The schedule of fees may be altered or amended only by the council.
(Ord. 230, 6-21-1976; amd. Ord. 267, 5-4-1981)
   (B)   Until all applicable fees, charges and expenses have been paid in full
no action shall be taken on any application or appeal. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
CHAPTER 15
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
SECTION:
10-15-1: Organization Of Board Of Adjustment
10-15-2: Powers Of The Board
10-15-3: Appeal Procedure
10-15-1: ORGANIZATION OF BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT:
   (A)   There is hereby created a board of adjustment (hereinafter called the
board) to aid in the administration of the provisions of this title. The
council is responsible for appointing the membership of the board. In the event
no board is appointed the council shall perform the duties and functions of the
board.
   (B)   The board shall elect a chairman and adopt such rules of procedure
which may be necessary or convenient for carrying out its function. All
meetings shall be open to the public and records shall be kept of all requests
and actions taken. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
10-15-2: POWERS OF THE BOARD:
The board shall hear and decide appeals from any decision or requirement made
by the administrator. Every decision made by the board shall be based upon
findings of fact and must be supported in the records of the board. (Ord. 267,
5-4-1981)
10-15-3: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
Any person denied a zoning permit under this title shall have the right to
appeal within fifteen (15) days after being notified of the action of the
administrator.
The notice of appeal must be in writing and filed with the administrator and
must be accompanied by a fee adopted by the city. The notice of appeal shall
state specifically the basis of the appeal. As soon as practicable after
receiving the notice of appeal, the board shall fix a date, time and place for
hearing the appeal by the board. Written notice of the time and place of the
hearing shall be given at least fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the
hearing to each appellant. The board must render a decision within thirty (30)
days of the date of the hearing.
Only those matters or issues specified by the notice of appeal shall be
considered in the hearing of the appeal. (Ord. 267, 5-4-1981)
CHAPTER 16
REZONING POLICY AND STANDARDS; CONFLICTS
SECTION:
10-16-1: Declaration Of Policy And Standards For Rezoning
10-16-2: Conflict With Other Laws
10-16-1: DECLARATION OF POLICY AND STANDARDS FOR REZONING:
For the purpose of establishing and maintaining sound, stable and desirable
development within the city of Genesee the rezoning of land is to be
discouraged and allowed only under certain circumstances as provided hereafter.
The zoning map is the result of a detailed and comprehensive appraisal of the
city's present and future needs regarding land use allocation and, as such,
should not be amended unless to correct a manifest error or because of changed
or changing conditions in a particular area or the city in general. Rezonings
shall only be allowed if the applicant demonstrates by clear and convincing
evidence that:
   (A)   The land to be rezoned was zoned in error and as presently zoned is
inconsistent with the policies and goals of the city's comprehensive plan; or
   (B)   The area for which rezoning is requested has changed or is changing to
such a degree that it is in the public interest to encourage a redevelopment of
the area; or
   (C)   The proposed rezoning is necessary in order to provide land for a
community related use which was not anticipated at the time of the adoption of
the city's comprehensive plan, and that such rezoning will be consistent with
the policies and goals of the comprehensive plan.
This declaration of standards for rezoning shall not control a rezoning which
occurs incidental to a comprehensive revision of the city's zoning map. (Ord.
230, 6-21-1976)
10-16-2: CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS:
   (A)   Whenever regulations or restrictions imposed by the provisions of this
title are in conflict with the regulations or restrictions imposed by any
governmental authority through legislation, rules, regulations, restrictions,
ordinances or resolutions, the more restrictive or those which impose higher
standards or requirements shall govern.
   (B)   Regardless of any other provisions of this title, no land shall be
used and no structure erected or maintained in violation of any state or
federal pollution control or environmental protection law or regulation. (Ord.
230, 6-21-1976)
CHAPTER 17
ANNEXATIONS
SECTION:
10-17-1: Annexed Territory
10-17-1: ANNEXED TERRITORY:
   (A)   Prior to annexation of an unincorporated area, the council shall
request and receive a recommendation from the commission on the proposed plan
and zoning ordinance changes for the unincorporated area. The commission and
the council shall follow the notice and hearing procedures provided in section
10-12-4 of this title.
   (B)   Concurrently or immediately following the adoption of an ordinance of
annexation, the council shall amend the comprehensive plan and zoning ordinance
if applicable. (Ord. 230, 6-21-1976)
CHAPTER 18
CITY IMPACT AREA
ARTICLE A. LATAH COUNTY AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
10-18A-1: Area
10-18A-2: Definitions
10-18A-3: Governing Plan And Ordinances
10-18A-4: Administration Of The Area Of City Impact
10-18A-5: Appeals
10-18A-6: Enforcement
10-18A-7: Renegotiation
10-18A-8: Agreement With Latah County
10-18A-1: AREA:
The Genesee area of city impact agreement shall affect the unincorporated area
of Latah County within the following sections: 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, Township
37 North, Range 05 West, B.M., as depicted on the map attached to the ordinance
codified herein, and as provided in the revised Genesee area of city impact and
agreement and in Latah County ordinance 307. Land outside the city limits, but
within the above described area shall be deemed within the Genesee area of city
impact. (Ord. 388, 2-7-2012)
10-18A-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words when used herein shall have these meanings:
   ADMINISTRATIVE REQUESTS: Applications, requests, determinations, or
interpretations other than quasi-judicial and "legislative actions" as defined
herein, such as land divisions, zoning determinations, floodplain
determinations, zoning interpretations of the zoning administrator or designee,
and other administrative actions.
   AREA: The city of Genesee's area of city impact.
   BOARD: The board of Latah County commissioners.
   CITY: The city of Genesee.
   COMPLAINTS: Written requests for enforcement under the ordinances adopted
pursuant to section
10-18A-3 of this article.
   COUNTY: Latah County.
   LEGISLATIVE ACTIONS: Amendments to the zoning map or ordinances, and other
similar decisions by a governing board sitting in a legislative capacity, where
its decision produces a general rule or policy applicable to an open class of
individuals, interests, or situations.
   QUASI-JUDICIAL APPLICATIONS: Applications for decisions or determinations
regarding property located within the area, which are made by a governing board
or its designee sitting in a quasi- judicial capacity, where its decision
involves the application of a general rule or policy to specific individuals,
interests, or situations, including, but not limited to, conditional use
permits, special use permits, planned unit developments, subdivisions,
variances, rezones, and other quasi-judicial proceedings. (Ord. 388, 2-7-2012)
10-18A-3: GOVERNING PLAN AND ORDINANCES:
   (A)   The county's comprehensive plan (resolution 2010-32), land use
ordinance (ordinance 269, as amended), and fee schedule (resolution 2002-15),
and subsequent amendments thereto, are hereby adopted by the county for the
area. All other applicable county ordinances and resolutions are still in
effect for the area.
   (B)   The county will adopt or has adopted this agreement in Latah County
ordinance 307.
   (C)   This agreement supersedes and replaces the prior Genesee area of city
impact agreement between the parties hereto which was approved by the parties
on January 31, 2000.
   (D)   No amendments of the plan or zoning and subdivision ordinances in the
area shall be effective until adopted by the city as required by its ordinances
and thereafter by the county. (Ord. 388, 2-7-2012)
10-18A-4: ADMINISTRATION OF THE AREA OF CITY IMPACT:
   (A)   Administration: The county shall administer the applicable ordinances
and resolutions for the area, as identified in subsection
10-18A-3(A) of this article.
   (B)   Applications, Permits Made To County: All applications, requests for
permits, and inquiries regarding property located within the area, which are
made pursuant to the ordinances adopted under section
10-18A-3 of this article, shall be made to the county. The county shall charge
and collect a fee based upon the adopted county fee schedule, as identified in
subsection
10-18A-3(A) of this article.
   (C)   County To Notify City: The county shall process administrative
requests in the area without input from the city, however, the county will
notify the city of administrative requests, such as building permits or land
divisions, within ten (10) days of receipt of such request. The city and county
recognize that some administrative requests, such as zoning interpretations or
buildable parcel determinations, are informal and can be addressed by county
staff without the need to notify the city.
   (D)   Quasi-Judicial Applications:
      1.   Quasi-judicial applications shall be reviewed by the county staff
and scheduled for the required public hearing(s) before the Latah County zoning
commission and/or the board of county commissioners, as specified by the Latah
County land use ordinance.
      2.   The county shall provide the city a period of forty (40) days prior
to the hearing to consider the request and submit a reply or comment to the
county. If the city submits comment or a letter stating they have no comment
prior to the forty (40) day time period, the period shall commence upon the
date of receipt by the county. After public testimony has been closed for the
final hearing on an application, the city forfeits its right to comment on the
application. Following the receipt by the county of an application or request
for property in the area, a joint application conference may be held with the
applicant and staff from the city and county to review and discuss the
application or request.
      3.   The county shall consider seriously any comment or reply from the
city as part of its hearing process.
   (E)   Inspections: Development or establishment of a land use resulting from
approval of a permit application in the area shall be inspected by the county
when required. The county shall continue to issue all building permits and
mobile home installation permits in the area. The county shall continue to
retain authority over recognizing the approval of all inspections and
certificates of occupancy.
   (F)   Complaints: Complaints that have been received in writing by the
county shall be investigated by the county.
   (G)   Annexation: If an application for a zoning district amendment,
comprehensive plan amendment, or subdivision plat for land located within the
area is received in conjunction with a request for annexation, the application
shall be presented, by the applicant, directly to the city, not the county. The
city shall collect the appropriate fee(s) in accordance with their adopted fee
schedule. In the event the property which is the subject of the application is
annexed by the city while the application is pending before the city, the city
can thereafter make a final determination on the application as though the
property had been within the city at the time the application was made. In the
event that the annexation is not executed prior to the city's final
determination on the application, that decision shall be void. Afterward, the
applicant may wait for the city to annex their property to make a new
application to the city or make application to the county, which will collect
county fees and process the application. (Ord. 388, 2-7-2012)
10-18A-5: APPEALS:
   (A)   There shall be no appeal of city recommendations offered pursuant to
subsection
10-18A-4(D)2 of this article because such recommendations are not final
determinations. Appeals from county actions shall be governed by the appeal
provisions of the relevant county ordinances, the Idaho Code, the Idaho rules
of civil procedure, and any other applicable statute or regulation.
   (B)   Final decisions by the county made under this agreement may be subject
to appeal or judicial review. (Ord. 388, 2-7-2012)
10-18A-6: ENFORCEMENT:
The planning and building department and/or the county prosecuting attorney may
take legal action to enforce land use regulations within the area. (Ord. 388,
2-7-2012)
10-18A-7: RENEGOTIATION:
   (A)   This agreement shall be renegotiated at any time upon written request
of either party in accordance with Idaho Code section 67-6526(d).
   (B)   Pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-6526(d), it is the intent of the
parties that the governing boards shall, at least every ten (10) years,
undertake a review of the area of city impact plan and ordinance requirements
to determine whether renegotiations are in the best interests of the citizenry.
(Ord. 388, 2-7-2012)
10-18A-8: AGREEMENT WITH LATAH COUNTY:
The mayor of the city of Genesee is hereby authorized to enter into the revised
city of Genesee area of city impact agreement with Latah County which sets
forth and gives effect to the provisions contained herein. (Ord. 388, 2-7-2012)
ARTICLE B. NEZ PERCE COUNTY AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
10-18B-1: Area
10-18B-2: Definitions
10-18B-3: Governing Plan And Ordinances
10-18B-4: Administration Of The Area Of City Impact
10-18B-5: Appeals
10-18B-6: Enforcement
10-18B-7: Renegotiation
10-18B-8: Agreement With Nez Perce County
10-18B-1: AREA:
The Genesee area of city impact agreement shall affect the unincorporated area
of Nez Perce County within the following sections: The North 1/2 of Sections
22, 23, and 24, Township 37 North, Range 5 West, B.M., as depicted on the map
attached to the ordinance codified herein, and as provided in the Genesee area
of city impact agreement and in Nez Perce County ordinance 90. Land outside the
city limits, but within the above described area shall be deemed within the
Genesee area of city impact. (Ord. 389, 5-1-2012)
10-18B-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words when used herein shall have these meanings:
   ADMINISTRATIVE REQUESTS: Applications, requests, determinations, or
interpretations other than quasi-judicial and "legislative actions" as defined
herein, such as land divisions, zoning determinations, floodplain
determinations, zoning interpretations of the zoning administrator or designee,
and other administrative actions.
   AREA: The city of Genesee's area of city impact.
   BOARD: The board of Nez Perce County commissioners.
   CITY: The city of Genesee.
   COMPLAINTS: Written requests for enforcement under the ordinances adopted
pursuant to section
10-18B-3 of this article.
   COUNTY: Nez Perce County.
   LEGISLATIVE ACTIONS: Amendments to the zoning map or ordinances, and other
similar decisions by a governing board sitting in a legislative capacity, where
its decision produces a general rule or policy applicable to an open class of
individuals, interests, or situations.
   QUASI-JUDICIAL APPLICATIONS: Applications for decisions or determinations
regarding property located within the area, which are made by a governing board
or its designee sitting in a quasi- judicial capacity, where its decision
involves the application of a general rule or policy to specific individuals,
interests, or situations, including, but not limited to, conditional use
permits, special use permits, planned unit developments, subdivisions,
variances, rezones, and other quasi-judicial proceedings. (Ord. 389, 5-1-2012)
10-18B-3: GOVERNING PLAN AND ORDINANCES:
   (A)   The county's comprehensive plan (resolution 98-12-153), land use
ordinance (ordinance 72z, as amended), and fee schedule (resolution 2008-11-
178), and subsequent amendments thereto, are hereby adopted by the county for
the area. All other applicable county ordinances and resolutions are still in
effect for the area.
   (B)   The county will adopt or has adopted this agreement in Nez Perce
County ordinance 90. (Ord. 389, 5-1-2012)
10-18B-4: ADMINISTRATION OF THE AREA OF CITY IMPACT:
   (A)   Administration: The county shall administer the applicable ordinances
and resolutions for the area, as identified in subsection
10-18B-3(A) of this article.
   (B)   Applications, Permits Made To County: All applications, requests for
permits, and inquiries regarding property located within the area, which are
made pursuant to the ordinances adopted under section
10-18B-3 of this article, shall be made to the county. The county shall charge
and collect a fee based upon the adopted county fee schedule, as identified in
subsection
10-18B-3(A) of this article.
   (C)   County To Notify City: The county shall process administrative
requests in the area without input from the city, however, the county will
notify the city of administrative requests, such as building permits or land
divisions, within ten (10) days of receipt of such request. The city and county
recognize that some administrative requests, such as zoning interpretations or
buildable parcel determinations, are informal and can be addressed by county
staff without the need to notify the city.
   (D)   Quasi-Judicial Applications:
      1.   Quasi-judicial applications shall be reviewed by the county staff
and scheduled for the required public hearing(s) before the Nez Perce County
zoning commission and/or the board of county commissioners, as specified by the
Nez Perce County land use ordinance.
      2.   The county shall provide the city a period of forty (40) days prior
to the hearing to consider the request and submit a reply or comment to the
county. If the city submits comment or a letter stating they have no comment
prior to the forty (40) day time period, the period shall commence upon the
date of receipt by the county. After public testimony has been closed for the
final hearing on an application, the city forfeits its right to comment on the
application. Following the receipt by the county of an application or request
for property in the area, a joint application conference may be held with the
applicant and staff from the city and county to review and discuss the
application or request.
      3.   The county shall consider seriously any comment or reply from the
city as part of its hearing process.
   (E)   Inspections: Development or establishment of a land use resulting from
approval of a permit application in the area shall be inspected by the county
when required. The county shall continue to issue all building permits and
mobile home installation permits in the area. The county shall continue to
retain authority over recognizing the approval of all inspections and
certificates of occupancy.
   (F)   Complaints: Complaints that have been received in writing by the
county shall be investigated by the county.
   (G)   Annexation: If an application for a zoning district amendment,
comprehensive plan amendment, or subdivision plat for land located within the
area is received in conjunction with a request for annexation, the application
shall be presented, by the applicant, directly to the city, not the county. The
city shall collect the appropriate fee(s) in accordance with their adopted fee
schedule. In the event the property which is the subject of the application is
annexed by the city while the application is pending before the city, the city
can thereafter make a final determination on the application as though the
property had been within the city at the time the application was made. In the
event that the annexation is not executed prior to the city's final
determination on the application, that decision shall be void. Afterward, the
applicant may wait for the city to annex their property to make a new
application to the city or make application to the county, which will collect
county fees and process the application. (Ord. 389, 5-1-2012)
10-18B-5: APPEALS:
   (A)   There shall be no appeal of city recommendations offered pursuant to
subsection
10-18B-4(D)2 of this article because such recommendations are not final
determinations. Appeals from county actions shall be governed by the appeal
provisions of the relevant county ordinances, the Idaho Code, the Idaho rules
of civil procedure, and any other applicable statute or regulation.
   (B)   Final decisions by the county made under this agreement may be subject
to appeal or judicial review. (Ord. 389, 5-1-2012)
10-18B-6: ENFORCEMENT:
The planning and building department and/or the county prosecuting attorney may
take legal action to enforce land use regulations within the area. (Ord. 389,
5-1-2012)
10-18B-7: RENEGOTIATION:
   (A)   This agreement shall be renegotiated at any time upon written request
of either party in accordance with Idaho Code section 67-6526(d).
   (B)   Pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-6526(d), it is the intent of the
parties that the governing boards shall, at least every ten (10) years,
undertake a review of the area of city impact plan and ordinance requirements
to determine whether renegotiations are in the best interests of the citizenry.
(Ord. 389, 5-1-2012)
10-18B-8: AGREEMENT WITH NEZ PERCE COUNTY:
The mayor of the city of Genesee is hereby authorized to enter into the city of
Genesee area of city impact agreement with Nez Perce County which sets forth
and gives effect to the provisions contained herein. (Ord. 389, 5-1-2012)
CHAPTER 19
LIVESTOCK AND FOWL 1
SECTION:
10-19-1: Maintaining Certain Animals And Fowl Regulated
10-19-2: Hogs And Pigs
10-19-3: Permission Required To Move Animals
10-19-4: Impounding Fees
10-19-5: Misdemeanor
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 6, chapter 5 of this code.
10-19-1: MAINTAINING CERTAIN ANIMALS AND FOWL REGULATED:
It shall be unlawful to keep or maintain any fowl, rabbits, horses, cows,
sheep, goats or other livestock within the city limits, except as provided in
this section.
   (A)   Zone A shall consist of properties with less than fifteen thousand
(15,000) square feet of real property. Zone B shall consist of properties with
fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet or more but less than fifty thousand
(50,000) square feet of real property. Zone C shall consist of properties of
fifty thousand (50,000) square feet or more of real property.
   (B)   In computing the square footage requirements of this section for
purposes of animals other than rabbits or fowl, the following restrictions
shall apply. In making the zone determination for rabbits and fowl, all real
property which the person owns or controls in accordance with subsection (B)3
of this section may be considered.
      1.   The space occupied by any building and any area excluded from access
by the animals, except buildings to be occupied by the animals, for which the
calculation is being made, shall be excluded.
      2.   The required area for any animal or for animals shall be considered
only one time. For example, the ten thousand (10,000) square feet in zone B
necessary for one horse shall not also be considered in the calculation of the
square footage for one cow.
      3.   The property making up the required area must be owned or leased by
the applicant or the applicant must have the written authorization of the owner
of the property to use the property for the purpose of grazing or maintaining
animals.
      4.   The property which may be considered in making up the square footage
must be adjoining or adjacent which shall be deemed to mean not separated by a
distance greater than the width of a street.
      5.   It shall not be necessary that the animals have continual access to
all of the property, but all property being considered in making up the square
footage shall be devoted primarily to the use of the animals.
   (C)   In zone A, a person may be allowed to keep and maintain one horse or
one cow or two (2) sheep or two (2) goats for every five thousand (5,000)
square feet of real property with a maximum of two (2) horses or two (2) cows
or four (4) sheep or four (4) goats.
   (D)   In zone A, a person may be allowed to keep and maintain up to twenty
five (25) fowl or rabbits, and in no event shall the fowl or poultry hutch or
the fowl, poultry or rabbit run be less than forty feet (40') from any dwelling
other than that of the owner.
   (E)   In zone B, a person may be allowed to keep and maintain one horse or
one cow or four (4) sheep or four (4) goats for every ten thousand (10,000)
square feet of real property with a maximum of five (5) horses or five (5) cows
or ten (10) sheep or ten (10) goats. In zone C, a person may be allowed to keep
and maintain one horse or one cow or four (4) sheep or four (4) goats for every
ten thousand (10,000) square feet of real property with a maximum of ten (10)
horses and ten (10) cows or twenty (20) sheep or twenty (20) goats.
   (F)   In zones B and C, a person shall be allowed to keep and maintain up to
fifty (50) fowl or rabbits, and in no event shall the fowl or poultry house,
rabbit hutch or the fowl, poultry or rabbit run be less than forty feet (40')
from any dwelling other than that of the owner.
   (G)   It shall be lawful to maintain or keep offspring of any cow, horse,
goat or sheep, in addition to the animals herein allowed, for a period of six
(6) months after the birth of such offspring and, and it shall be lawful to
maintain and keep the offspring of any rabbit or fowl in addition to the rabbit
or fowl herein allowed for a period of twelve (12) weeks.
   (H)   In the event the city shall receive two (2) written complaints
regarding the keeping or maintaining of animals, including, but not limited to,
the property classification of properties, from residents of the city within
any three (3) month period, the complaints shall be referred to the commission
for consideration. The party complained against may be directed to make
application for approval of his keeping and maintaining animals, which
application shall be made and processed in the same manner as a special review
use application as set out in section
10-8-6 of this title. The approving agency shall have all authority and powers
regarding modifications and conditions as set out in section
10-8-6 of this title notwithstanding any provision of this chapter, including
authority to reduce the animals or fowl which may be allowed to something less
than is otherwise allowed hereby even to the extent of allowing no animals
whatsoever to be kept or maintained on the property under consideration. The
result of such proceedings shall be the approval of such party keeping and
maintaining animals as he was doing prior to the receipt of two (2) written
complaints or the imposition of appropriate restrictions on his keeping and
maintaining animals. Any party subjected to a restriction hereunder may present
an application in accordance with section
10-8-6 of this title to remove such restriction not less than two (2) years
after the effective date of such restriction. Any restrictions imposed are
personal to the party against whom such restrictions are imposed and do not
apply to subsequent occupiers of the same property. In the event a party fails
to make applications for approval within fifteen (15) days after being directed
to do so, then the commission may proceed to publish notice of a public hearing
based on the complaints received in accordance with subsection
10-8-6(B)3 of this title and may thereafter impose such restrictions as the
commission deems appropriate. The action taken by the approving agency shall
not affect the criminal prosecution of violations of this chapter in any way.
(Ord. 290, 2-2-1987)
10-19-2: HOGS AND PIGS:
It shall be unlawful to maintain any hogs or pigs within zone A. Hogs and pigs
may be allowed in zones B and C for the period of April to October in the same
numbers as horses may be allowed in zones B and C with the same provision for
offspring as stated herein. There must be at least fifty (50) square feet of
enclosed real property for each hog or pig more than six (6) months old. In no
event shall the space containing hogs or pigs be less than forty feet (40')
from a dwelling other than that of the owner. (Ord. 290, 2-2-1987)
10-19-3: PERMISSION REQUIRED TO MOVE ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or cause to be driven any loose
animals or fowl whatsoever in, on, through or across any street or alley within
the municipality without first having obtained the consent of the chief of
police. Provided, however, that any person may drive not to exceed one head of
any such loose animal or fowl through or across any street or alley without
first having obtained consent of the said chief of police. In the event animals
or fowl shall have escaped from their enclosure, it shall not be necessary to
obtain permission to return the animals to an enclosure. (Ord. 290, 2-2-1987)
10-19-4: IMPOUNDING FEES:
The chief of police shall be entitled to receive for the municipality as legal
fees for taking up and impounding horses, mules, cattle, hogs, sheep and goats
or other livestock, twenty five dollars ($25.00) per head; for chickens or
other fowl or rabbits, two dollars fifty cents ($2.50) each. For keeping
animals, his charges per day shall be as follows: horses, mules, cattle, hogs,
sheep and goats, five dollars ($5.00); rabbits, chickens or other fowl, two
dollars ($2.00). (Ord. 290, 2-2-1987)
10-19-5: MISDEMEANOR:
   (A)   It is hereby declared a misdemeanor to maintain or keep animals or
fowl in violation of the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   It is hereby declared a misdemeanor to allow dead fowl, rabbit, calf,
sheep, or goat bodies, other than those slaughtered for consumption, to remain
upon the ground or in stables or in the particular animal run longer than
twenty four (24) hours. It is hereby declared a misdemeanor to allow dead cow,
horse or hog bodies, other than those slaughtered for consumption, to remain
upon the ground or in stables or in the particular animal run longer than three
(3) days. (Ord. 290, 2-2-1987)
CHAPTER 20
MANUFACTURED HOUSING
SECTION:
10-20-1: Definitions
10-20-2: Requirements For Manufactured Homes On Individual Lots
10-20-3: Class A Manufactured Homes On Individual Lots
10-20-4: Class B Manufactured Homes On Individual Building Lots
10-20-5: Replacement Of Nonconforming Manufactured Homes
10-20-6: Repeal Of Inconsistent Provisions
10-20-7: Provisions Severable
10-20-8: Effective Date
10-20-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions are provided for the purpose of proper interpretation
and administration of this chapter:
   CLASS A MANUFACTURED HOME: A manufactured home meeting the following
standards:
   (A)   Constructed after January 1, 1985, and certified as meeting current
mobile home construction and safety standards of the department of housing and
urban development.
   (B)   At least twenty feet (20') wide at the narrowest point.
   (C)   Roof pitch shall be not less than two foot (2') rise for each twelve
feet (12') of horizontal run (2:12) and roof shall have minimum six inch (6")
eave or eave and gutter.
   (D)   Has roofing materials which are in general use for site built housing;
however, any roofing material may be used provided it has the appearance of a
nonmetallic shingle, shake or tile roof.
   (E)   Has siding material which has the appearance of wood, masonry or
horizontal metal siding. Reflection from horizontal metal siding shall be no
greater than that from siding coated with white gloss enamel.
   (F)   Has a perimeter foundation constructed of brick, concrete, concrete
block or pressure treated wood, or is fully skirted with material having the
same appearance.
   (G)   Hitch or tongue of manufactured home shall be removed.
   CLASS B MANUFACTURED HOME: A manufactured home meeting the mobile home
construction and safety standards of the department of housing and urban
development but not meeting all of criteria (A) through (G) of class A
manufactured homes defined herein.
   CLASS C MANUFACTURED HOME: A manufactured home which does not meet the
mobile home construction and safety standards of the department of housing and
urban development but which is at least ten feet (10') wide and forty feet
(40') in length. (Ord. 324, 5-16-1994)
10-20-2: REQUIREMENTS FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES ON INDIVIDUAL LOTS:
   (A)   Manufactured homes on individual lots shall conform to all setback,
placement, lot size, and other requirements of this title for conventionally
built single-family homes on individual lots.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be connected to and served by the same
utility systems as provide service to conventionally built residences and shall
contain heating, plumbing, illumination, cooking and electrical equipment and
installations which conform to the standards adopted by the city for
conventionally built residences within the city.
   (C)   Only one manufactured home may be placed on an individual lot.
   (D)   Manufactured homes shall comply to chapter 13 of this title relating
to the location of mobile homes in floodplain areas and any other applicable
requirements of this section.
   (E)   The following requirements shall apply to any accessory structure to a
manufactured home on an individual lot:
      1.   An accessory building or structure, as is permitted in the zoning
district in which the manufactured home is to be located, shall be similar to
material and integrated into the design of the primary structure.
      2.   Accessory buildings or structures shall meet the uniform building
code standards or United States department of housing and urban development
standards. (Ord. 324, 5-16-1994)
10-20-3: CLASS A MANUFACTURED HOMES ON INDIVIDUAL LOTS:
Class A manufactured homes are allowed on individual building lots, providing
that a permit for placement is secured at least seven (7) days prior to
placement. (Ord. 324, 5-16-1994)
10-20-4: CLASS B MANUFACTURED HOMES ON INDIVIDUAL BUILDING LOTS:
   (A)   A class B manufactured home shall be allowed on any individual
building lot within the city of Genesee only under the following circumstances:
      1.   The mobile home has been inspected and approved by the United States
department of housing and urban development (HUD) and bears the seal of that
department, and
      2.   A conditional use permit has been obtained from the planning and
zoning commission of the city of Genesee, Idaho, based on a finding that
approval of the applicant for a conditional use permit will be compatible with
the general character of the neighborhood and will not negatively affect values
of other property within the neighborhood.
   (B)   In making its determination, the commission shall consider at least
the following criteria:
      1.   Existence of other similar manufactured homes in the neighborhood.
      2.   The general character of the neighborhood including the existing
land uses, compatibility of types and styles of buildings and condition of
housing.
   (C)   Approval of conditional use permit shall require that the applicant
comply with the following requirements:
      1.   The manufactured home shall be permanently attached to the real
property of the lot upon which the manufactured home is situated by anchoring
the manufactured home to a concrete foundation, removing the tongue and wheels
from the manufactured home and installing skirting acceptable to the commission
around the entire circumference of the manufactured home.
      2.   A building permit for the placement of the manufactured home on the
foundation on the lot shall be obtained from the building department of the
city of Genesee at least seven (7) days prior to placement.
      3.   A certificate of occupancy for the manufactured home shall be
obtained from the building department of the city of Genesee. (Ord. 324, 5-16-
1994)
10-20-5: REPLACEMENT OF NONCONFORMING MANUFACTURED HOMES:
   (A)   Replacement Of Nonconforming Homes: Nonconforming manufactured homes
located on individual lots which are removed from the property shall be
replaced only by conforming units.
   (B)   Destruction Of A Nonconforming Use: If a nonconforming manufactured
home is destroyed by any cause to an extent exceeding fifty percent (50%) of
fair market value as indicated by the records of the county assessor, a future
structure or use on the site shall conform to this chapter. (Ord. 324, 5-16-
1994)
10-20-6: REPEAL OF INCONSISTENT PROVISIONS:
Any provision of this code which is inconsistent with a provision of this title
is hereby repealed to the extent of such inconsistency. (Ord. 324, 5-16-1994)
10-20-7: PROVISIONS SEVERABLE:
The provisions of this chapter shall be deemed severable and as finding that
any provision is unlawful or unconstitutional by a court having jurisdiction
shall not affect the remaining provisions. (Ord. 324, 5-16-1994)
10-20-8: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage,
approval and publication according to law. (Ord. 324, 5-16-1994)
CHAPTER 21
SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS
SECTION:
10-21-1: Definitions
10-21-2: Location
10-21-3: Visual Appearance, Lighting, And Power Lines
10-21-4: Tower Type
10-21-5: Sound Levels And Measurement
10-21-6: Minimum Ground Clearance
10-21-7: Safety
10-21-8: Compliance With Building Codes
10-21-9: Compliance With Electrical Code
10-21-10: Compliance With Federal Aviation Administration Regulations
10-21-11: Other Federal, State And Local Requirements
10-21-12: Removal Of Defective Or Abandoned Small Wind Energy Systems
10-21-1: DEFINITIONS:
   SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEM: A wind energy conversion system consisting of wind
turbine(s), tower(s), and associated control or conversion electronics, which
has a rated capacity of not more than one hundred (100) kilowatts, turbine
height no greater than one hundred twenty five feet (125') and which is
intended to primarily reduce on site consumption of utility power.
   TURBINE HEIGHT: The distance measured from grade level of the tower
foundation to the highest point of the turbine rotor plane. (Ord. 382, 11-18-
2010)
10-21-2: LOCATION:
   (A)   Small wind energy systems and all towers, flagpoles and other similar
vertical structures shall be a permitted use in all zoning classifications in
the city of Genesee subject to the following requirements:
      1.   Must be located on a lot that has a minimum of seven thousand five
hundred (7,500) square feet of unobstructed property.
      2.   Must be situated so that its height is not greater than a distance
one and one-half (11/2) times the distance to the nearest lot boundary.
      3.   Total height must not exceed sixty feet (60') above the highest
elevation on the lot.
      4.   No aboveground part or component of a small wind energy system,
including, but not limited to, guywire anchors, may extend closer than one and
one-half (11/2) times the turbine height to the nearest boundary of the lot
upon which it is located.
      5.   A small wind energy system shall be set back from the nearest
aboveground public or private nonparticipating electric power line or telephone
line a distance of no less than one and two- tenths (1.2) times the turbine
height, determined from the existing power line or telephone line. (Ord. 382,
11-18-2010)
10-21-3: VISUAL APPEARANCE, LIGHTING, AND POWER LINES:
   (A)   The wind turbines of a small wind energy system shall be painted a
nonreflective, nonobtrusive color. Small wind energy system towers shall
maintain galvanized steel, brushed aluminum, white or gray finish, unless
federal aviation administration standards require otherwise.
   (B)   No small wind energy system shall be artificially lighted, except to
the extent required by the federal aviation administration or other applicable
authority.
   (C)   No small wind energy system shall be used for displaying any
advertising except for reasonable identification of the manufacturer.
   (D)   Electrical controls, control wiring and power lines shall be wireless
or underground after reaching grade from the turbine and extending away from
the base of the tower. Wiring may be exposed vertically from the turbine to the
base of the tower. (Ord. 382, 11-18-2010)
10-21-4: TOWER TYPE:
   (A)   Guyed, lattice and monopole towers are allowed to support the wind
turbines of a small wind energy system, and must meet current engineering
standards pertaining to durability and safety. (Ord. 382, 11-18-2010)
10-21-5: SOUND LEVELS AND MEASUREMENT:
   (A)   During construction and operations, a small wind energy system shall
comply with applicable state and county noise standards and the city of Genesee
nuisance ordinance. (Ord. 382, 11-18-2010)
10-21-6: MINIMUM GROUND CLEARANCE:
   (A)   The rotor blade tip of any small wind energy system shall, at its
lowest point, have ground clearance of no less than fifteen feet (15') as
measured at the lowest point of the arc of the rotor blade. (Ord. 382, 11-18-
2010)
10-21-7: SAFETY:
   (A)   Monopole towers shall not be climbable up to fifteen feet (15') above
ground level. A lattice type tower shall have a fence around it that is a
minimum of six feet (6') in height.
   (B)   All electrical equipment shall be safely and appropriately enclosed
from unintentional access by means such as barrier fencing, equipment cabinetry
or similar means. All access doors to electrical equipment shall remain locked
when not attended.
   (C)   Appropriate warning signage regarding, but not limited to, electrical
hazards, shall be placed on all small wind energy systems and surrounding fence
(if fence is required).
   (D)   All small wind energy systems shall be equipped with manual and
automatic overspeed controls to limit rotation of the rotor blades to a speed
below the designed limits of the system. (Ord. 382, 11-18-2010)
10-21-8: COMPLIANCE WITH BUILDING CODES:
   (A)   Small wind energy systems shall comply with the Idaho state building
code and adopted international building code.
   (B)   All construction of a tower, flagpole, and other similar vertical
structure requires a current building permit from the city of Genesee.
   (C)   Application for a building permit to the city of Genesee for the
construction of a small wind energy system shall include standard drawings and
an engineering analysis of the system's tower, showing compliance with current
city of Genesee building code and international building code. The engineering
must include a complete analysis of the tower, the tower foundation and the
connection of the tower to the foundation. The engineering analysis must be
completed by a licensed engineer, certified to practice in the state of Idaho.
(Ord. 382, 11-18-2010)
10-21-9: COMPLIANCE WITH ELECTRICAL CODE:
   (A)   Small wind energy systems shall comply with requirements of the Idaho
Code, applicable state of Idaho regulations, city of Genesee, and the current
adopted edition of the national electric code (NEC). (Ord. 382, 11-18-2010)
10-21-10: COMPLIANCE WITH FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Small wind energy systems must comply with all regulations of the
federal aviation administration, including any necessary approvals for
installations close to airports. (Ord. 382, 11-18-2010)
10-21-11: OTHER FEDERAL, STATE AND LOCAL REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Small wind energy systems shall comply with all applicable federal,
state and county laws, codes and policies.
   (B)   Small wind energy systems that are connected to the utility grid shall
comply with the requirements of Idaho Code and applicable state of Idaho
regulations. (Ord. 382, 11-18-2010)
10-21-12: REMOVAL OF DEFECTIVE OR ABANDONED SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS:
   (A)   Any small wind energy system found to be unsafe by the city of Genesee
building official shall not be operated and shall be promptly repaired by the
landowner, at the landowner's expense, to meet federal, state and local safety
standards and regulations, or shall be removed within three (3) months.
   (B)   If any small wind energy system is not operational for a period of
twelve (12) consecutive months or more, the city of Genesee may request by
registered mail that the landowner provide corrective action. The landowner
will have forty five (45) days to respond setting forth specific reasons for
the operational difficulty and provide a reasonable timetable for corrective
action. If the city of Genesee deems the timetable for corrective action is
unreasonable, it shall notify the landowner and such landowner shall remove the
small wind energy system at his or her own expense within one hundred twenty
(120) days of receipt of notice from the city of Genesee. The city of Genesee
shall have the authority to pursue legal action if necessary. (Ord. 382, 11-18-
2010)
CHAPTER 22
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
10-22-1: Statutory Authorization, Findings Of Fact, Purpose, And Objectives
10-22-1-1: Statutory Authority
10-22-1-2: Findings Of Fact
10-22-1-3: Statement Of Purpose
10-22-1-4: Objectives And Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
10-22-2: Definitions
10-22-3: General Provisions
10-22-3-1: Lands To Which The Chapter Applies
10-22-3-2: Basis For Special Flood Hazard Areas
10-22-3-3: Establishment Of Floodplain Development Permit
10-22-3-4: Compliance
10-22-3-5: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
10-22-3-6: Interpretation
10-22-3-7: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
10-22-3-8: Penalties For Violation
10-22-4: Administration
10-22-4-1: Designation Of Floodplain Ordinance Administrator
10-22-4-2: Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator
10-22-4-3: Floodplain Development Application, Permit, And Certification
Requirements
10-22-4-4: Corrective Procedures
10-22-4-5: Variance Procedures
10-22-5: Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
10-22-5-1: General Standards
10-22-5-2: Specific Standards
10-22-5-3: Standards For Floodplains Without Established Base Flood Elevations
10-22-5-4: Standards For Riverine Floodplains With Base Flood Elevations But
Without Established Floodways
10-22-5-5: Standards For Floodways
10-22-5-6: Standards For Areas Of Shallow Flooding (Zone AO, AH, AR/AO, Or AR/
AH)
10-22-5-7: Standards For Possible But Undetermined Flood Hazards, As No
Analysis Of Flood Hazards Has Been Conducted (D Zone)
10-22-6: Legal Status Provisions
10-22-6-1: Effect On Rights And Liabilities Under The Existing Flood Damage
Prevention Ordinance
10-22-6-2: Effect Upon Outstanding Floodplain Development Permits
10-22-6-3: Severability
10-22-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE, AND OBJECTIVES:
10-22-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORITY:
The Legislature of the State of Idaho, pursuant to Idaho Code §§ 46-1020, 46-
1023, and 46-1024, authorizes local governments to adopt floodplain management
ordinances that identify floodplains and minimum floodplain development
standards to minimize flood hazards and protect human life, health, and
property. Therefore, the Council of the City of Genesee, Idaho does hereby
ordain as follows. (Ord. 428, 11-1-2022)
10-22-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of City of Genesee are subject to periodic
inundation that results in:
      1.   Loss of life and property;
      2.   Health and safety hazards;
      3.   Disruption of commerce and governmental services;
      4.   Extraordinary public expenditures for flood relief and protection;
and
      5.   Impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public
health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses may be caused by development in flood hazard areas,
which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise unprotected from
flood damages, and by the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains
causing increases in flood heights and velocities.
   (C)   Local government units have the primary responsibility for planning,
adopting, and enforcing land use regulations to accomplish proper floodplain
management. (Ord. 428, 11-1-2022)
10-22-1-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote public health, safety, and general
welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in
specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life, health, and property;
   (B)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
purification and sewage treatment plants, water and gas mains, electric,
telephone and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located in floodplains;
   (C)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas;
   (D)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (E)   Minimize the need for rescue and emergency services associated with
flooding, generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (F)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (G)   Ensure potential buyers are notified the property is in an area of
special flood hazard; and
   (H)   Ensure those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions. (Ord. 428, 11-1-2022)
10-22-1-4: OBJECTIVES AND METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purpose, this chapter includes methods and
provisions to:
   (A)   Require that development which is vulnerable to floods, including
structures and facilities necessary for the general health, safety, and welfare
of citizens, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (B)   Restrict or prohibit development which are dangerous to health,
safety, and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which increase flood
heights, velocities, or erosion;
   (C)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage or erosion;
   (D)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert flood waters or that may increase flood hazards to other
lands;
   (E)   Preserve and restore natural floodplains, stream channels, and natural
protective barriers which carry and store flood waters. (Ord. 428, 11-1-2022)
10-22-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted according to the meaning they have in common usage and to give
this chapter its most reasonable application.
ACCESSORY AND
AGRICULTURAL   A structure on the same lot or parcel as a principal structure, the use of which is
STRUCTURES     incidental and subordinate to the principal structure.
(APPURTENANT
STRUCTURE):
ADDITION (TO
AN EXISTING    An extension or increase in the floor area or height of a building or structure.
BUILDING):
AGRICULTURAL   A structure which is used exclusively in connection with the production, harvesting,
STRUCTURES     storage, raising, or drying of agricultural commodities and livestock; specifically
(APPURTENANT   excludes any structures used for human habitation.
STRUCTURE):
APPEAL:        A request for review of the Floodplain Administrator's interpretation of provisions
               of this chapter or request for a variance.
               A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, or AR/AH zone on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map
AREA OF        (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) or greater annual chance of flooding to an average
SHALLOW        depth of one (1) to three (3) feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist,
FLOODING:      where the path of flooding is unpredictable, and where velocity flow may be evident.
               Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF
SPECIAL FLOOD  See Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA).
HAZARD:
BASE FLOOD:    The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given
               year.
               A determination by the Federal Insurance Administrator of the water surface
               elevations of the base flood, that is, the flood level that has a one percent or
BASE FLOOD     greater chance of occurrence in any given year. When the BFE has not been provided
ELEVATION      in a Special Flood Hazard Area, it may be obtained from engineering studies
(BFE):         available from a Federal, State, or other source using FEMA-approved engineering
               methodologies. This elevation, when combined with the Freeboard, establishes the
               Flood Protection Elevation.
BASEMENT:      Any area of the building having its floor sub grade (below ground level) on all
               sides.
BUILDING:      See STRUCTURE.
               Mowing, cutting, or burning of weeds, trees and other nuisance growth, including
CLEANING       algae growth, application of pesticides as permitted, removal of beaver dams, and
(IRRIGATION):  removal of trash or other debris whether floating, lodged or otherwise obstructing
               the conveyance of water flow through channels and works.
               Facilities that are vital to flood response activities or critical to the health and
               safety of the public before, during, and after a flood, such as a hospital,
CRITICAL       emergency operations center, electric substation, police station, fire station,
FACILITIES:    nursing home, school, vehicle and equipment storage facility, or shelter; and
               facilities that, if flooded, would make the flood problem and its impacts much
               worse, such as a hazardous materials facility, power generation facility, water
               utility, or wastewater treatment plant.
               The vertical datum is a base measurement point (or set of points) from which all
               elevations are determined. Historically, that common set of points was the National
DATUM:         Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929 (NGVD 29). The vertical datum currently adopted by
               the federal government as a basis for measuring heights is the North American
               Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD 88).
               Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including but not limited
DEVELOPMENT:   to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving,
               excavation or drilling operations, or storage of equipment or materials.
               Any activity defined as Development which will necessitate a Floodplain Development
DEVELOPMENT    Permit; such as: the construction of buildings, structures, or accessory structures;
ACTIVITY:      additions or substantial improvements to existing structures; bulkheads, retaining
               walls, piers, and pools; the placement of mobile homes; or the deposition or
               extraction of materials; the construction or elevation of dikes, berms and levees.
DIGITAL FLOOD  The digital official map of a community, issued by the Federal Insurance
INSURANCE RATE Administrator, on which both the Special Flood Hazard Areas and the risk premium
MAP (DFIRM):   zones applicable to the community are delineated.
ELEVATED       For insurance purposes, a non-basement building which has its lowest elevated floor
BUILDING:      raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers, pilings,
               or columns.
               The Elevation Certificate is an important administrative tool of the NFIP. It is
ELEVATION      used to determine the proper flood insurance premium rate; it is used to document
CERTIFICATE:   elevation information; and it may be used to support a request for a Letter of Map
               Amendment (LOMA) or Letter of Map Revision based on fill (LOMR-F).
               An area enclosed by solid walls below the BFE/FPE or an area formed when any space
ENCLOSURE:     below the BFE/FPE is enclosed on all sides by walls or partitions. Insect screening
               or open wood lattice used to surround space below the BFE/RFPE is not considered an
               enclosure.
               The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation, buildings, structures, or
ENCROACHMENT:  development into a floodplain, which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a
               floodplain.
               For the purposes of determining rates, structures for which the "start of
EXISTING       construction" commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1,
CONSTRUCTION:  1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. "Existing construction" may also be
               referred to as "existing structures."
EXISTING       A manufactured home park or subdivision where the construction of facilities for
MANUFACTURED   servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at
HOME PARK OR   a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and final
MANUFACTURED   site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
HOME           of the original floodplain management regulations adopted by the community, March
SUBDIVISION:   16, 1987.
EXISTING       See EXISTING CONSTRUCTION.
STRUCTURES:
EXPANSION TO   The preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
AN EXISTING    the lots on which the manufacturing homes are to be affixed (including the
MANUFACTURED   installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
HOME PARK OR   grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
SUBDIVISION:
               (A)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
               normally dry land areas from:
                  1.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
                  2.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
               source.
                  3.   Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by flooding as
               defined in paragraph A.2. of this definition and are akin to a river of liquid and
FLOOD OR       flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when earth is carried by
FLOODING:      a current of water and deposited along the path of the current.
               (B)   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other body of
               water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents of water
               exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an unusually high water
               level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe storm, or by an
               unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an abnormal tidal surge, or by
               some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event which results in flooding as defined
               in paragraph (A)1. of this definition.
FLOOD BOUNDARY The FBFM shows how the floodplain is divided into the floodway and flood fringe
AND FLOODWAY   where streams are studied in detail. They also show general floodplain areas where
MAP (FBFM):    floodplains have been studied by approximate methods. (Old format Pre 1986)
FLOOD
ELEVATION      See BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE).
DETERMINATION:
FLOOD
ELEVATION      See FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS).
STUDY:
FLOOD HAZARD   An official map of a community, issued by the Federal Insurance Administrator, where
BOUNDARY MAP   the boundaries of the flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow) related erosion areas having
(FHBM):        special hazards have been designated as Zones A, M, and/or E.
FLOOD          An official map of a community, on which the Federal Insurance Administrator has
INSURANCE RATE delineated both the special flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable
MAP (FIRM):    to the community. A FIRM that has been made available digitally is called a Digital
               Flood Insurance Rate Map (DFIRM).
FLOOD          An examination, evaluation, and determination of flood hazards and, if appropriate,
INSURANCE      corresponding water surface elevations; or an examination, evaluation and
STUDY (FIS):   determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or flood-related erosion hazards.
               A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or Flood Insurance
FLOOD ZONE:    Rate Map (FIRM) that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area, and
               applicable insurance rate.
FLOODPLAIN OR  Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any source (see
FLOOD-PRONE    definition of "flooding").
AREA:
FLOODPLAIN     The individual appointed to administer and enforce the floodplain management
ADMINISTRATOR: regulations.
FLOODPLAIN     Any type of permit that is required in conformance with the provisions of this
DEVELOPMENT    chapter, prior to the commencement of any development activity.
PERMIT:
FLOODPLAIN     The operation of an overall program of corrective and preventive measures for
MANAGEMENT:    reducing flood damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans,
               flood control works, and flood plain management regulations.
               Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
FLOODPLAIN     special purpose ordinances (such as a flood plain ordinance, grading ordinance, and
MANAGEMENT     erosion control ordinance), and other applications of police power. The term
REGULATIONS:   describes such state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide
               standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
               Any combination of structural and non-structural additions, changes, or adjustments
FLOODPROOFING: to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or improved real
               property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their contents.
               The Base Flood Elevation plus the Freeboard.
FLOOD          (A)   In "Special Flood Hazard Areas" where Base Flood Elevations (BFEs) have been
PROTECTION     determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus two feet of freeboard; and
ELEVATION      (B)   In "Special Flood Hazard Areas" where no BFE has been established, this
(FPE):         elevation shall be at least three feet above the highest adjacent grade.
               Two (2) feet is State-recommendation, greater than two (2) feet is optional.
               Those physical structural works for which funds have been authorized, appropriated,
               and expended and which have been constructed specifically to modify flooding in
FLOOD          order to reduce the extent of the area within a community subject to a "special
PROTECTION     flood hazard" and the extent of the depths of associated flooding. Such a system
SYSTEM:        typically includes dams, reservoirs, levees, or dikes. These specialized flood
               modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering
               standards.
               The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must be
FLOODWAY:      reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the
               water surface elevation more than a designated height.
               A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for the purposes of
               floodplain management. Freeboard tends to compensate for the many unknown factors
               that could contribute to flood heights greater than the height calculated for a
FREEBOARD:     selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as wave action, obstructed bridge
               openings, debris and ice jams, and the hydrologic effects of urbanization in a
               watershed. The Base Flood Elevation (BFE) plus the freeboard establishes the Flood
               Protection Elevation (FPE). Freeboard shall be two feet.
               A facility that cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located or
FUNCTIONALLY   carried out in close proximity to water, such as a docking or port facility
DEPENDENT USE: necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, or
               ship repair facilities. The term does not include long-term storage, manufacture,
               sales, or service facilities.
GENERAL        The intent of the GIFD permit is to collectively authorize low-to-no impact
IRRIGATION     irrigation and drainage development activities or uses in the floodplain which
FLOODPLAIN     inherently do not increase the BFE. GIFD permits apply to all qualifying activities
DEVELOPMENT    within the spatial extents of an irrigation delivery or drainage system and within
PERMIT (GIFD   the regulatory floodway or SFHA, over a predetermined period of time, not to exceed
PERMIT):       five years. Issuance of a GIFD permit requires coordination between the irrigation
               entity and the Floodplain Administrator.
HIGHEST        The highest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to construction, adjacent
ADJACENT GRADE to the proposed walls of a structure. Refer to the FEMA Elevation Certificate for
(HAG):         HAG related to building elevation information.
               A structure that is:
               (A)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing
               maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the
               Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on the
               National Register;
               (B)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as
               contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or to
               a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered
HISTORIC       historic district;
STRUCTURE:     (C)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places and determined as
               eligible by states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by
               the Secretary of the Interior; or
               (D)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places and determined as
               eligible by communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
               either:
                  1.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior;
               or
                  2.   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved
               programs.
               A general term used to refer to the several types of revisions and amendments to
               FIRMs that can be accomplished by letter. They include Letter of Map Amendment
               (LOMA), Letter of Map Revision (LOMR), and Letter of Map Revision based on Fill
               (LOMR-F):
               (A)   Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA): an official amendment, by letter, to an
               effective National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) map. A LOMA establishes a
               property's or structure's location in relation to the Special Flood Hazard Area
               (SFHA). LOMAs are usually issued because a property or structure has been
               inadvertently mapped as being in the floodplain but is actually on natural high
               ground above the base flood elevation.
               (B)   Letter of Map Revision (LOMR): FEMA's modification to an effective Flood
               Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or a Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM) or both. LOMRs
               are generally based on the implementation of physical measures that affect the
               hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and thus result in the
               modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the effective Base Flood
LETTER OF MAP  Elevations (BFEs), or the Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA). The LOMR officially
CHANGE (LOMC): revises the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or Flood Boundary and Floodway Map
               (FBFM), and sometimes the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) report, and when appropriate,
               includes a description of the modifications. The LOMR is generally accompanied by an
               annotated copy of the affected portions of the FIRM, FBFM, or FIS report.
               (C)   Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F): FEMA's modification of the
               Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA) shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) based
               on the placement of fill outside the existing regulatory floodway. The LOMR-F does
               not change the FIRM, FBFM, or FIS report.
               (D)   Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR): A formal review and comment as to
               whether a proposed flood protection project or other project complies with the
               minimum NFIP requirements for such projects with respect to delineation of special
               flood hazard areas. A CLOMR does not revise the effective Flood Insurance Rate Map
               (FIRM) or Flood Insurance Study (FIS). Upon submission and approval of certified as-
               built documentation, a Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) may be issued by FEMA to revise
               the effective FIRM. Building Permits and/or Flood Development Permits cannot be
               issued based on a CLOMR, because a CLOMR does not change the NFIP map.
               A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and constructed
LEVEE:         according to sound engineering practices, to contain, control, or divert the flow of
               water so as to provide protection from temporary flooding.
               A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees, and associated
LEVEE SYSTEM:  structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are constructed and operated
               in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST         The lowest point of the ground level next to the structure. Refer to the FEMA
ADJACENT GRADE Elevation Certificate for LAG related to building elevation information.
(LAG):
               The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement). An unfinished or
               flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or
LOWEST FLOOR:  storage in an area other than a basement area is not considered a building's lowest
               floor; Provided, that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in
               violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of 44 CFR § 60.3 and
               this chapter.
               The act of ongoing upkeep of existing structures required to keep channels in a
               condition adequate to support the conveyance of irrigation and drainage water (this
               does not include the complete replacement or substantial replacement of an existing
MAINTENANCE    structure). Maintenance is further defined as the care or upkeep of channels, works,
(IRRIGATION):  appurtenances, easements, utility corridors and property; to keep in an existing
               state, specified state of repair, and efficiency; return to a former condition,
               elevation, place, and position; to preserve from failure or decline; or repair or
               renovate so as to return it to its original condition. Maintenance does not include
               dredging as defined herein.
               A structure, transportable in one or more sections, built on a permanent chassis and
MANUFACTURED   designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the
HOME:          required utilities. This includes tiny homes and park model manufactured homes. The
               term "Manufactured Home" does not include a "Recreational Vehicle."
MANUFACTURED   A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into two or more manufactured home
HOME PARK OR   lots for rent or sale.
SUBDIVISION:
               The building value, not including the land value and that of any accessory
MARKET VALUE:  structures or other improvements on the lot. Market value may be established by
               independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated for age of building
               and quality of construction (Actual Cash Value); or adjusted tax assessed values.
               For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), the National Geodetic
MEAN SEA       Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum (such as North America Vertical Datum
LEVEL:         of 1988 - NAVD88) to which Base Flood Elevations (BFEs) shown on a community's FIRM
               are referenced.
               Describes a condition where there is a river, flow, or inundation of liquid mud down
               a hillside usually as a result of a dual condition of loss of brush cover and the
MUDSLIDE       subsequent accumulation of water on the ground preceded by a period of unusually
(I.E.,         heavy or sustained rain. A mudslide (i.e., mudflow) may occur as a distinct
MUDFLOW):      phenomenon while a landslide is in progress, and will be recognized as such by the
               Administrator only if the mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of
               damage that occurs.
MUDSLIDE       The operation of an overall program of corrective and preventive measures for
(I.E.,         reducing mudslide (i.e., mudflow) damage, including but not limited to emergency
MUDFLOW) AREA  preparedness plans, mudslide control works, and flood plain management regulations.
MANAGEMENT:
MUDSLIDE
(I.E.,         An area with land surfaces and slopes of unconsolidated material where the history,
MUDFLOW) PRONE geology, and climate indicate a potential for mudflow.
AREA:
NATIONAL FLOOD The NFIP is a Federal program created by Congress to mitigate future flood losses
INSURANCE      nationwide through sound, community-enforced building and zoning ordinances and to
PROGRAM        provide access to affordable, federally backed flood insurance protection for
(NFIP):        property owners.
               For floodplain management purposes, a structure for which the start of construction
               commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation
NEW            adopted by a community and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
CONSTRUCTION:  Any construction started after March 16, 1987 and before the effective start date of
               this floodplain management ordinance is subject to the ordinance in effect at the
               time the permit was issued, provided the start of construction was within one
               hundred and eighty (180) days of permit issuance.
NEW            A place where the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the
MANUFACTURED   manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum the installation of
HOME PARK OR   utilities, the construction of streets, and final site grading or the pouring of
SUBDIVISION:   concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective date of floodplain management
               regulations adopted by a community March 16, 1987.
               The regular and reoccurring performance of typical work by an irrigation or drainage
OPERATION      entity including, but not limited to: the delivery or drainage of water, measurement
(IRRIGATION):  of water, and adjustment of irrigation and drainage works and all related
               appurtenances.
POST-FIRM:     Construction or other development for which the "start of construction" occurred on
               or after the effective date of the initial Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).
               Construction or other development for which the "start of construction" occurred
PRE-FIRM:      before December 18, 1979, the effective date of the initial Flood Insurance Rate Map
               (FIRM).
               A vehicle that is:
               (A)   Built on a single chassis;
               (B)   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
RECREATIONAL   projection;
VEHICLE:       (C)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towed by a light duty truck; and
               (D)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
               quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
               This includes tiny homes and park model manufactured homes.
REGULATORY     See FLOODWAY.
FLOODWAY:
               To bring the structure or other development into compliance with State or local
               flood plain management regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the
REMEDY A       impacts of its non-compliance. Ways that impacts may be reduced include protecting
VIOLATION:     the structure or other affected development from flood damages, implementing the
               enforcement provisions of the ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar
               violations, or reducing Federal financial exposure with regard to the structure or
               other development.
               The restoration to good or sound conditions of any part of an existing structure,
REPAIR         channel, channel bank, or service road for the purpose of maintenance (this does not
(IRRIGATION):  include the complete replacement or substantial replacement of an existing
               structure). Repair does not include dredging as defined herein.
REPETITIVE     An NFIP-insured structure that has had at least two paid flood losses of more than
LOSS           one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) each in any ten (10)-year period since 1978.
STRUCTURE:
RIVERINE:      Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including tributaries), stream,
               brook, etc.
SPECIAL FLOOD  The land in the flood plain within a community subject to a one percent (1%) or
HAZARD AREA    greater chance of flooding in any given year. For purposes of these regulations, the
(SFHA):        term "special flood hazard area" is synonymous in meaning with the phrase "area of
               special flood hazard".
               Includes substantial improvement, and means the date the building permit was issued,
               provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
               addition placement, or other improvement was within one hundred and eighty (180)
               days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of
               permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or
               footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond
               the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
START OF       Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading,
CONSTRUCTION:  and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor
               does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the
               erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
               accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not
               part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of
               construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other
               structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
               dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE:     A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank that is
               principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
               Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the
               structure to its before-damaged condition would equal or exceed fifty percent (50%)
               of its market value before the damage occurred. See definition of "substantial
SUBSTANTIAL    improvement". Substantial damage also means flood-related damage sustained by a
DAMAGE:        structure on two separate occasions during a ten (10)-year period for which the cost
               of repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds
               twenty-five percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
               occurred. (The last sentence is OPTIONAL but required for eligibility for Increased
               Cost of Compliance (ICC) benefits for repetitive losses.)
               Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure,
               the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
               structure before the "start of construction" of the improvement. This term includes
               structures which have incurred "substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair
               work performed. The term does not, however, include either:
SUBSTANTIAL    (A)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of
IMPROVEMENT:   state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
               identified by the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum
               necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
               (B)   Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the alteration will
               not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic structure" and the
               alteration is approved by variance issued pursuant to this chapter.
               FEMA publications that provide guidance concerning the building performance
               standards of the NFIP, which are contained in Title 44 of the U S Code of Federal
               Regulations § 60.3. The bulletins and fact sheets are intended for use primarily by
               State and local officials responsible for interpreting and enforcing NFIP
               regulations and by members of the development community, such as design
               professionals and builders. New bulletins, as well as updates of existing bulletins,
TECHNICAL      are issued periodically as needed. The bulletins do not create regulations. Rather
BULLETINS AND  they provide specific guidance for complying with the minimum requirements of
TECHNICAL FACT existing NFIP regulations.
SHEETS:        It should be noted that Technical Bulletins and Technical Fact Sheets provide
               guidance on the minimum requirements of the NFIP regulations. State or community
               requirements that exceed those of the NFIP take precedence. Design professionals
               should contact the community officials to determine whether more restrictive State
               or local regulations apply to the building or site in question. All applicable
               standards of the State or local building code must also be met for any building in a
               flood hazard area. (This definition is OPTIONAL)
TEMPERATURE    Having the temperature regulated by a heating and/or cooling system, built-in or
CONTROLLED:    appliance.
VARIANCE:      A grant of relief by the governing body from a requirement of this chapter.
               The failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the
               community's flood plain management regulations. A structure or other development
VIOLATION:     without the Finished Construction Elevation Certificate, other certifications, or
               other evidence of compliance required in 44 CFR § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)
               (3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until such time as
               that documentation is provided.
               The height, in relation to the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or
WATER SURFACE  the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other specified datum), of
ELEVATION:     floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the flood plains of coastal or
               riverine areas.
               A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other topographic feature on or over
WATERCOURSE:   which waters flow at least periodically. Watercourse includes specifically
               designated areas in which substantial flood damage may occur. (Ord. 428, 11-1-2022)
 
10-22-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
10-22-3-1: LANDS TO WHICH THE CHAPTER APPLIES:
This chapter shall apply to all Special Flood Hazard Areas within the
jurisdiction of the City of Genesee. Nothing in this chapter is intended to
allow uses or structures that are otherwise prohibited by the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 428, 11-1-2022)
10-22-3-2: BASIS FOR SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS:
The Special Flood Hazard Areas identified by the Federal Insurance
Administrator in a scientific and engineering report titled "Flood Insurance
Study (FIS) for City Of Genesee Idaho Latah County", dated June 1979, with
accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) or Digital Flood Insurance Rate
Maps (DFIRM), and other supporting data, are adopted by reference and declared
a part of this chapter. The FIS and the FIRM are on file at the office of the
city clerk 140 E Walnut Ave, Genesee, ID 83832. (Ord. 428, 11-1-2022)
10-22-3-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A Floodplain Development Permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities within Special Flood Hazard Areas determined in accordance with the
provisions of Section
10-22-4-2. (Ord. 428, 11-1-2022)
10-22-3-4: COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted, altered,
or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. (Ord. 428, 11-1-2022)
10-22-3-5: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter shall not in any way repeal, abrogate, impair, or remove the
necessity of compliance with any other laws, ordinances, regulations,
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions, etcetera. However, where this
chapter and another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes more stringent or
greater restrictions shall control. (Ord. 428, 11-1-2022)
10-22-3-6: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes. (Ord. 428, 11-1-2022)
10-22-3-7: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur. Flood heights may be
increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land
outside the Special Flood Hazard Areas or uses permitted within such areas will
be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability
on the part of the City of Genesee Idaho or by any officer or employee thereof
for flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or an
administrative decision lawfully made hereunder. (Ord. 428, 11-1-2022)
10-22-3-8: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION:
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted, or
altered unless in full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) or imprisoned for not more than one hundred and
eighty days (180) days, or both. Each day the violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City
of Genesee Idaho from taking such other lawful actions as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation. (Ord. 428, 11-1-2022)
10-22-4: ADMINISTRATION:
10-22-4-1: DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ORDINANCE ADMINISTRATOR:
The City Engineer, hereinafter referred to as the "Floodplain Administrator",
is hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 428, 11-1-2022)
10-22-4-2: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
   (A)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within Special Flood Hazard Areas to assure that the
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied and all proposed development
is reasonably safe from flooding.
   (B)   Review all proposed development within Special Flood Hazard Areas to
assure that all necessary Local, State, and Federal permits have been received,
including Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of
1972, 33 USC 1334.
   (C)   Notify adjacent communities and the Idaho Department of Water
Resources State Coordinator for the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP)
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit evidence of
such notification to the Federal Insurance Administrator (FIA) (This is the
LOMC procedure).
   (D)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained (This is a Hydraulic and
Hydrology Analysis);
   (E)   Prevent encroachments into floodways unless the certification and
flood hazard reduction provisions of Section
10-22-5-5 are met.
   (F)   Obtain and maintain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level)
of the lowest floor (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new
and substantially improved structures, in accordance with the provisions of
Section
10-22-4-3 (C).
   (G)   Obtain and maintain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level)
to which all new and substantially improved structures and utilities have been
floodproofed, in accordance with the provisions of Section
10-22-4-3 (C).
   (H)   Review plans to verify public utilities are constructed in accordance
with the provisions of Section
10-22-5-1 (E) - (G).
   (I)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain and
maintain certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of Sections
10-22-4-3 (C) and
10-22-5-2 (B).
   (J)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries
of the Special Flood Hazard Areas, and floodways (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person contesting the
location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
interpretation as provided in this section.
   (K)   When Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with the provisions of Section
10-22-3-2, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any BFE data, along with
floodway data available from a Federal, State, or other source, including data
developed pursuant to Section
10-22-5-3 (B)2., in order to administer the provisions of this chapter.
   (L)   When Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway data
has been provided in accordance with the provisions of Section
10-22-3-2, require that no new construction, substantial improvements, or other
development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zones AE on the
community's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the
proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community. (This is a Hydraulic &
Hydrology Analysis)
   (M)   When the lowest floor and the lowest adjacent grade of a structure or
the lowest ground elevation of a parcel in a Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA)
is above the Base Flood Elevation (BFE), advise the property owner of the
option to apply for a Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) from FEMA. Maintain a copy
of the LOMA issued by FEMA in the floodplain development permit file. ((M) is
OPTIONAL)
   (N)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration of
this chapter and make these records available for public inspection,
recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, as
amended.
   (O)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to
a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall
make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the
work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and the
terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator has
a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (P)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order shall state the
specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the
condition(s) under which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work
order constitutes a misdemeanor.
   (Q)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of State or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable State or local law may
also be revoked.
   (R)   Make periodic inspections throughout the Special Flood Hazard Areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator and each
member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (S)   Follow through with corrective procedures of Section
10-22-4-4.
   (T)   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance requests.
   (U)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to, the
FIS Report, FIRM and other official flood maps, and studies adopted in
accordance with the provisions of Section
10-22-3-2 of this chapter, including any revisions thereto including Letters of
Map Change, issued by FEMA. Notify the NFIP State Coordinator and FEMA of your
community's mapping needs.
   (V)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including Letters of
Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-Fs) and Letters of Map Revision (LOMRs).
   (W)   A community's base flood elevations may increase or decrease resulting
from physical changes affecting flooding conditions. As soon as practicable,
but not later than six months after the date such information becomes
available, a community shall notify the Federal Insurance Administrator (FIA)
of the changes by submitting technical or scientific data in accordance with
this part. Such a submission is necessary so that upon confirmation of those
physical changes affecting flooding conditions, risk premium rates and flood
plain management requirements will be based upon current data.
   (X)   Upon occurrence, notify the Federal Insurance Administrator (FIA) in
writing whenever the boundaries of the community have been modified by
annexation or the community has otherwise assumed or no longer has authority to
adopt and enforce flood plain management regulations for a particular area. In
order that all FHBM's and FIRM's accurately represent the community's
boundaries, include within such notification a copy of a map of the community
suitable for reproduction, clearly delineating the new corporate limits or new
area for which the community has assumed or relinquished flood plain management
regulatory authority. (Ord. 428, 11-1-2022)
10-22-4-3: FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION, PERMIT, AND CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Application Requirements. Application for a Floodplain Development
Permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within Special Flood Hazard Areas. The following items shall
be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
      1.   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
         (a)   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities, and
other development;
         (b)   The boundary of the Special Flood Hazard Area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map as determined in Section
10-22-3-2, or a statement that the entire lot is within the Special Flood
Hazard Area;
         (c)   The flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area
as determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in Section
10-22-3-2;
         (d)   The boundary of the floodway(s) as determined in Section
10-22-3-2;
         (e)   The Base Flood Elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in
Sections
10-22-3-2;
10-22-3-3; or
10-22-5-3;
         (f)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
         (g)   The certification of the plot plan by a registered land surveyor
or professional engineer. ((g) is OPTIONAL)
      2.   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within a
Special Flood Hazard Area including but not limited to:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed lowest
floor (including basement) of all structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure in Zone A, AE, AH, or AO will be floodproofed; and
         (c)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility equipment and machinery will be elevated or floodproofed.
      3.   If floodproofing, a Floodproofing Certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-33)
with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and maintenance
plan that include, but are not limited to, installation, exercise, and
maintenance of floodproofing measures will be required prior to Certificate of
Occupancy/Completion.
      4.   A Foundation Plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are
met. These details include but are not limited to:
         (a)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation,
or on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and
         (b)   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance with Section
10-22-5-1 (H)2. when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones A, AE,
AH, and AO.
      5.   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor.
      6.   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
      7.   Certification that all other Local, State, and Federal permits
required prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received.
      8.   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of Section
10-22-5-2 (E) and (F) of this chapter are met.
      9.   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation, when
applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and
      10.   A map (if not shown on plot plan) showing the location of the
proposed watercourse alteration or relocation. (This is a Hydraulic and
Hydrology Analysis, and may involve the LOMC procedure)
   (B)   Permit Requirements. The Floodplain Development Permit shall include,
but not be limited to:
      1.   A complete description of all the development to be permitted under
the floodplain development permit (i.e. house, garage, pool, septic, bulkhead,
cabana, pole barn, chicken coop, pier, bridge, mining, dredging, filling, rip-
rap, docks, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials, etcetera).
      2.   The Special Flood Hazard Area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with available data specified in Section
10-22-3-2.
      3.   The Flood Protection Elevation required for the lowest floor and all
attendant utilities.
      4.   The Flood Protection Elevation required for the protection of all
utility equipment and machinery.
      5.   All certification submittal requirements with timelines.
      6.   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway of any watercourse, as applicable.
      7.   The flood openings requirements, if in Zones A, AE, AH, or AO.
      8.   All floodplain development permits shall be conditional upon the
start of construction of work within one hundred and eighty (180) days. A
floodplain development permit shall expire one hundred and eighty (180) days
after issuance unless the permitted activity has commenced as per the Start of
Construction definition.
      9.   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor are usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage.
      10.   All materials below BFE/FPE must be flood resistant materials.
   (C)   Certification Requirements.
      1.   Elevation Certificates:
         (a)   A Construction Drawings Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form 86-0-
33) is required prior to the actual start of any new construction. It shall be
the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of the elevation of the lowest floor, in relation to mean sea
level. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder prior to the beginning of construction. Failure to submit the
certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause to deny a
floodplain development permit (STATE RECOMMENDED BUT OPTIONAL).
         (b)   A Building Under Construction Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form
86-0-33) is required after the lowest floor is established. Within seven (7)
calendar days of establishment of the lowest floor elevation, it shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of the elevation of the lowest floor, in relation to mean sea
level. Any work done within the seven (7) day calendar period and prior to
submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder's risk. The
Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted.
Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder
immediately and prior to further work being permitted to proceed. Failure to
submit the certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause
to issue a stop-work order for the project (STATE RECOMMENDED BUT OPTIONAL).
         (c)   A final as-built Finished Construction Elevation Certificate
(FEMA Form 86-0-33) is required after construction is completed and prior to
Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the
permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of
final as-built construction of the elevation of the lowest floor and all
attendant utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate
data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy.
(The Finished Construction Elevation Certificate certifier shall provide at
least two (2) photographs showing the front and rear of the building taken
within ninety (90) days from the date of certification. The photographs must be
taken with views confirming the building description and diagram number
provided in Section A. To the extent possible, these photographs should show
the entire building including foundation. If the building has split-level or
multi-level areas, provide at least two (2) additional photographs showing side
views of the building. In addition, when applicable, provide a photograph of
the foundation showing a representative example of the flood openings or vents.
All photographs must be in color and measure at least three inches (3") by
three inches (3"). Digital photographs are acceptable. OPTIONAL language)
(THE FEMA ELEVATION CERTIFICATE IS OPTIONAL FOR FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT ELEVATION
DATA, BUT IS STATE RECOMMENDED. THE USE OF THE FEMA ELEVATION CERTIFICATE IS
REQUIRED FOR THE PURCHASE OF FLOOD INSURANCE, AND IS MANDATORY FOR CRS
PARTICIPATION.)
      2.   Floodproofing Certificate. If non-residential floodproofing is used
to meet the Flood Protection Elevation requirements, design plans, with
supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and maintenance plan
are required prior to the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of the floodproofed design elevation of the lowest floor and all
attendant utilities, in relation to mean sea level. Floodproofing certification
shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a professional engineer
or architect and certified by same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review
the certificate data, the operational plan, and the inspection and maintenance
plan. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the applicant
prior to permit approval. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a Floodplain Development
Permit. Prior to request for a Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy a
Floodproofing Certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-34) shall be provided to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and approval.
      3.   If a manufactured home (includes tiny home or park model) is placed
within Zone A, AE, AH, or AO and the elevation of the chassis is more than
thirty-six (36) inches in height above grade, an engineered foundation
certification is required in accordance with the provisions of Section
10-22-5-2 (C)2.
      4.   If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, the following shall
all be submitted by the permit applicant prior to issuance of a floodplain
development permit:
         (a)   A description of the extent of watercourse alteration or
relocation; and
         (b)   A professional engineer's certified report on the effects of the
proposed project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the
effects to properties located both upstream and downstream; and
         (c)   A map showing the location of the proposed watercourse
alteration or relocation; and
         (d)   An Idaho Stream Channel Alteration Permit approval shall be
provided by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator.
      5.   Certification Exemptions. The following structures, are exempt from
the elevation/floodproofing certification requirements specified in items a.
and b. of this subsection:
         (a)   Recreational Vehicles meeting requirements of Section
10-22-5-2 (E)1.;
         (b)   Temporary Structures meeting requirements of Section
10-22-5-1 (F); and
         (c)   Accessory Structures less than two hundred (200) square feet
meeting requirements of Section
10-22-5-2 (G).
   (D)   Determinations for Existing Buildings and Structures. For applications
for building permits to improve buildings and structures, including
alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of occupancy,
additions, rehabilitations, renovations, improvements, repairs of damage, and
any other improvement of or work on such buildings and structures, the
Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with the Building Official, shall:
      1.   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work. In the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
      2.   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
      3.   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; and
      4.   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that compliance
with the flood resistant construction requirements of the adopted Idaho
Building Code and this chapter is required.   
   (E)   Any other information deemed necessary for review of public safety and
floodplain management requirements by the floodplain administrator. (Ord. 428,
11-1-2022)
10-22-4-4: CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES:
   (A)   Violations to be Corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable State and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
   (B)   Actions in Event of Failure to Take Corrective Action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner's last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      1.   That the building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
      2.   That a hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at a
designated place and time, not later than ten (10) days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      3.   That following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue
an order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
applicable.
   (C)   Order to Take Corrective Action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of the Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance, he or she shall issue an order in writing to the owner, requiring
the owner to remedy the violation within a specified time period, not less than
sixty (60) calendar days, nor more than (___) calendar days (One-hundred-eighty
(180) calendar days or less is recommended). Where the Floodplain Administrator
finds that there is imminent danger to life or other property, he or she may
order that corrective action be taken in such lesser period as may be feasible.
   (D)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the clerk within ten (10)
days following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the
order of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local governing body
shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and
affirm, or revoke the order.
   (E)   Failure to Comply with Order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished at the
discretion of the court. (Ord. 428, 11-1-2022)
10-22-4-5: VARIANCE PROCEDURES:
   (A)   The City Council as established by the City of Genesee, hereinafter
referred to as the "appeal board", shall hear and decide requests for variances
from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Variances may be issued for:
      1.   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
      2.   Functionally dependent facilities, if determined to meet the
definition as stated in Section
10-22-2 of this chapter, provided provisions of 10-22-4-5 (H)2., 3., and 4.
have been satisfied, and such facilities are protected by methods that minimize
flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats to public
safety; or
      3.   Any other type of development, provided it meets the requirements of
this Section.
   (C)   In passing upon variances, the appeal board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      1.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      2.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      3.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      4.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      5.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under Section
10-22-2 of this chapter as a functionally dependent facility, where applicable;
      6.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      7.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      8.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      9.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      10.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      11.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and bridges.
   (D)   The applicant shall include a written report addressing each of the
above factors in Section
10-22-3-5(C) 1. through 11. with their application for a variance.
   (E)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
chapter.
   (F)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice over the signature of a community official specifying the difference
between the Base Flood Elevation (BFE) and the elevation to which the structure
is to be built and that such construction below the BFE increases risks to life
and property, and that the issuance of a variance to construct a structure
below the BFE will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance
coverage. Such notification shall be maintained with a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance.
   (G)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Insurance Administrator and the
State of Idaho upon request.
   (H)   Conditions for Variances:
      1.   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other Federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
      2.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if the
variance would result in any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge.
      3.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      4.   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit approval.
      5.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (I)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or sites,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage
facilities that are located in Special Flood Hazard Areas provided that all of
the following conditions are met.
      1.   The use serves a critical need in the community.
      2.   No feasible location exists for the use outside the Special Flood
Hazard Area.
      3.   The lowest floor of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to at
least the Flood Protection Elevation.
      4.   The use complies with all other applicable Federal, State and local
laws.
   (J)   The City of Genesee Idaho will notify the State NFIP Coordinator of
the Idaho Department of Water Resources of its intention to grant a variance at
least thirty (30) calendar days prior to granting the variance.
   (K)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board may appeal
such decision to the Court, as provided in Idaho Code 67-6535. (Ord. 428, 11-1-
2022)
10-22-5: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
10-22-5-1: GENERAL STANDARDS:
In all Special Flood Hazard Areas the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction, substantial improvements, and development shall
be designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
   (B)   All new construction, substantial improvements, and development shall
be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage
in accordance with the Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials
Requirements, and available from the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (C)   All new construction, substantial improvements, and development shall
be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
   (D)   All new and replacement electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing,
air conditioning equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/
or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding to the Flood Protection Elevation.
These include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units,
bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable
boxes, hot water heaters, and electric outlets/switches.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (F)   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (H)   A fully enclosed area, of new construction and substantially improved
structures, which is below the lowest floor used solely for parking, access,
and storage shall:
      1.   Be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials at least to the
Flood Protection Elevation; and
      2.   Include, in Zones A, AE, AH, and AO, flood openings to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must either be certified
by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum
design criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (b)   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
(1) square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (c)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed
area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and
exit;
         (d)   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one (1) foot above the interior or exterior adjacent grade;
         (e)   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
         (f)   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or flood resistant wood underpinning, regardless of
structural status, is considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as
outlined above.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall
meet the requirements of "new construction" as contained in this chapter.
   (J)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction, or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
chapter and located totally or partially within the floodway, or stream
setback, provided there is no additional encroachment below the Flood
Protection Elevation in the floodway, or stream setback, and provided that such
repair, reconstruction, or replacement meets all of the other requirements of
this chapter.
   (K)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in Section
10-22-4-5 (I). A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to
an allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a Special Flood Hazard Area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least the Flood
Protection Elevation and certified in accordance with the provisions of Section
10-22-4-3 (C).
   (L)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage and determined to be
reasonably safe from flooding.
   (M)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (N)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (O)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by Federal or State law, including Section 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334.
   (P)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals greater than
fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres, whichever is the lesser, shall include
within such proposals base flood elevation data.
   (Q)   When a structure is partially located in a Special Flood Hazard Area,
the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
   (R)   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest Base Flood
Elevation (BFE) shall apply.
   (S)   Fill is prohibited in the SFHA, including construction of buildings on
fill. This includes not signing the Community Acknowledgement page for
Conditional Letters or Letters of Map Revision (CLOMR-F or LOMR-F) (STATE
RECOMMENDED BUT OPTIONAL). (Ord. 428, 11-1-2022)
10-22-5-2: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
In all Special Flood Hazard Areas where Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data has
been provided, as set forth in Sections
10-22-3-2, or
10-22-5-4, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of Section
10-22-5-1, are required:
   (A)   Residential Construction. New construction, substantial improvements,
and development of any residential structure (including manufactured homes,
tiny homes, and park models) shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
and utilities including ductwork, elevated no lower than the Flood Protection
Elevation, as defined in Section
10-22-2 of this chapter.
   (B)   Non-Residential Construction. New construction, substantial
improvements, and development of any commercial, industrial, or other non-
residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
Residential Construction. New construction, substantial improvements, and
development of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall
have the lowest floor, including basement, and utilities including ductwork,
elevated no lower than the Flood Protection Elevation, as defined in Section
10-22-2 of this chapter, elevated no lower than the Flood Protection Elevation,
as defined in Section
10-22-2 of this chapter. Structures located in Zones A, AE, AH, and AO may be
floodproofed to the Flood Protection Elevation in lieu of elevation provided
that all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, below the Flood Protection Elevation are watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using structural components
having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the
effect of buoyancy. For AH and AO Zones, the floodproofing elevation shall be
in accordance with Section
10-22-5-6 (B). A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the floodproofing standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such
certification shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in
Section
10-22-4-3 (C), along with the operational plan and the inspection and
maintenance plan.
   (C)   Manufactured Homes.
      1.   New and replacement manufactured homes (including tiny homes, and
park models) shall be elevated so that the lowest floor of the manufactured
home is no lower than the Flood Protection Elevation, as defined in Section
10-22-2 of this chapter.
      2.   Manufactured homes (including tiny homes, and park models) shall be
securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement, either by certified engineered foundation
system, or in accordance with the most current edition of the Idaho Division of
Building Safety's "Idaho Manufactured Home Installation Standard" in accordance
with Idaho Code § 44-2201(2). Additionally, when the elevation would be met by
an elevation of the chassis thirty-six (36) inches or less above the grade at
the site, the chassis shall be supported by reinforced piers or engineered
foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is above thirty-six (36) inches
in height, an engineering certification is required.
      3.   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of Section
10-22-5-1 (H)1. and 2.
      4.   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all residents
of all new, substantially improved, or substantially damaged manufactured home
parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This plan shall be
filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the local Emergency
Management Coordinator.
   (D)   Additions/Improvements.
      1.   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any more non-
conforming than the existing structure; or
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      2.   Additions to non-compliant post-FIRM structures that are a
substantial improvement with no modifications to the existing structure other
than a standard door in the common wall shall require only the addition to
comply with the standards for new construction.
      3.   Additions and/or improvements to non-compliant post-FIRM structures
when the addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior
modifications to the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
only must comply with the standards for new construction; or
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      4.   Any combination of repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
or improvement of a building or structure taking place during a two (2) year
period, the cumulative cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of
the market value of the structure before the improvement or repair is started,
must comply with the standards for new construction. For each building or
structure, the two (2) year period begins on the date of the first improvement
or repair of that building or structure subsequent to the effective date of
this chapter. If the structure has sustained substantial damage, any repairs
are considered substantial improvement regardless of the actual repair work
performed. The requirement does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary, or safety code violations identified by the building
official and that are the minimum necessary to assume safe living conditions;
or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
   (E)   Recreational Vehicles. Recreational vehicles shall be either:
      1.   Temporary Placement:
         (a)   Be on site for fewer than one hundred and eighty (180)
consecutive days and be fully licensed and ready for highway use (a
recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking
system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities, and
has no permanently attached additions); or
      2.   Permanent Placement.
         (a)   Recreational vehicles (including tiny homes, and park models)
that do not meet the limitations of Temporary Placement shall meet all the
requirements for new construction, as set forth in Sections
10-22-5-1 and 10-22-5-2 (A) and (B).
   (F)   Temporary Non-Residential Structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a flash flood or other type of flood warning notification.
The following information shall be submitted in writing to the Floodplain
Administrator for review and written approval:
      1.   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed six (6) months, renewable up to one
(1) year;
      2.   The name, address, and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
      3.   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., immediately upon flood warning notification);
      4.   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the entity
responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
      5.   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside the
Special Flood Hazard Area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
      6.   Temporary structures in the floodway must provide a Hydraulic and
Hydrology Analysis along with a No-Rise Certification.
   (G)   Accessory and Agricultural Structures (Appurtenant structures).When
accessory structures (sheds, detached garages, etc.) used solely for parking,
and storage are to be placed within a Special Flood Hazard Area, elevation or
floodproofing certifications are required for all accessory structures in
accordance with Section
10-22-4-3 (C), and the following criteria shall be met:
      1.   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking, or restroom areas);
      2.   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
      3.   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
      4.   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the building
site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      5.   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with the
provisions of Section
10-22-5-1 (A);
      6.   All utility equipment and machinery, such as electrical, shall be
installed in accordance with the provisions of Section
10-22-5-1 (D); and
      7.   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces shall be provided below Flood Protection Elevation in conformance
with the provisions of Section
10-22-5-1 (H).
      8.    Accessory structures not used solely for parking, access, and
storage must be elevated per Section 10-22-5-2 (A) and (B). An accessory
structure with a footprint less than two hundred (200) square feet and is a
minimal investment of seven thousand five hundred dollars ($7,500.00) or less
and satisfies the criteria outlined in 1. through 7. above is not required to
provide the elevation certificate per Section 10-22-5-2 (B).
   (H)   Tanks. When gas and liquid storage tanks are to be placed within a
Special Flood Hazard Area, the following criteria shall be met:
      1.   Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads during conditions of the base flood, including the effects of
buoyancy (assuming the tank is empty);
      2.   Elevated above-ground tanks, in flood hazard areas shall be attached
to and elevated to or above the design flood elevation on a supporting
structure that is designed to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement
during conditions of the base flood. Tank-supporting structures shall meet the
foundation requirements of the applicable flood hazard area;
      3.   Not elevated above-ground tanks may be permitted in flood hazard
areas provided the tanks are anchored or otherwise designed and constructed to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood, including the effects
of buoyancy assuming the tank is empty and the effects of flood-borne debris.
      4.   Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and vents shall be:
         (a)   At or above the flood protection elevation or fitted with covers
designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of the contents of the
tanks during conditions of the base flood; and
         (b)   Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic
and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during conditions of
the base flood.
   (I)   Construction of Below-Grade Crawlspace.
      1.   The interior grade of a crawlspace must not be below the BFE and
must not be more than two (2) feet below the exterior lowest adjacent grade
(LAG).
      2.   The height of the below-grade crawlspace, measured from the interior
grade of the crawlspace to the top of the crawlspace foundation wall, must not
exceed four (4) feet at any point.
      3.   There must be an adequate drainage system that removes floodwaters
from the interior area of the crawlspace. The enclosed area should be drained
within a reasonable time after a flood event.
      4.   The velocity of floodwaters at the site should not exceed five (5)
feet per second for any crawlspace.
See Technical Bulletin 11 for further information.
Caution:
Buildings that have below-grade crawlspaces will have higher flood insurance
premiums than buildings that have the preferred crawlspace construction, with
the interior elevation of the crawlspace soil at or above the Base Flood
Elevation (BFE).
   (J)   Subdivision plats.
Flood zones.
      1.   A note must be provided on the final plat documenting the current
flood zone in which the property or properties are located. The boundary line
must be drawn on the plat in situations where two or more flood zones intersect
over the property or properties being surveyed.
      2.   FEMA FIRM panel(s): #160xxxxxxC, & 160xxxxxxE, etc.
FIRM effective date(s): mm/dd/year
Flood Zone(s): Zone X, Zone A, Zone AE, A Zone AO, Zone, AH, Zone D, etc.
Base Flood Elevation(s): AE ____.0 ft., etc.
Flood Zones are subject to change by FEMA and all land within a floodway or
floodplain is regulated by _____________ chapter/section of the City/County
Code (STATE RECOMMENDED BUT OPTIONAL).
   (K)   Critical Facilities: Construction of new critical facilities shall be,
to the extent possible, located outside the limits of the special flood hazard
area (SFHA) (one hundred (100)-year floodplain). Construction of new critical
facilities shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site
is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated three feet (3') above BFE or to the height of the five
hundred (500)-year flood, whichever is higher. Access to and from the critical
facility should also be protected to the height utilized above. Floodproofing
and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be
displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above
the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to all critical
facilities to the extent possible.
As a best practice, FEMA recommends protection that exceeds code minimums. For
example, FEMA 543, Design Guide for Improving Critical Facility Safety from
Flooding and High Winds (2007) recommends protecting critical facilities to
withstand at least a 0.2-percent-annual-chance flood event (often called the
"five hundred (500)-year flood event"). Flood elevations for the 0.2-percent-
annual-chance flood may be greater than the elevation specified by ASCE 24. If
federal funding or other Federal action is involved, the requirements of
Executive Order 11988 - Floodplain Management may necessitate protection of
critical actions to the five hundred (500)-year flood elevation (critical
actions may include the construction and repair of critical facilities) (STATE
RECOMMENDED BUT OPTIONAL).
In existing facilities that have not been substantially damaged, it may not be
possible to floodproof or elevate to provide protection from the 0.2-percent-
annual-chance flood event. In those instances, floodproofing or elevating as
high as practical is recommended.
Three (3) feet is State-recommendation, greater than three (3) feet is
OPTIONAL.
   (L)   Floodplain Development Permits Related to Irrigation Activities and
Development.
      1.    Activities that do not require a floodplain development permit.
Consistent with Idaho Code § 46-1021 and § 46-1022, operation, cleaning,
maintenance or repair of any ditch, canal, lateral, drain, diversion structure
or other irrigation or drainage works, as defined within this guidance
document, do not constitute development under Idaho law and therefore do not
require either a GIFD permit or an individual permit. The below list of
activities delineates some activities that do not require a permit. The list is
not exhaustive. The Floodplain Administrator must exercise their professional
judgement when reviewing activities to determine if an activity requires a
permit. When in doubt, the Floodplain Administrator should seek consultation
from the IDWR Floodplain Coordinator to determine permit necessity.
         (a)   General farming, pasture, horticultural activities, and forestry
that do not involve earthwork that permanently alters the topography or any
clearing/grubbing of an area.
         (b)   Grading of existing roads or easements along or near channels
and within the SFHA, provided that the grading does not add fill within the
regulatory floodway or SFHA.
         (c)   Maintenance of underground utilities (work must not permanently
alter topography).
         (d)   In-kind replacement of existing piers or posts supporting a
conforming deck.
         (e)   Activities associated with land-surface construction stormwater
Best Management Practices ("BMP"), provided the measures are temporary in
nature (i.e. not in place for longer than one hundred and eighty (180) days) or
do not increase the BFE. Examples of stormwater BMP activities that do not
require a permit include the following: dust control; materials and equipment
covers; mulching; geotextile fabrics; matting; bio-filter bags; fiber rolls;
silt fences; vegetative buffer strips; temporary swales; and temporary berms.
         (f)   New installation or maintenance of non-solid fences constructed
parallel to the flow of water during a flood event. Non-parallel or solid
fences that block the flow will need to go through the individual permitting
process.
      2.    General Irrigation Floodplain Development Permit:
Upon review of the proposed activities and projects, the Floodplain
Administrator will assess whether or not they fall, in whole or in part, under
the GIFD permit, and whether any components require an individual permit and
notify the applicant in writing accordingly.
The Floodplain Administrator shall advise the applicant or project sponsor of
their assessment via written notice (email is preferable). The Floodplain
Administrator shall maintain a copy of all proposed project notifications and
responses.
The GIFD permit does NOT include the following types of development activities
and projects:
         (a)   Fill, except as outlined in the examples below;
         (b)   New construction, or replacements that do not meet the in-kind
definition;
         (c)   Activities or projects that trigger any requirement found in the
local floodplain management or NFIP regulations; and
         (d)   Activities or projects that increase flood damage and/or
increase exposure to flood hazards.
GIFD permit activities and projects:    
         (a)   Dredging and grading of irrigation and drainage channels,
provided that fill from dredging or grading is not deposited on the banks of
channels or anywhere within the regulatory floodway or SFHA for longer than ten
(10) days.
         (b)   Seasonal grading within natural stream channels to check or
direct water into irrigation facilities (i.e. earthen "push-up dams" and "wing
dams").
         (c)   Deposition of fill within the SFHA for less than ten (10) days.
After ten (10) days, deposited fill must be removed from the SFHA, or graded
and compacted to existing grade within ± 0.2 feet. Deposition of fill includes
deposition of material resulting from grading or excavating irrigation or
drainage channels. Deposition of fill within the mapped floodway requires an
individual permit.
         (d)   Construction of new underground utilities that do not
permanently alter the topography. Excess soil from new pipes larger than two
(2) feet in diameter must be disposed of outside the regulatory floodway and
SFHA.
         (e)   In-kind replacement of irrigation and drainage works or
components including but not limited to control gates or head gates, measuring
devices and their housing structures/stilling wells, culverts, pumps, pipes,
flumes, siphons and similar works. GIFD permits cannot authorize the In-kind
replacement of dams or bridge structures.
         (f)   New driveways, trails, sidewalks, roads and streets constructed
completely at-or-below existing grade.
         (g)   New underground utilities that do not permanently alter the
existing grade elevations by ± 0.5 feet.
         (h)   Armoring, stabilizing, securing, or in-kind replacement of
existing infrastructure within the channel banks (such as bridge piers, sewer/
utility supports and storm water/sewer drainage outfalls/headwalls) provided
the dimensions (bank slopes, channel location, channel elevation) of the
channel are not altered. This should not involve replacement with larger or
additional above ground infrastructure.
      3.   Individual Floodplain Development Permits. An individual permit is
required for all other permitted activities and projects within the regulatory
floodway and SFHA that do not meet the requirements of a GIFD permit (STATE
RECOMMENDED BUT OPTIONAL).
   (M)   Compensatory Storage: New development shall not reduce the effective
flood storage volume of the Regulatory Floodway and SFHA. A development
proposal shall provide compensatory storage if grading or other activity
eliminates any effective flood storage volume. Compensatory storage shall:
      1.   Provide equivalent volume at equivalent elevations to that being
displaced. For this purpose, "equivalent elevation" means having similar
relationship to ordinary high water and the best available one hundred (100)
year water surface profiles;
      2.   Be hydraulically connected to the source of flooding; and
      3.   Provide compensatory storage in the same construction season as when
the displacement of flood storage volume occurs and before the flood season
begins.
      4.   The newly created storage area shall be graded and vegetated to
allow fish access during flood events without creating fish stranding sites
(STATE RECOMMENDED BUT OPTIONAL).
   (N)   Pit, Mine, Quarry, or Gravel Extraction: Approval of a CLOMR shall be
required as a condition of approval for any proposed pit, mine, quarry, or
gravel extraction. The CLOMR application shall demonstrate that the extraction
site will be designed to avoid river avulsion (the sudden separation of land
from one property and its attachment to another, especially by flooding or a
change in the course of a river). FEMA must approve the CLOMR prior to
commencement of the use or breaking ground. Gravel mining operations or
excavations are not permitted within one hundred feet (100') of the top of
river bank regardless of floodway or floodplain designation. Material
stockpiles and permanently installed structures shall not be located within the
regulatory floodway (STATE RECOMMENDED BUT OPTIONAL). (Ord. 428, 11-1-2022)
10-22-5-3: STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS:
Within the Special Flood Hazard Areas designated as Zone A (also known as
Unnumbered A Zones) and established in Section
10-22-3-2, where no Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data has been provided by FEMA,
the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of Section
10-22-5-1, shall apply:
The BFE used in determining the Flood Protection Elevation (FPE) shall be
determined based on the following criteria:
   (A)   When Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data is available from other sources,
all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas shall also
comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be elevated or
floodproofed in accordance with standards in Sections
10-22-5-1 and
10-22-5-2.
   (B)   When floodway data is available from a Federal, State, or other
source, all new construction and substantial improvements within floodway areas
shall also comply with the requirements of Sections
10-22-5-2 and
10-22-5-5.
   (C)   Require that all new subdivision proposals and other proposed
developments (including proposals for manufactured home parks and subdivisions)
greater than fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres, whichever is the lesser,
include within such proposals base flood elevation data. Such Base Flood
Elevation (BFE) data shall be adopted by reference in accordance with Section
10-22-3-2 and utilized in implementing this chapter. The applicant/developer
shall submit an application for a Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR)
prior to Preliminary Plat approval and have obtained a Letter of Map Revision
(LOMR) prior to any building permits for structures being issued. (Optional)
See FEMA 480 and/or FEMA 265 for further information.
   (D)   When Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data is not available from a Federal,
State, or other source as outlined above, the lowest floor shall be elevated or
floodproofed (non-residential) to two feet (2") above the Highest Adjacent
Grade (HAG) at the building site or to the Flood Protection Elevation (FPE)
whichever is higher, as defined in Section
10-22-2. All other applicable provisions of Section
10-22-5-2 shall also apply. (Ord. 428, 11-1-2022)
10-22-5-4: STANDARDS FOR RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS WITH BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS BUT
WITHOUT ESTABLISHED FLOODWAYS:
Along rivers and streams where Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data is provided by
FEMA or is available from another source but floodways are not identified for a
Special Flood Hazard Area on the FIRM or in the FIS report, the following
requirements shall apply to all development within such areas:
   (A)   Standards of Sections
10-22-5-1 and
10-22-5-2; and
   (B)   Until a regulatory floodway is designated, no encroachments, including
fill, new construction, substantial improvements, or other development shall be
permitted unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community. (Ord. 428, 11-1-2022)
10-22-5-5: STANDARDS FOR FLOODWAYS:
Areas designated as floodways located within the Special Flood Hazard Areas
established in Section
10-22-3-2. The floodways are extremely hazardous areas due to the velocity of
floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris and potential
projectiles. The following provisions, in addition to standards outlined in
Sections
10-22-5-1 and
10-22-5-2, shall apply to all development within such areas:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other developments shall be permitted unless:
      1.   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not result
in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood,
based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with
standard engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain Administrator
prior to issuance of floodplain development permit (This is a No-Rise Analysis
and Certification); or
      2.   A Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) has been approved by
FEMA. A Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) must also be obtained within six months
of completion of the proposed encroachment.
   (B)   If Section 10-22-5-5 (A) is satisfied, all development shall comply
with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Manufactured homes (including tiny homes, and park models) may be
permitted provided the following provisions are met:
      1.   The anchoring and the elevation standards of Section
10-22-5-2 (C); and
      2.   The encroachment standards of Section 10-22-5-5 (A).
   (D)   Other Development in regulated floodways.
      1.   Fences that have the potential to block the passage of floodwaters,
such as stockade fences and wire mesh fences, in regulated floodways shall meet
the limitations of Section 10-22-5-5 of this chapter.
      2.   Retaining walls, bulkheads, sidewalks, and driveways that involve
the placement of fill in regulated floodways shall meet the limitations of
Section 10-22-5-5 of this chapter.
      3.   Roads and watercourse crossings, including roads, bridges, culverts,
low-water crossings, and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to travel
from one side of a watercourse to the other side, which encroach into regulated
floodways, shall meet the limitations of Section 10-22-5-5 of this chapter. The
applicant/developer shall submit an application for a Letter of Map Revision
(LOMR) upon completion of construction for the purpose of providing FEMA better
available data (STATE RECOMMENDED BUT OPTIONAL).
      4.   Drilling water, oil, and/or gas wells including fuel storage tanks,
apparatus, and any equipment at the site that encroach into regulated floodways
shall meet the limitations of Section 10-22-5-5 of this chapter.
      5.   Docks, piers, boat ramps, marinas, moorings, decks, docking
facilities, port facilities, shipbuilding, and ship repair facilities that
encroach into regulated floodways shall meet the limitations of Section 10-22-
5-5 of this chapter.
      6.   Gravel and sand and their subsequent extraction on lands within the
Special Flood Hazard Area that encroach into regulated floodways shall meet the
limitations of Section 10-22-5-5 of this chapter. A Reclamation Plan Bond for
LOMR shall be posted by the mine/property owner with City of Genesee Idaho to
cover the estimated costs of a Reclamation LOMR as determined by the mine/
property owner and shall provide supporting documentation for the estimated
LOMR cost. A Reclamation LOMR shall be completed within one year of the
completion of mining. Upon failure of the property owner to obtain a
Reclamation LOMR of the mining site within one year, the Reclamation Plan Bond
for LOMR will be forfeited (STATE RECOMMENDED BUT OPTIONAL). (Ord. 428, 11-1-
2022)
10-22-5-6: STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (ZONE AO, AH, AR/AO, OR AR/
AH):
Areas designated as shallow flooding areas have special flood hazards
associated with base flood depths of one (1) to three (3) feet where a clearly
defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is unpredictable
and indeterminate. In addition to Sections
10-22-5-1 and
10-22-5-2, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the
following requirements:
   (A)   The lowest floor shall be elevated at least as high as the depth
number specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), in feet, plus a
freeboard of two (2) feet, above the highest adjacent grade; or at least two
(2) feet above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified. A
minimum of two (2) feet is required and four (4) feet is recommended where a
depth is not provided.
   (B)   Non-residential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be floodproofed
to the same level as required in Section 10-22-5-6 (A) so that the structure,
together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, below that level shall
be watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Certification is required in
accordance with Section
10-22-4-3 (C), and Section
10-22-5-2 (B).
   (C)   Accessory structure (appurtenant structure) (sheds, detached garages,
etc.).
      1.   Used solely for parking, and storage
         (a)   Shall have the lowest floor elevated at least as high as the
depth number specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), in feet, plus a
freeboard of one (1) foot, above the highest adjacent grade; or at least two
(2) feet above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified. A
minimum of two (2) feet is required and four (4) feet is recommended where a
depth is not provided; or
         (b)   Shall have flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization
of hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below Flood Protection Elevation
in conformance with the provisions of Section
10-22-5-1 (H).
      2.   Not used solely for parking, and storage:
         (a)   Shall be elevated per Section
10-22-5-2 (A) and (B).
   (D)   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on slopes
to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
   (E)   Hazardous Velocities: Where hazardous velocities are noted on the
FIRM, proper construction techniques and methods shall be used to mitigate the
effects of the velocities. (Ord. 428, 11-1-2022)
10-22-5-7: STANDARDS FOR POSSIBLE BUT UNDETERMINED FLOOD HAZARDS, AS NO
ANALYSIS OF FLOOD HAZARDS HAS BEEN CONDUCTED (D ZONE):
   (A)   General Standards:
      1.   All development within a D zone shall be subject to the procedural
requirements of this chapter, as applicable; and
      2.   Drainage: Adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes shall
be provided in a D zone to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
      3.   Grading: Any site work in excess of ten (10) cubic yards of cut or
fill will require a detailed grading permit. All grading shall be done so as to
minimize impacts and maintain compensatory storage within all special flood
hazard areas. Depending on the extent and nature of the grading, a LOMC may be
required.
      4.   Require that all new subdivision proposals and other proposed
developments (including proposals for manufactured home parks and subdivisions)
greater than fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres, whichever is the lesser,
include within such proposals base flood elevation data. Such Base Flood
Elevation (BFE) data shall be adopted by reference in accordance with this
chapter and utilized in implementing this chapter. The applicant/developer
shall submit an application for a Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR)
prior to Preliminary Plat approval and have obtained a Letter of Map Revision
(LOMR) prior to any building permits for structures being issued.
See FEMA 480 and/or FEMA 265 for further information.
      5.   When Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data is not available from a
Federal, State, or other source as outlined above, the lowest floor shall be
elevated or floodproofed (non-residential) to two feet (2") above the Highest
Adjacent Grade (HAG) at the building site or to the Flood Protection Elevation
(FPE) whichever is higher, as defined in this chapter. All other applicable
provisions of Sections
10-22-5-1 and
10-22-5-2 shall also apply (STATE RECOMMENDED BUT OPTIONAL). (Ord. 428, 11-1-
2022)
10-22-6: LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS:
10-22-6-1: EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE
PREVENTION ORDINANCE:
This chapter, in part, comes forward by re-enactment of some of the provisions
of the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance enacted March 16, 1987 as amended, and
it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and continue to
enforce without interruption of such existing provisions, so that all rights
and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be enforced.
The enactment of this chapter shall not affect any action, suit, or proceeding
instituted or pending. All provisions of the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance
of City of Genesee enacted on March 16, 1987 as amended, which are not
reenacted herein are repealed. (Ord. 428, 11-1-2022)
10-22-6-2: EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS:
Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans, construction,
size, or designated use of any development or any part thereof for which a
Floodplain Development Permit has been granted by the Floodplain Administrator
or his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of this chapter.
Provided, however, that when construction is not begun under such outstanding
permit within a period of one hundred and eighty (180) days subsequent to the
date of issuance of the outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 428, 11-1-2022)
10-22-6-3: SEVERABILITY:
This chapter is hereby declared to be severable. Should any portion of this
chapter be declared invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining
provisions shall continue in full force and effect and shall be read to carry
out the purpose(s) of the ordinance before the declaration of partial
invalidity. (Ord. 428, 11-1-2022)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
General Provisions   1
Subdivision Definitions   2
Subdivision Approval Procedure   3
Design Standards   4
Improvement Standards   5
Special Development Subdivisions   6
Vacations And Dedications   7
Subdivision Variances   8
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Authority
11-1-3: Purpose
11-1-4: Jurisdiction
11-1-5: Applicability
11-1-6: Interpretation
11-1-7: Administration
11-1-8: Severability
11-1-9: Amendment Procedures
11-1-10: Violation, Enforcement And Penalties
11-1-1: TITLE:
These regulations shall be known and cited as the GENESEE SUBDIVISION
ORDINANCE, hereinafter referred to as the subdivision title. (Ord. 246, 1-8-
1979)
11-1-2: AUTHORITY:
These regulations are authorized by title 50, chapter 13 of the Idaho Code;
title 67, chapter 65 of the Idaho Code; and article 12, section 2 of the Idaho
constitution, as amended or subsequently codified. (Ord. 246, 1-8-1979)
11-1-3: PURPOSE:
The purposes of these regulations are to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare, and to provide for:
   (A)   The orderly and harmonious development of the area;
   (B)   The coordination of streets and roads within the subdivision with
other existing or planned streets and roads;
   (C)   Adequate open space for light, air and recreation;
   (D)   Adequate transportation, water drainage and sanitary facilities;
   (E)   The avoidance of scattered subdivision of land that would result in
either of the following:
      1.   The lack of water supply, sewer service, drainage, transportation or
other public services; and
      2.   The unnecessary imposition of an excessive expenditure of public
funds for the supply of such services;
   (F)   The requirements as to the extent and the manner in which:
      1.   Roads shall be created and improved; and
      2.   Water and sewer and other utility mains, piping connections, or
other facilities shall be installed;
   (G)   The manner and form of making and filing of any plat; and
   (H)   The administration of these regulations by defining the powers and
duties of authorities charged with the administration of this title. (Ord. 246,
1-8-1979)
11-1-4: JURISDICTION:
These regulations shall apply to the subdividing of land within the corporate
limits of Genesee including the property within one mile outside the corporate
limits of Genesee or, as mutually defined by both Genesee and Latah County
under the requirements of section 50-1306, Idaho Code, as amended, or
subsequently codified. (Ord. 246, 1-8-1979)
11-1-5: APPLICABILITY:
Any person desiring to create a subdivision as herein defined shall submit all
necessary applications to the administrator. No final plat shall be filed with
the county recorder or improvements made on the property until the plat has
been acted upon by the commission and approved by the council. No lots shall be
sold until the plat has been recorded in the office of the county recorder.
These regulations shall not apply to any lot or lots forming a part of any
subdivision platted and recorded prior to the effective date hereof, except for
the further division of those existing lots. (Ord. 246, 1-8-1979)
11-1-6: INTERPRETATION:
These regulations shall supplement all other regulations, and where at variance
with other laws, regulations, ordinances or resolutions, the more restrictive
requirements shall apply. (Ord. 246, 1-8-1979)
11-1-7: ADMINISTRATION:
The city council shall appoint an administrator to carry out the provisions as
herein specified and to serve at the pleasure of the commission. The
administrator shall receive and process all subdivision applications in
accordance with the provisions of this title. The administrator shall develop
and adopt such forms and require such information as is necessary for the
processing of applications described herein. (Ord. 246, 1-8-1979)
11-1-8: SEVERABILITY:
Where any word, phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section, or other part
of these regulations are held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction,
such judgment shall affect only that part so held invalid. (Ord. 246, 1-8-1979)
11-1-9: AMENDMENT PROCEDURES:
The council may, from time to time, amend, supplement or repeal the regulations
and provisions of this title upon recommendation from the commission, in the
following manner:
   (A)   The commission, prior to recommending an amendment, supplement or
repeal of these regulations, shall conduct at least one public hearing in which
interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard. At least fifteen (15)
days prior to the hearing, notice of the time and place and a summary of the
plan to be discussed shall be published in the official newspaper or paper of
general circulation within the jurisdiction. The commission shall also make
available a notice to other papers, radio and television stations serving the
jurisdiction for use as a public service announcement. Following the commission
hearing, if the commission makes a material change in this title other than
that published for the present hearing, further notice and hearing shall be
provided before the commission forwards its recommendation to the council. A
record of the hearings, findings made and actions taken shall be maintained;
and
   (B)   The council, prior to adopting an amendment, supplement or repeal of
this title, shall conduct at least one public hearing using the same notice and
hearing procedures as the commission. The council shall not hold a public
hearing, give notice of a proposed hearing nor take action until
recommendations have been received from the commission. Following the hearing
of the council, if the council makes a material change in this title, other
than that published for the present hearing, further notice and hearing shall
be provided before the council adopts the amendment, supplement or repeal.
(Ord. 246, 1-8-1979)
11-1-10: VIOLATION, ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   (A)   Detection Of Violation: The administrator shall be responsible for
performing any necessary investigation to detect violations of this title.
   (B)   Enforcement: No subdivision plat required by this title or the Idaho
Code shall be admitted to the public land records of the county or recorded by
the county recorder until such subdivision plat has received final approval by
the council. No public board, agency, commission, official or other authority
shall proceed with the construction of or authorize the construction of any of
the public improvements required by this title until the final plat has
received the approval by the council. The city attorney shall, in addition to
taking whatever criminal action is deemed necessary, take steps to civilly
enjoin any violation of this title.
   (C)   Penalties: Penalties for failure to comply with the provisions of this
title shall be as follows:
      Violation of any of the provisions of this title or failure to comply
with any of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Each day such
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. The landowner,
tenant, subdivider, builder, public official or any other person who commits,
participates in, assists in, or maintains such violation may each be found
guilty of a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the
council or any other public official or private citizen from taking such lawful
action as is necessary to restrain or prevent any violation of this title or of
the Idaho Code.
(Ord. 246, 1-8-1979)
CHAPTER 2
SUBDIVISION DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Interpretation Of Terms Or Words
11-2-2: Meaning Of Terms Or Words
11-2-1: INTERPRETATION OF TERMS OR WORDS:
Terms or words used herein shall be interpreted as follows:
   (A)   The present tense includes the past or future tense, the singular
includes the plural and the plural includes the singular;
   (B)   The word "shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive; and the word
"should" is preferred; and
   (C)   The masculine shall include the feminine. (Ord. 246, 1-8-1979)
11-2-2: MEANING OF TERMS OR WORDS:
   ADMINISTRATOR: An official, having knowledge in the principles and practices
of subdividing, who is appointed by the council to administer this title.
   BLOCK: A group of lots, tracts or parcels within well defined boundaries,
usually streets.
   BOARD: The board of county commissioners.
   BUILDING: A structure designed or used as the living quarters for one or
more families, or a structure designed or used for occupancy by people for
commercial or industrial uses.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE: An imaginary line established by a zoning ordinance
that requires all buildings to be set back a certain distance from lot lines.
[IMAGE]
   BUILDING SITE: An area proposed or provided and improved by grading,
filling, excavation or other means for erecting pads for buildings.
   CEMETERY: A lot that has been platted for the selling of sites for the
burial of animal or human remains.
   CITY: The city having jurisdiction of the parcel of land under
consideration.
   COMMISSION: The planning commission appointed by the council.
   COMMITTEE: That technical committee, appointed by the council upon
recommendation from the commission, to assist with the technical evaluation of
subdivisions, and to make recommendations to the commission. The membership of
the committee shall include, but not be limited to, persons that are engaged in
either private or public work with specific knowledge in the following areas:
   (A)   Road design and construction;
   (B)   Sewer and water facility design and construction;
   (C)   Health requirements for water and sewer facilities;
   (D)   Environmental planning criteria such as: geology, water systems,
vegetation and noise;
   (E)   Solid waste; and
   (F)   Recreational and open space.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: An adopted document that herein may be referred to as a
comprehensive plan. The document shall show the general location and extent of
present and proposed development, including, but not limited to, housing,
industrial and commercial uses, streets, parks, schools and other community
facilities.
   CONDOMINIUM: An estate consisting of an undivided interest in common in real
property, in an interest or interests in real property, or in any combination
thereof; together with a separate interest in real property, in an interest or
interests in real property or in any combination thereof.
   COUNCIL: The city council of the municipal governing body.
   COUNTY RECORDER: The office of the county recorder.
   COVENANT: A written promise or pledge.
   CULVERT: A drain that channels water under a bridge, street, road or
driveway.
   DEDICATION: The setting apart of land or interests in land for use by the
public by ordinance, resolution or entry in the official minutes as by
recording of a plat. Dedicated land becomes public land upon the acceptance by
the city.
   DEVELOPER: Authorized agent(s) of a subdivider or the subdivider himself.
   DWELLING UNIT: Any building or other structure proposed or built for
occupancy by people.
   EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner to specific persons or to the public
to use land for specific purposes. Also, a right acquired by prescription.
   ENGINEER: Any person who is licensed in the state to practice professional
engineering.
   FLOODPLAIN: The relatively flat area or lowland adjoining the channel of a
river, stream, lake or other body of water which has been or may be covered by
water of a flood of 100-year frequency. The floodplain includes the channel,
floodway and floodway fringe, as established per the engineering practices as
specified by the army corps of engineers, as follows:
      Channel: A natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible extent, with
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct continuously or periodically
flowing water.
      Flood: The temporary inundation of land adjacent to and inundated by
overflow from a river, stream, lake or other body of water.
      Flood Of 100-Year Frequency: A flood magnitude which has a one percent
(1%) chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
      Floodway: The channel of a watercourse and those portions of the
floodplain adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to carry and
discharge the floodwater of any watercourse.
      Floodway Fringe: That part of the floodplain which is beyond the
floodway. Such areas will include those portions of the floodplain which will
be inundated by a flood of 100-year frequency.
[IMAGE]
   GOVERNING BODY: The city council of the city of Genesee, Idaho.
   HIGHWAY: A street designated as a highway by an appropriate state or federal
agency.
   HILLSIDE SUBDIVISION: Any subdivision, or portion thereof, having an average
slope of ten percent (10%) or more.
   IMPROVEMENT: Any alteration to the land or other physical constructions
associated with subdivision and building site developments.
   LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT: A subdivision, the size of which consists of fifty
(50) or more lots or dwelling units.
   LOT: A parcel, plot, tract or other land area of suitable size as required
in these regulations and the existing zoning ordinance; and created by
subdivision for sale, transfer or lease.
   LOT AREA: The area of any lot shall be determined exclusive of street,
highway, alley, road or other rights of way.
   LOT TYPES: As used in these regulations, lot types are as follows:
   (A)   Corner lot is a lot located at the intersection of two (2) or more
streets;
   (B)   Interior lot is a lot other than a corner lot with frontage on only
one street; and
   (C)   Through lot is a lot with frontage on more than one street other than
a corner lot.
   MOBILE HOME: See definition of Manufactured Home in section
10-2-2 of this code.
   MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: A subdivision designed and intended for exclusive
mobile home residential use.
   MONUMENT: Any permanent marker either of rock, concrete, galvanized pipe or
iron or steel rods, used to identify any tract, parcel, lot or street lines, as
specified in section 50-1303, Idaho Code.
   OPEN SPACE: An area open to the sky for outdoor recreation activity,
exclusive of streets, buildings or other covered structures.
   ORIGINAL PARCEL OF LAND: A lot or tract as recorded on any plat or record on
file in the office of the county recorder, or any unplatted contiguous parcel
of land held in one ownership and of record at the effective date hereof.
   OWNERSHIP: The individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership or
corporation having any interest in the land to be subdivided.
   PERFORMANCE BOND: An amount of money or other negotiable security paid by
the subdivider or his surety to the city clerk and recorder which guarantees
that the subdivider will perform all actions required by the governing body
regarding an approved plat, and provides that if the subdivider defaults and
fails to comply with the provisions of an approved plat, the subdivider or his
surety will pay damages up to the limit of the bond, or the surety will itself
complete the requirements of the approved plat.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT SUBDIVISION: A subdivision designed as a
combination of residential, commercial and industrial uses planned for a tract
of land to be developed as a unit under single ownership or control, which is
developed for the purpose of selling individual lots or estates, whether
fronting on private or dedicated streets, which may include two (2) or more
principal buildings.
[IMAGE]
   PLAT: The drawing, mapping or planning of a subdivision, cemetery, townsite
or other tract of land or a replatting of such including certifications,
descriptions and approvals:
      Final Plat: The final and formal presentation by drawings of an approved
subdivision development, the original and one copy of which is filed with the
county clerk and recorder.
      Preliminary Plat: The first formal presentation by drawings of a proposed
subdivision.
   RESERVE STRIP: A strip of land between a partial street and adjacent
property, which is reserved or held in public ownership for future street
extension or widening.
   RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land dedicated or reserved for use as a public way,
which normally includes streets, sidewalks and other public utilities or
service areas.
   STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS: Shall be the specifications as specified in this
title or as officially adopted by the city.
   STATE: The state of Idaho.
   STREET: A right of way which provides access to adjacent properties, the
dedication of which has been officially accepted.
      Alley: A local access street providing secondary access at the back or
side of a property otherwise abutting a street.
      Cul-De-Sac: A street connected to another street at one end only and
provided with a turnaround space at its terminus.
      Frontage: A local access street, parallel to and adjacent to a major
collector street to provide access to abutting properties.
      Local Access: A street which has the primary purpose of providing access
to abutting properties.
      Loop: A local access street with both terminal points on the same street
of origin.
      Major Collector: A street designated for the purpose of carrying fast
and/or heavy traffic, also known as an arterial.
      Minor Collector: A street designated for the purpose of carrying traffic
from local access streets to other minor collector streets and/or major
collector streets.
      Partial: A dedicated right of way providing only a portion of the
required street width, usually along the edge of a subdivision or tract of
land.
      Private: A street that is not accepted for public use or maintenance
which provides vehicular and pedestrian access.
[IMAGE]
   SUBDIVIDER: A subdivider shall be deemed to be the individual, firm,
corporation, partnership, association, syndicate, trust or other legal entity
that executes the application and initiates proceedings for the subdivision of
land in accordance with the provisions of this title. The subdivider need not
be the owner of the property; however, he shall be an agent of the owner or
have sufficient proprietory rights in the property to represent the owner.
   SUBDIVISION: The result of an act of dividing an original lot, tract or
parcel of land into more than two (2) parts where any part is less than twenty
(20) acres for the purpose of transfer of ownership or development; which shall
also include the dedication of a public street and the addition to, or creation
of, a cemetery. However, this title shall not apply to any of the following:
   (A)   An adjustment of lot lines as shown on a recorded plat which does not
reduce the area, frontage, width, depth or building setback lines of each
building site below the minimum zoning requirements, and does not change the
original number of lots in any block of the recorded plat;
   (B)   An allocation of land in the settlement of an estate of a decedent or
a court decree for the distribution of property;
   (C)   The unwilling sale of land as a result of legal condemnation as
defined and allowed in the Idaho Code;
   (D)   Widening of existing streets to conform to the comprehensive plan;
   (E)   The acquisition of street rights of way by a public agency in
conformance with the comprehensive plan;
   (F)   The exchange of land for the purpose of straightening property
boundaries which does not result in the change of the present land usage; and
   (G)   Subdivisions where each parcel is twenty (20) acres or larger.
   SURVEYOR: Any person who is licensed in the state as a public land surveyor
to do professional surveying.
   UTILITIES: Installations for conducting water, sewage, gas, electricity,
telephone, television, storm water and similar facilities providing service to
and used by the public.
   VARIANCE: A modification of the strict terms of the relevant regulations
where such modification will not be contrary to the public interest and where,
owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the action
of the applicant, a literal enforcement of this title would result in
unnecessary and undue hardship.
   VICINITY MAP: A small scale map showing the location of a tract of land in
relation to a larger area. (Ord. 246, 1-8-1979; amd. Ord. 324, 5-16-1994)
CHAPTER 3
SUBDIVISION APPROVAL PROCEDURE
SECTION:
11-3-1: Preapplication Meeting
11-3-2: Preliminary Plat Procedure
11-3-3: Final Plat
11-3-4: Short Plat Procedure
11-3-1: PREAPPLICATION MEETING:
   (A)   Application: The subdivider shall submit a preapplication to subdivide
to enable the administrator and other public officials to review and comment on
the proposed subdivision. The purpose of the preapplication procedure is to
inform the city and its staff of the developer's proposal, and to inform the
developer of the various ordinances and standards which are applicable to the
proposed subdivision. Subdividers electing and qualifying to follow the short
plat procedures described under section
11-3-4 of this chapter are exempted from the preapplication requirements
described in this section.
   (B)   Contents Of Preapplication: The preapplication shall include at least
one copy of a sketch plan in schematic form and including the following:
      1.   The existing conditions, use and characteristics of the land on and
adjacent to the proposed subdivision;
      2.   The proposed layout and approximate dimensions of streets, blocks
and lots in sketch form; and
      3.   Any areas set aside or to be dedicated for schools, parks or other
public facilities.
   (C)   Fee: None required.
   (D)   Review Of Preapplication: Within fifteen (15) days of receipt of the
preapplication, the administrator shall schedule a preapplication meeting
between the subdivider, members of the planning and zoning commission, other
interested city officials, and other persons who the administrator deems
necessary.
   (E)   Statement Of Review: The administrator shall notify the subdivider in
writing within fifteen (15) days after the preapplication meeting of any
findings and conclusions that resulted from the meeting in respect to:
      1.   Compliance of the proposed development with existing local,
regional, state or federal policies, objectives, plans, ordinances, statutes or
regulations;
      2.   Determination of any permits or changes in the ordinance that will
be required, such as rezones, before the subdivision can proceed;
      3.   Identification of any hazardous areas, unique historical,
archaeological or environmental features, such as a floodplain or unstable
slopes, that would require special engineering measures; and
      4.   Any other local, regional, state or federal agencies that the
developer should contact prior to preparing a preliminary plat. (Ord. 246, 1-8-
1979)
11-3-2: PRELIMINARY PLAT PROCEDURE:
   (A)   Application: The subdivider shall file with the administrator all
completed subdivision application forms and preliminary plat data as required
in this title.
   (B)   Contents Of Subdivision Application Forms And Preliminary Plat: The
contents of subdivision application forms and the preliminary plat shall be
determined by the commission, and the administrator may also require such
additional information as he deems necessary to process subdivision
applications. The subdivider shall submit to the administrator at least the
following:
      1.   Six (6) copies of the preliminary plat of the subdivision, drawn in
accordance with the requirements hereinafter stated. Each copy of the
preliminary plat shall be on a good quality paper, with dimensions of not less
than eighteen inches by twenty four inches (18" x 24"), shall be drawn at a
scale of not less than one inch to one hundred feet (1" = 100'), and shall
include the following:
         (a)   The name of the proposed subdivision;
         (b)   The name(s) of the subdivider or subdividers, and the engineer,
surveyor or site planner who prepared the plat;
         (c)   An arrow indicating the direction of true north and a graphic
scale indicating distances as measured on the plat;
         (d)   The date of drafting;
         (e)   The names of all adjoining owners of property whether or not
bisected by a public right of way as shown on record in the county assessor's
office;
         (f)   A delineation showing the location, dimensions and intended use
of all portions of the subdivision, such as: single-family residential or
mobile home park, and a delineation of any land proposed for parks,
playgrounds, schools, churches or other public uses or dedications;
         (g)   A vicinity map showing the relationship of the city (shown on
the Genesee city map, scale 1" = 200');
         (h)   A map of the entire area scheduled for development if the
subdivision is a portion of larger holding(s) intended for subsequent
development;
         (i)   The existing zoning and land use of the proposed subdivision and
of adjacent land;
         (j)   The location and dimensions of any existing or proposed streets,
alleys or other rights of way, including those on adjacent lands;
         (k)   The location of existing and proposed property lines, blocks,
lot lines and building setbacks within the subdivision;
         (l)   The name(s) of any streets;
         (m)   The number(s) of lots;
         (n)   Contour lines, shown at five foot (5') intervals where the land
slope is greater than ten percent (10%) and at two foot (2') intervals where
land slope is ten percent (10%) or less;
         (o)   The location and dimensions of any existing or proposed utility
lines including, but not limited to, storm and sanitary sewers, ditches,
drainageways, bridges, culverts, water mains, fire hydrants, gas lines, power
lines, and their respective profiles; and
         (p)   Any additional information as specified in chapter 6 of this
title.
      2.   Six (6) sets of preliminary engineering plans (not meant to be cross
sections or detailed designs) for streets, water lines, sewers, sidewalks and
other required public improvements. Such engineering plans shall contain
sufficient detail to enable the administrator to make a determination as to
conformance of the proposed improvements to applicable regulations, ordinances
and development standards.
      3.   A written application for subdivision on the appropriate forms
provided by the administrator including:
         (a)   The name of the proposed subdivision;
         (b)   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the developer(s)
and the landowner(s) if he is someone other than the developer, and the person
who prepared the plat;
         (c)   The names and addresses of all adjoining property owners;
         (d)   The legal description of the proposed parcel(s) to be developed;
         (e)   A site report as required by the appropriate health district
where individual wells or septic tanks are proposed;
         (f)   A copy of any existing or proposed covenants, easements or other
deed restrictions; and
         (g)   A statement as to whether or not a variance, as specified in
chapter 8 of this title, will be requested with respect to any provisions of
this title, describing the particular provision, the variance requested, and
the reasons therefor.
      4.   Additional information that sufficiently describes any natural
hazards that might affect the development, and any unique cultural or natural
features that will be altered by the development. (Ord. 246, 1-8-1979)
   (C)   Fees: Developer shall pay all costs incurred in reviewing and
approving subdivisions including cost of notice, publication, review by
engineer, review by attorney and all other directly related costs. At the time
of submission of an application for approval of the preliminary plat, a deposit
of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) plus ten dollars ($10.00) per lot shall
be given to the city clerk. This deposit will be applied to the costs. (Ord.
313, 6-15-1992)
   (D)   Administrator:
      1.   Certification: Upon receipt of the preliminary plat, and all other
required data as provided for herein, the administrator shall certify the
application as complete and shall affix the date of application acceptance
thereon. He shall, thereafter, place the preliminary plat on the agenda for
consideration at the next regular meeting of the commission which is held no
less than ten (10) days after said date of certification nor more than forty
five (45) days thereafter.
      2.   Review By Other Agencies: The administrator may refer the
preliminary plat and application to as many agencies as deemed necessary. Such
agencies may include the following:
         (a)   Other governing bodies having joint jurisdiction;
         (b)   The appropriate utility companies, irrigation companies or
districts and drainage districts;
         (c)   The superintendent of the school district; and
         (d)   Other agencies or individuals having an interest in the proposed
subdivision.
      3.   Administrator Review: Prior to consideration of the application and
preliminary plat by the commission, the administrator shall review the
application and other required information and shall report to the commission
as to:
         (a)   The conformance or conflict of the proposed subdivision with the
comprehensive plan, subdivision ordinance, zoning ordinance and other related
city ordinances and policies;
         (b)   The conformance or conflicts of the proposed subdivisions with
existing streets, water and sewer lines, and other rights of way;
         (c)   Any written correspondence that has been received by the city
from agencies or individuals commenting on the subdivision proposal; and
         (d)   Any other pertinent information that the administration deems
appropriate to the commission's review of the proposed subdivision. (Ord. 246,
1-8-1979)
   (E)   Public Notification:
      1.   Notification Of Property Owners: The administrator shall notify all
adjoining property owners who appear on the list of property owners' names and
addresses that has been provided by the subdivider. Such written notification
shall be mailed by certified mail with a return receipt at least ten (10) days
prior to the commission meeting.
      2.   Failure To Notify: The administrator's failure to comply with the
notification provision shall not invalidate the commission's action, provided
the spirit of the procedure is observed. (Ord. 313, 6-15-1992)
   (F)   Commission Action:
      1.   Hearing By Commission: Within no less than ten (10) days and no more
than forty five (45) days of the date of certification of the application, the
commission shall hold a public hearing to review the preliminary plat, and to
solicit comments from concerned persons and agencies.
      2.   Commission's Findings: In determining the acceptance of a proposed
subdivision, the commission shall consider the objectives of this title and the
following:
         (a)   The conformance of the subdivision with the comprehensive
development plan, zoning ordinance, subdivision ordinance, and other related
city ordinances and policies;
         (b)   The availability of public services to accommodate the proposed
development;
         (c)   The continuity of the proposed development with the capital
improvement plan of the city, and other units of local, state and federal
government;
         (d)   The public financial capability of supporting services for the
proposed development; and
         (e)   Any other health, safety or environmental considerations that
may be brought to the commission's attention.
      3.   Action On Preliminary Plat: The commission may approve, approve
conditionally, disapprove or table the preliminary plat for additional
information. Such action shall occur within thirty (30) days of the date of the
regular meeting at which the plat is first considered by the commission. The
action, and the reasons for such action shall be stated in writing by the
administrator, and forwarded to the applicant. The administrator shall also
forward a statement of the action taken and the reasons for such action,
together with a copy of the preliminary plat to the council for their
information and record.
   (G)   Appeals: Any person or aggrieved party who appeared in person or
writing before the commission or the subdivider may appeal in writing the
decision of the commission relative to the final action taken by the
commission. Such appeal must be submitted to the council within ten (10) days
from such commission action.
   (H)   Approval Period:
      1.   Failure to file and obtain the certification of the acceptance of
the final plat application by the administrator within one year after action by
the commission shall cause all approvals of said preliminary plat to be null
and void, unless an extension of time is applied for by the subdivider and
granted by the commission.
      2.   In the event that the development of the preliminary plat is made in
successive contiguous segments in an orderly and reasonable manner, and
conforms substantially to the approved preliminary plat, such segments, if
submitted within successive intervals of one year may be considered for final
approval without resubmission for preliminary plat approval. (Ord. 246, 1-8-
1979)
11-3-3: FINAL PLAT:
   (A)   Application: After the approval or conditional approval of the
preliminary plat, the subdivider may cause the total parcel, or any part
thereof, to be surveyed and a final plat prepared in accordance with the
approved preliminary plat.
   (B)   Contents Of Subdivision Application Forms, Engineering Drawings And
Final Plat: The contents of the final subdivision application forms, drawings
and final plat shall be determined by the commission, and shall be in
compliance with all items required under title 50, chapter 13 of the Idaho
Code. The subdivider shall submit to the administrator at least the following:
      1.   Three (3) copies of the final plat of the subdivision, drawn at such
a scale and containing lettering of such a size as to enable the same to be
placed on one sheet of eighteen inch by twenty four inch (18" x 24") drawing
paper, with no part of the drawing nearer to the edge than one inch (1"). The
reverse of said sheet shall not be used for any portion of the drawings, but
may contain written matter as to dedications, certifications and other
information. The final plat shall include:
         (a)   The date, name and location of the subdivision;
         (b)   An arrow indicating the direction of true north and a graphic
scale indicating distances as measured on the plat;
         (c)   The date of drafting;
         (d)   The dimensions and bearings of boundary lines of property;
         (e)   Sufficient engineering data to reproduce any line on the ground;
         (f)   The widths, centerlines and names of existing and proposed
streets, alleys and sidewalks;
         (g)   The location and widths of existing and proposed utility,
drainage and the rights of way;
         (h)   The lot numbers;
         (i)   The type, specification and location of monuments in the
proposed subdivision; and
         (j)   The dimensions and bearings of setback lines.
      2.   Three (3) copies of final engineering construction drawings for
streets, water, sewers, sidewalks and other public improvements. The final
engineering construction drawings shall include the following:
         (a)   The type, dimension and construction materials of streets,
alleys, sidewalks, curbs and gutters;
         (b)   The type, dimension and construction materials of storm and
sanitary sewer lines and water distribution systems;
         (c)   The type and placement of street lighting;
         (d)   The type, dimensions and construction materials of gas,
electric, cable TV and telephone lines; and
         (e)   The contours and configuration of proposed grading and drainage
of lots in the subdivision.
      3.   Three (3) copies of final subdivision application forms which shall
include the following information:
         (a)   Proof of current ownership of the real property included in the
proposed plat;
         (b)   The name, address and signature of the subdivider and owner;
         (c)   The name, address, signature and seal of the surveyor and
engineer;
         (d)   Restrictive covenants and any other existing or proposed deed
restrictions on the property being subdivided;
         (e)   Legal certifications by the proper elected officials pertaining
to any public dedications; and
         (f)   Proper guarantees that all improvements shown in the proposed
plat will be constructed. Such guarantees will be in the form of a performance
bond with an escalator clause to cover increased costs from inflation.
   (C)   Fee: At the time of submission of an application for a final plat, a
fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) plus one dollar ($1.00) per lot shall be paid to
the county recorder.
   (D)   Administrator Action:
      1.   Acceptance: Upon receipt of the final plat, and compliance with all
other requirements as provided for herein, the administrator shall certify the
application as complete and shall affix the date of acceptance thereon.
      2.   Resubmittal Of Final Plat: The administrator shall review the final
plat for compliance with the approved or conditionally approved preliminary
plat. If the administrator determines that there is a difference in the final
plat which was not approved as part of the preliminary plat or that there are
conditions which have not been met, the administrator may require that the
final plat be submitted to the commission in the same manner as required in the
preliminary plat process.
      3.   Submission To The Council: Upon the determination that the final
plat is in compliance with the preliminary plat and all conditional
requirements have been met, the administrator shall place the final plat on the
agenda within forty five (45) days from the date that an acceptable final plat
application was received and acknowledged by the administrator.
   (E)   Agency Review: The administrator may transmit one copy of the final
plat, or other documents submitted, for review and recommendation to the city
departments and other agencies as he deems necessary to ensure compliance with
the preliminary approval and/or conditions of preliminary approval. Such agency
review may also include the construction standards of improvements, compliance
with health standards, the cost estimate for all improvements and the legal
review of the performance bond.
   (F)   Council Action: The council, at its next meeting following receipt of
the administrator's report, shall consider the commission's findings, and
comments from concerned persons and agencies to arrive at a decision on the
final plat. The council shall approve, approve conditionally, disapprove or
table the final plat for additional information within thirty (30) days of the
date of the regular meeting at which the plat is first considered. A copy of
the approved plat shall be filed with the administrator.
   (G)   Approval Period: Final plat shall be filed with the county recorder
within one year after written approval by the council. Otherwise such approval
shall become null and void unless prior to said expiration date an extension of
time is applied for by the subdivider and granted by the council.
   (H)   Method Of Recording: Upon approval of the final plat by the council,
the subdivider's prepayment of recording fees for construction of off site
improvements or posting of surety bond, and the inclusion of the following
signatures on the final plat, the administrator shall submit the final plat to
the Latah County recorder for recording:
      1.   Certification and signature of the council verifying that the
subdivision has been approved;
      2.   Certification and signature of the city clerk, if required,
verifying that the subdivision meets the Genesee city requirements and has been
approved by the council; and
      3.   Certification of the sanitation restrictions on the face of the plat
per section 50-1326, Idaho Code. (Ord. 246, 1-8-1979)
11-3-4: SHORT PLAT PROCEDURE:
   (A)   Application: The subdivider may request that the subdivision
application be processed as both a preliminary and final plat if all of the
following conditions exist:
      1.   The proposed subdivision does not exceed ten (10) lots;
      2.   No new street dedications or widening is included;
      3.   No special development problems as defined in chapter 6 of this
title are involved; and
      4.   All required information as specified in sections
11-3-2 and
11-3-3 of this chapter for both the preliminary and final plats is complete and
in an acceptable form.
   (B)   Fee: At the time of submission of the plat, a fee of fifty dollars
($50.00) plus one dollar ($1.00) per lot shall be paid.
   (C)   Commission Action: The commission at its next regular meeting
following receipt of the application shall consider the information provided by
the subdivider, and any comments from concerned parties to arrive at a decision
on the plat. If the commission's conclusion is favorable to the subdivider's
request for consideration as both a preliminary and final plat, then a
recommendation shall be forwarded to the council in the same manner as
specified herein for a final plat.
   (D)   Council Action, Approval And Recording: Procedures for council action,
approval and recording shall be the same as those specified for a final plat.
(Ord. 246, 1-8-1979)
CHAPTER 4
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Minimum Design Standards Required
11-4-2: Dedication
11-4-3: Location
11-4-4: Specifications
11-4-5: Street Names
11-4-6: Intersections
11-4-7: Sidewalks
11-4-8: Easements
11-4-9: Blocks
11-4-10: Lots
11-4-11: Reserve Strips
11-4-12: Protective Covenants
11-4-1: MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS REQUIRED:
All plats submitted pursuant to the provisions of this title, and all
subdivisions, improvements and facilities done, constructed or made in
accordance with said provisions shall comply with the minimum design standards
set forth hereinafter in this chapter; provided, however, that any higher
standards adopted by any highway district, state highway department or health
agency having jurisdiction shall prevail over those set forth herein.
In order to ensure the reasonable and beneficial development of land within the
jurisdiction of this title, the commission and the council shall give
consideration to the following:
   (A)   Proposed Plat; Intent And Design: The intent and design of the
proposed plat shall be in accordance with the provisions of the Genesee
comprehensive plan and the Genesee zoning ordinance.
   (B)   Preserve Natural Amenities: Design and development of subdivisions
shall preserve, insofar as possible and desirable, the natural terrain, natural
drainage, existing topsoil and trees.
   (C)   Hazardous Conditions: Land which the commission determines to be
subject to hazardous conditions such as threats of flood, poor drainage, steep
or unstable slopes or other conditions that might threaten the safety and
general welfare of future residents or residents of adjacent property, shall
not be subdivided and developed until adequate provisions have been made to
eliminate these hazardous conditions. (Ord. 246, 1-8-1979)
   (D)   Designed By Engineer: All utility and street extensions shall be
designed by a licensed engineer. Plans must be approved by the city prior to
construction and as built plans shall be provided to the city. Such extensions
shall be made in accordance with all city and state standards including fire
hydrants and manholes.
   (E)   Plans Must Be Approved; Engineering Costs: Plans must meet all
specifications of this chapter and be brought to and approved by the city
council before any work is done. Within thirty (30) days of completion of
construction, as built plans shall be provided to the city. Owner shall
reimburse the city for all engineering costs incurred by the city. (Ord. 343,
3-15-1999)
11-4-2: DEDICATION:
Within a proposed subdivision, all streets and alleyways as shown on the
comprehensive plan shall be dedicated to the public; in general, all other
streets shall also be dedicated to public use. (Ord. 246, 1-8-1979)
11-4-3: LOCATION:
Street and road location shall conform to the following:
   (A)   Street Location And Arrangements: All streets in subdivisions shall
conform to the Genesee comprehensive plan.
   (B)   Local Access Streets: Such streets shall be so arranged as to
discourage their use by through traffic.
   (C)   Stub Streets: Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the
arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall be such that said streets
extend to the boundary line of the tract to make possible the future extension
of said streets into adjacent areas. A reserve strip may be required and held
in public ownership.
   (D)   Relation To Topography: Streets shall be arranged in relation to
topography so as to result in usable lots, safe streets and acceptable
gradients.
   (E)   Access: Provision should be made for service access, emergency access,
off street loading and off street parking in multiple dwelling or commercial
subdivisions. Dead end alleys are discouraged for emergency access reasons.
   (F)   Cul-De-Sac Streets: Cul-de-sac streets should not be more than four
hundred feet (400') in length and shall terminate with an adequate turnaround,
having a minimum full radius of forty five feet (45') for right of way.
[IMAGE]
   (G)   Half Streets: Half streets shall be prohibited except where unusual
circumstances made such necessary to the reasonable development of a tract in
conformance with this title and where satisfactory assurance for dedication of
the remaining part of the street is provided. Whenever a tract to be subdivided
borders on an existing half or partial street, the other part of the street
shall be dedicated within such tract.
   (H)   Private Streets: Private streets and roads shall be prohibited. (Ord.
246, 1-8-1979)
11-4-4: SPECIFICATIONS:
   (A)   Street Right Of Way Widths:
      1.   Residential Streets (Local Access Road):
         (a)   Dedicated right of way shall be fifty six feet (56') in width
with a five foot (5') utility easement on each side. Width of surfacing and
usable shoulders shall be at least forty feet (40').
         (b)   The street shall be constructed to at least forty feet (40') in
width with asphalt of at least 2.5 inches thick on the above indicated
compacted base at least twenty feet (20') in width down center of road.
      2.   Minor Collector Streets:
         (a)   Dedicated right of way shall be seventy feet (70') in width.
         (b)   The street shall be constructed to at least forty four feet
(44') in width (travel width of at least 24 feet and 10 foot wide parking lane
on each side). The travel way shall be finished with asphalt at least four
inches (4.0") thick.
         (c)   The following streets are minor collectors:
            Walnut Street from Cedar to Jackson.
            Jackson Street from Chestnut to Genesee Avenue.
            Genesee Avenue from Jackson to city limits.
            Cedar Street from Chestnut to old U.S. 95 and on to city limits FAS
4793.
            FAS 4793 connects with state highway on Chestnut between Jackson
and Birch; continues east on Chestnut to Cedar; then north on Cedar to
intersect with old U.S. 95 and the NE to the city limits.
      3.   Major Collectors:
         (a)   Dedicated right of way shall be eighty feet (80') in width with
a five foot (5') utility easement on each side.
         (b)   The street shall be constructed to at least forty four feet
(44') in width (24 foot travel lanes with 10 foot parking on each side) with
asphalt at least four inches (4.0") thick with a paved width of at least twenty
four feet (24').
         (c)   Sidewalks with a minimum width of five feet (5') shall be
developed on both sides of the street.
         (d)   The following streets are hereby designated as major collectors:
            Chestnut Street from Garfield to east city limits (FAS 4792)
(Ord. 343, 3-15-1999)
   (B)   Street Grades: Street grades shall not exceed seven percent (7%) on
major or minor collector streets and ten percent (10%) on local access streets.
(Ord. 313, 6-15-1992)
   (C)   Street Alignment:
      1.   Horizontal Alignment: When a street centerline curves by more than
ten degrees (10°) in alignment, the centerline shall follow a curve having a
minimum radius of five hundred feet (500') for collector streets, and three
hundred feet (300') for local access streets.
[IMAGE]
      2.   Vertical Alignment: Minimum stopping sight distances shall be two
hundred feet (200') for local access streets and designed in accordance with
design speed for collector streets.
[IMAGE]
(Ord. 246, 1-8-1979)
   (D)   Street Construction Standards: All streets shall be to the following
minimum standards:
      1.   Streets shall have a base of at least twelve inches (12") (minimum)
of rock with at least six inches (6") (pit run not smaller than 3 inch
diameter) topped by at least four inches of one and one-quarter inch (11/4")
crushed aggregate, graded and finished with an additional surface of at least
two inches (2") of crushed aggregate three-fourths inch (3/4"). This surface
shall be appropriately compacted to meet current engineering standards.
      2.   The street driving surface shall be paved with asphalt on the above
indicated compacted base and located in the center of road unless otherwise
located by the city engineer.
      3.   Curbs shall be constructed on both sides of the street unless waived
by the city council.
   (E)   Exceptions: The city council may permit alternate materials or, where
it is in the public interest, permit installations to be delayed until adjacent
properties develop. (Ord. 343, 3-15-1999)
11-4-5: STREET NAMES:
The naming of streets shall conform to the following:
   (A)   Street names shall not duplicate any existing street name within the
city except where a new street is a continuation of an existing street; street
names that may be spelled differently but sound the same as existing streets
shall not be used.
   (B)   All new streets shall be named as "streets" or "avenues". Other terms
such as "road", "way", "boulevard", "lane", "place", etc., shall not be
utilized. (Ord. 246, 1-8-1979)
11-4-6: INTERSECTIONS:
Intersections shall conform to the following:
   (A)   Angle Of Intersection: Streets shall intersect at ninety degrees (90°)
or as closely thereto as possible, and in no case shall streets intersect at
less than seventy degrees (70°).
   (B)   Sight Triangles: Minimum clear sight distance at all local access
street intersections shall permit vehicles to be visible to the driver of
another vehicle when each is one hundred feet (100') from the center of the
intersection.
[IMAGE]
   (C)   Number Of Streets: No more than two (2) streets shall cross at any one
intersection.
   (D)   "T" Intersections: "T" intersections may be used wherever such design
will not restrict the free movement of traffic.
   (E)   Centerline Offsets: Street centerlines shall be offset by a distance
of at least one hundred twenty five feet (125').
[IMAGE]
   (F)   Vertical Alignment Of Intersection: A nearly flat grade with
appropriate drainage slopes is desirable within intersections. An allowance of
two percent (2%) maximum intersection grade in rolling terrain, and four
percent (4%) in hilly terrain, will be permitted. (Ord. 246, 1-8-1979)
11-4-7: SIDEWALKS:
Sidewalks shall be at least forty inches (40") in width and shall be
constructed of concrete four inches (4") in depth (6 inches at curb cuts and
driveways) with at least four inches (4") of compacted gravel as a base. A
sidewalk shall be developed on one side of the street in single-family
residential areas and on both sides in commercial, industrial and multi-family
residential areas. Expansion joints shall be located at least every thirty feet
(30'), and scribed lines every forty inches (40") or to match the width of the
sidewalk. (Ord. 343, 3-15-1999)
11-4-8: EASEMENTS:
Unobstructed utility easements shall be provided along front lot lines, rear
lot lines and side lot lines when deemed necessary. Unobstructed drainageway
easements shall be provided as required by the council. (Ord. 246, 1-8-1979)
11-4-9: BLOCKS:
Blocks shall be so designed as to provide two (2) tiers of lots, except where
lots back onto a collector street, natural feature or subdivision boundary;
blocks should not be less than three hundred feet (300') long nor more than one
thousand feet (1,000') long in all cases. (Ord. 246, 1-8-1979)
11-4-10: LOTS:
Lots shall conform to the following:
   (A)   The lot width, depth and total area shall not be less than the
requirements of any applicable zoning ordinance.
   (B)   No lot shall be divided by a public road, street or alley.
   (C)   Where individual sewer and/or water systems are authorized by the
council, lot sizes shall be adequate to meet health and sanitation
requirements.
   (D)   Where parcels of land are subdivided into unusually large lots (such
as when large lots are approved for septic tanks), the parcels shall be
divided, where feasible, so as to allow for future resubdividing into smaller
parcels. Lot arrangements shall allow for the ultimate extension of adjacent
streets through the middle of wide blocks. Whenever such future subdividing or
lot splitting is contemplated the plan thereof shall be approved by the
commission prior to the taking of such action. (Ord. 246, 1-8-1979)
11-4-11: RESERVE STRIPS:
   (A)   Reserve Strips, Private: Privately held reserve strips controlling
access to streets shall be prohibited.
   (B)   Reserve Strips, Public: A reserve strip may be required to be placed
along half streets which are within the subdivision boundaries and shall be
deeded in fee simple to the city for future street widening. (Ord. 246, 1-8-
1979)
11-4-12: PROTECTIVE COVENANTS:
   (A)   Commission Review: Prior to approval of any plat, the commission shall
review and approve any covenants attached to the proposed subdivision.
   (B)   Criteria For Review: In reviewing covenants the commission shall
consider the following:
      1.   The consistency of the covenants with the Genesee comprehensive
plan; and
      2.   The consistency of the covenants with the Genesee zoning ordinance,
Genesee subdivision ordinance, and related city ordinances. (Ord. 246, 1-8-
1979)
CHAPTER 5
IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Responsibility For Plans
11-5-2: Required Public Improvements
11-5-3: Guarantee Of Completion Of Improvements
11-5-1: RESPONSIBILITY FOR PLANS:
It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider of every proposed subdivision
to have prepared by a registered engineer, a complete set of construction
plans, including plans, profiles, cross sections, specifications and other
supporting data, for all required public streets, utilities and other public
facilities as required in this title. Such construction plans shall be based on
preliminary plans which have been approved with the preliminary plat, and shall
be prepared in conjunction with the final plat. Construction plans are subject
to approval by the responsible public agencies, and shall be prepared in
accordance with their standards or specifications. (Ord. 246, 1-8-1979)
11-5-2: REQUIRED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
Every subdivider shall be required to install the following public and other
improvements in accordance with the conditions and specifications as follows:
   (A)   Monuments: Monuments shall be set in accordance with section 50-1303,
Idaho Code.
   (B)   Streets And Alleys: All streets and alleys shall be constructed in
accordance with the standards and specifications of the city, as specified in
chapter 4 of this title. (Ord. 246, 1-8-1979)
   (C)   Curbs And Gutters: Local access streets shall be developed with either
vertical or rolled curbs and gutters. Where the city council deems it in the
public interest, round bottom ditches with culverts for driveways and
appropriate erosion control measures may be permitted. The engineering of such
ditches shall be subject to the approval of the city engineer. Collector
streets shall be constructed with vertical curbs and gutters. (Ord. 313, 6-15-
1992)
   (D)   Installation Of Public Utilities: Underground utilities are encouraged
and may be required subject to the adopted policies of the city.
   (E)   Driveways: All driveway openings in curbs shall be as specified by the
governing body. (Ord. 246, 1-8-1979)
   (F)   Storm Water Facilities: Storm water facilities shall be installed at
the time of or prior to development of adjacent property. Storm water
facilities must be designed by a civil engineer. If a project will place a
burden on downstream facilities, the developer may be required to construct or
improve such off site facilities. The city may waive the requirement of an
engineered design for a small project upon a determination by the council that
the complexity of the project does not require engineered plans. For purposes
of this section, small projects are less than two (2) acres in size and one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) in construction costs. All subdivisions
must have engineered plans for improvements. (Ord. 343, 3-15-1999)
   (G)   Public Water Supply System: All water supplied to subdivisions in the
corporate limits of the city for culinary and other domestic uses shall be an
extension of the existing municipal water supply system. Water supply of any
subdivisions outside the city shall be reviewed on a case by case basis to
determine whether city water supply or supply through some other source is
desirable. In the instance of a subdivision in which the developer does not
propose connection to the municipal system, the developer shall provide
evidence that the extension is not feasible. All water lines shall be installed
in accordance with adopted city standards for pipe diameter. Section 50-1326,
Idaho Code, requires that all water plans be submitted to and approved by the
state department of environmental and community services or its authorized
agent prior to any construction.
   (H)   Public Sewer System: For subdivisions within the corporate limits of
the city, all lines proposed for collection of sewerage shall be connected to
the municipal sewer system. Sewerage collection and treatment for subdivisions
outside the city shall be reviewed on a case by case basis to determine the
feasibility of connecting to the city sewer system. The developer shall provide
evidence of the cost and feasibility of connection to the city system as
compared to the cost and feasibility of alternative sewerage collection and
treatment systems. All sewer lines shall be installed in accordance with
adopted city standards for pipe diameter. Section 50-1326, Idaho Code, requires
that all sewer plans be submitted to and approved by the state department of
environmental and community services or its authorized agent prior to any
construction.
   (I)   Fire Hydrants And Water Mains: Adequate fire protection shall be
required in all subdivisions.
   (J)   Street Name Signs: Street name signs shall be installed by the city in
the appropriate locations at each street intersection. Each street sign shall
be paid for by the subdivider at the current cost to the city. (Ord. 246, 1-8-
1979)
   (K)   Sidewalks And Pedestrian Walkways; Collector Streets: Sidewalks shall
be required on at least one side of the street and on both sides where access
to schools require sidewalks on both sides of the street. (Ord. 313, 6-15-1992)
   (L)   Street Lighting: Installation of streetlights shall be required at
intersections throughout the subdivision. Street lighting shall be installed by
the public utility providing such lighting. The developer shall bear the cost
of the lighting and installation. (Ord. 246, 1-8-1979)
11-5-3: GUARANTEE OF COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   (A)   Financial Guarantee Arrangements: In lieu of the actual installation
of required public improvements before filing of the final plat, the council
may permit the subdivider to provide a financial guarantee of performance in
one or a combination of the following arrangements for those requirements which
are over and beyond the requirements of any other agency responsible for the
administration, operation and maintenance of the applicable public improvement.
   (B)   Surety Bond:
      1.   Accrual: The bond shall accrue to the city covering construction,
operation and maintenance of the specified public improvement;
      2.   Amount: The bond shall be in an amount equal to one hundred ten
percent (110%) of the total estimated cost for completing construction of the
specific public improvement as approved by the council;
      3.   Term Length: The term length in which the bond is in force shall be
for a period to be specified by the council for the specific public
improvement;
      4.   Bonding For Surety Company: The bond shall be with a surety company
authorized to do business in the state of Idaho, acceptable to the council; and
      5.   Escrow Agreement: The escrow agreement shall be drawn and furnished
by the council.
   (C)   Cash Deposit, Certified Check, Negotiable Bond Or Irrevocable Bank
Letter Of Credit:
      1.   Treasurer, Escrow Agent Or Trust Company: A cash deposit, certified
check, negotiable bond or an irrevocable bank letter of credit, such surety
acceptable by the council, shall be deposited with an escrow agent or trust
company;
      2.   Dollar Value: The dollar value of the cash deposit, certified check,
negotiable bond or an irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be equal to one
hundred ten percent (110%) of the estimated cost of construction for the
specific public improvement, as approved by the council;
      3.   Escrow Time: The escrow time for the cash deposit, certified check,
negotiable bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be for a period to
be specified by the council; and
      4.   Progressive Payment: In the case of cash deposits or certified
checks, an agreement between the council and the subdivider may provide for
progressive payment out of the cash deposit or reduction of the certified
check, negotiable bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit, to the extent of
the cost of the completed portion of the public improvement, in accordance with
a previously entered into agreement.
   (D)   Conditions Of Approval Of Final Plat: With respect to financial
guarantees, the approval of all final subdivision plats shall be conditioned on
the accomplishment of one of the following:
      1.   The construction of improvements required by this title shall have
been completed by the subdivider and approved by the council; and
      2.   Surety acceptable to the council shall have been filed in the form
of a cash deposit, certified check, a negotiable bond, irrevocable bank letter
of credit or surety bond.
   (E)   Inspection Of Public Improvements Under Construction: Before approving
a final plat and construction plans and specifications for public improvements,
an agreement between the subdivider and the council shall be made to provide
for inspecting the construction and its conformity to the submitted plans.
   (F)   Penalty In Case Of Failure To Complete The Construction Of A Public
Improvement: In the event the subdivider shall, in any case, fail to complete
such work within the period of time as required by the conditions of the
guarantee for the completion of public improvements, it shall be the
responsibility of the council to proceed to have such work completed. In order
to accomplish this, the council shall reimburse itself for the cost and expense
thereof by appropriating the cash deposit, certified check, irrevocable bank
letter of credit, or negotiable bond which the subdivider may have deposited in
lieu of a surety bond, or may take such steps as may be necessary to require
performance by the bonding or surety company, and as included in a written
agreement between the council and the subdivider. (Ord. 246, 1-8-1979)
CHAPTER 6
SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
11-6-1: Purpose
11-6-2: Hillside Subdivision
11-6-3: Planned Unit And Condominium Subdivisions
11-6-4: Mobile Home Subdivision
11-6-5: Large Scale Development Subdivision
11-6-6: Cemetery Subdivision
11-6-7: Subdivision Within A Floodplain
11-6-8: Subdivision Within An Area Of Critical Concern
11-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to identify various types of developments that
normally pose special concerns to the commission and elected officials when
reviewing and acting upon subdivision requests. This chapter outlines the plan
submittal requirements and design standards that shall be taken into
consideration when acting on special developments. The provisions of this
chapter are in addition to the plan requirements, design standards and
improvements standards that are required by chapters 3, 4 and 5 of this title.
(Ord. 246, 1-8-1979)
11-6-2: HILLSIDE SUBDIVISION:
   (A)   Purpose: In order to preserve, retain, enhance and promote the
existing and future appearance, natural topographic features, qualities and
resources of hillsides, special consideration shall be given to areas in which
the average percent of slope exceeds ten percent (10%).
   (B)   Hillside Development Evaluation:
      1.   All development proposals shall take into account and shall be
judged by the way in which subdivision planning, soil mechanics, engineering
geology, hydrology, civil engineering, architectural and landscape design are
applied in hillside areas, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Planning of development to fit the topography, soils, geology,
hydrology and other conditions existing on the proposed site;
         (b)   Orientation of development on the site so that grading and other
site preparation is kept to a minimum;
         (c)   Shaping of essential grading to blend with natural land forms
and to minimize the necessity of padding and/or terracing of building sites;
         (d)   Division of large tracts into smaller workable units on which
construction can be completed within one construction season so that large
areas are not left bare and exposed during the winter- spring runoff period;
         (e)   Completion of road surfacing as rapidly as possible after
grading;
         (f)   Allocation of areas not well suited for development because of
soil, geology or hydrology limitations for recreation and other public uses;
         (g)   Minimizing disruption of existing soil and vegetation; and
         (h)   Consideration of the views from and of the subdivision.
      2.   Areas having soil, geology or hydrology hazards shall not be
developed unless it is shown that their limitations can be overcome; that
hazard to life or property will not exist; that the safety, use or stability of
a public way or drainage channel is not jeopardized; and that the natural
environment is not subjected to undue impact.
   (C)   Engineering Plans: The developer shall retain a professional engineer
(s) to obtain the following information:
      1.   Soils Report: For any proposed hillside development a soils
engineering report shall be submitted with the preliminary plat. This report
shall include data regarding the nature, distribution and strength of existing
soils, conclusions and recommendations for grading procedures, design criteria
for corrective measures and opinions and recommendations covering the adequacy
of sites to be developed.
   (D)   Grading Plan:
      1.   A preliminary grading plan shall be submitted with each hillside
preliminary plat proposal and shall include the following information:
         (a)   Approximate limiting dimensions, elevations or finish contours
to be achieved by the grading, including all cut and fill slopes, proposed
drainage channels and related construction;
         (b)   Preliminary plans and approximate locations of all surface and
subsurface drainage devices, walls, dams, sediment basins, storage reservoirs
and other protective devices to be constructed; and
         (c)   A description of methods to be employed in disposing of soil and
other material that is removed from the grading site, including the location of
the disposal site.
      2.   A final grading plan shall be submitted with each final plat and
shall include the following information:
         (a)   Limiting dimensions, elevations or finish contours to be
achieved by the grading, including all proposed cut and fill slopes, and
proposed drainage channels and related construction;
         (b)   Detailed plans and locations of all surface and subsurface
drainage devices, walls, dams, sediment basins, storage reservoirs and other
protective devices to be constructed; and
         (c)   A schedule showing when each stage of the project will be
completed, including the total area of soil surface which is to be disturbed
during each stage together with estimated starting and completion dates. In no
event shall the existing natural vegetative ground cover be destroyed, removed
or disturbed more than fifteen (15) days prior to grading.
   (E)   Development Standards:
      1.   Soils:
         (a)   Fill areas shall be prepared by removing organic material, such
as vegetation and rubbish, and any other material which is determined by the
soils engineer to be detrimental to proper compaction or otherwise not
conducive to stability. No rock or similar irreducible material with a maximum
dimension greater than eight inches (8") shall be used as fill material in
fills that are intended to provide structural strength;
         (b)   Fills shall be compacted to at least ninety five percent (95%)
of maximum density, as determined by AASHO T99 and ASTM D698;
         (c)   Cut slopes shall be no steeper than two horizontal to one
vertical (2:1). Subsurface drainage shall be provided as necessary for
stability;
         (d)   Fill slopes shall be no steeper than two horizontal to one
vertical (2:1). Fill slopes shall not be located on natural slopes two to one
(2:1) or steeper, or where fill slope toes out within twelve feet (12')
horizontally of the top of an existing or planned cut slope; and
         (e)   Tops and toes of cut and fill slopes shall be set back from
property boundaries a distance of three feet (3') plus one-fifth (1/5) of the
height of the cut or fill but need not exceed a horizontal distance of ten feet
(10'). Tops and toes of cut and fill slopes shall be set back from structures a
distance of six feet (6') plus one-fifth (1/5) the height of the cut or fill,
but need not exceed ten feet (10').
      2.   Roadways:
         (a)   Road alignments should follow natural terrain and no unnecessary
cuts or fills shall be allowed in order to create additional lots or building
sites;
         (b)   One-way streets shall be permitted and encouraged where
appropriate for the terrain and where public safety would not be jeopardized.
Minimum width shall be seventeen feet (17') between curbs;
         (c)   The width of the graded section shall extend three feet (3')
beyond the curb back or edge of pavement on both the cut and fill sides of the
roadway. If a sidewalk is to be installed parallel to the roadway, the graded
section shall be increased by the width of the sidewalk plus one foot (1');
         (d)   Curbs and gutters shall be installed along both sides of all
roadways as specified in chapter 5 of this title; and
         (e)   A pedestrian walkway plan shall be required.
      3.   Driveways And Parking: Combinations of collective private driveways,
cluster parking areas and on street parallel parking bays may be used to
optimize the objectives of minimum soil disturbance, minimum impervious cover,
excellence of design and aesthetic sensitivity.
   (F)   Vegetation And Revegetation:
      1.   The developer shall submit a slope stabilization and revegetation
plan which shall include a complete description of the vegetation to be removed
and the method of disposal, the vegetation to be planted, and slope
stabilization measures to be installed.
      2.   Vegetation sufficient to stabilize the soil shall be established on
all disturbed areas as each stage of grading is completed. Areas not contained
within lot boundaries shall be protected with perennial vegetal cover after all
construction is completed.
      3.   The developer shall be fully responsible for any destruction of
native vegetation proposed for retention. He shall carry the responsibility
both for his own employees and for all subcontractors from the first day of
construction until the notice of completion is filed. The developer shall be
responsible for replacing such destroyed vegetation.
   (G)   Maintenance: The owner of any private property on which grading or
other work has been performed pursuant to a grading plan approved or a building
permit granted under the provisions of this title shall continuously maintain
and repair all graded surfaces and erosion prevention devices, retaining walls,
drainage structures or means, and other protective devices, plantings and
ground cover installed or completed. (Ord. 246, 1-8-1979)
11-6-3: PLANNED UNIT AND CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISIONS:
   (A)   General: Planned unit and condominium developments shall be subject to
requirements set forth in the zoning ordinance and also subject to all
provisions within this title.
   (B)   Minimum Area: A planned unit development for the following principal
uses shall contain an area of not less than:
      1.   Two (2) acres or one city block for residential use.
      2.   Two (2) acres for mobile home subdivisions.
      3.   Five (5) acres for residential use with subordinate commercial use.
      4.   Five (5) acres for commercial use.
      5.   Five (5) acres for industrial use.
   (C)   Site Development Plan: The developer shall provide the commission with
a colored rendering of adequate scale to show the completed development that
will include at least the following:
      1.   Architectural style and building design;
      2.   Building materials and color;
      3.   Landscaping;
      4.   Screening;
      5.   Garbage areas;
      6.   Parking; and
      7.   Open space.
   (D)   Private Streets: Not permitted.
   (E)   Homeowners' Association: The homeowners' association bylaws and other
similar deed restrictions, which provide for the control and maintenance of all
common areas, recreation facilities or open space shall meet with the approval
of the council. Any and all powers as specified in such agreements may also be
assigned to the council for the purpose of assessing property for delinquencies
and enforcement of motor vehicle speed to protect the best interest of the
owners involved and of the general public.
   (F)   Storage Areas: Storage areas shall be provided for the anticipated
needs of boats, campers and trailers. For typical residential development, one
adequate space shall be provided for every living unit.
   (G)   Parking Space: One additional parking space beyond that which is
required by the zoning ordinance may be required for every two (2) dwelling
units to accommodate visitor parking. This may be reduced by the council if
there is a showing that the needs of a particular development are less.
   (H)   Maintenance Building: A maintenance building shall be provided, size
and location to be suitable for the service needs that are necessary for the
repair and maintenance of all common areas.
   (I)   Open Space: The location of open space shall be appropriate to the
development and shall be of such shape and area to be usable and convenient to
the residents of the development.
   (J)   Control During Development: Single ownership or control during
development shall be required and a time limit may be imposed to guarantee the
development is built and constructed as planned. (Ord. 246, 1-8-1979)
11-6-4: MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION:
   (A)   General: Mobile home subdivisions shall be subject to any requirements
set forth in the zoning ordinance.
   (B)   Special Requirements: Mobile home subdivisions shall be subject to the
following special requirements:
      1.   Developed as a planned unit development with a minimum lot area for
the planned development of two (2) acres;
      2.   Screening from adjacent areas, other than subdivisions of the same
type, by aesthetically acceptable fences, walls, living planting areas and
existing natural or manmade barriers; and
      3.   Creation of a homeowners' association to assure that all common
areas are adequately maintained. (Ord. 246, 1-8-1979)
11-6-5: LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT SUBDIVISION:
   (A)   Definition: A "large scale development" will be defined as a
subdivision which consists of fifty (50) or more lots or dwelling units.
   (B)   Required Information: Due to the impact that a large scale development
would have on public utilities and services, the developer shall submit the
following information along with the preliminary plat:
      1.   Identification of all public services that would be provided to the
development (i.e., fire protection, police protection, central water, central
sewer, road construction, parks and open space, recreation, maintenance,
schools and solid waste collection);
      2.   Estimate the public service costs to provide adequate service to the
development;
      3.   Estimate the tax revenue that will be generated from the
development; and
      4.   Suggested public means of financing the services for the development
if the cost for the public services would not be offset by tax revenue received
from the development. (Ord. 246, 1-8-1979)
11-6-6: CEMETERY SUBDIVISION:
   (A)   Function: The developer shall provide the commission with written
documentation that will sufficiently explain the functions of the proposed
cemetery for either human or animal remains.
   (B)   Compliance With Idaho Code: The developer shall submit a written
statement that has been prepared by an attorney that adequately assures the
compliance of the proposed cemetery with the procedural management requirements
that are outlined in title 27, Idaho Code. (Ord. 246, 1-8-1979)
11-6-7: SUBDIVISION WITHIN A FLOODPLAIN:
   (A)   Flood Areas: For any proposed subdivision that is located within a
floodplain, the developer shall provide the commission with a development plan
of adequate scale and supporting documentation that will show and explain at
least the following:
      1.   Location of all planned improvements;
      2.   The location of the floodway and the floodway fringe per engineering
practices as specified by the army corps of engineers;
      3.   The location of the present water channel;
      4.   Any planned rerouting or dredging, or construction of levees or
waterways;
      5.   All major drainageways;
      6.   Areas of frequent flooding;
      7.   Means of floodproofing buildings; and
      8.   Means of insuring loans for improvements within the floodplain.
New construction and substantial improvements of residential structures within
the floodplain shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to one
foot (1') above the level of the 100-year flood, and for new construction or
substantial improvements of nonresidential structures, the lowest floor
(including basement) shall be elevated to one foot (1') above the level of the
100-year flood, or together with attendant, utility and sanitary facilities,
shall be floodproofed to one foot (1') above the level of the 100-year flood.
   (B)   Justification For Development: Upon the determination that buildings
are planned within the floodplain or that alterations of any kind are
anticipated within the floodplain area that will alter the flow of water, the
developer shall demonstrate conclusively to the commission that such
development will not present a hazard to life, limb or property and will not
have adverse effects on the safety, use or stability of a public way or
drainage channel or the natural environment. No subdivision or part thereof
shall be approved if levees, fills, structures or other features within the
proposed subdivision will individually or collectively significantly increase
flood flows, heights or damages. If only part of a proposed subdivision can be
safely developed, the council shall limit development to that part and shall
require that development proceed consistent with that determination.
Subdivisions shall be reviewed to assure that:
      1.   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
      2.   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical
and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damages; and
      3.   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
New or replacement water supply systems and/or sanitary sewage systems shall be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems
and discharges from the systems into floodwaters, and require on site waste
disposal systems to be located so as to avoid impairment of them or
contamination from them during flooding. (Ord. 246, 1-8-1979)
11-6-8: SUBDIVISION WITHIN AN AREA OF CRITICAL CONCERN:
   (A)   General: Hazardous or unique areas may be designated as an area of
critical concern by the council or by the state. Special consideration shall be
given to any proposed development within an area of critical concern to assure
that the development is necessary and desirable and in the public interest in
view of the existing unique conditions. Hazardous or unique areas that may be
designated as areas of critical concern are as follows:
      1.   Unstable soils;
      2.   Unique animal life;
      3.   Unique plant life;
      4.   Scenic areas;
      5.   Historical significance;
      6.   Floodplain; and
      7.   Other areas of critical concern.
   (B)   Plan Submission: The developer shall prepare and submit an
environmental assessment along with the preliminary plat application for any
development that is proposed within an area of critical concern.
   (C)   Content Of Environmental Assessment: The content of the environmental
assessment shall usually be prepared by an interdisciplinary team of
professionals that shall provide answers to the following questions:
      1.   What changes will occur to the area of environmental concern as a
result of the proposed development;
      2.   What corrective action or alternative development plans could occur
so as not to significantly change the area of environmental concern;
      3.   What changes in the area of environmental concern are unavoidable;
and
      4.   What beneficial or detrimental affect would the development have on
the environment (i.e., animal life, plant life, social concerns, economics,
noise, visual and other)? (Ord. 246, 1-8-1979)
CHAPTER 7
VACATIONS AND DEDICATIONS
SECTION:
11-7-1: Application Procedure
11-7-2: Action
11-7-1: APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
   (A)   Application: Any property owner desiring to vacate an existing
subdivision, public right of way or easement, or desiring to dedicate a street
right of way or easement shall complete and file an application with the
administrator. These provisions shall not apply to the widening of any street
which is shown in the comprehensive plan, or the dedication of streets, rights
of way or easements to be shown on a recorded subdivision.
   (B)   Administrator Action: Upon receipt of the completed application, the
administrator shall affix the date of application acceptance thereon. The
administrator shall place the application on the agenda for consideration at
the next regular meeting of the commission which is held not less than fifteen
(15) days after said date of acceptance. (Ord. 246, 1-8-1979)
11-7-2: ACTION:
   (A)   Commission Recommendation: The commission shall review the request and
all public response and make a recommendation to the council for either
approval, conditional approval or denial.
   (B)   Council Action:
      1.   When considering an application for vacation procedures, the council
shall establish a date for a public hearing and give such public notice as
required by law. The council may approve, deny or modify the application.
Whenever public rights of way or lands are vacated, the council shall provide
adjacent property owners with a quitclaim deed for the vacant rights of way in
such proportions as are prescribed by law.
      2.   When considering an application for dedication procedures, the
council may approve, deny or modify the application. When the dedication is
approved, the required street improvements shall be constructed or a bond
furnished assuring the construction, prior to acceptance of the dedication. To
complete the acceptance of any dedication of land, the owner shall furnish to
the council a deed describing and conveying such lands to be recorded with the
county recorder. (Ord. 246, 1-8-1979)
CHAPTER 8
SUBDIVISION VARIANCES
SECTION:
11-8-1: Purpose
11-8-2: Findings
11-8-1: PURPOSE:
The commission may recommend to the council, as a result of unique
circumstances such as topographic physical limitations, a variance from the
provisions of this title on a finding that undue hardship results from the
strict compliance with specific provisions or requirements of this title or
that application of such provision or requirement is impracticable. (1963 Code)
11-8-2: FINDINGS:
No variance shall be favorably acted upon by the council unless there is a
finding upon recommendation by the commission, as a result of a public hearing,
that all of the following exist:
   (A)   There are such special circumstances or conditions affecting the
property that the strict application of the provisions of this title would
clearly be impracticable or unreasonable; in such cases, the subdivider shall
first state his reasons in writing as to the specific provision or requirement
involved.
   (B)   Strict compliance with the requirements of this title would result in
extraordinary hardship to the subdivider because of unusual topography, other
physical conditions or other such conditions which would result in inhibiting
the achievement of the objectives of this title.
   (C)   The granting of the specified variance will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property in the vicinity in which the
property is situated. (1963 Code)
 
