CITY CODE
of
GLENNS FERRY, IDAHO
2004
Code current through:
Ord. 25-611, passed 5-13-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the City of Glenns Ferry, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance 25-611, passed 5-13-2025. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 499
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE GLENNS FERRY, IDAHO, CITY CODE
BE IT ORDAINED by the mayor and city council of the city of Glenns Ferry,
Idaho, as follows:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the city
code of the city of Glenns Ferry, Idaho, prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc.
containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with
the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body
of the city, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official
code and law of the city as enacted by the mayor and city council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official city code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which shall be
maintained in the office of the city clerk, certified as to correctness and
available for inspection at any and all times that said office is regularly
open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official city
code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official city code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the city code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official city code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication as provided by law.
[image]
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the city council, this code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official city code of Glenns Ferry. This city
code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the GLENNS FERRY CITY CODE and
is hereby published by authority of the council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this city code by title in any legal documents. (2004 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2004 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the city code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this city code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this city code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the city code. (2004 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this city code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
city council. The city clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the clerk. Any
person having custody of a copy of the city code shall make every effort to
maintain said code current as to the most recent ordinances passed. Such person
shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered or made available to such person through the office of the city
clerk. Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and shall be
returned to the office of the city clerk when directed so to do by order of the
city council. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this city
code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this city code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city; and all special ordinances. (2004 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this city code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the city code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this city code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2004 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceedings, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Currently Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this city code. (2004 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this city code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The city council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this city code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this city code by words importing the singular number
only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the
opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
city code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city has been
changed in the content of this city code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2004 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CITY: The city of Glenns Ferry, county of Elmore, state of Idaho.
CODE: The city code of the city of Glenns Ferry.
COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the city council of the city of Glenns
Ferry.
COUNTY: The county of Elmore, state of Idaho.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Glenns Ferry".
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the city, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Glenns Ferry".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of Idaho.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law on any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (2004 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the city code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
A.   Violations Deemed Misdemeanors Unless Otherwise Specified: It shall be
unlawful to violate any provision, requirement. duty or standard contained in
this Code. Any violation of this Code shall be deemed a misdemeanor unless
otherwise specified.
   1.   Unless otherwise provided in this Code. any person convicted of a
violation of any section or provision of this Code deemed a misdemeanor may be
fined in a sum not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1.000.00) for any offense
and no imprisonment may be imposed: and in addition thereto. any person so
convicted shall pay such costs as the court may assess.
B.   Violations Deemed Infractions: When the offense is designated as an
infraction by any section or provision of this city code or by state law, it is
punishable only by the penalties set forth below or as specified in that
Section of this Code or State Code and no incarceration may be imposed.
   1.   Unless otherwise specified in this Code, for a first offense infraction
violation of any provision of this Code, a fixed penalty of one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00), plus any such costs as the court may assess.
   2.   Unless otherwise specified in this Code. for second and subsequent
infraction violations of this Code, a fixed penalty of three hundred dollars
($300.00). plus any such costs as the court may assess.
C.   Federally Mandated Programs: Any city which is participating in a
federally mandated program, wherein penalties or enforcement remedies are
required by the terms of participation in the program, may enforce such
requirements by ordinance, to include a criminal or civil monetary penalty not
to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or imprisonment for criminal
offenses not to exceed six (6) months, or to include both a fine and
imprisonment for criminal offenses. (2004 Code; amd. Ord. 19-574, 11-26-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-302.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty Provisions:
      1.   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this city code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this
city code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed or where any
action which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be
unlawful shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor unless otherwise provided. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or
obligation remains unperformed or such act continues unless otherwise
specifically provided in this city code.
      2.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this city code, and there
shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply.
   B.   One Recovery For Same Offense: In all cases where the same offense is
made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this city
code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more
than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense;
provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a
recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced. (2004 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this city code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty unless the
intention of the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 5
CORPORATE AND OFFICIAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Corporate Seal
1-5-2: Depository
1-5-3: Official Newspaper
1-5-1: CORPORATE SEAL:
The corporate seal of the city shall consist of a certain design including the
words "City of Glenns Ferry, Elmore County, Idaho", "Incorporated October 18,
1909", "Seal", a facsimile of which is as follows:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/340e5e600882dfb90300ed215b2bc1127270dae9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3710.png]
 
(1961 Code § 1-4-1)
1-5-2: DEPOSITORY:
The official depository for the various funds of the city are hereby designated
as the U.S. Bank, Mountain Home branch. (Ord. 249, 5-10-1963; amd. 2004 Code)
1-5-3: OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER:
The "Mountain Home News" is hereby designated as the official newspaper of the
city. (Ord. 325, 1-5-1978; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR 1
SECTION:
1-6-1: Term Of Office
1-6-2: Salary
1-6-3: Powers And Duties
1-6-4: Contracts
1-6-5: Veto Power
1-6-6: Accounts Of Officers
1-6-7: Police Power
1-6-8: Require Aid In Enforcing Law
1-6-9: Vacancy In Office
1-6-10: Other Powers
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-701 et seq.
1-6-1: TERM OF OFFICE:
The mayor of the city shall hold office for a period of four (4) years, or
until a successor is elected to succeed him. (Ord. 263, 9-20-1965, eff. 1-1-
1966; amd. 2004 Code)
1-6-2: SALARY:
The mayor's salary shall be set by resolution of the city council. (2004 Code)
1-6-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Administrative Officer: The mayor, the superintending administrative
officer of the city, shall devote so much of his time to the duties of his
office as an efficient and faithful discharge thereof may require.
   B.   Preside At Meetings: The mayor shall preside at all meetings of the
council.
   C.   Vote: The mayor shall have a vote when the council is equally divided.
   D.   Call Special Meetings: The mayor shall call special meetings of the
council when necessary.
   E.   Appoint Officers: The mayor shall appoint all officers of the city,
subject to the approval of the council.
   F.   Provide Information, Recommendations: The mayor shall, from time to
time, provide for the council such information and recommend such measures as
he may deem beneficial to the city.
   G.   Investigate Complaints: The mayor shall examine the grounds of all
complaints against any officer of the city to determine existence of a
violation or neglect of duty and report to the council the evidence thereof, if
deemed sufficient for the removal of said officer.
   H.   Require Delivery Of Assets: The mayor shall require that every officer,
on the expiration of his term of office or resignation or removal, deliver to
his successor all assets belonging to such office.
   I.   Additional Powers: The mayor shall have such other powers as the
council may prescribe.
   J.   Additional Duties: The mayor shall perform all other duties required
and necessary for the efficient operation of the business of the city. (Ord.
263, 9-20-1965, eff. 1-1-1966; amd. 2004 Code)
1-6-4: CONTRACTS:
The mayor is authorized and empowered to sign his name officially for and in
behalf of the city on all contracts, documents and papers to which the city is
a party, and to require that the conditions in any instrument are faithfully
performed. He may borrow money on the credit of the city when so authorized by
the council. (Ord. 263, 9-20-1965, eff. 1-1-1966; amd. 2004 Code)
1-6-5: VETO POWER:
The mayor shall have power to veto or sign any ordinance passed by the council;
provided, that any ordinance vetoed by the mayor may be passed over his veto by
a vote of one-half (1/2) plus one of the members of the council, and should the
mayor neglect or refuse to sign any ordinance, the same shall become law
without his signature after the next regular meeting of the council. (Ord. 263,
9-20-1965, eff. 1-1-1966; amd. 2004 Code)
1-6-6: ACCOUNTS OF OFFICERS:
The mayor shall have the power, when he deems it necessary, to require any
officer of the city to exhibit his accounts or other papers, and to make
written reports pertaining to his office to the council. (Ord. 263, 9-20-1965,
eff. 1-1-1966; amd. 2004 Code)
1-6-7: POLICE POWER:
The mayor shall have such jurisdiction as may be vested in him by ordinance
over all places within five (5) miles of the corporate limits of the city, for
the enforcement of any health or quarantine ordinance and regulation thereof;
and shall have jurisdiction in all matters vested in him by ordinance, except
taxation, within one mile of the corporate limits of said city and over such
properties as may be owned by the city without the corporate limits. (Ord. 263,
9-20-1965, eff. 1-1-1966; amd. 2004 Code)
1-6-8: REQUIRE AID IN ENFORCING LAW:
The mayor is hereby authorized to call on every inhabitant of the city over the
age of twenty one (21) years of age to aid in enforcing the laws. (Ord. 263, 9-
20-1965, eff. 1-1-1966; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 23-598, 1-10-2023)
1-6-9: VACANCY IN OFFICE:
In case of a temporary vacancy in the office of mayor due to absence or
disability, the president of the council shall exercise the office of mayor
during such disability or temporary absence, and until the mayor shall return.
When a vacancy occurs in the office of mayor by reason of death, resignation or
permanent disability, the city council shall fill the vacancy from within or
without the council as may be deemed in the best interests of the city, which
appointee shall serve until the next general city election, at which election a
mayor shall be elected for the full four (4) year term. (Ord. 263, 9-20-1965,
eff. 1-1-1966; amd. 2004 Code)
1-6-10: OTHER POWERS:
The mayor shall have all other powers provided by statute or by specific
provisions of this code. (Ord. 263, 9-20-1965, eff. 1-1-1966)
CHAPTER 7
CITY COUNCIL 1
SECTION:
1-7-1: President
1-7-2: Salaries
1-7-3: Meetings
1-7-4: Duties
1-7-5: Vacancies
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-701 et seq.
1-7-1: PRESIDENT:
At the first meeting in January, the council shall elect one of its members
president of the council who shall preside at all meetings of the council and
perform all other duties of the mayor in the absence of the mayor; and, in the
absence of the president, the council shall elect one of their members to
occupy his place temporarily, who shall be styled acting president of the
council, and the president and acting president, when occupying the place of
the mayor, shall have the same privileges as other members of the council and
all actions of the president and acting president, while so acting, shall be
binding upon the council and upon the city as if performed by the mayor. (1961
Code §
1-10-6; amd. 2004 Code)
1-7-2: SALARIES:
The salaries of the city councilmen shall be set from time to time by the
council. The city councilmen shall be reimbursed for extraordinary expenses.
(2004 Code)
1-7-3: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The city council shall hold regular meetings each
calendar month on the second and fourth Tuesday of each month. Such meetings
shall commence at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. and the place of the meeting is
hereby designated and shall be held in the city hall. (Ord. 540, 11-5-2009)
   B.   Special Meetings: The mayor and/or any three (3) councilmen may call
special meetings of the council, the object of which must be submitted to the
council members in writing and the call and object and disposition thereof
shall be entered upon the journal by the clerk. (Ord. 472, 9-27-2000)
   C.   Rules And Regulations: City council meetings shall be conducted
pursuant to "Robert's Rules Of Order". (2004 Code)
1-7-4: DUTIES:
Members of the council, the legislative and policy making branch of the city,
shall devote so much of their time to the duties of their office as an
efficient and faithful discharge thereof may require. The council shall review
all accounts of the fiscal officer and perform all duties which, by the nature
of their office, they should reasonably perform, such as the passing of
ordinances, resolutions and the investigation and study of work done for the
city according to the committees upon which they may be appointed by the mayor.
(1961 Code §
1-10-1; amd. 2004 Code)
1-7-5: VACANCIES:
In the event an office of councilman shall become vacant, through death,
removal of residence, or for any other cause, the mayor shall appoint, with the
approval of the council, a resident of the city to fill the unexpired portion
of the term to serve until the next general election, at which time the
unexpired term shall be filled by regular election. (1961 Code §
1-10-3; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 8
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-8-1: Appointive Officers
1-8-2: City Vehicle Usage
1-8-1: APPOINTIVE OFFICERS 1 :
   A.   Appointments: The mayor shall appoint all officers and all special
boards under the direction of the city. The offices of the city clerk and city
treasurer may be held by one appointive officer. (2004 Code)
   B.   Terms Of Office: All appointments shall be made for a specified term.
(1961 Code §
1-11-2)
   C.   Removal From Office: Any appointive officer may be removed by the mayor
for any cause by him deemed sufficient; but such removal shall be by and with
the affirmative vote of one-half (1/2) plus one of the members of the full
council; provided, that the city council, by the unanimous vote of all its
members, may, upon their own initiative, remove any appointive officer. (2004
Code)
   D.   Bonds Of Officers: The city clerk, city treasurer, council members,
commissioners and utility billing clerk shall, before entering upon the duties
thereof, execute a bond to the city. The treasurer's bond shall be in the
amount of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) and all other bonds shall be in the
amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), conditioned on the faithful
performance of their duties. All official bonds shall be approved by the city
council and when so approved shall be filed with the city clerk, except the
bond of the city clerk, which shall be filed with the mayor. Bonds so furnished
in accordance with the provisions of this section shall be furnished at the
expense of the city. (1961 Code §
1-11-4; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-204.
1-8-2: CITY VEHICLE USAGE:
   A.   Usage Outside City Limits: City vehicle usage outside of the city
limits of Glenns Ferry will be prohibited except for those instances in which
city business must be conducted.
   B.   Vehicle Record Book: In those cases in which city vehicle usage meets
the necessary requirements, each employee will be required to record the
odometer reading before and after travel, the purpose of the travel, and the
date. These records will be recorded and maintained in a vehicle record book.
   C.   Disciplinary Action: Usage of city vehicles outside of the city limits,
and other than for city business, must be justified before the city council and
may result in disciplinary action. (Res. 98-13, 9-9-1998)
ARTICLE A. CLERK
SECTION:
1-8A-1: Appointment
1-8A-2: Duties
1-8A-1: APPOINTMENT 1 :
The clerk shall be appointed by the mayor, subject to the approval of the
council. The clerk shall hold office for the duration of his/her appointment
unless sooner removed by the mayor with the concurrence of the council. (1961
Code § 1-13-1)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 1-8-1 of this title.
1-8A-2: DUTIES:
   A.   General Duties: The duties of the city clerk shall be as outlined in
the job description of such position maintained in the city office and as set
forth in Idaho Code. (2004 Code)
   B.   Copies Of Records: The clerk shall furnish to any member of the city
council a certified copy of any record or document in his custody and may
furnish such a copy to any other person upon payment of a fee to be determined
by the city council. (1961 Code § 1-13-8; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Licenses: In all cases where the duty is not expressly charged to any
other department or office, the clerk shall issue all licenses in accordance
with the provisions of this code. A record of all licenses issued, including
the name of the person to whom issued, the amount of the license fee, and the
purpose of the license shall be kept by the clerk. (1961 Code § 1-13-10)
   D.   Claims: The city shall follow the guidelines and procedures established
by the city's insurance carrier with regard to claims against the city for
damages. (2004 Code)
ARTICLE B. TREASURER
SECTION:
1-8B-1: Appointment
1-8B-2: Duties
1-8B-1: APPOINTMENT 1 :
The treasurer shall be appointed by the mayor subject to the approval of the
council. The treasurer shall hold office for the duration of his appointment
unless sooner removed by the mayor with the concurrence of the council. (1961
Code § 1-14-1)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 1-8-1 of this title.
1-8B-2: DUTIES:
   A.   General Duties: The duties of the city treasurer shall be as outlined
in the job description of such position maintained in the city office and as
set forth in Idaho Code. (2004 Code)
   B.   Accounts: The treasurer shall keep in proper books a full and accurate
account of all the monies received and disbursed by him in behalf of the city,
specifying the time of receipt and disbursement, from whom received and to whom
disbursed, and on what account received and disbursed, and how paid. (1961 Code
§ 1-14-3; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Monies: The treasurer shall receive and have custody of all monies paid
to the city and shall disburse monies when so ordered by the city council.
(1961 Code § 1-14-4; amd. 2004 Code)
   D.   Collections: The treasurer shall demand and receive all monies and fees
owing to the city whenever any person is indebted to the city in any manner,
and the means of collection of such debt is not otherwise provided for by law.
When any claim shall not be collectible by other methods, he/she shall report
the same to the designated collection agency. (1961 Code § 1-14-5; amd. 2004
Code)
   E.   Monthly Report: The treasurer shall submit a financial report to the
mayor and city council each month. (1961 Code § 1-14-8; amd. 2004 Code)
   F.   Quarterly Report: It shall be the duty of the city treasurer to cause
to be published quarterly during each fiscal year for at least one insertion in
the Mountain Home News, a full statement of each separate account, fund or
appropriation for the year to date, and balances of the debits and credits
belonging thereto, indicating salaries, capital outlay and a percentage
comparison to the original appropriation. All published financial statements
shall include the following: "Citizens are invited to inspect the detailed
supporting records of the above financial statements". Such statement shall be
published within thirty (30) days from the end of each quarter, except for the
final quarter of the fiscal year which shall be published no later than thirty
(30) days from the date of completion of the annual audit. Notwithstanding the
above, no one shall be precluded from making this filing prior to the
completion of an audit. Failure upon the part of the treasurer to comply with
the requirements of this section shall be deemed a misdemeanor. (2004 Code)
   G.   Delivery To Successor: The treasurer shall deliver to his successor in
office all materials, records, and resources of the office. (1961 Code § 1-14-
10)
ARTICLE C. ATTORNEYS
SECTION:
1-8C-1: Appointment
1-8C-2: Suits And Actions
1-8C-3: Judgments
1-8C-4: Advice
1-8C-5: Special Assessment
1-8C-6: Ordinances And Documents
1-8C-7: Additional Attorneys
1-8C-8: Additional Duties
1-8C-1: APPOINTMENT 1 :
Attorneys shall be appointed by the mayor subject to the approval of the
council. They shall hold office for the duration of their appointment unless
sooner removed by the mayor with the concurrence of the council. (Ord. 238-97,
4-9-1997; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 1-8-1 of this title.
1-8C-2: SUITS AND ACTIONS:
The attorneys shall prosecute or defend any and all suits or actions at law or
equity to which the city may be a party, or in which it may be interested, or
which may be brought against or by any officer of the city on behalf of the
city, or in the capacity of such person as an officer of the city. (Ord. 238-
97, 4-9-1997; amd. 2004 Code)
1-8C-3: JUDGMENTS:
It shall be the duty of the attorneys to see to the full enforcement of all
judgments or decrees rendered or entered in favor of the city and of all
similar interlocutory orders. (Ord. 238-97, 4-9-1997; amd. 2004 Code)
1-8C-4: ADVICE:
The attorneys shall be the legal advisors of the city, and shall render advice
on all legal questions affecting the city whenever requested to do so by any
city official. Upon request by the mayor or by the council, he/she shall reduce
any such opinion to writing. (Ord. 238-97, 4-9-1997; amd. 2004 Code)
1-8C-5: SPECIAL ASSESSMENT:
It shall be the duty of the attorney to see to the completion of all special
assessment proceedings and condemnation proceedings. (Ord. 238-97, 4-9-1997;
amd. 2004 Code)
1-8C-6: ORDINANCES AND DOCUMENTS:
It shall be the duty of the attorneys, whenever requested to do so by any city
official, to draft or supervise the phraseology of any contract, lease or other
document or instrument to which the city may be a party; and upon request of
the council, to draft ordinances covering any subject within the power of the
city. (Ord. 238-97, 4-9-1997; amd. 2004 Code)
1-8C-7: ADDITIONAL ATTORNEYS:
The mayor and/or council shall retain the right to employ any other attorneys
in any instance as they see fit. (Ord. 238-97, 4-9-1997)
1-8C-8: ADDITIONAL DUTIES:
Attorneys shall be required to undertake other duties as assigned. (Ord. 238-
97, 4-9-1997)
CHAPTER 9
CITY INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
SECTION:
1-9-1: Creation
1-9-2: Public Corporation Named
1-9-3: Powers
1-9-4: Charter
1-9-5: Board Of Directors
1-9-6: Election Of Officers; Bylaws
1-9-7: Financial Interest
1-9-8: Aid Of Corporation
1-9-9: Earnings Of Corporation
1-9-1: CREATION:
The city does hereby provide the city council with the authority to create a
public corporation to carry out the purposes of the act 1 . This chapter shall
not be construed to limit or restrict the purposes of the act, but shall be
liberally construed to effect such purposes. (Ord. 373, 11-21-1975; amd. 2004
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC title 50, chapter 27.
1-9-2: PUBLIC CORPORATION NAMED:
The name of the public corporation shall be the industrial development
corporation of the city. (Ord. 373, 11-21-1975; amd. 2004 Code)
1-9-3: POWERS:
   A.   The corporation shall have all the powers and be subject to all the
limitations and provisions contained in the act.
   B.   The corporation shall have all the powers granted by the act. Such
powers shall include, without limitation, all powers set forth in the charter.
(Ord. 373, 11-21-1975)
1-9-4: CHARTER:
A charter is hereby issued by the city to the corporation. The charter grants
the corporation all powers authorized by the act. A copy of the charter is on
file at the office of the city clerk as exhibit A attached to ordinance 373 and
is incorporated herein by reference. The charter is hereby approved pursuant to
section 50-2703(1) of the act. The charter may be amended from time to time by
the city council. The existence of the corporation commences at the time the
enactment of this chapter becomes effective. (Ord. 373, 11-21-1975; amd. 2004
Code)
1-9-5: BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
   A.   Membership: The board of directors of the corporation shall be
comprised of seven (7) residents of the city appointed by the city council.
   B.   Term: Of the members first appointed, two (2) members shall serve for a
term of one year, three (3) for a term of two (2) years, and two (2) for a term
of three (3) years. Thereafter, upon expiration of a term of appointment, each
member shall be appointed to a three (3) year term.
   C.   Compensation: Members of the board shall serve without compensation but
with reimbursement of expenses as may be provided in the bylaws, rules and
regulations of the board.
   D.   Vacancy: If a vacancy occurs during an unexpired term, the chairman,
with the consent of the city council, shall appoint a member, who shall also be
a resident of the city, to serve the remainder of the unexpired term.
   E.   Quorum: A majority of the members of the board shall constitute a
quorum, and the approval of a majority of a quorum shall be necessary for the
board to take any action. (Ord. 373, 11-21-1975)
1-9-6: ELECTION OF OFFICERS; BYLAWS:
   A.   Officers: The affairs of the corporation shall be conducted and carried
out by the board. The board shall elect officers from among its own members.
Such officers shall be elected at the initial meeting of the board in each
calendar year, shall serve until their successors have been duly elected, and
shall include a president and a secretary and may include a vice president and
an assistant secretary. The board may elect such other officers as it shall
from time to time determine to be necessary or desirable.
   B.   Bylaws: The board shall adopt bylaws and/or rules and regulations
governing the election of officers, the power and duties of such officers, the
filling of vacancies in offices, the scheduling, giving notice of, and conduct
of meetings, and the conduct of the corporation. Such bylaws, rules and
regulations may be amended from time to time by the board; provided, that any
such amendments shall be consistent with the provisions hereof. (Ord. 373, 11-
21-1975)
1-9-7: FINANCIAL INTEREST:
No director, officer, agent, employee or official of the corporation shall have
a direct or indirect financial interest in any property to be included in or
any contract for property, services or materials to be furnished or used in
connection with any industrial development facility financed through the
corporation. (Ord. 373, 11-21-1975)
1-9-8: AID OF CORPORATION:
The city may not give or lend any money or property in aid of the corporation
except as expressly authorized by the act. This provision shall not preclude
the city from dealing with the corporation on an arms length basis. (Ord. 373,
11-21-1975)
1-9-9: EARNINGS OF CORPORATION:
Any net earnings of the corporation beyond those necessary for retirement of
indebtedness incurred by it shall inure to the city and not for the benefit of
any other person. Alteration of the charter of, or dissolution of, or audits
of, the corporation shall be as provided by the act and by subsequent
ordinances of the city. Upon dissolution of the corporation, title to all
property owned by the corporation shall vest in the city. (Ord. 373, 11-21-
1975)
CHAPTER 10
AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
1-10-1: Purpose
1-10-2: Consideration
1-10-3: Boundary
1-10-4: Future Proposed Community Development Overlay Area
1-10-5: Annexation
1-10-6: Planning And Ordinance Provisions Governing Area
1-10-7: Essence Of Review Authority
1-10-8: Joint Review And Time Lines For Action
1-10-9: Modification Requirements
1-10-10: Enforcement
1-10-11: Penalty
1-10-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of establishing an area of city impact for the city is to identify
a logical urban fringe area adjoining the city. The urban fringe area is
realizing, or will realize, development pressure that must be planned for in an
orderly manner. Section 67-6526, Idaho Code, requires that cities and counties
negotiate an area of city impact. (Ord. 447, 9-21-1998, eff. 10-21-1998)
1-10-2: CONSIDERATION:
The following factors were considered by the planning and zoning commissions of
Elmore County and the city, plus Elmore County commissioners and the mayor and
city council, in establishing the area of impact:
   A.   Trade area;
   B.   Geographic factors; and
   C.   Areas that can reasonably be expected to be annexed in the future.
(Ord. 447, 9-21-1998, eff. 10-21-1998)
1-10-3: BOUNDARY:
   A.   Description: The area of city impact is the area designated on the
Glenns Ferry area of city impact boundary map, attached to ordinance 447 on
file in the office of the city clerk as exhibit A, and by this reference fully
incorporated herein, copies of which are available for inspection and delivery
at the county clerk's office.
   B.   Divided Property Under Single Ownership: In case a property under
single ownership is divided by the boundary line of the area of city impact and
the line divides such property so that one or both parts has a depth of three
hundred feet (300') or less, such part may be included in the jurisdiction
within which the remainder and larger portion of the property is located. (Ord.
447, 9-21-1998, eff. 10-21-1998)
1-10-4: FUTURE PROPOSED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY AREA:
It is the intent of the city and Elmore County to work together and with
citizens to develop a Glenns Ferry aquifer protection community development
overlay requirement that can be added to the Glenns Ferry comprehensive plan
and the Elmore County zoning and development ordinance at some point in the
future. The purpose of this community development overlay will be to identify
an area outside of the area of city impact where special development
requirements or procedures may be necessary to protect surface and ground water
quality. (Ord. 447, 9-21-1998, eff. 10-21-1998)
1-10-5: ANNEXATION:
The city may annex any eligible land parcel within the area of city impact.
(Ord. 447, 9-21-1998, eff. 10-21-1998)
1-10-6: PLANNING AND ORDINANCE PROVISIONS GOVERNING AREA:
The area of city impact as defined by the city ordinance 448 and Elmore County
ordinance 95-4, or that area redefined by mutual agreement pursuant to the
procedures set forth in said ordinances establishing boundaries shall be
governed by the following ordinances authorized by Idaho Code title 67, chapter
65 and Idaho Code title 50, chapter 13:
   A.   Zoning:
      1.   The Elmore County zoning and development ordinance, applying the
zoning requirements in effect at the time of adoption hereof or as subsequently
modified in accordance with this chapter, shall govern land use within the area
of city impact. A copy of the Elmore County zoning and development ordinance,
and the sections of the official zoning map to which this area of city impact
refer, are attached to ordinance 447 on file in the office of the city clerk as
exhibits B and C, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference as if
set forth in its entirety.
      2.   The zoning pattern that applies to the area of city impact will be
administered by Elmore County but it will be based upon the city's
comprehensive plan. If the city changes the comprehensive plan, then Elmore
County must initiate zone changes to accommodate the plan change.
   B.   Subdivision Requirements:
      1.   The subdivision of land within the area of city impact shall occur
only in conformance with the subdivision ordinance deemed applicable by virtue
of provisions this chapter and state law.
      2.   Except as otherwise provided by this chapter, within the area of
city impact, chapter 2, subdivision development standards of the Elmore County
zoning and development ordinance, as such now exists or as later amended, shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      3.   Within one mile of the then current corporate limits of the city,
title 12 of this code, as such now exists or as later amended, shall prevail.
      4.   Within the area of city impact, all subdivision proposals shall be
evaluated by Elmore County in accordance with the policies established by the
comprehensive plan of the city. The city shall be entitled to receive notice of
any subdivision request in the area of city impact comparable to that provided
to adjoining landowners, but in no case less than thirty (30) days prior to
action upon a subdivision request.
   C.   Special Use Permits, Variances, Planned Unit Developments, Zone Change,
Subdivision And Related Land Development Or Use Permits: Within the designated
area of city impact, jurisdiction for issuance of any special use permits,
variances, planned unit development, zone change, subdivision and related land
development or use permits or authorizations shall be vested in Elmore County.
Elmore County shall notify the city of receipt of a completed application for
any of the aforementioned permits in the same manner that notice is provided to
adjacent landowners, but in no case less than thirty (30) days prior to action
upon a permit request.
   D.   Comprehensive Plan: Within the area of city impact all zoning,
subdivision review, consideration of discretionary permits, and regulation of
development shall be valuated in accordance with the comprehensive plan of the
city which is hereby adopted as the comprehensive planning document which shall
govern the designated area of city impact.
   E.   Shared Protection Of Surface Waters: To further the effectiveness of
the area of city impact agreement which this chapter reflects, the city will
review surface water management proposals for land uses and developments within
the city and impact area, to require that contaminated surface water not be
allowed to infiltrate into aquifer recharge areas that supply drinking water to
humans and livestock.
   F.   Shared Analysis Of Traffic And Other Public Service Impacts: To further
the effectiveness of the area of city impact agreement which this chapter
reflects, the city and the Glenns Ferry highway district, plus Elmore County,
will review all land development proposals and change of land use projects,
within the area of city impact, to determine impacts to road capacity and
traffic service. All other applicable public services will also be included in
this shared impact analysis. The object of this shared analysis is to make sure
that roadways and other public services have sufficient capacity to handle
growth and development in the community. (Ord. 447, 9-21-1998, eff. 10-21-1998)
1-10-7: ESSENCE OF REVIEW AUTHORITY:
Within the area of city impact, Elmore County shall conduct public hearings to
consider the merits of a development request. Approval by Elmore County will be
necessary prior to issuing building permits. (Ord. 447, 9-21-1998, eff. 10-21-
1998)
1-10-8: JOINT REVIEW AND TIME LINES FOR ACTION:
   A.   Notice To City: Upon receipt of any development request, discretionary
permit application, or discretionary actions provided or submitted to Elmore
County for development action within the area of city impact, the county shall
mail a copy of the complete application and supporting documents to the city at
least thirty (30) days prior to any scheduled county public hearing or public
meeting date for county action.
   B.   Review By City: The city will then have an opportunity to review,
comment and provide a recommendation or opinion on the proposal to the county.
If the city chooses to submit comments or recommendations to the county, then
the city must do so in writing on city letterhead and mail the comments to the
county so that the county will receive the city's correspondence at least seven
(7) days prior to the scheduled county hearing or meeting date on the proposed
action.
   C.   Official Communications: All official communication between the city
and county pertaining to a development proposal within the area of city impact
shall be in writing. If the city chooses not to provide written comment on a
particular proposal, then the county will consider the absence of written
comments from the city as "no comments from the city of Glenns Ferry" and this
wording will be entered into the official public record for the affected
project.
   D.   Purpose: The purpose of this guideline is to establish a formal,
interagency working procedure between the city and county so citizens of the
city and Elmore County can be assured of an efficient public involvement
process and meeting schedules. (Ord. 447, 9-21-1998, eff. 10-21-1998)
1-10-9: MODIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:
The area of city impact established by this chapter may be modified by mutual
agreement in accordance with the notice and hearing procedures set forth in the
Idaho Code at any time. In the absence of mutual agreement to modify the
requirements of the area of city impact, either jurisdiction may unilaterally
request that such requirements be reopened for negotiations in October of any
calendar year. Any such request for change shall be based upon stated reasons
within the scope of the agreement which shall serve as the basis for any
renegotiation. The stated reasons must address specific provisions of the
comprehensive plan or land use ordinances effective within the area of city
impact and cite the changed circumstance with respect to any such basis as
grounds for renegotiation. No modification of the area of city impact
requirements shall be effective unless or until the specific procedures
required by this chapter and Idaho Code have been completed and agreement has
been reached regarding new terms for the area of city impact. (Ord. 447, 9-21-
1998, eff. 10-21-1998)
1-10-10: ENFORCEMENT:
The provisions of this chapter and the agreement to implement it may be
enforced by either the city or Elmore County through legal action initiated to
require specific performance with the terms of this chapter or other
appropriate legal action. (Ord. 447, 9-21-1998, eff. 10-21-1998)
1-10-11: PENALTY:
Violation of this chapter by one subject to its jurisdiction shall be
punishable by the penalties authorized to be imposed upon those found guilty of
a misdemeanor crime, including the authorized fine, imprisonment or both.
Violators may also be subject to civil legal action intended to compel
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 447, 9-21-1998, eff. 10-
21-1998)
CHAPTER 11
PURCHASE ORDER SYSTEM
SECTION:
1-11-1: Approval Or Denial Of All Purchases Required
1-11-2: Purchase Order Form
1-11-3: Signatures Required
1-11-4: Spending Funds Without Purchase Order Prohibited
1-11-1: APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF ALL PURCHASES REQUIRED:
Prior approval or denial of all purchases in which city funds are expended will
be required through the establishment and utilization of a purchase order
system. A purchase order number will be required for all expenditures unless
the mayor and city council grant exceptions. A monthly purchase order may be
acquired for local businesses provided that spending limits are approved by the
city council. Any expenditures not budgeted for will require council approval
prior to the expenditure of the funds. (Res. 98-12, 8-26-1998)
1-11-2: PURCHASE ORDER FORM:
Each purchase order form will require a description of the purchase or service
provided and will be coded to the appropriate department, project, budget
account number, work order number, and invoice number. (Res. 98-12, 8-26-1998)
1-11-3: SIGNATURES REQUIRED:
   A.   Expenditures under five hundred dollars ($500.00) will require the
appropriate department head's signature on the purchase order form for
authorization and approval of the purchase. All expenditures in excess of five
hundred dollars ($500.00) will require the signature of both the department
head and the city clerk. Any purchases made by the city clerk must have the
signature of the mayor or president of the city council before making purchases
in excess of five hundred dollars ($500.00). Likewise, the mayor or city
council will secure the signature of the city clerk before exceeding said
limit.
   B.   Purchase order signatures may be obtained when feasible only during
emergency situations that may pose a risk to the public health and safety of
the citizens of Glenns Ferry. (Res. 98-12, 8-26-1998)
1-11-4: SPENDING FUNDS WITHOUT PURCHASE ORDER PROHIBITED:
Any employee spending city funds without a purchase order may face disciplinary
action and will be required to justify the lack of a purchase order before the
mayor and city council. (Res. 98-12, 8-26-1998)
CHAPTER 12
IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM
SECTION:
1-12-1: Adopted
1-12-1: ADOPTED:
The city hereby adopts the identity theft prevention program attached as
exhibit A to the resolution codified herein. (Res. 09-03, 4-14-2009)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
ZONING COMMISSION 1
SECTION:
2-1-1: Creation
2-1-2: Purpose
2-1-3: Membership
2-1-4: Organization
2-1-5: Meetings
2-1-6: Records
2-1-7: Rules; Regulations
2-1-8: Duties
2-1-9: Boundary Recommendations
2-1-10: Maps
2-1-11: Employees; Expenditures
2-1-12: Contracts And Contractual Services
2-1-13: City Officials To Cooperate
2-1-14: Power To Incur Indebtedness
2-1-15: Public Notice
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 67-6504.
2-1-1: CREATION:
There is hereby created a zoning commission for the city. (Ord. 272-A, 3-7-
1967)
2-1-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of said zoning commission is to promote the health, safety, morals
and a general welfare of the community, and to recommend the boundaries of the
various districts within the city and appropriate regulations within the city,
and appropriate regulations to be imposed therein, to make preliminary reports,
and to hold public hearings thereon before submitting its final report to the
mayor and council. (Ord. 272, 1966)
2-1-3: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Appointment: The commission shall consist of five (5) members,
including the chairman, to be nominated by the mayor and to be appointed with
the advice and consent of the council.
   B.   Residency: All members must be residents of the city, must have been
residents of the county for two (2) years immediately preceding appointment to
the commission, and must reside within the city while serving on the
commission, with the exception of one member who shall represent the impact
zone and does not need to be a resident of the city but must reside within the
impact zone.
   C.   Term: The terms of office for the appointive members shall be six (6)
years.
   D.   Vacancies: All vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as original
appointments.
   E.   Removal: Members may be removed after public hearing by a majority vote
of the city council.
   F.   Political Affiliation: Members shall be selected without respect to
political affiliation.
   G.   Compensation: Members shall serve with no compensation. Travel and
meeting expenses may be reimbursed. (Ord. 14-553, 3-11-2014)
2-1-4: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Chairman: At the first meeting of the commission, it shall elect one of
its members chairman, and then on the first meeting following the first of
January of each year thereafter the commission shall meet and organize by
electing a chairman to serve as such chairman for one year. (Ord. 272, 1966)
   B.   Other Officers: The commission shall create and fill such offices as it
may determine necessary for the proper conduct of the affairs and business of
the commission. (2004 Code)
2-1-5: MEETINGS:
The commission shall, when there is business to transact, hold a meeting at
least once each month or more often as the business of the commission requires.
(Ord. 272, 1966)
   A.   Called By Chairman: Meetings of the commission shall be held when duly
called by the chairman by written or oral notice.
   B.   Quorum: A majority of voting members of the commission shall constitute
a quorum.
   C.   Open To Public: All meetings shall be open to the public. (2004 Code)
2-1-6: RECORDS:
The city clerk may be the ex officio clerk of the zoning commission and keep
its records and notify it of the filing of applications for permits. Written
records of meetings, hearings, resolutions, findings, studies, permits and
actions shall be maintained and open to the public. (Ord. 272, 1966; amd. 2004
Code)
2-1-7: RULES; REGULATIONS:
The zoning commission shall adopt such rules and regulations as may be
necessary to carry into effect the provisions and purposes of this chapter, and
it shall hold such meetings and meet at such places from time to time and have
such hearings as the commission or a majority thereof shall determine. (Ord.
272, 1966)
2-1-8: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the zoning commission to:
   A.   Citizen Participation: Provide ways and means to obtain citizen
participation in the administration of ordinances;
   B.   Zoning Permits: Prepare a procedure for processing zoning permits,
namely: special use permits, rezone applications, planned unit development
proposals and variance applications;
   C.   Comprehensive Plan; Zoning: Recommend changes to the comprehensive plan
and zoning ordinance prior to annexation of an unincorporated area;
   D.   Zoning Amendments: Hear all requests for amendment to the zoning
ordinance, hold at least one public hearing and make its recommendation to the
city council.
   E.   Zoning Changes: Recommend changes to the zoning ordinance, if needed,
to the city council. (2004 Code)
2-1-9: BOUNDARY RECOMMENDATIONS:
The commission shall recommend the boundaries of the various original districts
and appropriate regulations to be enforced. (Ord. 272, 1966)
2-1-10: MAPS:
Any and all maps, plats and replats of land which require approval of the city
council or of an officer or employee shall first be submitted to the commission
for its suggestions. (2004 Code)
2-1-11: EMPLOYEES; EXPENDITURES:
   A.   Expenditures: Any expenditures of the commission, exclusive of gifts,
shall be within the amounts appropriated and set aside by the city council for
the purposes of the commission as set forth in this chapter.
   B.   Employees; Technical Advisors: Within such limits, the commission is
authorized to hire such employees and technical advisors as it deems necessary
for the accomplishment of its authorized purposes and work. (2004 Code)
2-1-12: CONTRACTS AND CONTRACTUAL SERVICES:
The commission may contract generally and enter into contracts with the federal
government, the state, and other government agencies and/or hire consultants
for the purpose of conducting studies of city zoning problems and/or to do
other things considered essential to the accomplishment of the purposes of the
commission, and may receive grants and gifts in furtherance of such efforts,
all subject to prior authorization of the city council. (2004 Code)
2-1-13: CITY OFFICIALS TO COOPERATE:
All officers and division heads of the city shall cooperate with the commission
and render all reasonable assistance. (2004 Code)
2-1-14: POWER TO INCUR INDEBTEDNESS:
Neither the commission nor any member thereof shall incur any financial
liability in the name of the city except as authorized in section
2-1-12 of this chapter. (2004 Code)
2-1-15: PUBLIC NOTICE:
All public hearings held by the zoning commission shall be held only after
notice in the manner provided by statute. (Ord. 272, 1966; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 2
MUSEUM BOARD
SECTION:
2-2-1: Board Created; Appointment
2-2-2: Qualifications
2-2-3: Term
2-2-4: Vacancies
2-2-5: Removal
2-2-6: Organization
2-2-7: Powers And Duties
2-2-1: BOARD CREATED; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby established a museum board of the city, consisting of seven (7)
members to be appointed by the mayor and council. The council shall appoint one
of its members to be a liaison to the board with such liaison not having voting
rights. (Ord. 465, 6-28-2000)
2-2-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
The members of the museum board shall be citizens of the city or shall reside
within the Elmore County portion of the Glenns Ferry school district no. 192,
with a minimum of five (5) members being citizens of the city. (Ord. 465, 6-28-
2000)
2-2-3: TERM:
Members shall hold their office for three (3) years from the date of
appointment and until their successors are appointed. Upon the board's first
meeting, the board shall select two (2) members to serve one year, two (2)
members to serve two (2) years, and three (3) members to serve three (3) years
from the date of appointment. (Ord. 465, 6-28-2000)
2-2-4: VACANCIES:
All board vacancies shall be reported to the board and shall be filled by
appointment in the same manner as the original appointments. (Ord. 465, 6-28-
2000)
2-2-5: REMOVAL:
Board members shall serve as volunteers and may be removed by a majority vote
of the council. (Ord. 465, 6-28-2000)
2-2-6: ORGANIZATION:
The museum board members shall, as soon as practical after their appointment,
meet and organize by the election of one member as president and the election
of other officers as they may deem necessary. (Ord. 465, 6-28-2000)
2-2-7: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Bylaws: The museum board shall make and adopt as necessary, bylaws,
rules and regulations for their own guidance, and for the use and operation of
the museum.
   B.   Funds: All monies appropriated, donated, and expended for museum
purposes shall be accounted for by the city treasurer and such funds shall be
used exclusively for the benefit of the museum.
   C.   Budget: The museum board shall present to the council by the last week
in June a proposed budget.
   D.   Status Report Of Activities: The museum board shall, no less than twice
each year, present to the council a status of the current and planned
activities of the museum board. (Ord. 465, 6-28-2000)
CHAPTER 3
URBAN RENEWAL AGENCY
SECTION:
2-3-1: Appointment
2-3-2: Term Of Office
2-3-1: APPOINTMENT:
The agency shall be governed by a board of commissioners consisting of a
minimum of five (5) or maximum of seven (7) commissioners. The mayor shall
appoint two (2) city council members to serve on the board as commissioners for
the agency and shall appoint a minimum of three (3) additional commissioners.
All appointments by the mayor must be ratified by majority vote of the city
council. The mayor may appoint up to five (5) commissioners to serve on the
board. (Ord. 12-547, 5-8-2012)
2-3-2: TERM OF OFFICE:
The term of office for the two (2) city council members shall be consistent
with the term of office for the city council member. Termination or resignation
of a city council member shall also terminate membership on the agency board.
In the event that a city council member resigns from the agency board but
continues to hold office, a successor commissioner shall be appointed by the
mayor to hold the position for the remainder of the member's term. For members
that do not hold the office of city council member, the term of office shall be
four (4) years. All vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term. The
initial term of all commissioners shall be staggered so that the initial term
of office of no more than two (2) commissioners expires in the same year. (Ord.
12-547, 5-8-2012)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Applications
3-1-2: Persons Subject To License
3-1-3: Forms
3-1-4: Signatures
3-1-5: Inspections Or Investigations
3-1-6: Term Of License
3-1-7: Building And Premises
3-1-8: Change Of Location
3-1-9: Nuisances
3-1-10: Posting Of License
3-1-11: Revocation Or Suspension Of License Or Permit; Hearing
3-1-12: Appeal Procedure
3-1-1: APPLICATIONS:
Applications for all licenses and permits required by this code shall be made
in writing to the city clerk, unless otherwise specifically provided by law.
Each application shall state the name of the applicant, the permit or license
desired, the location to be used, if any, the time covered and the fee to be
paid; and each application shall contain such additional information as may be
required by the issuing official. (2004 Code)
3-1-2: PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE:
Whenever in this code a license is required for the maintenance, operation or
conduct of any business or establishment or for doing business or engaging in
any activity or occupation, any person or corporation shall be subject to the
requirement if by himself or through an agent, employee or partner, he holds
himself forth as being engaged in the business or occupation; or solicits
patronage therefor, actively or passively; or performs or attempts to perform
any part of such business or occupation in the city. (2004 Code)
3-1-3: FORMS:
Forms for all licenses and permits, and applications therefor, shall be
prepared and kept on file by the city clerk. (2004 Code)
3-1-4: SIGNATURES:
Each license or permit issued shall bear the signatures of the mayor and the
city clerk in absence of any provision to the contrary. (2004 Code)
3-1-5: INSPECTIONS OR INVESTIGATIONS:
Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit where laws of the
city necessitate an inspection or investigation before the issuance of such
permit or license, the city clerk shall refer such application to the proper
officer for making such investigation as soon as reasonably possible. The
officer charged with the duty of making the investigation or inspection shall
make a report thereon, favorable or otherwise, after receiving the application
or a copy thereof. For the protection of health, the building inspector shall
make or cause to be made any such inspections relative to the construction of
buildings or other structures. All other investigations, except where otherwise
provided, shall be made by the chief of police or by some other officer
designated by the mayor. (2004 Code)
3-1-6: TERM OF LICENSE:
All annual licenses shall terminate on January 1 of each year where no
provision to the contrary is made. (2004 Code)
3-1-7: BUILDING AND PREMISES:
No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business and no permit shall
be issued for any thing or act if the premises and building to be used for the
purpose do not fully comply with the requirements of the city. (2004 Code)
3-1-8: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
In the absence of any provision to the contrary, the location of any licensed
business or occupation or of any permitted act may be changed, provided ten
(10) days' notice thereof is given to the city clerk; provided, the building
requirements of this code are complied with. (2004 Code)
3-1-9: NUISANCES:
No business, licensed or not, shall be conducted or operated as to amount to a
nuisance in fact. (2004 Code)
3-1-10: POSTING OF LICENSE:
It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the city
to keep his license posted in a prominent place on the premises used for such
business at all times. (2004 Code)
3-1-11: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT; HEARING:
Any license or permit, for a limited time, may be revoked by the mayor and city
council during the life of such license or permit for the violation by the
licensee or permittee of any provision relating to the license or permit, the
subject of the license or permit, or the premises occupied; such revocation may
be in addition to any fine imposed. The mayor and the city council shall be
authorized to summarily order the cessation of business, the closing of the
premises, and the suspension of any business license or permit for a period not
to exceed fifteen (15) days.
   A.   Hearing: Within ten (10) days after the city officials have so acted,
the mayor shall call a hearing for the purpose of determining whether or not
the license or permit should be revoked.
   B.   Notice Of Hearing: Notice of hearing for revocation of a license or
permit shall be given in writing setting forth specifically the grounds of the
complaint and the time and place of hearing. Such notice shall be sent to the
licensee or permittee by certified mail at his last known address or personally
served at least five (5) days prior to the date of the hearing.
   C.   Hearing Procedures: At the hearing, the licensee or permittee shall be
permitted counsel and shall have the right to submit evidence and cross examine
witnesses. The mayor shall preside and shall render the decision and
recommendation.
   D.   Causes For Revocation: Business licenses and permits issued under the
ordinances of the city, unless otherwise provided, may be revoked by the mayor
and city council after notice and hearing as provided in subsections B and C of
this section for any of the following causes:
      1.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license or permit;
      2.   Any violation by the licensee or permittee of ordinance provisions
or state law relating to the license or permit, the subject matter of the
license or permit, or the premises occupied;
      3.   Conviction of the licensee or permittee of any felony or of a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
      4.   Failure of the licensee or permittee to pay any fine or penalty
owing to the city;
      5.   Refusal to permit an inspection or investigation or any interference
with a duly authorized city officer or employee while in the performance of his
duties in making such inspections, as provided in the city code. (2004 Code)
3-1-12: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Right To Appeal: Any applicant aggrieved by the refusal of the city to
issue a license or permit or by the revocation of a license or permit shall
have the right to appeal the city's decision to the city council. Such appeal
shall be requested by submitting a written request to the mayor within five (5)
days of the action of the city which is appealed.
   B.   Council Consideration And Action: The city council shall consider the
appeal at its next regularly scheduled meeting, at which time the applicant
shall be entitled to present his appeal orally or in writing. The council shall
act on the appeal within seven (7) days of the hearing and shall either uphold
the action of the city or shall direct the issuance of a license or permit
which the city has denied or the reissuance of a license or permit which the
city had revoked. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR CONTROL 1
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 23-901 et seq.
ARTICLE A. LIQUOR BY THE DRINK
SECTION:
3-2A-1: Definitions
3-2A-2: License Required
3-2A-3: Application; Requirements
3-2A-4: License Fee; Term Of License
3-2A-5: Investigation Of Applications
3-2A-6: Location Restrictions
3-2A-7: Sale To Licensee
3-2A-8: Sale By The Drink Only
3-2A-9: Hours Of Sale
3-2A-10: Unlawful Acts
3-2A-11: Access To Premises
3-2A-12: Loitering By Minors
3-2A-13: Exceptions
3-2A-14: Posting Age Restrictions
3-2A-15: Requirements Of Premises
3-2A-16: Advertising Prohibited
3-2A-17: Transfer Of License
3-2A-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this article shall be given the
following interpretation:
CHIEF OF POLICE: The lead law enforcement officer of the city.
CITY COUNCIL: The mayor and council of the city.
INTERDICTED PERSON: A person to whom the sale of liquor is prohibited under the
laws of the state.
LICENSE: A license issued by the city to a qualified person, under which it
shall be lawful for the licensee to sell and dispense liquor by the drink at
retail, as provided by law.
LICENSEE: The person to whom a license is issued.
LIQUOR: All kinds of liquor sold by and in a state liquor store.
PERSON: Every individual, partnership, corporation, organization or association
holding a retail liquor license, whether conducting the business singularly or
collectively.
PREMISES: The building and contiguous property owned, or leased or used under a
government permit by a licensee as part of the business establishment in the
business of sale of liquor by the drink at retail, which property is improved
to include decks, docks, boardwalks, lawns, gardens, golf courses, ski resorts,
courtyards, patios, poolside areas or similar improved appurtenances in which
the sale of liquor by the drink at retail is authorized under the provisions of
law.
RULES AND REGULATIONS: All rules and regulations made and promulgated by the
council.
STATE LIQUOR STORE: A liquor store or distributor established under and
pursuant to the laws of the state for the package sale of liquor at retail.
(1961 Code as amd. 5-24-1961; amd. 2004 Code)
3-2A-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to sell liquor by the drink unless a license has been
obtained and all rules and regulations concerning the licensing and operation
of a place of business where liquor is sold are complied with. (1961 Code as
amd. 5-24-1961)
3-2A-3: APPLICATION; REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Form: Before there shall be any lawful sale of liquor by the drink, an
application by the proposed licensee must be made for such license and filed
with the clerk in the form and manner herein provided.
   B.   Required Information: Such application shall provide for the name of
the applicant, the location of the proposed business, and such other
information as may be prescribed and required by the city council.
   C.   State And County License Required: At the time said application is
filed, the applicant shall also present a copy of an application for a state
license and also the license issued by the state and county for the sale of
liquor by the drink at retail. No city license will be issued until a license
has first been issued by the state and county.
   D.   Filing; Referral To Council: All applications shall be filed with the
clerk and referred to the council for approval. The license fee shall be paid
to the clerk at the time of making application and, upon approval of said
application by the council, the clerk shall issue and deliver the license to
the applicant. (1961 Code as amd. 5-24-1961; amd. 2004 Code)
3-2A-4: LICENSE FEE; TERM OF LICENSE:
Each licensee shall pay an annual license fee of three hundred seventy five
dollars ($375.00), and such license shall expire at one o'clock (1:00) A.M. on
January 1 of each year. Any licensee who operates for only a portion of a year
may have his license fee prorated from the date he commences operation to the
end of the calendar year, but in no event for less than six (6) months. (1961
Code as amd. 5-24-1961)
3-2A-5: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Investigation: Upon receipt of application for a license accompanied by
the license fee, the chief of police or designated law enforcement officer,
upon recommendation of the city clerk or council, within ninety (90) days
thereafter, may cause to be made a thorough investigation of all matters
pertaining thereto and report his findings to the council. The council shall
then act upon said application according to the facts presented and either
approve or disapprove the application. Upon approval by the council, the clerk
shall then issue said license; or, upon disapproval by the council, the clerk
shall so notify the applicant and return the license fee, less the costs of
investigation, to the applicant. Investigations shall not be required if the
applicant is renewing a license.
   B.   Books And Records: In making the investigation required by this
article, the chief of police or designated law enforcement officer shall have
the power to investigate and examine the books and records of the licensee and
any person having a financial interest in any business to be conducted on the
licensed premises. (1961 Code as amd. 5-24-1961; amd. 2004 Code)
3-2A-6: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
No license shall be issued for any premises in any neighborhood which is
predominantly residential or within three hundred feet (300') of any public
school, church, or any other place of worship, measured in a straight line to
the nearest entrance to the licensed premises, except with the approval of the
city council; provided, that this limitation shall not apply to any duly
licensed premises that at the time of licensing did not come within the
restricted area. (1961 Code as amd. 5-24-1961)
3-2A-7: SALE TO LICENSEE:
All liquor sold by any licensee shall be purchased from the Idaho liquor
dispensary through its regular retail stores and distributors at the posted
price thereof. The state liquor dispensary is hereby authorized and directed to
make such sales for cash, check or money order to be paid at the time of
purchase upon a special permit issued to such licensee on such form as shall be
prescribed by the superintendent of the state liquor dispensary. The "posted
price" as used herein shall mean the retail price of such liquor as fixed and
determined by the state liquor dispensary. (1961 Code as amd. 5-24-1961; amd.
2004 Code)
3-2A-8: SALE BY THE DRINK ONLY:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell, keep for sale, dispense, give
away, or otherwise dispose of any liquor in the original containers or
otherwise than by retail sale by the drink. (1961 Code as amd. 5-24-1961)
3-2A-9: HOURS OF SALE:
No liquor shall be sold, offered for sale, or given away upon any licensed
premises, and all liquor not in sealed bottles must be locked in a separate
room or cabinet, during the following hours:
   A.   Christmas Day from two o’clock (2:00) A.M., to ten o’clock (10:00) A.M.
the following day.
   B.   On any other day between two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:
00) A.M.
(1961 Code as amd. 5-24-1961; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 22-589, 3-22-2022)
3-2A-10: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   A.   Prohibited Sale Or Delivery: No licensee or his or its employed agents,
servants or bartenders shall sell, deliver or give away, or cause or permit to
be sold, delivered, or given away, any liquor to:
      1.   Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years, proof of which
shall be a validly issued state, district, territorial, possession, provincial,
national or other equivalent government driver's license, identification card
or military identification card bearing a photograph and date of birth, or a
valid passport.
      2.   Any person actually, apparently or obviously intoxicated.
      3.   An habitual drunkard.
      4.   An interdicted person.
   B.   Misrepresentation: Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years,
or other person, who knowingly misrepresents his or her qualifications for the
purpose of entering licensed premises or for obtaining alcoholic beverages from
such licensee shall be equally guilty with such licensee and shall, upon
conviction thereof, be guilty of a misdemeanor. (1961 Code as amd. 5-24-1961;
amd. 2004 Code)
3-2A-11: ACCESS TO PREMISES:
All peace officers appointed by the state, the city or the county shall have
free access at all times to the licensed premises, and any information touching
the manner and method of the operation of said premises or the sale of said
liquor shall be submitted to the council for appropriate action. (1961 Code as
amd. 5-24-1961)
3-2A-12: LOITERING BY MINORS 1 :
   A.   Prohibited: No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall
enter, remain in or loiter in or about any place, as herein defined, licensed
for the sale of liquor by the drink at retail, or sale of beer for consumption
on the premises; nor shall any licensee of either such place, or any person in
charge thereof, or on duty while employed by the licensee therein, permit or
allow any person under the age specified with respect thereto to remain in or
loiter in or about such place.
   B.   Exception: Provided, however, it is lawful for persons who are
musicians and singers eighteen (18) years of age or older, to enter and to
remain in any place as defined in section 23-942, Idaho Code, but only during
and in the course of their employment as musicians and singers. Provided
further, that it is lawful for persons who are nineteen (19) years of age or
older to sell, serve, possess or dispense liquor, beer or wine in the course of
their employment in any place as defined in section 23-942, Idaho Code, or in
any other place where liquor, beer or wine is lawfully present, so long as such
place is the place of employment for such person under twenty one (21) years of
age. However, the foregoing shall not permit the sale or distribution of any
alcoholic beverages to any person under the ages specified for sale of
alcoholic beverages. (1961 Code as amd. 5-24-1961; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 5-2-26 of this code.
3-2A-13: EXCEPTIONS:
It shall not be unlawful nor shall section
3-2A-15 hereof be construed to restrict any person under the age of twenty one
(21) years from being:
   A.   Upon the premises of any restaurant, notwithstanding that such premises
may also be licensed for the sale of liquor by the drink or for the sale of
beer for consumption on the premises or that alcoholic beverages, or beer, or
both, are prepared, mixed or dispensed and served and consumed therein.
   B.   In any building, a part or portion of which is used as a place where
liquor is sold by the drink, provided such place is separated or partitioned
from the remainder of said building, and access to such place through a doorway
or doorways or other means of ingress can be controlled to prevent persons
under the age specified herein from entering therein.
   C.   In any baseball park, sports arena or fairgrounds, notwithstanding that
such premises or any portion thereof may be licensed for the sale of beer for
consumption on the premises or that beer is dispensed and served and consumed
therein. (1961 Code as amd. 5-24-1961)
3-2A-14: POSTING AGE RESTRICTIONS:
Every licensee herein referred to shall keep a sign conspicuously posted over
or near each entrance to any place from which persons under twenty one (21)
years are herein restricted giving public notice of such fact. The wording and
size of such signs shall be in accordance with such regulations as the chief of
police or designated law enforcement officer may prescribe. (1961 Code as amd.
5-24-1961)
3-2A-15: REQUIREMENTS OF PREMISES:
Every licensee must conform to all regulations and laws of the state and the
provisions of this article.
   A.   Sale Away From Licensed Premises: It shall be unlawful for any licensee
to sell, give away, dispense, vend, or deliver any liquor in any fashion or by
means or device, except upon the licensed premises.
   B.   Gambling: It shall be unlawful for any licensee granted a license under
the authority of title 23, Idaho Code, to permit, conduct, play, carry on, open
or cause to be opened any gaming in or upon the licensed premises or in or upon
any premises directly connected by a door, hallway, or other means of access
from the licensed premises. Any licensee authorized under the authority of this
title and who is also authorized by other Idaho law to conduct the lawful
activities of lottery, bingo, raffles, and pari-mutuel betting on the licensed
premises shall be exempt from the provisions of this subsection as long as the
lawful activities are conducted in conformity with statute and rules
promulgated pursuant thereto. (1961 Code as amd. 5-24-1961; amd. 2004 Code)
3-2A-16: ADVERTISING PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee to adopt or use any name, sign or
advertisement outside of the licensed premises advertising the handling or sale
of liquor. (1961 Code as amd. 5-24-1961)
3-2A-17: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
Any licensee in good standing may transfer his license to any other person who
possesses all the qualifications of a licensee as provided in this article. The
application for transfer shall be in writing filed with the clerk showing such
qualifications, and shall be accompanied by a transfer fee in an amount as set
from time to time by resolution of the city council. The transfer may be
approved by the city council upon recommendation of the chief of police or
designated law enforcement officer, after his investigation of the proposed
transferee. (Ord. 283, 7-2-1968; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR CONTROL
ARTICLE B. BEER 1
SECTION:
3-2B-1: Definitions
3-2B-2: License Required
3-2B-3: Application
3-2B-4: Qualifications For License
3-2B-5: Location Restrictions
3-2B-6: Term Of License
3-2B-7: Fees
3-2B-8: Hours Of Sale
3-2B-9: Officers May Examine Premises
3-2B-10: Restrictions Concerning Age
3-2B-11: Authorization To Deliver
3-2B-12: False Representation
3-2B-13: Open Container Law
3-2B-14: Revocation
3-2B-15: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 23-1001 et seq.
3-2B-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BEER: Any beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
decoction of barley, malt and/or other ingredients in drinkable water of not
more than six percent (6%) of alcohol by weight.
RETAILER: A person licensed to sell beer to consumers at premises described in
the license. (1961 Code as amd. 5-24-1961; amd. 2004 Code)
3-2B-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to dispense beer without first obtaining a
proper license. (1961 Code as amd. 5-24-1961)
3-2B-3: APPLICATION:
Application for a retail beer license shall be made under oath to the clerk,
and the application shall show that the applicant possesses all of the
qualifications required by this article including evidence that a license has
been obtained from both the state and county. Each application shall be
forwarded, after proper and adequate investigation by the chief of police or
designated law enforcement officer, to the city council for approval or
disapproval 1 . Beer license renewals do not have to be applied for, nor does
an investigation by the chief of police or law enforcement officer have to take
place. (1961 Code as amd. 5-24-1961; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 23-1016.
3-2B-4: QUALIFICATIONS FOR LICENSE:
The qualifications for a license shall be as set forth in Idaho Code section
23-1010, which is hereby adopted by reference as though fully set forth at
length (2004 Code)
3-2B-5: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
No license shall be issued for any place where beer is sold or dispensed to be
consumed on the premises, whether conducted for pleasure or profit, that is
within three hundred feet (300') of any public school, church, or any other
place of worship, measured in a straight line to the nearest entrance to the
licensed premises, except with the approval of the city council; provided, that
this limitation shall not apply to any duly licensed premises that at the time
of licensing did not come within the restricted area but subsequent to
licensing came therein. (2004 Code)
3-2B-6: TERM OF LICENSE:
All licenses issued hereunder shall expire at one o'clock (1:00) A.M. on
January 1 of the following year. (2004 Code)
3-2B-7: FEES:
The annual license fee for the sale of bottled or canned beer shall be as set
from time to time by resolution of the city council. (2004 Code)
3-2B-8: HOURS OF SALE:
   A.   Prohibited Hours: It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person
in any place licensed to sell beer or where beer is sold or dispensed to be
consumed on the premises, whether conducted for pleasure or profit, to sell,
dispense or give away beer between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M.
   B.   Already Served Beverages: Any patron present on the licensed premises
after the sale of beer has stopped as provided in subsection A of this section
shall have a reasonable time, not to exceed thirty (30) minutes, to consume any
beverage already served.
   C.   Penalty: Any person who consumes or intentionally permits the
consumption of any alcoholic beverage upon the licensed premises after the time
provided in subsection B shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (1961 Code as amd.
5-24-1961; amd. 2004 Code)
3-2B-9: OFFICERS MAY EXAMINE PREMISES:
The chief of police or designated law enforcement officer shall have the right
at any time to make an examination of the premises of any licensee as to
whether the laws of the state of Idaho, the rules and regulations and the
ordinances of the city are being complied with. (2004 Code)
3-2B-10: RESTRICTIONS CONCERNING AGE:
Any person who is nineteen (19) years of age or older may sell, serve, possess
or dispense beer in the course of his employment, otherwise it shall be
unlawful for any person to sell, serve or dispense beer to or by any person
under twenty one (21) years of age, proof of which shall be a validly issued
state, district, territorial, possession, provincial, national or other
equivalent government driver's license, identification card or military
identification card bearing a photograph and date of birth, or a valid
passport. (2004 Code)
3-2B-11: AUTHORIZATION TO DELIVER:
The prohibition upon possession of beer by any person under twenty one (21)
years of age does not apply to possession by a person under the age of twenty
one (21) years making a delivery of beer in pursuance of the order of his
parent or in pursuance of his employment, or when such person under the age of
twenty one (21) years is in a private residence accompanied by his parent or
guardian and with such parent's or guardian's consent. (2004 Code)
3-2B-12: FALSE REPRESENTATION:
Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years who shall by any means
represent to any person licensed to sell beer at retail or wholesale, or to any
agent or employee of such retail or wholesale licensee, that he or she is
twenty one (21) or more years of age for the purpose of entering licensed
premises or inducing such retail or wholesale licensee, his agent or employee,
to sell, serve or dispense beer to him or her shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
Any person who shall by any means represent to any such retail or wholesale
licensee, his agent or employee, that any other person is twenty one (21) or
more years of age, when in fact such other person is under the age of twenty
one (21) years, for the purpose of entering licensed premises or inducing such
retail or wholesale licensee, his agent or employee, to sell, serve or dispense
beer to such other person, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (2004 Code)
3-2B-13: OPEN CONTAINER LAW:
   A.   Transporting: Alcoholic liquor lawfully purchased may be transported,
but no person shall break open, or allow to be broken or opened any container
of alcoholic liquor, or drink, or use, or allow to be drunk, or used any
alcoholic liquor therein while the same is being transported.
   B.   Prohibited: No person shall have any open alcoholic beverage upon any
public highway, street, sidewalk, or parking lot within the limits of the city.
   C.   Physical Control Of Motor Vehicle: No person in actual physical control
of a motor vehicle, as "actual physical control" is defined in Idaho Code or
state law, may drink or physically possess any open beverage containing
"alcoholic liquor", "beer" or "wine", as defined by Idaho Code or state law.
(2004 Code)
3-2B-14: REVOCATION:
The city council shall retain the right at all times to revoke and cancel any
license for just cause. When any license is revoked, the licensee shall have
the privilege of appearing before the city council. (1961 Code as amd. 5-24-61;
amd. 2004 Code)
3-2B-15: PENALTY:
A violation of this article shall constitute a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punishable in accordance with section
1-4-1 of this code. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 3
HOTELS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definition
3-3-2: Building Permit Required
3-3-3: Fire Protection Equipment
3-3-4: Inspection
3-3-5: Hotel Register
3-3-1: DEFINITION:
"Hotel" is defined as every building or structure kept, used, maintained or
advertised as an inn, hotel or public lodging house, or place where sleeping
accommodations are furnished for hire to transient guests, whether with or
without meals, in which more than ten (10) rooms are used for the accommodation
of such guests. (1961 Code §
5-4-1; amd. 2004 Code)
3-3-2: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
Before construction of a hotel is started, an application for a permit for such
construction shall be submitted to the clerk. The clerk shall present such
application to the city council for its approval. Only after approval of the
city council shall a permit for construction of a hotel be issued. (2004 Code)
3-3-3: FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Specified By Fire Chief: The fire chief, or other officer designated by
the city council, shall survey each hotel and specify suitable fire detecting
devices or extinguishing appliances which shall be provided.
   B.   Equipment Required: Such devices or appliances may consist of automatic
sprinkler or water spray systems, standpipe and hose, fixed or portable fire
extinguishers or other suitable fire extinguishing systems. (1961 Code §
5-4-2; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Maintenance Of Equipment: Fire protective or extinguishing systems or
appliances which have been installed in compliance with any permit, or order,
or according to any provisions of this code, shall be maintained in operative
condition at all times, and it shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant to
reduce the effectiveness of the protection so required. (1961 Code §
5-4-3)
3-3-4: INSPECTION:
It shall be the duty of the fire chief or other officers so designated by the
city council, to make periodic and regular inspections of every hotel and to
make regular reports to the city council of such hotel concerning regulations
imposed by this code. (1961 Code §
5-4-4; amd. 2004 Code)
3-3-5: HOTEL REGISTER:
A register shall be maintained at every hotel, and each guest shall be required
to register his name and home address. The date of arrival and departure shall
be clearly indicated, and the register shall be maintained for a period of at
least one year following registration. The register shall be open for
inspection to any authorized person. (1961 Code §
5-4-5)
CHAPTER 4
MOTELS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Building Permit Required
3-4-2: Service Station Restriction
3-4-3: Parking Space On Premises
3-4-4: Minimum Requirements
3-4-5: Existing Standards
3-4-6: Application To Include Plan
3-4-7: Motel Register
3-4-1: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
Before construction of a motel is started, an application for a permit for such
construction shall be submitted to the clerk. The clerk shall present such
application to the city council for its approval. Only after approval of the
city council shall a permit for construction of a motel be issued. (1961 Code §
5-5-1; amd. 2004 Code)
3-4-2: SERVICE STATION RESTRICTION:
Automobile service stations shall be located no closer than fifty feet (50') to
any motel. (1961 Code §
5-5-2)
3-4-3: PARKING SPACE ON PREMISES:
Each unit of a motel or tourist court shall be provided with an assigned
parking space entirely on the premises. (1961 Code § 5-5-3)
3-4-4: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum space for each unit shall be twelve feet by twenty feet (12' x 20')
and shall contain one three-quarter (3/4) bath, toilet facilities, dressing
compartment and sleeping room. (1961 Code § 5-5-4; amd. 2004 Code)
3-4-5: EXISTING STANDARDS:
The plumbing, heating, and ventilation components shall meet all state and
local fire, plumbing, electrical and building code requirements. (1961 Code §
5-5-5; amd. 2004 Code)
3-4-6: APPLICATION TO INCLUDE PLAN:
Each application for a motel or tourist court shall be submitted with a
complete plan, including the plot plan and adjacent buildings, parking
arrangement and driveways, unit sizes, plumbing and heating layout, accessory
uses, materials to be used, front and rear elevations and architectural design.
(1961 Code § 5-5-6)
3-4-7: MOTEL REGISTER:
Every operator of a motel shall maintain a register in which each guest shall
register his name, home address and license number of the vehicle in which he
is traveling. The date of his arrival and departure shall also be recorded.
Such register shall be available to any authorized person inspecting the motel
and shall also be preserved for a period of not less than one year. (1961 Code
§ 5-5-7)
CHAPTER 5
BILL POSTING AND HANDBILLS 1
SECTION:
3-5-1: Handbills Allowed; Removal Required
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-307.
3-5-1: HANDBILLS ALLOWED; REMOVAL REQUIRED:
The city allows for the posting of handbills in public places for yard sales,
school events, charitable or religious functions without a license, provided
the notices are removed within twenty four (24) hours of the event. If not
removed within twenty four (24) hours, the council may assess a fine as set by
resolution. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 6
VENDORS, SOLICITORS AND TEMPORARY MERCHANTS
SECTION:
3-6-1: Purpose
3-6-2: Definitions
3-6-3: License Required
3-6-4: Registry And Notice
3-6-5: Exceptions
3-6-6: Application; License Nontransferable
3-6-7: License Fees
3-6-8: Bond Requirement (Rep. by Ord. 22-591, 6-28-2022)
3-6-9: Issuance And Exhibition Of License
3-6-10: Restrictions
3-6-11: Unlawful Conduct
3-6-12: Cancellation Of Sale
3-6-13: Enforcement
3-6-14: Renewals
3-6-15: Appeal From Denial Of License
3-6-16: Suspension, Revocation Of License
3-6-17: Expiration Of License
3-6-18: Penalty
3-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter shall be to protect the health, safety and welfare
of residents of the city and to protect its citizens from crime by means of
regulation of vendors, peddlers, solicitors, and temporary merchants. (Ord.
477, 5-8-2001)
3-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CITY CLERK: The licensing officer.
PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICER: Licensing officer, fireman and police officer.
SOLICITOR: An individual, including an employee or agent of a group of
individuals, partnership, or corporation, whether a resident of the city or
not, who is taking or attempting to take, whether in person or by telephone,
orders for the sale of food, beverages, goods, merchandise or services to be
furnished or performed in the future, whether he is collecting advance payments
on such sales or not. Such definitions shall include any person who, for
himself, or for another person, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building,
structure, or motor vehicle within the city for the sole purpose of exhibiting
samples and taking orders for future delivery.
SPECIAL EVENT: The temporary use, with a valid permit, of public property,
including streets, beaches, parks, community centers and waterways, for the
purpose of conducting certain short term events such as art shows, music
concerts, fund raising events, sidewalk sales, amusement attractions, circuses,
carnivals, rodeos, swap meets, sporting events, including, but not limited to,
organized float trips, contests, street dances, tournaments, walkathons,
marathons, races, exhibitions or related activities.
TEMPORARY: Six (6) months or less.
TEMPORARY MERCHANT: Any person whether owner or otherwise, whether a resident
of the city or not, who engages in a temporary business of selling and
delivering goods, wares, merchandise and services within the city, and who, in
furtherance of such purpose, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building,
structure or motor vehicle within the city for the exhibition and sale of food,
beverages, goods, merchandise or services.
VENDOR: Any person, including an employee or agent of a group of individuals,
partnership, or corporation, who sells or offers to take orders or sell food,
beverages, goods, or merchandise from a stand, cart, motor vehicle or any other
type of conveyance or from his or her person. The word "vendor" shall include
the words "hauler", "huckster" and "peddler". (Ord. 477, 5-8-2001)
3-6-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any "vendor", "solicitor", or "temporary merchant", as
the same are herein defined, to engage in such business or to employ another in
such business within the corporate limits of the city without first obtaining a
license from the city clerk's office therefor in compliance with the provisions
of this chapter. (Ord. 477, 5-8-2001)
3-6-4: REGISTRY AND NOTICE:
   A.   Registry Of Residences Prohibiting Solicitors: A central registry is
hereby established whereby a resident of the city may docket their physical
address as notice that no solicitor may lawfully enter into said noncommercial
premises. Said register will be kept by the city clerk and open to the general
public during normal business hours.
   B.   Notice Of No Soliciting: Notice may also be given that a solicitor may
not lawfully enter a noncommercial premises by posting of a sign containing the
words "No Solicitors" or "No Peddlers" or other words to such effect at each
entry of said premises. It is the duty of the solicitor to make every
reasonable effort to ensure him or herself that such a notice is not present
prior to entry. (Ord. 477, 5-8-2001)
3-6-5: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   Any sales under court order;
   B.   Traveling salespersons, commercial travelers or the like who
exclusively or primarily sell to, or solicit orders for future delivery from,
local retailers, local businesses, local governments, local schools, or local
wholesale firms;
   C.   The sale of farm or garden products by the person producing the same;
   D.   The sale of a newspaper subscription in which the seller is a person
engaged in both the delivery and sale of the newspaper;
   E.   The occasional sale of admission by local school students to a function
of their school; or fund raising sales by local service clubs or groups such as
Elks, Kiwanis, Lions, boy or girl scouts;
   F.   Any political group seeking funds or membership;
   G.   Garage, yard, or similar sales by individuals at their residence or
place of business not exceeding two (2) separate sales in one calendar year,
not to exceed three (3) days each, which sales shall not include business
inventory or items that have been purchased for the purpose of resale at
another garage sale;
   H.   Any organization exempt from taxation as provided by 26 USC 501 and
meeting all the requirements for the exemptions provided by 26 USC 503. (Ord.
477, 5-8-2001)
3-6-6: APPLICATION; LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE:
   A.   Contents Of Application: Applicants for a license under this chapter
must file with the city clerk an application furnished by said clerk, which
shall contain, but not necessarily be limited to, the following information:
      1.   Name and description of the applicant; if the applicant is an
association company or corporation, then it shall state its name along with the
names and descriptions of the persons who will be soliciting in the city;
      2.   Address, both legal and local;
      3.   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to
be sold, and in the case of products of farm or orchard, whether produced or
grown by the applicant;
      4.   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
credentials establishing the exact relationship between the employer and the
applicant;
      5.   The proposed method of operation, length of time for which the right
to do business is desired, and if a motor vehicle is to be used, a description
of the same, together with a license number or other means of identification;
      6.   Whether a permit or license issued to the applicant has been revoked
during the past five (5) years, and if so, where and when;
      7.   Social security and/or driver's license number of applicant;
      8.   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted of
a violation of any federal, state or municipal law, the nature of the offense
and the date, and the punishment or penalty assessed therefor;
      9.   The place where the goods or property proposed to be sold, or orders
taken for the sale thereof, are manufactured or produced, where such goods or
products are located at the time said application is filed, and the proposed
method of delivery;
      10.   Two (2) photographs of the applicant that are two inch by two inch
(2" x 2"), showing the head and shoulders of the applicant in a clear and
distinguishable manner;
      11.   When the applicant proposes to peddle any prepared food product for
human consumption, a certification by the central health district shall be
required prior to issuance of a license;
   B.   License Nontransferable: No license issued hereunder shall be
transferable. (Ord. 477, 5-8-2001)
3-6-7: LICENSE FEES:
The license fee for any vendor, solicitor or temporary merchant shall be a
semiannual fee set from time to time by council resolution. All fees shall be
paid in advance. (Ord. 477, 5-8-2001)
3-6-8: BOND REQUIREMENT:
(Rep. by Ord. 22-591, 6-28-2022)
3-6-9: ISSUANCE AND EXHIBITION OF LICENSE:
   A.   License Approved: The city clerk shall notify the applicant whether
their license request is approved and shall issue a license. Such license shall
show the name, address, photograph of said licensee, the type of license
issued, and the kind of goods to be sold or type of sales to be solicited
thereunder, the amount of fee paid, the date of issuance and the date of
expiration.
   B.   License Disapproved: The city clerk shall notify the applicant if their
license request is disapproved, the reasons therefor, and advise them of the
appeal procedure pursuant to the provisions of section
3-6-15 of this chapter.
   C.   Exhibition Required: The license issued to the licensee hereunder by
the city clerk shall be exhibited in a conspicuous place if the licensee is
using a vehicle or a building in his business, and otherwise must be displayed
on the outside garment of the individual during hours of operation. (Ord. 477,
5-8-2001)
3-6-10: RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Location: No licensee hereunder shall have any exclusive right to any
location in a public street, nor shall he/she be permitted to operate in any
congested area where his operations might impede or inconvenience the public.
For the purpose of this chapter, the judgment of a public safety officer,
exercised in good faith, shall be deemed conclusive as to whether the area is
congested or the public impeded or inconvenienced. No business activity shall
be carried on in any area of the city by any licensee who is licensed pursuant
to this chapter, where such business activity is prohibited by the city zoning
ordinance 1 . This license does not preclude the issuance of other permits by
the parks department in public parks or the granting of permission to sell and/
or operate on private property by its owners.
   B.   Hours Of Operation: Vendors, canvassers, solicitors shall be allowed to
engage in their licensed business only between nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and
sunset, unless located in a commercially zoned area. All vending stands, carts
or vehicles must be removed from public property during nonvending hours. For
special events, the city may make an exception to the usual hours of operation.
   C.   Removal Of Trash: All trash or debris accumulating within twenty feet
(20') of any vending stand shall be collected by the vendor and deposited in
trash containers. All vendors selling food or beverages must provide trash
receptacles adjacent to or as a part of their stands.
   D.   Prohibited Areas: Any duly authorized public safety officer shall
prohibit vendors from selling on specified public ways if it determines such
prohibitions are necessary for the protection of public health and safety.
Vendor carts, stands, and motor vehicles are prohibited within fifteen feet
(15') of a fire hydrant, fire escape, bus stop, loading zone, or driveway of a
fire station, police station, or hospital. (Ord. 477, 5-8-2001)
   E.   Fighting Or Wrestling Events: Any event in which people pay to watch or
participants get paid for doing any type of combative wrestling or fighting
shall not be held in the city of Glenns Ferry in conjunction with any other
type of special event. (Ord. 515, 7-11-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 11 of this code.
3-6-11: UNLAWFUL CONDUCT:
No licensee hereunder shall:
   A.   Misrepresent the purpose of, or affiliation of those engaged in the
solicitation;
   B.   Continue efforts to solicit from an individual once that individual
informs the solicitor that he does not wish to give anything to or to buy
anything from that solicitor;
   C.   Represent the issuance of any license under this chapter as an
endorsement or recommendation of the solicitation;
   D.   Enter upon any premises when the same is posted with a sign stating "No
Peddlers Allowed" or "No Solicitation Allowed" or other words to such effect;
   E.   Commit fraud, make misrepresentation or false statement in the course
of carrying on the business. (Ord. 477, 5-8-2001)
3-6-12: CANCELLATION OF SALE:
The buyer shall have the right to cancel the door to door sale within three (3)
business days. A business day is any calendar day except Sunday, or the
following holidays: New Year's Day, President's Day, Memorial Day, Independence
Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day.
(Ord. 477, 5-8-2001; amd. 2004 Code)
3-6-13: ENFORCEMENT:
The Elmore County prosecutor shall provide the Glenns Ferry city clerk with a
copy of any citation or criminal complaint issued hereunder. (Ord. 477, 5-8-
2001)
3-6-14: RENEWALS:
Licenses which are not renewed for a minimum of two (2) years from the date of
the original issue shall be, upon application for renewal, treated as an
original application. (Ord. 477, 5-8-2001)
3-6-15: APPEAL FROM DENIAL OF LICENSE:
Any applicant denied a license by the city clerk under this chapter may appeal
the city clerk's decision to the city council. Such appeal shall be filed
within twenty eight (28) days from the date of the city clerk's denial. (Ord.
477, 5-8-2001)
3-6-16: SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Power To Suspend Or Revoke: The city council may suspend or revoke any
license for fraud and misrepresentation in its procurement, for violations of
this chapter, or for any conduct or act of the licensee or their employees or
any conduct or act permitted by them on the premises where such business is
conducted, or in connection therewith or adjacent thereto, tending to render
such business or such premises where the same is conducted as a public nuisance
or a menace to the health, peace, safety or general welfare of the city, or in
the event of the conviction of a licensed vendor, solicitor, or temporary
merchant under the provisions of any city or county ordinance, or of any law of
the state or of the United States, regulating, governing, or prohibiting the
activities regulated under this chapter.
   B.   License Revocation: The city council shall proceed in accordance with
the notice and hearing provisions of title 67, chapter 52, Idaho Code, in
considering the revocation of a license pursuant to subsection A of this
section. The city council shall cause to be kept minutes and make a
transcribable verbatim record of any revocation proceedings. If a license is
revoked, the city council shall keep the transcribable verbatim record of the
proceedings for a period of not less than six (6) months after a written
decision on the matter is transmitted to the licensee.
   C.   Judicial Review: An applicant or licensee aggrieved by a decision of
the city council may, within sixty (60) days, seek judicial review under the
procedures provided in sections 67-5215 and 67-5216, Idaho Code. (Ord. 477, 5-
8-2001)
3-6-17: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE:
All licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall expire on the
date specified in the permit. No license shall be issued for a period longer
than one year. (Ord. 477, 5-8-2001)
3-6-18: PENALTY:
Any person, business, firm, company or corporation who shall violate any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day or violation continued shall be separate offenses,
punishable as hereinabove described. (Ord. 477, 5-8-2001; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 7
JUNK SHOPS, PAWNBROKERS AND SECONDHAND STORES 1
SECTION:
3-7-1: Definitions
3-7-2: Prohibited Purchases
3-7-3: Inspection
3-7-4: Records
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-307.
3-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
JUNK SHOP: Any enterprise engaged in the processing of junk, waste, discarded
or salvaged materials, machinery, or equipment including automobile wrecking
and dismantling.
PAWNBROKER: Every person who makes a business of lending money on the security
of personal property deposited in his keeping.
SECONDHAND STORE: Every person who deals in the purchase and sale of goods of
any type that has been used or previously sold at retail one or more times.
(1961 Code § 5-9-1; amd. 2004 Code)
3-7-2: PROHIBITED PURCHASES:
No owner or operator of any junk shop, pawnbroker or secondhand store shall
make any purchase from any minor without first obtaining approval from the
chief of police or designated official. (1961 Code § 5-9-4; amd. 2004 Code)
3-7-3: INSPECTION:
The chief of police or other designated official shall be permitted at any
reasonable time to inspect any property contained on the premises operated as a
junk shop, pawnbroker or secondhand store. (1961 Code § 5-9-5; amd. 2004 Code)
3-7-4: RECORDS:
Any person licensed under the provisions of this chapter shall maintain a
written record of all business transactions, including the time of purchase and
description of any article and the name and address of the person from whom
such article was purchased. This record shall be in the English language and
shall be available at any reasonable time for inspection by the chief of police
or other designated official. (1961 Code § 5-9-6)
CHAPTER 8
JUNKYARDS
SECTION:
3-8-1: License Required
3-8-2: Definition
3-8-3: Application; Contents
3-8-4: Location Requirements
3-8-5: Continued Compliance; Revocation
3-8-6: Zoning Restrictions
3-8-7: Penalty
3-8-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of being a junk
dealer within the city, without first procuring a license to conduct such
business. (2004 Code)
3-8-2: DEFINITION:
For the purpose of this chapter a "junk dealer" shall be defined as any person,
partnership or corporation who shall store or keep, including, but not limited
to, automobiles, trucks, cars, car bodies, truck bodies, chassis, any of which
have not been licensed and which are not in a running condition and not being
presently repaired, or farm machinery, construction equipment, industrial
equipment, tires, barrels, metal salvage, lumber, appliances, paper, bottles,
or any discarded items, and who shall store and keep those items for the
purpose of converting to scrap metal or recycling or for the purpose of salvage
or for the purpose of removing and selling parts taken from them. For purposes
of this chapter, a "junk dealer" is any entity defined herein, or any other
person, partnership or corporation who owns, operates, manages or participates
in any activity which is commonly understood to be a junkyard, salvage yard,
recycling center, wrecking yard, or bone yard. (2004 Code)
3-8-3: APPLICATION; CONTENTS:
   A.   Contents: All persons who are now junk dealers or who wish to become
junk dealers shall make an application, in writing, for a license to conduct or
carry on such business; said application shall be in writing and addressed to
the city council, stating the name of the applicant, the kind of business for
which the license is required or requested, and the place where said business
is to be conducted.
   B.   Presentation; Issuance: The application shall be filed with the city
clerk and shall be presented to the city council at its next regularly
scheduled meeting or at a special meeting called for that purpose. If a
majority of the members of the city council vote to grant such license, the
license shall then be issued to the applicant upon his paying to the city clerk
the license fee as hereinafter provided.
   C.   Fee: Any junk dealer shall procure and pay a license fee to the city in
the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) for an annual license, which license shall be
based upon a calendar year and shall not be subject to proration and shall not
be transferable.
   D.   License Nontransferable: The license so issued shall specify the name
of the person to whom it is issued and shall designate the particular place at
which the business is to be carried on. The place of business of a junk dealer
shall not be transferred without prior notice and approval of the city council.
(2004 Code)
3-8-4: LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
Prior to receiving a license, an applicant shall demonstrate that any location
where he is proposing to transact business of a junk dealer will meet or
satisfy the following requirements:
   A.   Will be completely enclosed by at least a solid eight foot (8') high
sight obscuring fence constructed of cyclone fencing with nylon privacy
webbing, or a material approved by the city council or the planning and zoning
commission.
   B.   Will not result in storage of automobiles, junk, recyclable or salvage
material being visible from any public highway or adjoining property.
   C.   Will require that the entrance to the storage area be recessed and
located at a point not directly visible from any public highway or adjoining
property.
   D.   Will incorporate landscaping outside the fence that is compatible with
surrounding landscaping (lawn strip and trees).
   E.   Will require that the owner or operator of such use shall have a
continuous obligation to maintain adequate repair of the fence and landscaping.
   F.   Will require a plan or drawing of the facility be approved by the
planning and zoning commission prior to any construction.
   G.   Will comply with all EPA regulations regarding the storage and disposal
of toxic wastes, including, but not limited to oil, gasoline and other
petroleum products.
   H.   Will not pose a danger of ground water contamination in the opinion of
the Idaho department of health and welfare, division of environmental quality.
   I.   Will provide access into the interior of the yard.
   J.   Will drain all fluids, including, but not limited to gasoline, battery
acid, transmission fluid, rear end fluid, brake fluid, crank case oil, and
properly dispose of the same prior to placing an automobile on the site
   K.   Will remove all tires from all vehicles before permanent placement on
the site.
   L.   Will have driveways between and around all junk or accumulation of
junk, automobiles or piles of automobiles or parts which shall be at least
fifteen feet (15') wide and maintained free from an accumulation of rubbish,
equipment or other articles or materials. Driveways shall be spaced with a
maximum grid system unit of fifty feet by one hundred fifty feet (50' x 150')
as produced. The driveways shall be sufficient to provide fire crews with
access to all areas of the wrecking yard.
   M.   Will have no vegetation upon the site which is sufficient to ignite or
sufficient to sustain a fire.
   N.   Will remove all heavy metals, such as lead, and properly dispose of
them before placing any vehicle on the site. (2004 Code)
3-8-5: CONTINUED COMPLIANCE; REVOCATION:
   A.   Compliance Required: During the life of the license, all requirements
set forth in section
3-8-4 of this chapter shall continue to be met by the junk dealer, and the
place of business or yard shall, at all times, conform to and comply with those
requirements.
   B.   Revocation: In the event the requirements of this chapter are not met
during the life of the junk dealership license, the city council shall have the
option, in addition to any other penalties imposed by this chapter, of revoking
the license of the junk dealer and requiring him to cease and desist the
operation of his business. In addition, if a cease and desist order is issued
by the city council, the junk dealer shall remove all scrap material, all waste
material, all auto bodies, all trucks, cars, tractors or other nonvegetation.
In the event the dealer does not comply with the that requirement, the city
council can authorize the cleanup of the site and bill the dealer. In addition,
any charges not paid within thirty (30) days of the billing by the city council
can be placed as a lien upon the real property and collected by the county tax
collector. (2004 Code)
3-8-6: ZONING RESTRICTIONS:
Automobile wrecking yards, salvage yards, or recycling centers will be allowed
only in M-1 and M-2 zones by conditional use permit. (2004 Code)
3-8-7: PENALTY:
In addition to any other penalties provided herein, any person who operates a
junk dealership, any salvage yard, junkyard, or auto wrecking yard without a
license, or who violates any terms or conditions of this chapter, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2004 Code)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
SOLID WASTE 1
SECTION:
4-1-1: Authority
4-1-2: Applicability
4-1-3: Definitions
4-1-4: Maintenance Of Sanitary Conditions
4-1-5: Temporary Storage; Transportation
4-1-6: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
4-1-7: Authority And Responsibilities Of City Officers
4-1-8: Burning, Outdoor Fires And Incineration
4-1-9: Variations And Amendments
4-1-10: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-344.
4-1-1: AUTHORITY:
It is hereby declared to be the duty of the city council to establish sanitary
standards for urban property and a method of collection, containment and
disposal of solid waste for the promotion of individual and community health
and the prevention of the outbreak and spread of dangerous, contagious and
infectious disease. (Ord. 432, 4-23-1997, eff. 6-1-1997)
4-1-2: APPLICABILITY:
These regulations shall apply to all lands within the corporate area of the
city, and it shall be unlawful hereafter in such areas to keep, collect, haul,
transport or dispose of solid waste except as herein provided. (Ord. 432, 4-23-
1997, eff. 6-1-1997)
4-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
Values specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the same meaning as they have in common usage
used so as to give this chapter its most reasonable application:
BURNING PERMIT: The burning permit issued pursuant to this chapter.
CHIEF: The duly appointed chief of the Glenns Ferry fire department. "Fire
chief", for the purposes of this chapter, may also mean any representative
designated by the fire chief to fulfill any function under this chapter.
COUNCIL: The mayor and council of Glenns Ferry.
FIELD BURNING: The open burning of plant residue grown on the premises as part
of a recognized cropping practice.
HAZARDOUS WASTES: Wastes determined to be hazardous by the United States
environmental protection agency.
OFFICER: As referred to under the definition of "police chief" above.
OPEN BURNING: The burning of any matter in such a manner that the products of
combustion resulting from the burning are emitted directly into the ambient air
without passing through a stack, duct or chimney.
OWNER OR OCCUPANT: Every person in possession, charge or in control of any
dwelling, flat, rooming house, apartment house, hospital, school, hotel,
restaurant, boarding house, or any eating shop, place of business,
manufacturing or business establishment where solid waste is created or
accumulated.
PERSON: Any person, partnership, association, institution or corporation, and
in the plural as well as singular.
POLICE CHIEF: The duly appointed chief of the Glenns Ferry police department or
other duly authorized officer of Glenns Ferry having the duty of the
enforcement of these regulations.
PREMISES: Any dwellings, flats, apartments, rooming houses, shops and places of
business or any other building or structure.
RESIDENCE: The place of dwelling of one head of family and his/her dependents
or roommates.
SOLID WASTE: Any and all trash or litter associated with the construction or
demolition of buildings, to include paper, cardboard, wood scraps, shingles,
concrete; and such waste materials of an inert nature such as ashes, plastics,
metals, cinders, tires, appliances, or tree parts; and those items, including
liquids, which by their nature are noxious, odoriferous or are subject to the
development of bacteria, virus or other hazards to health, including waste
accumulations of animal or vegetable matter, and including waste that attends
the preparation, use, serving, cooking, dealing in, or storing of meats, fish,
fowl, fruits and vegetables. The term "solid waste" does not include sewage,
human body waste or hazardous wastes as determined by the United States
environmental protection agency.
SPECIFICATIONS: The requirements pertaining to collectable waste management
established from time to time by the council on recommendation of the police
chief and/or the fire chief.
STREET OR ALLEY: A right of way which provides vehicular and pedestrian access
to adjacent properties, the dedication of which the council has accepted by
official action. It shall include the terms street, highway, thoroughfare,
road, avenue, boulevard, lane, place and other such terms. (Ord. 432, 4-23-
1997, eff. 6-1-1997)
4-1-4: MAINTENANCE OF SANITARY CONDITIONS:
   A.   Throwing, Depositing Or Accumulating Prohibited: No person shall throw
or deposit or permit to accumulate any solid waste in any building or any
premises, improved or vacant, or any lot or area either public or private,
within corporate limits so that it is or is likely:
      1.   To attract flies or fly breeding;
      2.   To afford food or harborage for rodents or rats; or
      3.   To be a source of noxious or offensive odors or conditions inimical
to public interest or health.
   B.   Accumulation Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to permit
or to suffer to accumulate solid waste in or about any yard, lot, place or
premises, or upon any adjacent street, alley or sidewalk, owned, leased, used
or occupied by such person.
   C.   Interpretation: No section or provision of these regulations shall be
construed to prohibit anything permitted or authorized under other applicable
regulations.
   D.   Vacation Of Premises: It shall be unlawful for the owner of any
dwelling, storeroom, or any other building situated in an urban area to fail to
remove, once it has been vacated, all solid waste from such building and
premises and also the grounds appurtenant thereto; or to fail to place the same
in a thoroughly sanitary condition within seventy two (72) hours after the said
premises shall be vacated.
   E.   Compost Piles: Compost piles may be maintained for fertilization
purposes, and matter used for fertilization purposes only may be transported,
kept and used, provided the same shall not constitute a nuisance. (Ord. 432, 4-
23-1997, eff. 6-1-1997)
4-1-5: TEMPORARY STORAGE; TRANSPORTATION:
   A.   Duty Of Owner; Occupant: It shall be the duty of every owner or
occupant of any place where solid waste is created or accumulated to at all
times keep or cause to be kept approved sanitary containers and, except as
otherwise provided, to deposit or cause to be deposited all solid waste
therein.
   B.   Containers: Approved sanitary containers shall be any of the following:
      1.   Paper Sacks: Disposable (nonreturnable) paper sacks, which shall be
fifty (50) pound wet strength, extensible kraft paper.
      2.   Plastic Bags: Disposable (nonreturnable) plastic bags, which shall
be manufactured from polyethylene or ethylene copolymer resin, with a gauge of
not less than one and five-tenths (1.5) mils.
      3.   Metal Or Plastic Cans: Metal or plastic cans that are normally used
for temporary storage of solid waste. The aforesaid paper sacks or plastic bags
may be used as liners in containers, but such containers shall be watertight.
      4.   Enclosed Metal Containers: Any enclosed metal container used by a
business or industry of a size suitable to the business or industry, which can
be loaded by mechanical means, or enclosed metal trailers normally used for the
storage and hauling of solid waste.
   C.   Maintenance Of Containers: It shall be the duty of every owner or
occupant to maintain the approved sanitary containers in a secure condition so
as to avoid offensive odors, health hazards and the scattering or spilling of
solid waste.
   D.   Boxes; Yard Waste: Waste consisting only of pasteboard or wooden boxes,
brush, leaves, weeds and cuttings from trees, lawns, shrubs and gardens may be
kept separately without depositing in such cans or receptacles.
   E.   Transportation: It shall be unlawful for any person to haul tree limbs,
brush or solid waste unless it is secured to the vehicle in a manner that does
not allow scattering, blowing, or loss of materials. (Ord. 432, 4-23-1997, eff.
6-1-1997)
4-1-6: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
No collector or person shall haul, transport or dispose of any solid waste
within the areas covered by this chapter except to the designated landfill or
disposal site provided hereunder by Elmore County. (Ord. 432, 4-23-1997, eff.
6-1-1997)
4-1-7: AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF CITY OFFICERS:
   A.   Police Chief: It shall be the duty of the police chief, his designated
agent and other law enforcement officers, to enforce all provisions of this
chapter.
   B.   Fire Chief: The fire chief shall have the authority to enforce the
provisions of this chapter dealing with incineration, open burning or other
types of burning.
   C.   Right Of Entry: No person shall deny the police chief, fire chief, nor
law enforcement officers, upon identification, the reasonable right of ingress
or egress to any premises for the purpose of inspecting all places and
containers where solid waste is accumulated or kept. (Ord. 432, 4-23-1997, eff.
6-1-1997)
4-1-8: BURNING, OUTDOOR FIRES AND INCINERATION:
   A.   Permit Required: No persons shall build, ignite or maintain any outdoor
fire of any kind or character, or for any purpose whatsoever, except as
provided herein. The following types of fires may be allowed by permit only:
      1.   Field burning where there is no alternative cropping practice which
provides equivalent benefits.
      2.   Irrigation ditches and fence rows.
      3.   Fires used for control or alleviation of fire hazards or for weed
control.
      4.   Fires used in the training of organized firefighting personnel.
      5.   Open burning of piled tree leaves.
      6.   Special fires allowed at the discretion of the fire chief. "Special
fires" are fires not falling into subsections A1 through A5 of this section.
   B.   Burning Permits: Burning permits are to be obtained from city hall.
      1.   Required Information: All permits must contain the following
information:
         a.   Name, address, business and home phone of permittee.
         b.   Location of proposed burning.
         c.   Conditions under which burning is to be allowed. The fire chief
shall develop such conditions as are reasonably necessary to provide for safe
burning.
         d.   Signature of issuing officer.
         e.   Signature of permittee.
      2.   Term: Burning permits may be issued for any period of time up to one
year.
      3.   Suspension: A permit may be suspended by the issuing authority for
any area declared an "extreme fire hazard" and for any period of severe air
pollution dispersal conditions as specified upon the permit.
      4.   Appeal Of Denial: Any person denied a burning permit may appeal that
decision, in writing, to the city council. Such appeal must be within thirty
(30) days. The council shall rule on said appeal within fifteen (15) days of
receipt.
      5.   Exception: Fires used for the preparation of food and campfires
under control of a responsible person shall not require a permit hereunder.
   C.   Incinerators:
      1.   Definition: For purposes of this chapter, "approved incinerators"
shall mean those burning containers which have been approved by the Idaho
department of health and welfare. Burn barrels and similar devices are forms of
open burning and are not considered approved incinerators.
      2.   No Permit Required: Incineration in approved incinerators shall not
require a permit. Open burning is not considered incineration.
   D.   Prohibited Burning:
      1.   Notwithstanding the provisions of any section of this chapter, no
person shall allow, suffer, cause or permit the burning of materials which emit
toxic contaminants or large volumes of smoke, particulate or odor (such
materials are garbage, rubber, plastics, petroleum products, dead animals).
      2.   Any open burning that would otherwise be allowed under this chapter,
but is determined to be a nuisance, hazard, or source of air pollution, shall
be prohibited. (Ord. 432, 4-23-1997, eff. 6-1-1997)
4-1-9: VARIATIONS AND AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Variations: Where the council finds that extraordinary hardship will
result from a strict compliance with any of the provisions herein above, it may
vary the standards and regulations hereunder for the accomplishment of the
public interest secured hereby.
   B.   Amendments: The council may, upon its own motion or upon
recommendations of the fire chief or police chief, make amendments to this
chapter. (Ord. 432, 4-23-1997, eff. 6-1-1997)
4-1-10: PENALTY:
Violation of any regulation hereunder or the provisions of any permit issued
pursuant thereto shall be a misdemeanor. If the violation is not cured within
three (3) days after citation, or arrest is made by the proper enforcing
officer, said violation shall constitute a new and separate offense. All such
violations shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 432, 4-23-1997, eff. 6-1-1997; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 2
REFUSE AND ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Short Title
4-2-2: Purpose And Authority
4-2-3: Definitions
4-2-4: Grant Of Authority To Employ Labor
4-2-5: Refuse Prohibited
4-2-5-1: Accumulation Of Refuse Prohibited
4-2-5-2: City Cleanup Of Refuse; Charge Against Property
4-2-5-3: Penalty
4-2-5-4: Separate Offense
4-2-6: Abandoned Motor Vehicles
4-2-6-1: Abandonment Prohibited
4-2-6-2: Presumption
4-2-6-3: Removal Under Emergency Circumstances
4-2-6-4: Removal By Authorized Officer
4-2-6-5: Post Storage Hearing
4-2-6-6: Removal Of Vehicle From Real Property
4-2-6-7: Charges Not Otherwise Provided For
4-2-6-8: Storage Of Vehicle
4-2-6-9: Request By Possessory Lienholder; Notice Of Sale
4-2-6-10: Sale Of Unclaimed Vehicles
4-2-6-11: Claiming Of Abandoned Vehicles
4-2-6-12: Removal Without Payment Provided
4-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the REFUSE AND ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 467, 7-26-2000)
4-2-2: PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY:
This chapter is intended to help solve the problems created by abandoned motor
vehicles deposited or left upon private and public property streets, alleys,
roads and highways, or rights of way thereof and refuse deposited or left upon
private and public property within the city. This chapter is enacted upon the
authority derived from the Idaho Code section 50-302. (Ord. 467, 7-26-2000)
4-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ABANDON:   To leave a vehicle on private property without the permission of the
person having right to the possession of the property, or on a highway, street,
alley, road, or other property open to the public for the purposes of vehicular
traffic or parking, or upon or within the right of way of any highway, street,
alley, or road for twenty four (24) hours or longer.
ABANDONED VEHICLE: Any vehicle observed by a city law enforcement officer or
reported by a member of the public to have been left within the limits of any
highway, street, alley, road, or right of way thereof, or upon the property of
another, without the consent of the property owner for a period of twenty four
(24) hours or longer, except that a vehicle shall not be considered abandoned
if its owner-operator is unable to remove it from the place where it is located
and has notified a law enforcement agency and requested assistance.
CITY LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:   Any employee or authorized agent of the city
police department.
CITY POLICE DEPARTMENT: That agency either created by the city or operating
under contract charged with the law enforcement duties within the city.
EMERGENCY CIRCUMSTANCES: Any circumstance in which either the owner of a
vehicle is in immediate distress or the vehicle becomes inoperable while being
driven, or any circumstances in which there is an imminent danger of harm to
persons or property.
JUNK VEHICLE: Any vehicle which:
   A.   Does not meet the vehicle equipment standards of chapter 9, title 49,
of the Idaho Code, as a result of damage or neglect, unless the vehicle is
driven on the city streets and roadways on a regular basis; or
   B.   Is not in the current process of being restored or repaired by its
owner(s); or
   C.   Is not currently registered according to chapter 4, title 49, of the
Idaho Code. (Comment: This is a distinct and separate classification from
abandoned vehicle. Abandoned vehicles are vehicles belonging to one person and
left on the property of another person or political subdivision. Junk vehicles
are either unregistered, fail to conform to vehicle equipment standards or are
not in the process of repair and restoration.)
REFUSE: Undesirable matter including, but not limited to, all waste wood, tree
trimmings, grass cuttings, dead plants, weeds, leaves, dead trees, chips,
shavings, sawdust, printed matter, paper, used and discarded articles of
clothing, combustible waste, pulp, boxes and packaging materials, glass, ashes,
construction debris, garbage, stable matter, junk or badly weathered building
materials not currently in use, stoves, refrigerators, washers, dryers,
furniture, mattresses, scrap metals, car parts, tires and junk vehicles.
UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE: Any vehicle parked or otherwise left on private property
without the consent of the person owning or controlling that property. (Ord.
467, 7-26-2000; amd. Ord. 473, 2-23-2001)
4-2-4: GRANT OF AUTHORITY TO EMPLOY LABOR:
The mayor and city council of the city are hereby given the power and authority
to employ such labor as is necessary to carry out the provisions of this
chapter and allow the bills therefor. (Ord. 467, 7-26-2000)
4-2-5: REFUSE PROHIBITED:
4-2-5-1: ACCUMULATION OF REFUSE PROHIBITED:
   A.   Duty To Maintain: Every person residing, doing business, owning,
managing, renting, or leasing property within the city limits shall be required
to keep that property free from any accumulation or scattering of refuse (see
definition of "refuse", section
4-2-3 of this chapter). This shall not only include all refuse on private
property, but also any refuse blown from or scattered from private property
onto public property adjacent to or contiguous with that property, including
areas behind curbs, sidewalks, parking areas, and property to the center of
alleys and ditches.
   B.   Exemptions:
      1.   Authorized Auto Salvage Companies: The storage of automobiles in
various states of disrepair by authorized auto salvage companies is exempt from
subsection A of this section as it pertains to the automobiles used in the auto
salvage business.
      2.   Junk Vehicles In Enclosure Or Screened From View: It is not a
violation of subsection A of this section for the owner(s) of junk vehicles to
store these vehicles in an enclosed garage or to store the vehicles in such a
manner that they are screened from view of the street and any neighbors. (Ord.
467, 7-26-2000)
4-2-5-2: CITY CLEANUP OF REFUSE; CHARGE AGAINST PROPERTY:
Every person owning, managing, occupying, renting, leasing or using property
within the city limits shall keep that property continuously free of refuse.
The mayor or city council, after five (5) days' notice, may cause the removal
and disposal of refuse as often as necessary on lots, lands, or premises not in
compliance. The expense of such work shall be billed to the property owner
involved and, if not paid within thirty (30) days, assessed against the
property involved as general taxes and collectible as other state, county and
municipal taxes. (Ord. 467, 7-26-2000)
4-2-5-3: PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor: Any person owning, managing, or occupying any lots, lands,
or premises within such incorporated limits of the city who shall, after
notice, fail, refuse or neglect to continuously keep the property they control
free from refuse in a manner prescribed in section
4-2-5-1 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. The designated
law enforcement officer or his/her designee shall have the authority to issue a
ticket to violators of section
4-2-5-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 467, 7-26-2000)
   B.   Penalty: Any person convicted of a violation of sections
4-2-5-1 through
4-2-5-2 of this chapter shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 467, 7-26-2000; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Additional Remedy: In addition to the above criminal penalties, should
the city cause removal and disposal of refuse or other items as often as
necessary on lots, lands, or premises not in compliance, such work shall be
billed and paid at two hundred percent (200%) of actual expense to the property
owner involved. The court shall order payment to the city of the above cost as
a condition of any probation granted in a criminal proceeding. Failure of a
defendant to pay within the prescribed period may be enforced by the city
within the courts. (Ord. 467, 7-26-2000)
4-2-5-4: SEPARATE OFFENSE:
Each and every five (5) days any such person mentioned and described herein
shall fail, refuse or neglect to comply with the provisions of sections
4-2-5-1 through
4-2-5-3 of this chapter shall constitute a separate and distinct offense
against the provisions of this chapter and each of such separate offenses shall
be punishable as provided by the provisions of section
4-2-5-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 467, 7-26-2000)
4-2-6: ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES:
4-2-6-1: ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED:
   A.   Highway, Street, Alley, Roadway Or Right Of Way: No person shall
abandon a vehicle upon any highway, street, alley, roadway, or right of way
thereof.
   B.   Public Or Private Property: No person shall abandon a vehicle upon
public or private property without the express or implied consent of the owner
or person in lawful possession or control of the property. (Ord. 467, 7-26-
2000)
   C.   Penalty: Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be
fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 467, 7-26-2000; amd. 2004 Code)
4-2-6-2: PRESUMPTION:
The abandonment of any vehicle shall create a presumption that the last
registered owner of record is responsible for the abandonment and is thereby
liable for the cost of removal and disposition of the vehicle. (Ord. 467, 7-26-
2000)
4-2-6-3: REMOVAL UNDER EMERGENCY CIRCUMSTANCES:
   A.   Authority To Remove: Any city law enforcement officer, upon discovery
of a vehicle reported as stolen and not recovered, or any vehicle involved in
any emergency circumstances, may take the vehicle into custody and cause it to
be taken to and stored in a suitable place, or may cause the vehicle to be
placed in the custody of a tow truck operator, all expenses of towing and
storage to be those of the vehicle owner unless otherwise determined according
to the provisions of subsection 4-2-6-5E of this chapter. (Ord. 473, 1-23-2001)
   B.   Written Notice: Within forty eight (48) hours of the time that the
vehicle is taken into custody and is stored pursuant to this chapter, the city
shall give written notice by certified mail to the registered and legal owners
of the vehicle, if known. The notice shall state:
      1.   The vehicle has been taken into custody and stored; and
      2.   The location of storage of the vehicle.
   C.   Appraisal; Additional Information Included In Notice: The city shall
appraise the vehicle and shall include in the notice; identification of the
officer; location of the vehicle; a description of the vehicle including make,
year model identification number, license number, state of registration and, if
a motorcycle, an engine number; and the statutory authority for storage. (Ord.
467, 7-26-2000)
4-2-6-4: REMOVAL BY AUTHORIZED OFFICER:
   A.   Authority To Remove: Any city law enforcement officer within the city
where a vehicle is located, who has reasonable grounds to believe that the
vehicle has been abandoned, may remove the vehicle from a highway, street,
alley, roadway, or right of way thereof, or from public or private property to
a garage or place of safety.
   B.   Notice Of Intent To Tow Away: Upon discovery of an abandoned vehicle
which is not within the class of vehicles defined under "emergency
circumstances" in section
4-2-3, a city law enforcement officer shall attach on the vehicle, in plain
view, a notice that this vehicle will be towed away at the expiration of forty
eight (48) hours as an abandoned vehicle. The notice shall contain the name of
the city law enforcement officer who prepared the notice; the time and date
after the vehicle will be removed; the telephone number and address at the city
where further information can be obtained. A reasonable attempt shall be made
to notify, by telephone, the owner of any vehicle which has current license
plates and registration as shown on the records of the Idaho transportation
department, prior to the expiration of the forty eight (48) hour notice period,
of the location of the vehicle and the time and date of intent to remove the
vehicle. The inability of a city law enforcement officer to notify the owner
shall not preclude the removal of the vehicle at the expiration of the forty
eight (48) hour period.
   C.   Absence Of License Plates: Any vehicle which does not have current or
any license plates attached may be immediately removed to a safe place of
storage. (Ord. 467, 7-26-2000)
5-2-6-5: POST STORAGE HEARING:
   A.   Opportunity For Hearing: Whenever a city law enforcement officer
directs the towing or storage of a vehicle, except vehicles impounded for
investigation pursuant to section
4-2-6-3 of this chapter (the emergency removal provision), the city shall
provide the vehicle's registered and legal owners of record, or their agents,
with the opportunity for a post storage hearing to determine the validity of
the storage.
   B.   Notice Of Storage: A notice of the storage shall be sent by certified
mail to the registered and legal owners within forty eight (48) hours,
excluding the weekends and holidays, and shall include the following
information:
      1.   The names, address, and telephone number of the city providing the
notice;
      2.   The location of the place of storage and description of the vehicle
which shall include, if available, the name or make, identification number, the
license plate number, and the mileage;
      3.   The authority and purpose for the removal of the vehicle; and
      4.   In order to receive a post storage hearing, the owners, or their
agents, must request the hearing, in writing, within ten (10) days of the date
of the notice. Any such hearing shall be conducted within forty eight (48)
hours of the request, excluding weekends and holidays. The city may authorize
its own city law enforcement officer or employee to conduct the hearing, so
long as the hearing officer is not the same person who directed the storage of
the vehicle.
   C.   Failure To Request Or Attend Hearing: Failure of either the registered
or legal owner, or his agent, to request or to attend a scheduled hearing shall
satisfy the post storage hearing requirement as to that person.
   D.   Exception: The provisions of this section shall not apply to vehicles
removed from private property pursuant to section
4-2-6-6 of this chapter.
   E.   Cost Of Storage: The city shall be responsible for the costs incurred
for towing and storage if it is determined in the hearing that probable cause
for storage cannot be established. (Ord. 467, 7-26-2000)
4-2-6-6: REMOVAL OF VEHICLE FROM REAL PROPERTY:
   A.   Property Posted: Any person having possession or control of real
property who finds an unauthorized vehicle standing upon his property is
permitted to have the vehicle removed if there is posted on or near the
property in a clearly conspicuous location, in large print, a sign or notice
that unauthorized vehicles will be removed at the owner's expense and
designating the name of the towing firm. Unauthorized vehicles need not meet
the definition of "abandoned vehicle" (section
4-2-3 of this chapter) in this instance.
   B.   Property Not Posted: Any person having possession or control of real
property who finds an abandoned vehicle standing on his property, where the
property is not posted as set out in subsection A of this section, may contact
a city law enforcement officer, who must in turn comply with the provisions of
section
4-2-6-4 of this chapter, in accomplishing the removal of the vehicle, except
under those circumstances set out in subsection C of this section.
   C.   Interference With Use And Enjoyment: Where access into or out of
private property or substantial interference with the use and enjoyment of
private property is created by an unauthorized or abandoned vehicle being
parked or otherwise left on private property, the person owning or controlling
the property may contact a city law enforcement officer who may, without regard
for the provisions of section
4-2-6-4 of this chapter, immediately proceed to have the vehicle removed to a
garage or nearest place of safety. All other provisions of sections
4-2-6-1 through 4-2-6-13 of this chapter shall be complied with. (Ord. 467, 7-
26-2000)
4-2-6-7: CHARGES NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR:
Every towing firm, employee or agent in the process of towing, removing, or
impounding a vehicle as directed by a city law enforcement officer, except
vehicles found under emergency circumstances or suspected stolen, shall, upon
request of the owner or his authorized agent, release the vehicle at the scene.
If the vehicle is attached to the tow truck, or otherwise "in tow", the regular
scheduled tow fee may be charged. When the vehicle is not yet "in tow" at the
time of request, the release must be made, and no charge may be assessed except
a customary and reasonable charge for mileage one way from the towing firm's
place of storage to the scene plus the usual fee for the tow truck operator. If
the authorized fee is not tendered by the owner or his agent, the towing
operator may complete the impoundment, towing or removal as authorized. (Ord.
473, 1-23-2001)
4-2-6-8: STORAGE OF VEHICLE:
Whenever a city law enforcement officer removes a vehicle from a highway,
street, alley, road, or right of way thereof, or from public or private
property, he shall take, or cause to be taken, the vehicle to a garage or other
place of safety within the city or such other place as designated by the city
council. At the time of removal, the city law enforcement officer or employee
shall record the mileage of the vehicle. (Ord. 467, 7-26-2000)
4-2-6-9: REQUEST BY POSSESSORY LIENHOLDER; NOTICE OF SALE:
   A.   Request To Idaho Transportation Department: After acquiring possession
of a vehicle in any manner authorized by the provisions of sections
4-2-6-1 through
4-2-6-12 of this chapter, the possessory lienholder shall make a request to the
Idaho transportation department for the names and addresses of all persons
having an interest in the vehicle as appears in the Idaho transportation
department's records. The possessory lienholder shall, upon receipt of this
information, notify all legal or registered owners in accordance with section
4-2-6-5 of this chapter, unless otherwise already complied with. Whenever a
vehicle has been removed under the provisions of this chapter and the
possessory lienholder has sent the notice as provided, the possessory
lienholder shall have a lien dependent upon possession for his compensation for
towage and caring for and keeping safe the vehicle for a period not exceeding
sixty (60) days. If the vehicle is not recovered by the owner within that
period or the owner is unknown, the keeper of the garage may satisfy his lien
in the manner prescribed by Idaho statutes. The lien shall not be assigned.
   B.   Personal Property In Or On Vehicle: No lien shall attach to any
personal property in or on the vehicle. Personal property in or on the vehicle
shall be given to the registered owner or owner's authorized agent upon demand.
The lienholder shall not be responsible for property after any vehicle has been
disposed of pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 467, 7-26-2000)
4-2-6-10: SALE OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES:
The sale of unclaimed vehicles shall be executed according to and in compliance
with the provisions of the Idaho Code sections 49-1801 through 49-1818, which
provide for the sale of abandoned vehicles, and such sales shall be coordinated
with the Idaho department of transportation. (Ord. 467, 7-26-2000)
4-2-6-11: CLAIMING OF ABANDONED VEHICLES:
   A.   Owner: The owner of an abandoned vehicle may take possession of the
abandoned vehicle at any time prior to sale by proving ownership and paying
costs relative to towing and storing the vehicle, costs of advertising and any
fines incurred under section
4-2-6-1 of this chapter, if any, except as otherwise provided in subsection 4-
2-6-5E of this chapter.
   B.   Lienholder: A lienholder of an abandoned vehicle may take possession of
the abandoned vehicle at the sale by proving the presence of the lien and by
paying the costs relative to towing and storing the vehicle and costs of
advertising. The lienholder may also take possession of the abandoned vehicle
by purchasing the vehicle at the sale. Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed to abate any cause of action that a lienholder has against the owner
of an abandoned vehicle. (Ord. 467, 7-26-2000)
4-2-6-12: REMOVAL WITHOUT PAYMENT PROVIDED:
   A.   Unauthorized Removal: Unauthorized removal of an abandoned vehicle from
the custody of the city, the city police department, or from the custody of any
person holding the abandoned vehicle for the city or city police department
without payment in full of all charges and costs that have been incurred under
the provisions of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor, and the abandoned
vehicle may be recovered and disposed of by the city or city police department.
   B.   Penalty: The maximum punishment for violation of subsection A of this
section shall be a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 467, 7-26-2000; amd. 2004 Code)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Created
5-1-2: Chief Of Police
5-1-3: Duties Of Department Members
5-1-4: Compensation
5-1-5: Rules And Regulations
5-1-6: Special Police
5-1-7: Witness Fee
5-1-8: Matron
5-1-9: Rewards
5-1-10: Stolen Property
5-1-11: City/County Law Enforcement Option
5-1-1: CREATED:
There is hereby created a police department which shall consist of the chief of
police and such other personnel as may be provided by the council. (1961 Code §
3-1-1)
5-1-2: CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   Appointment: The chief of police shall be appointed by the mayor
subject to the approval of the council. He shall hold office for the duration
of his appointment unless sooner removed by the mayor with a concurrence of the
council. (1961 Code § 1-16-1)
   B.   Rank: The chief of police shall be the head of the department and have
supervision over all the officers and members thereof. (1961 Code § 1-16-2)
   C.   Duties:
      1.   Records; Reports: The chief of police shall keep such records and
make such reports concerning the activities of his department as may be
required by statute or by the mayor.
      2.   Performance Of Department: The chief of police shall be responsible
for the performance of the police department and of its functions and all
persons who are members of the police department shall serve subject to his
orders.
      3.   Enforcement Of Code: It shall be the duty of the chief of police to
see to the enforcement of all provisions of this code and of all applicable
statutes and to preserve order and prevent infractions of the law and arrest
violators thereof.
      4.   Authority To Call Upon Citizens 1 : The chief of police shall have
authority to call upon any citizen or bystander to assist him in the execution
of his duty.
      5.   Service Of Process: The chief of police shall serve all processes
issued to him and enforce all orders and judgments of the court. (1961 Code §
1-16-3; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 5-2-34 of this title.
5-1-3: DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT MEMBERS:
It shall be the duty of the members of the police department to see to the
enforcement of all of the laws of the city and all statutes applicable therein;
and to preserve order and prevent infractions of the law and arrest violators
thereof. (1961 Code §
3-1-2)
5-1-4: COMPENSATION:
   A.   The city will compensate police officers at an hourly rate not to
exceed one hundred seventy one (171) hours per month. The first one hundred
sixty (160) hours will be worked in a twenty eight (28) day period. The
remaining eleven (11) hours may be used for court time, call outs, etc.
Vacation, sick leave, holiday, etc., will not count toward the one hundred
seventy one (171) hours worked. Each police officer's annual wage will be based
on one hundred seventy one (171) hours and will be paid on a per month basis at
an approved hourly rate. All part time officers will be required to work less
than eighty (80) hours per month.
   B.   Earned administrative leave will be taken at straight time during the
one hundred seventy one (171) hours. The police chief may require police
officers to take time off prior to accumulating one hundred seventy one (171)
hours.
   C.   Overtime or compensatory time will be accrued at time and a half only
after one hundred seventy one (171) hours have been worked. Each police officer
may not accumulate more than eighty (80) hours of compensatory time. Prior to
reaching the eighty (80) hour limit, police officers will be given the option
at the end of each pay period to take overtime or compensatory time. If the
police officer does not indicate his preference, the officer will receive
overtime. Additional hours accumulated above the eighty (80) hour compensatory
time limit will be paid at an overtime rate. Any compensatory time taken will
be approved by the police chief and may not be taken in conjunction with
vacation time. Lump sum payoffs for compensatory time will only occur when that
officer is terminated or resigns. Compensatory time records will be maintained
by the police chief, and a copy will be submitted to the city clerk for his
records.
   D.   Compensation for recognized holidays will accrue in the following
manner. If not working, the police officer will receive compensation for hours
that would have been normally scheduled. These hours may not be applied to
compensatory time nor overtime. If working, the officer will receive
compensation at double the rate of pay. The hours worked will not be considered
part of the one hundred seventy one (171) hours since the officer is already
being compensated at premium pay.
   E.   The police chief will be paid a monthly salary. (Res. 99-2, 1-13-1999)
5-1-5: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The chief of the police department may make or prescribe such rules and
regulations as he shall deem advisable; such rules, when approved by the
council, shall be binding on such members. Such rules and regulations may
cover, besides the conduct of the members, uniforms and equipment to be worn or
carried, hours of service, vacations and all other similar matters necessary or
desirable for the better efficiency of the department. (1961 Code §
3-1-4; amd. Res. 98-11, 7-1-1998)
5-1-6: SPECIAL POLICE:
The chief of police may, with the approval of the mayor, appoint such special
police as may be required from time to time; however, such appointment may not
be for a period of longer than ten (10) days, and special police shall not be
reappointed following the specified ten (10) days without the consent of the
city council. (1961 Code § 1-16-2; amd. Res. 98-11, 7-1-1998)
5-1-7: WITNESS FEE:
Every member of the police department shall appear as a witness whenever
necessary in a prosecution for a violation of any city ordinance or law or any
state or federal law. No such member shall retain any witness fee for service
as a witness in any action or suit to which the city is a party; any fees paid
for such services shall be turned over to the chief of police, who shall
deposit the same with the treasurer. (1961 Code §
3-1-3; amd. Res. 98-11, 7-1-1998)
5-1-8: MATRON:
The mayor, with the consent of the council, may appoint a police matron, who
shall perform such duties as may be assigned to her by the chief of police or
by the mayor. (1961 Code §
3-1-5; amd. Res. 98-11, 7-1-1998)
5-1-9: REWARDS:
The chief of police, for meritorious service rendered by any member of the
police force in the due discharge of his duty, may permit such member to retain
for his own benefit, so far as he may be permitted by law, any reward or
present tendered him therefor, and it shall be cause for removal for any member
of the force to receive any such reward or present without notice thereof to
the chief of police and without his permission. (1961 Code §
3-1-6; amd. Res. 98-11, 7-1-1998)
5-1-10: STOLEN PROPERTY:
The chief of police shall have the custody of all lost, abandoned or stolen
property recovered within the city. (1961 Code § 1-16-4; amd. 2004 Code; Res.
98-11, 7-1-1998)
5-1-11: CITY/COUNTY LAW ENFORCEMENT OPTION:
The city council may contract for law enforcement services within the city
limits in lieu of having a police department. (2004 Code; amd. Res. 98-11, 7-1-
1998)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Admission Fees, Fraudulently Avoiding Payment Of
5-2-2: Barbed Wire And Electric Fences
5-2-3: Loudspeakers Or Sound Trucks
5-2-4: Nuisances Defined
5-2-5: Obscene Conduct
5-2-6: Playing Ball On Streets Prohibited
5-2-7: Windowsills To Be Kept Clear
5-2-8: Glass Containers Prohibited In Parks, Cemetery, And Docks
5-2-9: Penalty
5-2-1: ADMISSION FEES, FRAUDULENTLY AVOIDING PAYMENT OF:
It shall be unlawful for any person fraudulently to enter, without payment of
the proper admission fee, any theater, ballroom, lecture, concert or other
place where admission fees are charged; provided, however, that nothing herein
contained shall be deemed to prohibit or restrict the free admission of police
officers engaged in the performance of police duties to any place of public
entertainment or amusement. (Ord. 15-558, 4-28-2015)
5-2-2: BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES:
The use of barbed wire and electric fences shall be prohibited in all
residential zones. Such fencing is allowed within agricultural zones, and
barbed wire fencing may be placed on top of security fencing that is at least
six feet (6') high in commercial and industrial zones. Use of barbed wire and
electric fencing in any of the zoning districts is permitted as long as the use
existed prior to the passage, approval and publication hereof. (Ord. 15-558, 4-
28-2015)
5-2-3: LOUDSPEAKERS OR SOUND TRUCKS:
It shall be unlawful to play, operate, or use any device known as a sound
truck, loudspeaker or sound amplifier, radio or phonograph, with loudspeaker or
sound amplifier or any instrument of any kind or character which emits loud and
raucous noises and is attached to and upon any vehicle unless such person in
charge of such vehicle shall have first applied to and received permission from
the chief of police or city clerk to operate any such vehicle equipped. (Ord.
15-558, 4-28-2015)
5-2-4: NUISANCES DEFINED:
Anything which is injurious to the health or morals, or indecent or offensive
to the senses or an obstruction to the free use of property so as to interfere
with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property is declared a nuisance and
as such shall be abated. (Ord. 15-558, 4-28-2015)
5-2-5: OBSCENE CONDUCT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate in any place open to
the public view. (Ord. 15-558, 4-28-2015)
5-2-6: PLAYING BALL ON STREETS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to play ball or throw any ball to and fro
upon any public thoroughfare in the city. (Ord. 15-558, 4-28-2015)
5-2-7: WINDOWSILLS TO BE KEPT CLEAR:
It shall be unlawful for any person to place or keep on any windowsill, porch
or other projection above the first story of any building abutting on any
sidewalk any article which might do injury by falling upon any person on the
sidewalk in front of such building, unless said article be securely fastened or
protected by screens. (Ord. 15-558, 4-28-2015)
5-2-8: GLASS CONTAINERS PROHIBITED IN PARKS, CEMETERY, AND DOCKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to possess or use any glass container in
any city park, city boat docks or cemetery. (Ord. 15-558, 4-28-2015)
5-2-9: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any of the provisions of
this chapter, or who shall counsel, aid or abet any such violation or failure
to comply, shall be deemed guilty of an infraction. (Ord. 15-558, 4-28-2015)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL
ARTICLE A. DOGS, POULTRY, OTHER ANIMALS
SECTION:
5-3A-1: Definitions
5-3A-2: Enforcement
5-3A-3: Running At Large
5-3A-4: Dog And Kennel Licenses
5-3A-5: Temporary Permit (Rep. by Res. 01-1, 1-9-2001)
5-3A-6: Tag, Collar Required
5-3A-7: Vicious Dogs
5-3A-8: Shelter And Care For Animals
5-3A-9: Offensive Smells, Signs And Sounds Prohibited
5-3A-10: Animals In Heat
5-3A-11: Teasing Or Molesting Animals
5-3A-12: Reporting Violations
5-3A-13: Rabies Control
5-3A-14: Impoundment
5-3A-15: Disposition Of Unclaimed Animals
5-3A-16: Records Required
5-3A-17: Exemption
5-3A-18: Penalty
5-3A-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ANIMAL SHELTER: Any premises designated by action of the city for the purpose
of impounding and caring for all animals found running at large in violation of
this chapter.
CITY: The city of Glenns Ferry, Idaho.
EXPOSED TO RABIES: An animal has been exposed to rabies within the meaning of
this chapter, if it has been bitten by, or been exposed to, any animal known to
have been infected with rabies.
KENNEL: Any person, group of persons or corporation engaged in the commercial
business of breeding, buying, selling or harboring dogs.
NUISANCE DOG: Any dog which persistently destroys, disfigures, blemishes or in
any other manner harms property; or which persistently chases cars, bicycles or
pedestrians; or persistently disturbs the peace and dignity and quiet of the
city.
OWNER: Any person, group of persons, or corporation owning, keeping or
harboring any poultry or animal.
POULTRY: Domesticated birds which serve as a source of food, either eggs or
meat, and includes chickens, turkeys, ducks, guinea fowl and pheasants.
RUNNING AT LARGE: Any poultry or animal whenever it is not controlled by a
leash, within a vehicle being driven or parked on the streets, or within the
property limits of its owner or keeper; or, if a dog, at "heel" beside a
competent person and obedient to that person's commands.
SPAYED FEMALE: Any bitch dog which has been operated upon to prevent
conception.
VICIOUS DOG: Any dog which shall bite any person or the wearing apparel of any
person, or shall advance upon any person in a ferocious manner such as to put a
reasonable person in fear of being attacked or injured by such dog. (Ord. 309,
1-2-1975)
5-3A-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the animal control officer
and the designated law enforcement officer of the city. (Ord. 309, 1-2-1975;
amd. 2004 Code)
5-3A-3: RUNNING AT LARGE:
Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for the owner, or any person in charge of any
animals or poultry to permit the same to run at large in the City at any time.
(Ord. 475, 2-27-2001; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 19-574, 11-26-2019)
5-3A-4: DOG AND KENNEL LICENSES:
   A.   License Required; Exception: It shall be unlawful for any person to
own, keep or harbor any dog over the age of six (6) months within the City
limits unless such dog is licensed as herein provided, except service dogs.
   B.   Kennel Licenses: It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or
harbor upon the premises of any one (1) household more than five (5) dogs. In
addition, no person shall operate or maintain a commercial kennel without first
obtaining a license from the City Clerk. The provisions of this section shall
not be construed to vary or alter any of the zoning regulations of the City.
   C.   Application: Such dog license shall be issued by the City Clerk, his
deputy, or the animal control officer, upon written application stating the
name and address of the owner and the name, breed, color, age and sex of the
dog. All applications for license to operate or maintain a commercial kennel
shall be submitted in writing upon printed forms provided for such purposes by
the City Clerk with the required fee.
   D.   Immunization Certificate; Fee: The owners of all dogs required to be
licensed under this section shall submit a current certificate showing
immunization of such dog or dogs against rabies and the license fee required
hereunder with the license application. For purposes of this section, a rabies
certificate shall be considered valid and current within the following
guidelines:
      1.   Within one (1) year from the date of issue when the dog vaccinated
was less than one (1) year old.
      2.   Within three (3) years from the date of issue when the dog
vaccinated was one (1) year old or older.
   E.   Receipt; Tag: A numbered receipt shall be forthwith given to the
applicant, and a numbered metallic tag shall hereafter be issued and delivered
to the owner as soon as possible.
   F.   Fees:
      1.   Annual Fee: The yearly license fee shall be set from time to time by
Council resolution for each neutered male or spayed female dog and for each
non-neutered male or unspayed female dog.
      2.   Late Fees: A late fee, as set by resolution, shall be assessed for
those purchasing licenses after March 1.
      3.   Kennel License Fee: Every person, group of persons or corporation
conducting, operating or maintaining a commercial kennel may, in lieu of
licensing each dog, pay an annual kennel license fee set from time to time by
Council resolution, which shall cover all dogs in the kennel.
   G.   Term Of License; Renewal: All dog licenses and kennel licenses shall be
issued for one (1) year commencing January 1 and expiring December 31.
Applications for licenses may be made not more than thirty (30) days prior to
the start of the licensing year and may be made for sixty (60) days after the
start of the licensing year without penalty; but when application is made more
than sixty (60) days after the commencement of the licensing year, the
applicant shall be assessed a penalty as set from time to time by Council
resolution, which amount shall be added and collected with the regular license
fee; provided, if the dog or kennel did not become subject to the licensing
until the start of the licensing year, then no penalty shall be assessed within
thirty (30) days after the dog or kennel became so subject to such license.
   H.   Duplicate Tag: In the event that a metallic license tag issued for a
dog shall be lost, the owner may obtain a duplicate tag upon the payment of a
fee set from time to time by Council resolution.
   I.   Change In Ownership: If there is a change in ownership of a dog or
kennel during the license year, the new owner may have a current license
transferred to his name upon the payment of a transfer fee set from time to
time by Council resolution.
   J.   Nonresidents: The licensing and vaccination requirements of this
section shall not apply to any dog belonging to a nonresident of the City and
kept within the City for not longer than sixty (60) days, provided all such
dogs are kept secured at all times in the City. (Ord. 17-564, 5-23-2017)
5-3A-5: TEMPORARY PERMIT:
(Rep. by Res. 01-1, 1-9-2001)
5-3A-6: TAG, COLLAR REQUIRED:
The metallic license tag issued upon complying with section
5-3A-4 of this chapter shall be a numbered metallic tag stamped with the number
and year for which issued and the shape or design of such tag shall be changed
from year to year. Such tag shall be securely fastened to the dog's choke
chain, collar or harness and worn by the dog at all times. (Ord. 309, 1-2-1975)
5-3A-7: VICIOUS DOGS:
Any vicious dog shall be confined by its owner within a building or secure
enclosure on his property and such property shall be posted with a sign reading
"Vicious Dog", "Beware of Dog", or words of the like effect. Whenever not so
confined, said dog shall be securely muzzled. (Ord. 309, 1-2-1975)
5-3A-8: SHELTER AND CARE FOR ANIMALS:
   A.   General. It shall be unlawful for any person having the care or
ownership of any animal to intentionally and willfully abandon or leave such
animal without making adequate arrangements for its disposition or care.
   B.   Providing proper shelter. No person owning or responsible for confining
or impounding any animal may fail to provide the animal with proper shelter as
prescribed in this section. In the case of farm animals, nothing in this
section shall be construed as imposing shelter requirements or standards more
stringent than normally accepted husbandry practices in the particular county
where the animal or shelter is located.
      1.   Indoor standards. Minimum indoor standards of shelter shall include:
         a.   Ambient temperatures. The ambient temperature shall be sufficient
to ensure the health of the animal.
         b.   Ventilation. Indoor housing facilities shall be adequately
ventilated by natural or mechanical means to provide for the health of the
animals at all times.
      2.   Outdoor standards. Minimum outdoor standards of shelter shall
include:
         a.   Shelter from sunlight. When sunlight is likely to cause heat
exhaustion of an animal tied or caged outside, sufficient shade by natural or
artificial means shall be provided to protect the animal from direct sunlight.
As used in this paragraph, "caged" does not include farm fencing used to
confine farm animals.
         b.   Shelter from inclement weather.
            (1)   Animals generally. Natural or artificial shelter appropriate
to the local climatic conditions for the species concerned shall be provided as
necessary for the health of the animal.
            (2)   Dogs. If a dog is tied or confined unattended outdoors under
weather conditions which adversely affect the health of the dog, a shelter of
suitable size to accommodate the dog shall be provided.
            (3)   If required to maintain adequate ambient temperature within a
shelter, a heat lamp shall be provided when outdoor air temperatures drop below
32 degrees Fahrenheit.
      3.   Space standards. Minimum space requirements for both indoor and
outdoor enclosures shall include:
         a.   Structural strength. The housing facilities shall be structurally
sound and maintained in good repair to protect the animals from injury and to
contain the animals.
         b.   Space requirements. Enclosures shall be constructed and
maintained so as to provide sufficient space to allow each animal adequate
freedom of movement. Inadequate space may be indicated by evidence of debility,
stress or abnormal behavior patterns.
      4.   Sanitation standards. Minimum standards of sanitation for both
indoor and outdoor enclosures shall include periodic cleaning to remove excreta
and other waste materials, dirt and trash so as to minimize health hazards.
(Ord. 309, 1-2-1975; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 22-595, 12-13-2022)
5-3A-9: OFFENSIVE SMELLS, SIGNS AND SOUNDS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any owner, or other person in charge of the care of
animals or poultry in the city, to maintain or care for the same in such a
manner that either the animals or poultry, or the pens, or runs, in which they
are housed, become offensive in odor, sight or sound, so as to unreasonably
interfere with the use and enjoyment of property by owners or renters of other
property in the neighborhood; and all dogs will be maintained by their owner so
as not to become or constitute a "nuisance dog" as defined in section
5-3A-1 of this article. (Ord. 309, 1-2-1975)
5-3A-10: ANIMALS IN HEAT:
Every female animal in heat shall be kept confined in a building or secure
enclosure or in a veterinary hospital or boarding kennel. (Ord. 309, 1-2-1975)
5-3A-11: TEASING OR MOLESTING ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully and intentionally tease or
otherwise molest any animal; or for any parent or guardian of any child under
sixteen (16) years of age to knowingly permit such child to tease or molest any
animal. (Ord. 309, 1-2-1975; amd. 2004 Code)
5-3A-12: REPORTING VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Who May Report: Any person who:
      1.   Observes any poultry or animal running at large within the city;
      2.   Observes a nuisance dog;
      3.   Encounters a vicious dog upon unposted premises within the city
while on lawful business thereon; or
      4.   Encounters any other violation of this chapter;
may promptly report the same to the city police or animal control officer and
give his (the caller's) name, as full a description as possible of the poultry
or animal, the location of the same, and the name of the owner of the same
known to the caller.
   B.   Investigation: Upon receiving a report of poultry or of an animal
running at large, an investigation shall be immediately initiated by the police
or animal control officer, and if the same is found to be still running at
large, the provisions of section
5-3A-14 of this chapter shall apply. If, however, the same be found then under
restraint, the reporting person shall be notified and advised that a written
complaint must be filed before further action can be taken.
   C.   Written Report; Actions Taken: Upon the filing of a written complaint
alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter, the owner shall be cited
in the manner as for violations of any other ordinance of the city, and in
addition, the animal or poultry complained of may be impounded; provided,
however, that in the event the owner be acquitted of such charge, no fees may
be charged for such impoundment.
   D.   Vicious Or Nuisance Dog Report:
      1.   Written Report; Notice To Owner: Upon receiving a report of a
vicious dog on unposted premises, or a nuisance dog, the police or animal
control officer shall reduce said report to writing and have it signed by the
reporting person and notify the owner, if he is known or can be ascertained, of
the report and the name of the person who made the report, and also notify him
that such dog must be forthwith and thereafter confined and treated as a
vicious or nuisance dog, whichever is applicable.
      2.   Confinement Of Dog; Request For Hearing: An owner, upon such
notification, shall immediately confine such dog as herein required, but may,
within five (5) days after such notification, demand, in writing, a hearing
before the magistrate. If the owner does not make such demand, or if the
magistrate, upon such hearing, determines that such dog is vicious or a
nuisance, it shall thereafter continue to be treated and considered
accordingly.
      3.   Ownership Unascertainable: In the event the owner of such dog cannot
be ascertained, such dog may be impounded and a written notification posted at
the place where such dog is found restrained. (Ord. 309, 1-2-1975)
5-3A-13: RABIES CONTROL:
   A.   Report Of Animal Bite; Quarantine: Every animal which bites a person
shall be promptly reported to the animal control officer or police, and shall
thereupon be securely quarantined at the direction of the animal control
officer or police for a period of ten (10) days, and shall not be released from
such quarantine except by written permission of the animal control officer or
police. At the discretion of the animal control officer or police, such
quarantine may be on the premises of the owner, at the shelter designated as
the city animal shelter or, at the owner's option and expense, in a veterinary
hospital of his choice or some other suitable place.
   B.   Surrender Of Animal: The owner, upon demand made by the animal control
officer or police, shall forthwith surrender any animal which has bitten a
human, or which is suspected as having been exposed to rabies, for quarantine,
supervised by a veterinarian, which expenses shall be borne by the owner and
may be reclaimed by the owner if adjudged free of rabies upon payment of fees
set forth in subsection 5-3A-14B of this chapter and upon compliance of
licensing provisions set forth in section
5-3A-4 of this chapter.
   C.   Animal Dies During Quarantine: When an animal under quarantine has been
diagnosed as being rabid or suspected by a licensed veterinarian as being rabid
and dies while under such observation, the animal control officer or police
shall immediately send the head of such animal to the state health department
for pathological examination, and shall notify the proper public health officer
of reports of human contacts and the diagnosis made of the suspected animal.
   D.   Positive Diagnosis; Citywide Quarantine:
      1.   Positive Diagnosis: When one or both reports give a positive
diagnosis of rabies, the animal control officer or police shall recommend a
citywide quarantine for a period of thirty (30) days, and upon the invoking of
such quarantine, no animal shall be taken into the streets or permitted to be
in the streets during such period of quarantine. (Ord. 309, 1-2-1975)
      2.   Animals At Large: During such period of quarantine any animal found
on the streets or roaming at large will be placed in the city animal shelter.
If such animal is unlicensed, or is of unknown ownership, it shall be held for
a period of five (5) days, after which it shall be destroyed. (Ord. 309, 1-2-
1975; amd. 2004 Code)
      3.   Bitten Animals: During such period of rabies quarantine as herein
mentioned, every animal bitten by an animal adjudged to be rabid, shall be
forthwith destroyed, or at the owner's option and expense, shall be treated for
rabies infection by a licensed veterinarian, or held under thirty (30) days
quarantine by the owner in the same manner as other animals are quarantined.
      4.   Quarantine Extended: In the event there are additional positive
cases of rabies occurring during the period of the quarantine, such period of
quarantine may be extended for an additional six (6) months.
      5.   Killing, Removal Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
kill, or cause to be killed, any rabid animal, any animal suspected of having
been exposed to rabies, or any animal biting a human, except as herein
provided, shall not be removed from the city limits without written permission
from the animal control officer.
      6.   Surrender Of Carcass: The carcass of any dead animal exposed to
rabies shall, upon demand, be surrendered to the animal control officer.
      7.   Disposition: The animal control officer shall direct the disposition
of any animal found to be infected with rabies.
      8.   Failure Or Refusal To Surrender Animal: It shall be unlawful for any
person to fail or refuse to surrender any animal for quarantine or destruction
as required herein when demand is made therefor by the animal control officer
or police.
   E.   Duty Of Physician Or Practitioner To Report: It shall be the duty of
every physician, or other practitioner, to report to the animal control officer
or police the names and addresses of persons treated for bites inflicted by
animals, together with such other information as will be helpful in rabies
control.
   F.   Responsibility Of Veterinarian: It shall be the duty of every licensed
veterinarian to report to the animal control officer or police his diagnosis of
any animal observed by him as a rabies suspect found within the city. (Ord.
309, 1-2-1975)
5-3A-14: IMPOUNDMENT 1 :
   A.   Power To Impound: Poultry or any animal found running at large shall be
taken up by the animal control officer or police and impounded in the city
animal shelter or other secure place, and confined in a humane manner for a
period of at least five (5) days. Any animal or poultry not claimed by its
owner within said five (5) day period may be disposed of as provided by section
5-3A-15 of this article; provided, however, that where the ownership of any dog
or other animal or poultry has been ascertained by the animal control officer
or police, he may, in lieu of impoundment, return the same to its owner and
cite the owner to appear in court to answer to a charge of allowing or
permitting poultry or an animal to run at large; and, if applicable, of
maintaining an unlicensed dog in violation of this chapter. Upon impounding a
licensed dog wearing such license, the animal control officer or police shall
notify the owner of such dog of the impoundment and of the conditions whereby
custody of such dog may be regained. (Ord. 309, 1-2-1975)
   B.   Impounding Fees: The fees to be charged for poultry and animals that
are impounded shall be set from time to time by council resolution and the same
may not be reclaimed until payment of the same is made to the city hall. (Ord.
474, 1-9-2001)
   C.   Interference Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
interfere with, hinder or molest the police or animal control officer in the
performance of his duty, or to attempt to release any animal in the custody of
the animal control officer or police except as herein provided.
   D.   Freeing Impounded Animals: It shall be unlawful to break open or in any
manner, directly or indirectly, aid or assist in breaking open any pen or
enclosure with intent of releasing any animal confined therein.
   E.   Redemption By Owner: Except as hereinafter otherwise provided, an owner
shall be entitled to regain possession of animals or poultry upon payment of
the appropriate impoundment fee set forth in subsection B of this section;
provided, however, that the owner of any dog must first comply with the license
requirements of section
5-3A-4 of this chapter, if such dog is unlicensed; and provided further, that
after impoundment of either vicious dogs or nuisance dogs, possession of the
same will be restored to the owner thereof only by order of the magistrate and
application to regain possession of a vicious or nuisance dog must be made
through the court. (Ord. 309, 1-2-1975)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 5-3B-4 of this chapter.
5-3A-15: DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED ANIMALS:
At the expiration of the five (5) day detention period, the animal control
officer or police shall either:
   A.   Destroy: Dispose of said poultry or animal in a humane manner; or
   B.   Change Of Ownership: Transfer title of the same to a responsible
person, or to the humane society, provided the person or humane society pay for
the animal's food during the time it has been impounded; and if a dog is
released to a person, the license requirement of section
5-3A-4 of this chapter shall be first fully complied with; or
   C.   Sell At Auction:
      1.   Sell such poultry or animal at public auction after at least five
(5) days' notice of the time and place of such sale is given by publication, or
is posted in at least five (5) public places in the city; and, in addition, if
the owner can be ascertained or is known, a copy of said notice shall be served
upon said owner; provided, that said poultry or animal may be redeemed by its
owner any time before said sale is made, by payment of all charges and expenses
theretofore incurred and of all other fees herein provided.
      2.   In case any animal sold pursuant to the provisions of this chapter
be sold for more than is sufficient to pay the fees and charges aforesaid, such
excess shall, by the officer or his assistant making the sale, be deposited
with the clerk, who shall pay such excess, upon an order of the city council,
to the owner of such animal or to the person entitled to the possession of the
same upon claim and proper proof within one year from the date of said sale.
(Ord. 309, 1-2-1975)
5-3A-16: RECORDS REQUIRED:
   A.   Information Recorded: It shall be the duty of the animal control
officer or police to keep, or cause to be kept, accurate and detailed records
of:
      1.   The licensing, impoundment and disposition of all animals coming
into custody;
      2.   All bite cases reported, and the investigation of same; and
      3.   All monies coming to the city pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   Inspection And Auditing Of Records: Said records shall be open to
inspection at reasonable times by such persons responsible for similar records
of the city, and shall be audited by the city in the same manner as other city
records are audited. (Ord. 309, 1-2-1975)
5-3A-17: EXEMPTION:
Hospitals, clinics and other premises operated by licensed veterinarians for
the care and treatment of animals are exempt from the provisions of this
chapter, except where such duties are expressly stated. (Ord. 309, 1-2-1975)
5-3A-18: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Article, shall, upon their
first conviction thereof, be guilty of an infraction and be punished by a fixed
penalty of twenty-five dollars ($25.00), plus any costs as the court may
assess. Second and third violations of this Article shall be infractions,
punishable by a fixed penalty of fifty dollars ($50.00) , plus any costs as the
court may assess. Fourth and subsequent violations of this Article shall be a
misdemeanor, punishable as provided by section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 503, 7-13-2004; amd. Ord. 19-574, 11-26-2019; Ord.
20-575, 1-28-2020)
ARTICLE B. CONFINING ANIMALS; IMPOUNDMENT AND SALE
SECTION:
5-3B-1: Keeping Of Animals Restricted
5-3B-2: Animals Running At Large
5-3B-3: Poultry Running At Large
5-3B-4: Registration Of Impounded Animals
5-3B-5: Notice And Sale
5-3B-6: Collection Of Fines
5-3B-7: Redemption
5-3B-8: Revenue From Sale
5-3B-9: Monthly Report
5-3B-1: KEEPING OF ANIMALS RESTRICTED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep and maintain within the city limits
any swine, horses, cattle, sheep, asses, mules, llamas, alpacas, emus, rabbits,
and/or goats in zoning areas other than agricultural, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter.
   A.   Permit Required: Goats, sheep, swine, poultry and rabbits raised and
kept for youth development activities involving 4-H, Future Farmers of America,
Optimist or other like youth development organizations may be kept in any
zoning district upon approval of the city clerk/animal control officer of the
city or their authorized designee. Any permit so issued shall be a permit
revocable at the discretion of said city clerk/animal control officer, the
mayor or the city council. The city clerk/animal control officer or his/her
authorized designee shall not be authorized to issue any such permit unless the
location, facilities and plan for the keeping of such animals or any of them
are such as to not create a public nuisance and are in conformance with the
following requirements:
      1.   The applicant must submit an application for temporary animal
keeping permit to the city clerk/animal control officer on a form provided by
the city.
      2.   The applicant will submit a site plan that will include the size of
the property, property lines, existing structures and buildings, and the
location and size of the proposed pens, cages and/or enclosures. The applicant
must also describe the fencing materials and type of pens, cages and/or
enclosures that will be used to house the animals.
      3.   The applicant will identify the animal(s) to be kept on the
premises, to include species, age, and physical description and/or tag number
of each individual animal, such that the individual animal can be positively
identified.
      4.   Structures intended to house or feed the animal are not permitted
within any front yard and within twenty-five feet (25') of a front property
line.
      5.   Animals shall be kept and maintained within enclosures which may
include fences, corrals, barns, pens, etc., or some other structure that will
ensure the animal(s) cannot ever leave the premises of its own volition.
Electric fences are not permitted. All fencing shall meet the requirements of
section
11-14-4 of this code. All locations, pens, corrals or structures used to keep
or maintain any of the animals must be kept in a clean or sanitary condition,
free from obnoxious odors or substances. The owner/caretaker of the animal is
responsible for the regular removal and disposal of animal waste and decaying
food, and for the control of insects, erosion and odor. Failure to comply with
this standard may result in revocation of the permit.
      6.   No permit may be transferred to any other person or location.
      7.   At the time of application, the applicant shall pay to the city
clerk a fee set by resolution of the city council and the permit shall be valid
from March 1 through the last day of the current year of the Elmore County
Fair. A new permit is required each year.
      8.   The minimum lot size for each type of animal permitted by this
section is as follows:
 
Minimum Lot Size  Animal Type     Number Allowed
½ acre           Pig/swine       2
7,500 square feet Goat            2
7,500 square feet Lamb/Sheep      2
5,000 square feet Chickens/Fowl   6
5,000 square feet Bunnies/Rabbits 12
 
      9.   In instances where a mixed livestock density is desired, the minimum
lot size shall be ½ acre and the number of types of animals desired shall be
divided into the maximum number allowed. For example, an individual wants to
have goats and rabbits, which is two (2) different types of animals. The
maximum number of goats is two (2). Two (2) divided by two (2) equals one (1).
The maximum number of rabbits is twelve (12). Twelve (12) divided by two (2)
equals six (6). Therefore, the individual could have a combined total of one
(1) goat and six (6) rabbits.
   B.   Appeals: Any party denied a permit or whose permit has been revoked as
above provided may appeal the decision to the city council. The applicant must
file the appeal with the city clerk in writing within ten (10) days of the
decision denying or revoking a permit. Failure to file an appeal within said
ten-day period shall be deemed a waiver of any appeal rights under this
section. The city council shall hear the evidence de novo at a regular or
special meeting and a decision rendered within thirty (30) days of the filing
of the notice of appeal. The applicant shall be present in person at the appeal
hearing, or be represented by counsel or any other authorized representative.
   C.   Abatement of Nuisance: Whenever it shall come to the knowledge of the
city clerk/animal control officer that any of the animals enumerated in
subsection A of this section are being kept by any person in violation of the
provisions of this section, it shall be his/her duty to notify such person, and
the keeper, agent or employee of such person, if there be such keeper, agent or
employee, in writing, by personal service, or by mailed notice to such person
at his/her last known address, to abate such violation or remove such animals
from the premises where kept to such premises or places as will not be in
violation of the provisions of this section, within ten (10) days from the date
of service of such notice. The date of service for mailed notice shall be the
date of mailing. Each day after the expiration of the time specified in the
notice hereinbefore provided for that such animals are kept in violation of
this section shall constitute and be construed to be a separate offense.
Nothing in this section shall prohibit the abatement of such nuisances in
accordance with Glenns Ferry City Code or the laws of the State of Idaho, in
addition to the penalty for the violation of this section as hereinafter
provided.
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 17-563, 2-28-2017; amd. Ord. 20-582, 12-8-2020)
5-3B-2: ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE:
It shall be the duty of the designated law enforcement officer to seize and
return to its owner all domesticated animals running at large within the city
limits. All associated costs shall be paid by the owner. (Ord. 10, 12-10-1909;
amd. 2004 Code)
5-3B-3: POULTRY RUNNING AT LARGE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or suffer any chickens, ducks,
turkeys or geese, or any other fowl owned by them or in their charge to run at
large upon the streets, alleys or sidewalks of the city or upon the private
property of any person within the city limits without the consent of the owner
thereof. (Ord. 90, 11-28-1921)
5-3B-4: REGISTRATION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS 1 :
All animals committed to the animal shelter shall forthwith be registered. The
registration shall state: from whom received, when found; and set forth the
kind of animal, color, stripes, marks and brands; approximate age, sex and such
other description as may aid the owner to identify the animal; and how each
animal was disposed of and to whom. The animal warden shall use due diligence
to find the owner of said animals by records or brands and otherwise, and
notify the owner or owners, if known, of the impounding of the same. (Ord. 10,
12-20-1901; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 5-3A-14 of this chapter.
5-3B-5: NOTICE AND SALE:
Upon the seizure and impounding of any animal, the designated law enforcement
officer or person authorized by him shall forthwith give notice by posting in
at least three (3) public places, written or printed notices containing the
description of the animal thus seized and impounded, the time when the same
were seized and the time and place where the same shall be sold to satisfy the
fine and charges of such seizure and impounding. Provided that no sale shall
take place in a period less than ten (10) days from the day of seizure and
impounding. Provided further that when the owner of such animal is known to
said designated law enforcement officer or keeper, he shall give personal
notice to such owner of the seizure of the same, either by serving the notice
herein provided personally, or by placing said notice in the post office
addressed to such person. If any animal so taken up and impounded shall be
unclaimed or if claimed the fine and expenses shall not have been paid, the
designated law enforcement officer or person employed by him shall at the time
specified in the notice, sell at public auction any such animal by him seized
and impounded and shall pay to the city treasurer the amount received from such
sale and shall make a complete record of all expenses incurred in the sale of
such animal together with the amount turned over to the city treasurer, and a
copy of said record shall be furnished to the city treasurer. (Ord. 10, 12-20-
1909; amd. 2004 Code)
5-3B-6: COLLECTION OF FINES:
There shall be collected by the designated law enforcement officer upon all
animals so seized and impounded such fines together with the costs of seizure,
keeping such animals and costs of sale as shall be determined from time to time
by resolution of the council. (Ord. 411, 10-29-1992; amd. 2004 Code)
5-3B-7: REDEMPTION:
If at any time before sale the owner of any animal so seized and impounded
shall claim the same, said owner shall be entitled to the possession of the
same upon satisfactory proof to the designated law enforcement officer or the
person employed by him of his ownership of said animal and upon payment of all
costs as may have been necessary in the care and preservation of said animal.
(Ord. 10, 12-20-1909)
5-3B-8: REVENUE FROM SALE:
In case any animal sold pursuant to the provisions of this chapter be sold for
more than is sufficient to pay the fees and charges aforesaid, such excess
shall, by the officer or his assistant making the sale, be deposited with the
clerk, who shall pay such excess, upon an order of the city council, to the
owner of such animal or to the person entitled to the possession of the same
upon claim and proper proof within one year from the date of said sale. (Ord.
10, 12-20-1909)
5-3B-9: MONTHLY REPORT:
The designated law enforcement officer or person employed by him as provided
herein shall keep a book in which he shall keep an accurate account of all
receipts and expenses incurred, and shall make a full and detailed report of
his proceedings monthly, stating therein the number of animals impounded, the
number of animals sold, and the amount received and expenses incurred for
storage or food, advertising and sale. (Ord. 10, 12-20-1909)
CHAPTER 4
CURFEW
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Persons Subject To Curfew
5-4-3: Exceptions
5-4-4: Liability Of Parent, Guardian Or Adult
5-4-5: Care Of Minors
5-4-6: Enforcement
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ADULT: Any parent, a guardian or person eighteen (18) years of age or older in
charge of a minor.
GUARDIAN: Any person entrusted with the care of a minor under the provisions of
this chapter whether legally vested with such authority by a court of law or by
authority of the parent.
MINOR: Any child under the age of eighteen (18) years within the city limits of
the city.
PARENT: Any natural or adoptive parent of a minor. (Ord. 464, 7-28-2000)
5-4-2: PERSONS SUBJECT TO CURFEW:
   A.   Hours: It shall be unlawful for any minor not under the direct
supervision of the child's parent or guardian under eighteen (18) years of age
to go or to remain upon any pedestrian or vehicular thoroughfare, public place
or other premises open to the public, or to operate or to ride in a vehicle at
any such location, between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and five
o'clock (5:00) A.M. on Monday through Thursday, and between twelve o'clock (12:
00) midnight and five o'clock (5:00) A.M., Saturday and Sunday.
   B.   Extension Of Hours: For minors participating in sanctioned school or
other organized events, the curfew shall be extended one hour from the time the
event ends, the minor returns to the city limits from out of town events, or
leaves an event within the city limits. (Ord. 484, 11-13-2001)
5-4-3: EXCEPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to any minor accompanied by a parent, guardian or
adult acting with the authority of a parent or guardian; or any minor upon an
emergency errand or legitimate business directed or authorized by his parent or
guardian; or to any minor lawfully married; or to members of the armed forces
of the United States on active duty; or to persons engaged in or traveling
directly to or from lawful and gainful employment; provided further, that the
mayor and council may, in advance, approve youth meetings and functions and the
places where the same will be held, and attendance at such functions shall not
be deemed a violation of this chapter, and persons attending the same shall
have up to one hour after the same officially terminates or closes in which to
get home. (Ord. 464, 7-28-2000)
5-4-4: LIABILITY OF PARENT, GUARDIAN OR ADULT:
It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian, or adult in charge of a minor
under the age of eighteen (18) to permit or by inefficient control to allow the
minor to remain in any pedestrian or vehicular thoroughfare, public place or
other premises open to the public, or to operate or to ride in a vehicle at any
such location under circumstances not constituting an exception to, or
otherwise beyond the scope of, this chapter. The term "knowingly" includes
knowledge that a parent should reasonably be expected to have concerning the
whereabouts of a minor in that parent's legal custody. This requirement is
intended to hold a neglectful or careless parent up to a reasonable community
standard of parental responsibility through an objective test. It shall,
therefore, be no defense that a parent was completely indifferent to the
activities, conduct or whereabouts of such juvenile. (Ord. 464, 7-28-2000)
5-4-5: CARE OF MINORS:
It shall be unlawful during the hours of curfew for any adult to leave a minor
or minors under the age of eighteen (18) in an automobile parked in the
thoroughfares of the city or in private parking lots open to the public within
the city without an adult being present with said minor. (Ord. 464, 7-28-2000)
5-4-6: ENFORCEMENT:
Any law enforcement officer finding a minor in apparent violation of this
curfew restriction shall take said minor to the designated law enforcement
office, and the parent, guardian or other adult person having care and custody
of the minor shall be requested to come and take charge of the minor. A
petition may be filed in a court of competent jurisdiction under the youth
rehabilitation act or the child protective act of the state of Idaho, as
appropriate to the circumstances. (Ord. 464, 7-28-2000)
CHAPTER 5
AIR GUNS AND FIREARMS 1
SECTION:
5-5-1: Discharge Of Firearms
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 18-3301 et seq., and §§ 50-308, 50-343.
5-5-1: DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS:
It shall be unlawful for any person in or near this city, except in defense of
person or property, to fire or cause to be fired or operated any device by
which a missile can be propelled therefrom, unless a permit has been obtained
from the city for special events or demonstrations approved by the city clerk.
(Ord. 207, 6-15-1951; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 21-583, 6-8-2021)
CHAPTER 6
ABANDONED CONTAINERS
SECTION:
5-6-1: Prohibited
5-6-1: PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to leave or permit to remain outside of any
dwelling, building or other structure, or within an unoccupied or abandoned
building, structure or dwelling under his control, in a place accessible to
children, any abandoned, unattended or discarded icebox, refrigerator or other
container which has a door or lid, snaplock or other locking device which may
not be released from the inside, without first removing said door or lid,
snaplock or other locking device. (1961 Code §
6-4-1)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS 1
SECTION:
6-1-1: Traffic Code Adopted
6-1-2: Traffic Control Devices
6-1-3: Crosswalks And Safety Zones
6-1-4: Stop Signs And Yield Signs
6-1-5: Traffic Lanes
6-1-6: Bus Stops
6-1-7: Display Of Unauthorized Signs, Signals Or Markings
6-1-8: Parades And Processions
6-1-9: Unlawful Riding
 
Notes
1 1. IC §§ 49-209, 49-583.
6-1-1: TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Intent: It is hereby declared to be the intent of the city council to
aid and assist by whatever means possible, for the utmost consistency in
traffic regulation among and between agencies of Idaho having jurisdiction.
Toward that end, adoption of the Idaho motor vehicle laws by the cities of
Idaho is a necessary means of assuring maximum uniformity within the state.
   B.   Adoption: There is hereby adopted, therefore, for the purpose of
establishing rules and regulations for the use of all streets and public
thoroughfares of the city, that certain code, identified as Idaho motor vehicle
laws, more particularly title 49 Idaho Code, published by the department of law
enforcement, latest edition, and as the same may hereafter be revised by the
Idaho legislature, or amended by the city council, and the same is hereby
adopted and incorporated as an ordinance of the city as fully as though set
forth at length herein.
   C.   Copies On File: Three (3) copies of the Idaho motor vehicle laws,
together with any revisions or amendments, duly certified by the clerk, shall
be kept on file in her office for use and examination of and by the general
public. (2004 Code)
6-1-2: TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
The chief of police shall place and maintain traffic control signs, signals and
devices when and as required under the traffic regulations of the city to make
effective the provisions of such regulations, and may place and maintain such
additional traffic control devices as he may deem necessary. (1961 Code §
10-3-1)
6-1-3: CROSSWALKS AND SAFETY ZONES:
The chief of police is hereby authorized:
   A.   Crosswalks: To designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or
lines upon the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where, in
his opinion, there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway and
at such other places as he may deem necessary.
   B.   Safety Zones: To establish safety zones of such kind and character and
at such places as he may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians.
(1961 Code §
10-3-10)
6-1-4: STOP SIGNS AND YIELD SIGNS:
The chief of police may designate through roadways and erect stop signs or
yield signs at specified entrances thereto or may designate any intersection as
a stop intersection or as a yield intersection and erect stop signs or yield
signs at one or more entrances to such intersection. (1961 Code § 10-7-4)
6-1-5: TRAFFIC LANES:
The chief of police is hereby authorized to mark traffic lanes upon the roadway
of any street or highway where a regular alignment of traffic is necessary.
(1961 Code §
10-3-11)
6-1-6: BUS STOPS:
   A.   Designation: The chief of police shall have the authority to designate
bus stops at such locations and in such manner and number as may be necessary
and of the greatest benefit and convenience to the public. Every such bus stop
shall be designated by appropriate signs.
   B.   Use Required: The operator of a bus shall not stop such bus at any
place for the purpose of taking on or discharging passengers other than at a
bus stop so designated except in case of emergency.
   C.   Use By Other Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any person to stop,
stand or park a vehicle at an authorized bus stop so designated or between the
right curb and any such stop, except that the operator of a passenger vehicle
may temporarily stop thereat for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
the discharge or the pick up of passengers then in readiness at the curb. (1961
Code § 10-10-14)
6-1-7: DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS OR MARKINGS:
   A.   Imitations Prohibited: No person shall place, maintain or display upon
or in view of any highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic
control device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the
movement of traffic, or which hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of traffic, or which hides from view of interferes with the
effectiveness of any official traffic control device or any railroad sign or
signal.
   B.   Commercial Advertising: No person shall place or maintain nor shall any
public authority permit upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing
thereon any commercial advertising.
   C.   Directional Information: This section shall not be deemed to prohibit
the erection upon private property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official
signs.
   D.   Nuisance Declared: Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance and the authority having jurisdiction
over the highway is hereby empowered to remove the same or cause it to be
removed without notice. (1961 Code §
10-3-8)
6-1-8: PARADES AND PROCESSIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any funeral procession or parade containing persons or
vehicles to occupy, march or proceed along any street except in accordance with
a permit issued by the chief of police and such other regulations as are set
forth. (1961 Code § 10-10-9)
6-1-9: UNLAWFUL RIDING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to ride any vehicle upon any portion
thereof not designated or intended for the use of passengers. This provision
shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty or
to persons riding within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise. (1961
Code § 10-10-13)
CHAPTER 2
STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING
SECTION:
6-2-1: Parking In Alleys
6-2-2: Parking Prohibited
6-2-3: Parking Of Trucks Prohibited In Certain Zones
6-2-4: Parking For Certain Purposes Prohibited
6-2-5: Parking Adjacent To Schools
6-2-6: Parking On Narrow Streets
6-2-7: Congested Places
6-2-8: Curb Loading Zones
6-2-9: Parking Signs Required
6-2-10: Penalty
6-2-1: PARKING IN ALLEYS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle within an alley in such a
manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10')
of the width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and it
shall be unlawful for a person to stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley
in such a position as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(1961 Code § 10-7-12)
6-2-2: PARKING PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definitions: “Trailer” means every vehicle without motive power
designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn behind a motor
vehicle.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any trailer, whether or not
connected to a powered motor vehicle, upon city streets for a period of time
longer that seventy-two (72) consecutive hours.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a camp trailer, motor home,
or recreational vehicle upon city streets for a period of time longer than
seventy two (72) consecutive hours. (Ord. 15-559, 4-28-2015; amd. Ord. 23-596,
1-10-2023)
6-2-3: PARKING OF TRUCKS PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN ZONES:
Parking of trucks and/or truck trailers on city streets is hereby prohibited
within any residential or commercial zone. (Ord. 15-559, 4-28-2015)
6-2-4: PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle upon any roadway for the
principal purpose of:
   A.   Displaying such vehicle for sale.
   B.   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle, except repairs
necessitated by an emergency. (1961 Code § 10-7-15)
6-2-5: PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS:
   A.   Authority To Erect Signs: The chief of police is hereby authorized to
erect signs indicating no parking upon either or both sides of any street
adjacent to any school property when such parking would, in his opinion,
interfere with traffic or create a hazardous situation.
   B.   Parking Prohibited: When official signs are erected indicating no
parking upon either side of a street adjacent to any school property as
authorized herein, it shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle in any
such designated place. (1961 Code § 10-7-16)
6-2-6: PARKING ON NARROW STREETS:
   A.   Authority To Erect Signs: The chief of police is hereby authorized to
erect signs indicating no parking upon any street when the width of the roadway
does not exceed twenty feet (20') or upon one side of a street as indicated by
such signs when the width of the roadway does not exceed thirty feet (30').
   B.   Parking Prohibited: When official signs prohibiting parking are erected
upon narrow streets as authorized herein, it shall be unlawful for any person
to park a vehicle upon any such street in violation of any such sign. (1961
Code § 10-7-17)
6-2-7: CONGESTED PLACES:
   A.   Authority To Designate: The chief of police is hereby authorized to
determine and designate by proper signs, places not exceeding one hundred feet
(100') in length in which the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles would
create an especially hazardous condition or would cause unusual delay in
traffic.
   B.   Stopping, Standing Or Parking Prohibited: When official signs are
erected at hazardous or congested places as authorized herein, it shall be
unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park a vehicle in any such designated
place. (1961 Code § 10-7-18)
6-2-8: CURB LOADING ZONES:
   A.   Designation: The chief of police is hereby authorized to determine the
location of passenger and freight curb loading zones and shall place and
maintain appropriate signs indicating the same and stating the hours during
which the provisions of this section are applicable. (1961 Code § 10-7-19)
   B.   Permit Required; Fee: The chief of police shall not hereafter designate
or sign any curb loading zone upon special request of any person unless such
person makes application for a permit for such zone and for two (2) signs to
indicate the ends of each such zone. Such permit fee shall be set and
designated by the city council. (1961 Code § 10-7-20; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Standing In Zone Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of time other than for
the expeditious unloading and delivery or pick up and loading of materials in
any place marked as a freight curb loading zone during hours when the
provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no case shall the stop
for loading or unloading of materials exceed thirty (30) minutes. (1961 Code §
10-7-21)
6-2-9: PARKING SIGNS REQUIRED:
Whenever any parking time limit is imposed or parking is prohibited on
designated streets, it shall be the duty of the chief of police to erect
appropriate signs giving notice thereof, and such regulations shall not be
effective unless said signs are erected and in place at the time of any alleged
offense. (1961 Code § 10-7-22)
6-2-10: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any of the provisions of
this chapter, or who shall counsel, aid or abet any such violation or failure
to comply, shall be deemed guilty of an infraction and shall be punished by a
fine of fifteen dollars ($15.00), exclusive of any costs the court may assess.
(Ord. 486, 5-29-2002; amd. Ord. 20-577, 3-26-2020)
CHAPTER 3
SPEED LIMITS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Basic Rule; Speed Limits
6-3-2: Minimum Speed
6-3-1: BASIC RULE; SPEED LIMITS:
   A.   Basic Rule Imposed: No person shall drive a vehicle on a public
thoroughfare at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the
conditions and having regard to the actual and potential hazards then existing.
In every event, speed shall be so controlled as may be necessary to avoid
colliding with another person, vehicle, or other conveyance on or entering the
public thoroughfare in compliance with the legal requirements and duty of all
persons to use due care.
   B.   Maximum Speed:
      1.   The maximum speed for all kinds of traffic shall be and the same is
hereby ordained to be twenty five (25) miles per hour, and persons exceeding
that speed shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      2.   The speed limit in the city shall not exceed the rate of twenty five
(25) miles per hour, and all persons driving in excess of twenty five (25)
miles per hour shall be deemed negligent and subject to the penalty provided
for in this code. All persons driving automobiles shall use due care and
caution under the circumstances and conditions existing at the time they are
operating such automobiles.
   C.   Change In Speed Limits: Upon proper action by the mayor and council,
the speed limits on any thoroughfare within the city may be raised or lowered
by posting signs to that effect. (Ord. 399, 2-27-1991)
6-3-2: MINIMUM SPEED:
No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic except when reduced speed
is necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law. (Ord. 399, 2-27-
1991)
CHAPTER 4
TRUCK ROUTES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definitions
6-4-2: Exceptions
6-4-3: Truck Routes Established
6-4-4: Enforcement
6-4-5: Penalty
6-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meaning given herein:
CITY: The city of Glenns Ferry.
DEVIATING TRUCK: A truck which leaves and departs from a truck route while
traveling inside the city.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
TRACTOR: A tractor unit is a heavy duty vehicle, usually with a large diesel
engine and two (2) or three (3) axles designed for the transport of freight
when pulling a trailer. The average tractor weight is twenty six thousand
(26,000) pounds.
TRUCK: Any vehicle designed or operated for the transportation of property, and
whose body weight or whose combined body and load weight exceeds sixteen
thousand (16,000) pounds or eight (8) tons.
TRUCK ROUTE: A way over certain streets, as designated herein, over and along
which trucks traveling within the city must operate. (Ord. 356, 1-20-1983; amd.
Ord. 521, 4-24-2007)
6-4-2: EXCEPTIONS:
All trucks within the city shall be operated only over and along the truck
routes herein established excepting the following:
   A.   Operation On Street Of Destination: The operation of trucks upon any
street where necessary to the conduct of business at a destination point;
provided, that truck routes as herein established are used until reaching the
intersection nearest the destination point.
   B.   Emergency Vehicles: The operation of emergency vehicles upon any street
in the city.
   C.   Public Utilities: The operation of trucks owned or operated by the
city, public utility, any contractor or materialman while engaged in the
repair, maintenance or construction of streets, street improvements, or street
utilities within the city.
   D.   Detour Trucks: The operation of trucks upon any officially established
detour in any case where such truck could lawfully be operated upon the street
for which the detour is established. (Ord. 356, 1-20-1983)
   E.   Tractors Taking Trucks Home: Tractors, not including their trailer, may
deviate from the truck route for the purpose of taking his/her truck home.
(Ord. 521, 4-24-2007)
6-4-3: TRUCK ROUTES ESTABLISHED:
The following streets within the city limits of the city are hereby established
as truck routes:
   A.   All portions of Highway 30.
   B.   That portion of Bannock Avenue between its intersection with Interstate
Highway 84 to the intersection of W. Idaho Avenue.
   C.   That portion of Commercial Street between its intersection with Old
Highway 30 and W. Madison Avenue.
   D.   That portion of E. Cleveland Avenue between its intersection with S.
Commercial Street and the city's eastern city limits.
   E.   That portion of W. Idaho Avenue from the intersection of N. Alton
Avenue to the city's western limits.
   F.   That portion of W. Madison Avenue from its intersection with S.
Commercial Street to the city's western limits. (Ord. 521, 4-24-2007)
6-4-4: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Clerk To Maintain Maps: The city clerk shall keep and maintain accurate
maps setting out the truck routes and streets upon which the truck traffic is
permitted; the maps shall be kept on file in the office of the city clerk and
shall be available to the public.
   B.   City To Maintain Signs: The city shall cause all truck routes to be
clearly signposted to give notice that this chapter is in effect.
   C.   Proof Of Weight: All law enforcement officers with the police
department, Elmore County sheriff's office, or Idaho state police shall have
authority to require an operator of any motor vehicle being operated for the
transportation of property to produce documents indicating gross weight of said
vehicle or to require said vehicle to proceed to the closest scale available
for the purpose of weighing and determining whether this chapter has been
complied with. (Ord. 356, 1-20-1983)
6-4-5: PENALTY:
A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a
misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 356, 1-20-1983; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 5
REMOVAL OF VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-5-1: Definitions
6-5-2: Improperly Parked Vehicles
6-5-3: Abandoned Or Inoperative Vehicles
6-5-4: Stolen Vehicles Or Vehicles Under Extraordinary Circumstances
6-5-5: Charges Not Otherwise Provided For
6-5-6: Presumption Of Ownership
6-5-7: Disposition
6-5-8: Governing Law
6-5-9: Penalty
6-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings herein ascribed to them:
ABANDONED VEHICLES: Any vehicle left or abandoned upon public or private
property without the express or implied consent of the owner or person in
lawful possession or control of the property. Whether the vehicle is abandoned,
junked, dismantled, or inoperative shall be no defense.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon the highway, excepting devices used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks consistent with chapter 1, title 49
of the Idaho Code. (Ord. 403, 8-14-1991, eff. 8-20-1991)
6-5-2: IMPROPERLY PARKED VEHICLES:
   A.   Immediate Removal: Any vehicle parked in violation of traffic
regulations or any vehicle parked so as to obstruct the free movement of
traffic or to cause a traffic hazard may be immediately removed upon order of
the police department.
   B.   Deemed Improperly Parked: Any such vehicle shall be deemed to be
improperly parked after a period of three (3) minutes unless said vehicle is
parked in a regularly marked parking area, when it shall be deemed to be
improperly parked after any period of time longer than that designated by a
meter or proper sign.
   C.   Storage: Any such vehicle removed by the police department shall be
kept under the control of the police department until the owner or authorized
agent pays a reasonable cost of removal and storage in addition to the penalty
provided for such improper parking.
   D.   Redemption: If such vehicle is redeemed within five (5) days, said
removal charges shall not exceed twenty five dollars ($25.00), however, if said
vehicle is not redeemed within five (5) days, the cost of redemption shall
include the actual cost and expense of such removal in addition to a storage
charge of five dollars ($5.00) per day, and said costs and expenses shall be a
lien in favor of the city. (Ord. 403, 8-14-1991, eff. 8-20-1991)
6-5-3: ABANDONED OR INOPERATIVE VEHICLES:
   A.   Authority To Remove: The city, through authorized police officers,
within the city's jurisdictional limits in which a vehicle is located, who has
reasonable grounds to believe that the vehicle has been abandoned, junked,
dismantled or inoperative may remove the vehicle from any highway, street and
alley or from any public or private property to a garage or nearest place of
safety. The procedures governing such removal shall be in accordance with Idaho
Code.
   B.   Unlicensed Vehicle: Any vehicle which does not have current or any
license plates attached may be immediately removed to a safe place of storage.
(Ord. 403, 8-14-1991, eff. 8-20-1991)
6-5-4: STOLEN VEHICLES OR VEHICLES UNDER EXTRAORDINARY CIRCUMSTANCES:
The police department is hereby authorized, upon discovery of a vehicle
reported as stolen and not recovered, or any vehicle involved in any
extraordinary circumstances, to take the vehicle into custody and cause it to
be taken to and stored in a suitable place, or may cause the vehicle to be
placed in the custody of a tow truck operator, all expenses of towing and
storage to be those of the vehicle owner. (Ord. 403, 8-14-1991, eff. 8-20-1991)
6-5-5: CHARGES NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR:
Every towing firm, employee, or agent in the process of towing, moving or
impounding any vehicle as directed by an authorized officer, except vehicles
found under extraordinary circumstances or suspected stolen, shall, upon
request of the owner or his authorized agent, release the vehicle at the scene.
If the vehicle is attached to the tow truck or otherwise in tow, the regular,
scheduled tow fee may be charged. When the vehicle is not yet in tow at time of
request, reasonable release must be made, and no charge may be assessed except
a customary and reasonable charge for mileage one way from the towing firm's
place of storage to the scene, plus the usual fee for the tow truck operator.
If the authorized fee is not tendered by the owner or his agent, the towing
operator may complete the impoundment, towing or removal, as authorized. (Ord.
403, 8-14-1991, eff. 8-20-1991)
6-5-6: PRESUMPTION OF OWNERSHIP:
The abandonment of any vehicle shall create a presumption that the last
registered owner of record is responsible for the abandonment and is therefore
liable for the cost of removal, storage and disposition of the vehicle. (Ord.
403, 8-14-1991, eff. 8-20-1991)
6-5-7: DISPOSITION:
Disposition of vehicles including low valued vehicles shall be in accordance
with chapter 18, title 49 of the Idaho Code. (Ord. 403, 8-14-1991, eff. 8-20-
1991)
6-5-8: GOVERNING LAW:
The procedures governing removals, notices, dispositions of vehicles, penalties
and hearings shall be in accordance with chapter 18, title 49 of the Idaho
Code. (Ord. 403, 8-14-1991, eff. 8-20-1991)
6-5-9: PENALTY:
   A.   Violation: Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any of
the provisions of this chapter, or who shall counsel, aid or abet any violation
or failure to comply, shall be deemed guilty of an infraction and shall be
subject to punishment by penalty, only, as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   Separate Offense: Any person violating this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during
which any violation is committed or continues to occur. (Ord. 403, 8-14-1991,
eff. 8-20-1991; amd. 2004 Code)
TITLE 7
FIRE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT 1
SECTION:
7-1-1: Created
7-1-2: Officers
7-1-2-1: Chief Of Fire Department
7-1-2-2: Secretary
7-1-2-3: Treasurer
7-1-2-4: Vacancy
7-1-3: Membership
7-1-4: Police Power
7-1-5: Uniform
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-309.
7-1-1: CREATED:
There is hereby created and established a volunteer fire department for the
city. (Ord. 25, 5-20-1910; amd. Ord. 48, 2-18-1913)
7-1-2: OFFICERS:
7-1-2-1: CHIEF OF FIRE DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Appointment; Term: The fire chief shall be appointed by the mayor
subject to the approval of the council. He shall hold office for the duration
of his appointment unless sooner removed by the mayor with the concurrence of
the council. (1961 Code § 1-17-1)
   B.   Rank; Powers: The chief of the fire department, commonly referred to as
the fire chief, shall be the head of the department and have supervision over
all officers and members thereof. The fire chief may, with the approval of the
mayor, appoint such other fire department officers as may be deemed necessary,
including a first assistant chief and a second assistant chief. (1961 Code § 1-
17-2)
   C.   Duties:
      1.   Superintend: The fire chief, under the direction and control of the
council, shall superintend all work in the erection and construction of fire
company houses, when ordered by the council, and shall have the care, custody,
and control of all apparatus and supplies.
      2.   Authority At Fires: The fire chief in all cases of fire shall take
and have control of all members of the fire department and all other persons
present at such fires and shall take all proper measures for extinguishing such
fires for the protecting of property and preservation of order at any fires and
in the vicinity of fires and upon the extinguishing of any fires, he shall have
charge of the premises and cause the same to be watched until such time as, in
his judgment, all danger has passed.
      3.   Reports: The fire chief shall report monthly before the council on
the status and affairs of the fire department. (Ord. 25, 5-20-1910; amd. Ord.
48, 2-18-1913; 2004 Code)
      4.   Records: The fire chief shall keep such records and make such
reports concerning the activities of his department as may be required by
statute or by the mayor.
      5.   Department Performance: The fire chief shall be responsible for the
performance of the fire department and of its functions and all persons who are
members of the fire department shall serve subject to his orders.
      6.   Property And Equipment: The fire chief shall be responsible for the
control and custody of all fire department property and equipment.
      7.   Police Authority: The fire chief shall have the authority of a
police officer while actively engaged in fighting a fire, or going to or from a
fire. (1961 Code § 1-17-3; amd. 2004 Code)
7-1-2-2: SECRETARY:
The secretary shall be assistant fire chief, and in case of the sickness or
absence of the fire chief, or in case of his inability to serve for any cause,
the secretary shall perform all the duties of the fire chief and shall have all
the authority conferred by this chapter upon said fire chief while so acting,
and in addition thereto, he shall keep a roll of members of the department and
a minute book of the meetings thereof at which meetings the fire chief shall
preside. (Ord. 25, 5-20-1910; amd. Ord. 48, 2-18-1913)
7-1-2-3: TREASURER:
The treasurer shall have the custody of all monies collected or donated for the
personal benefit of the members collectively and shall only pay the same out on
an order signed by the fire chief and countersigned by the secretary. (Ord. 25,
5-20-1910; amd. Ord. 48, 2-18-1913)
7-1-2-4: VACANCY:
The fire chief will make the necessary appointments contingent upon approval
from the city administrator. (2004 Code)
7-1-3: MEMBERSHIP:
All able bodied persons over the age of eighteen (18) years and under the age
of sixty five (65) years, at the discretion of the fire chief, shall be
eligible to become members of the department. (2004 Code)
7-1-4: POLICE POWER:
The officers of the fire department shall, at and during all fires, have all
the power of policemen, and any person who shall resist any such officer in the
lawful discharge of his duties at such time shall be subject to the penalties
now provided by law or hereafter to be provided for resisting policemen in the
discharge of their duties. (Ord. 25, 5-20-1910; amd. Ord. 48, 2-18-1913)
7-1-5: UNIFORM:
Members of the fire department shall wear such uniforms or insignia, to be
furnished by the city, as the council may determine, and no person other than
an active fireman shall be permitted to wear such uniform or insignia at any
fire. (Ord. 25, 5-20-1910; amd. Ord. 48, 2-18-1913; 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
7-2-1: Adoption
7-2-2: Copy On File
7-2-1: ADOPTION:
The current edition of the International Fire Code as published by the
International Code Council is hereby adopted by the City of Glenns Ferry. (Ord.
18-568, 2-27-2018; amd. Ord. 22-594, 12-13-2022)
7-2-2: COPY ON FILE:
One copy of said Fire Code shall be on file at all times in the Office of the
City Clerk, which copy is made a part of this Code as if set out at length in
full. (Ord. 495, 5-13-2003)
CHAPTER 3
FIREWORKS 1
SECTION:
7-3-1: Statute Adopted
7-3-2: Use On City Property Prohibited
7-3-3: Authority To Issue Citations
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-310.
7-3-1: STATUTE ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted by the city, the fireworks act of 1997, Idaho Code
title 39, chapter 26, fireworks, as presently in effect or as may hereafter be
amended. (2004 Code)
7-3-2: USE ON CITY PROPERTY PROHIBITED:
It is hereby declared unlawful and an offense for any person to fire, explode
or use any fireworks on city property. (2004 Code)
7-3-3: AUTHORITY TO ISSUE CITATIONS:
Law enforcement shall have the authority to issue citations for any use of
fireworks in violation of the fireworks act adopted in section
7-3-1 or prohibited by section
7-3-2 of this chapter. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 4
EXPLOSIVES 1
SECTION:
7-4-1: Application
7-4-2: Manufacture, Storage Prohibited
7-4-3: Transportation
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-310.
7-4-1: APPLICATION:
This chapter applies to all explosives except small arms ammunition and
pyrotechnic devices. (1961 Code § 7-6-1)
7-4-2: MANUFACTURE, STORAGE PROHIBITED:
The manufacture or storage of explosives within the limits of the city is
prohibited. (1961 Code § 7-6-2)
7-4-3: TRANSPORTATION:
   A.   Permit Required: A permit shall be obtained from the clerk to transport
any explosives in or through the city. (1961 Code § 7-6-2)
   B.   Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of a
vehicle containing explosives to smoke in, upon or near such vehicle; to drive,
load or unload the vehicle while intoxicated; to drive the vehicle in a
careless or reckless manner, or to unload or load such vehicle in a careless or
reckless manner.
   C.   Rules: It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle containing
explosives on any street in the city except in compliance with the following
rules:
      1.   No such vehicle shall be so operated unless it is marked, loaded and
equipped in full compliance with all laws of the state relating thereto.
      2.   No trailer shall be used for the conveyance of explosives in the
city; but semitrailers as defined by statute may be so used.
      3.   No vehicle carrying explosives shall be parked or permitted to stand
anywhere in the city longer than is necessary to make a lawful delivery;
provided, that the standing of such vehicle made necessary by mechanical
trouble, traffic conditions, accident or in obedience to the direction of a
police officer or traffic signals shall not be considered a violation of this
section. (1961 Code § 7-6-3)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR 1
SECTION:
8-1-1: Appointment
8-1-2: Duties
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 10, chapter 1, and section
  10-3-7 of this code.
8-1-1: APPOINTMENT:
The mayor may appoint, with approval of the council, a public works director
who shall hold office for the duration of his appointment unless sooner removed
by the mayor with the concurrence of the council. (1961 Code § 1-19-1)
8-1-2: DUTIES:
The public works director (PWD) shall have the following duties:
   A.   Streets And Alleys: The public works director shall supervise the
grading, surfacing, repairs and maintenance of all streets and alleys.
   B.   Parks: The public works director shall have supervision over all public
parks and playgrounds within the city.
   C.   Employment And Supervision: The public works director may employ, with
the consent of the city council, such help as is needed to carry on the work of
the city, such help to be directly under his supervision.
   D.   Other Duties: The public works director shall be responsible for the
accomplishment of such other work of the city which the city council may from
time to time assign to him.
   E.   Reports: The public works director shall present to the council at its
regular meeting each month a report of the public work accomplished the
preceding month and also, as far as can be foreseen, public work planned for
the current month. (1961 Code § 1-19-2; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Construction Of Sidewalks
8-2-2: Permit Required
8-2-3: Owner's Responsibility
8-2-4: Notice To Repair
8-2-5: Abatement By City; Recovery Of Cost
8-2-6: Awnings
8-2-7: Temporary Sidewalk Obstruction; Permit
8-2-8: Permit To Obstruct
8-2-9: Owner To Clear Sidewalk
8-2-10: Injury To Sidewalk Prohibited
8-2-11: Barricades And Warning Lights
8-2-12: Removing Barricades
8-2-13: Lug Wheels Prohibited
8-2-14: City Not Liable
8-2-15: Deposits On Streets Prohibited
8-2-16: Obstructing Public Ways
8-2-1: CONSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS:
All public sidewalks constructed, repaired or altered shall be constructed,
repaired or altered according to specifications provided by the public works
director. (2004 Code)
8-2-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No sidewalk shall be constructed on any public property including street rights
of way, except by a contractor who has obtained a permit from the city clerk.
(2004 Code)
8-2-3: OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY:
The owner of every lot, or part of a lot, within the limits of the city,
fronting or abutting upon any street, avenue or public ground upon which there
is or hereafter may be constructed a sidewalk, shall keep and maintain such
sidewalk in a good and substantial state of repair, and in a condition for safe
and convenient travel. (2004 Code)
8-2-4: NOTICE TO REPAIR:
The public works director shall report to the council any sidewalk found to be
in a bad state of repair and dangerous or unsafe for travel, and if the council
shall find and determine that such sidewalk is in a bad state of repair and
dangerous and unsafe for travel, said city clerk shall mail a written notice to
the owner of the premises upon which said sidewalk is located, setting forth
the condition of said sidewalk, and requiring such owner to repair such
sidewalk and put the same in a condition so as to be safe and convenient for
travel within thirty (30) days from the date of the service of said notice.
Service of such notice may be made by mailing a copy thereof to said owner by
regular mail at said owner's last known address. (2004 Code)
8-2-5: ABATEMENT BY CITY; RECOVERY OF COST:
If the owner of any property upon which the sidewalk is in a bad state of
repair and unsafe and dangerous for travel shall fail, neglect or refuse to
repair the same and place such sidewalk in a condition safe and convenient for
travel within the time in the notice herein provided for specified, the city
shall cause said sidewalk to be repaired and placed in a condition safe and
convenient for travel, and the expense thereof shall be assessed against the
lot upon which such sidewalk is located; such assessment shall be made,
returned and collected in the manner as provided by law. (2004 Code)
8-2-6: AWNINGS:
No person shall construct or install or maintain any awning which is supported
in whole or part by posts or other supports set into the sidewalk, street, or
public parking lot, nor which is less than seven and one-half feet (71/2')
above the sidewalk at any point. (2004 Code)
8-2-7: TEMPORARY SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION; PERMIT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct sidewalks so as to prevent the
free use thereof by the public; provided, however, that a permit may be
obtained from the city to temporarily obstruct a sidewalk for purposes of
constructing, loading or unloading, or other business purposes. (2004 Code)
8-2-8: PERMIT TO OBSTRUCT:
   A.   Safeguards And Warning Lights Required: The clerk, with the approval of
the mayor, is authorized to grant permission, in writing, to place and keep
upon any street, alley or sidewalk in the city, building material, for a period
not exceeding ninety (90) days, when such materials are to be used in the
construction of a new building, or in the repair of an old building; but such
permission shall not authorize the obstruction of more than one- half (1/2) of
the width of the sidewalk nor more than fifteen feet (15') in width of the
street opposite the lot in which such building material is to be used.
Provided, that no material shall be placed upon the sidewalk which will break
or injure the same; provided, further, that the person to whom such permission
is granted shall erect and maintain during the period of such permit, proper
and sufficient safeguards and warning lights, and such material shall in no
case be placed so as to obstruct the free flow of water in the street gutters.
Such permission may be revoked by the mayor at any time.
   B.   Sidewalks Returned To Original Condition: Every person to whom
permission is granted herein, before the expiration of the time for which such
permission was granted, shall cause all building material and rubbish arising
therefrom to be removed from the place occupied and shall also immediately
repair and put in as good condition as before any sidewalk, street, or alley
that may have been injured by such person. (2004 Code)
8-2-9: OWNER TO CLEAR SIDEWALK:
   A.   Enforcement; Penalty: The occupant of every store, shop, office,
tenement or building and of every lot, part of a lot or other premises within
the limits of the city, fronting or abutting upon any street, avenue or public
grounds upon which a sidewalk is constructed and the owner of each and every
unoccupied store, shop, office, tenement, building or lot, part of a lot, or
other premises fronting or abutting as aforesaid, shall by eleven o'clock (11:
00) A.M. of each and every day clear the sidewalk in front and upon the side
of, any such store, shop, office, tenement, building, lot, part of a lot or
other premises, as the case may be, of all snow, ice and rubbish then thereon,
and cause such sidewalks at all times to be kept clear of snow, ice and
rubbish.
   B.   Abatement By City: If any such occupant or owner shall refuse or
neglect to remove such snow, ice or rubbish in the manner as in this section
provided, the mayor may cause the same to be removed. In case of removal, the
expense thereof shall by the council be assessed against the lot, part of the
lot, or other premises fronting or abutting as aforesaid. Such assessment shall
be made, returned and collected in the same manner as provided by law for the
making, return and collection of assessments for building sidewalks. (2004
Code)
8-2-10: INJURY TO SIDEWALK PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or destroy any sidewalk or
crossing in any way. (2004 Code)
8-2-11: BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS:
No person who shall have charge of the construction of any excavation or
obstruction adjacent to or under any sidewalk or street shall fail during the
progress of such work to cause such excavation to be securely guarded by
barricades and warning lights from one-half (1/2) hour after sunset to one-half
(1/2) hour before sunrise. (2004 Code)
8-2-12: REMOVING BARRICADES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, throw down, run over, or
interfere with any barricade; or to walk upon, drive or ride over or across any
street or sidewalk construction which has not been opened for travel. (2004
Code)
8-2-13: LUG WHEELS PROHIBITED 1 :
It shall be unlawful for any person to haul, convey, transport or drive any
vehicle with mudhooks, lugs or spurs on the wheels over any part of a paved
street within the city without providing planks, ramps or some other form of
protection for the street. (2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 5-2-25 of this code.
8-2-14: CITY NOT LIABLE:
If any judgment shall be recovered in any action against the city for any
injury or damage caused by an obstruction, excavation, opening or defect in any
sidewalk caused or occasioned by the act or omission of any person, the city
shall have the right to recover the amount of any such judgment from the person
so responsible for such obstruction, opening, excavation or defect, and such
person is hereby declared to be liable to the city in the same amount of such
damages. (2004 Code)
8-2-15: DEPOSITS ON STREETS PROHIBITED:
No person shall sweep, shovel or otherwise deposit any leaves, grass, rubbish
or other materials of any kind in any street or gutter within the city, except
that it shall not be a violation of this section to:
   A.   Rake leaves from the boulevard only into the adjacent gutter in the
fall of each year prior to the city doing the fall street sweeping of such
street, and
   B.   Sweep or shovel snow from sidewalks into the adjacent streets. (2004
Code)
8-2-16: OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Refuse Deposits Prohibited: No person shall pile, deposit or place or
cause or permit to be deposited or placed any rubbish, wood, coal or
merchandise, dirt, impediment, or obstruction of any kind upon any sidewalk,
boulevard, or crossing in said city, or to occupy or obstruct any sidewalk,
boulevard, or crossing so as to interfere with the convenient use of the same
by the public or obstruct the vision of any vehicle or pedestrian.
   B.   Selling On Public Ways Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person
to sell or attempt to sell, or cry for sale at public auctions within the city,
any goods, chattels, or personal property, whatever, to any person upon the
sidewalks or streets within the city, so as to collect a crowd upon the
sidewalks or streets, whereby the free passage thereon is prevented or
hindered. (2004 Code)
   C.   Erecting Obstructions: It shall be and is hereby declared to be
unlawful for any person to erect and maintain, without first having obtained
permission to do so from the city council, any excavation, structure,
advertising sign, building or mechanical device in, on or over the streets,
sidewalks and alleys of the city. (Ord. 164, 9-9-1927)
CHAPTER 3
SIGNS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Specifications
8-3-2: Application
8-3-3: Removal Of Signs
8-3-1: SPECIFICATIONS:
No signs shall be erected or maintained in, on or over the streets, sidewalks
and alleys lower than ten feet (10') from the surface of the ground; the same
shall not extend into the street further than the curb line thereof. (Ord. 164,
9-9-1927; amd. Ord. 23-600, 3-14-2023)
8-3-2: APPLICATION:
No person shall erect or maintain signs on the streets, sidewalks or alleys
thereof without first making application for a permit to the public works
director, who shall have the right to specify the size, position and dimensions
and construction of such signs and grant or refuse the request, providing
reasons for such denial in writing to the applicant. Persons denied a permit by
the public works director may appeal such decision to the city council. (Ord.
164, 9-9-1927; amd. Ord. 23-600, 3-14-2023)
8-3-3: REMOVAL OF SIGNS:
The council shall have power to cause to be removed any signs which are erected
contrary to the provisions of this chapter and charge the expense of such
removal to the owner thereof. (Ord. 164, 9-9-1927)
CHAPTER 4
TREES AND SHRUBBERY
SECTION:
8-4-1: Trees To Be Trimmed
8-4-2: Hedges And Shrubbery
8-4-3: Injury To Trees Or Shrubbery
8-4-4: Penalty
8-4-1: TREES TO BE TRIMMED:
Any owner or occupant of any real property shall trim all trees on property
owned or occupied by him overhanging any public thoroughfare so that the
branches shall maintain a minimum vertical clearance of eight (8) feet between
the sidewalk and the lowest branch and fourteen (14) feet between the street or
roadway and the lowest branch. (1961 Code § 9-4-1; amd. Ord. 580-2020, 10-13-
2020)
8-4-2: HEDGES AND SHRUBBERY:
Any owner or occupant of any real property shall maintain all hedges and
shrubbery adjacent to public sidewalks so that no part of said hedges and/or
shrubbery shall extend over any part of a public sidewalk in the city so as to
obstruct travel or create an unsafe condition. (1961 Code §
9-4-2; amd. 2004 Code)
8-4-3: INJURY TO TREES OR SHRUBBERY:
It is hereby declared unlawful for any person, who is not the owner thereof or
without lawful authority so to do, to injure wilfully, deface, disfigure or
destroy any tree or shrub, or to injure, destroy, cut or pick any flower or
plant located either on private ground or on any public place or thoroughfare.
(1961 Code § 9-4-3; amd. Ord. 580-2020, 10-13-2020)
8-4-4: PENALTY:
   A.   Violation: Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any of
the provisions of this chapter, or who shall counsel, aid or abet any violation
or failure to comply, shall be deemed guilty of an infraction and shall be
subject to punishment as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   Separate Offense: Any person violating this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during
which any violation is committed or continues to occur. (Ord. 580-2020, 10-13-
2020)
CHAPTER 5
REMOVAL OF ICE AND/OR SNOW
SECTION:
8-5-1: Owner Or Occupant Responsible
8-5-1: OWNER OR OCCUPANT RESPONSIBLE:
The owners, tenants or occupants of all property abutting or adjoining on any
of the sidewalks within the city are hereby required to keep the sidewalks in
front of their respective properties clear and free from ice and snow so as to
facilitate and make the same safe for pedestrian travel. (Ord. 55, 2-17-1914;
amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 6
CEMETERY REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-6-1: Permit Required
8-6-2: Fees
8-6-3: Markers
8-6-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall bury or cause to be buried a dead body in the city cemetery
without having first purchased a lot and without having obtained authorization
from the city clerk. (Ord. 134, 10-17-1924; amd. 2004 Code)
8-6-2: FEES:
Fees for cemetery lots and opening and closing fees shall be as established and
amended, from time to time, by resolution of city council. (Res. 98-16, 12-9-
1998)
8-6-3: MARKERS:
The owners of spaces, or relatives of deceased persons buried in all sections
of the cemetery are required to erect flat markers or other suitable monuments
at the heads of spaces, with the name of the deceased plainly inscribed
thereon. No marker greater than three (3) feet tall, measured from the ground
to the highest point of the marker shall be erected. If the owner of spaces, or
relatives of deceased persons, neglects or fails to install a marker within six
(6) months from the date of the burial, the city council may place a marker at
the head of the grave at the expense of the owner of said plot. The city
council reserves the right to refuse any substandard or odd shaped marker. No
person, other than City maintenance staff in the performance of official
duties, shall plant any tree or shrub within the cemetery unless first approved
by the City Council. (Ord. 11-546, 8-23-2011; amd. Ord. 12-549, 9-12-2012; Ord.
20-576, 3-24-2020)
CHAPTER 7
RAILROADS
SECTION:
8-7-1: Crossings
8-7-2: Speed
8-7-3: Obstructions
8-7-1: CROSSINGS:
   A.   Signals: It shall be the duty of railroad or railway companies
operating a line of railroad within or throughout the city, or any employees of
such companies, to provide approved signals to warn persons of the approach of
trains, trucks, cars or locomotives, as well as to warn the employee of such
company, having charge or control of such trains, cars, trucks or locomotives
of the occupancy of such street by persons using or traveling the same.
   B.   Signal Malfunction; Watchman Required: Should the approved signals
malfunction, the railroad or railway companies shall provide a watchman in lieu
of such signal. (Ord. 301, 6-27-1973)
8-7-2: SPEED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a train within the limits of the
city at a speed in excess of thirty five (35) miles per hour. (Ord. 378, 5-7-
1987)
8-7-3: OBSTRUCTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any railroad or railway company to place any railroad
train, car, truck, locomotive or other obstruction, on any track, sidetrack or
other portion of their right of way in the city, so as to in any manner
obstruct any street, sidewalk or public passageway of persons or livestock, and
permit the same to remain for a period of exceeding ten (10) minutes. (Ord. 47,
2-18-1913)
CHAPTER 8
AIRPORT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-8-1: Definitions
8-8-2: Airport Manager
8-8-3: Licenses
8-8-3-1: Licenses Required Of All Businesses Operating At Airport
8-8-3-2: Application For Licenses
8-8-3-3: Documents Supporting Application
8-8-3-4: Grounds For Denial Of Applications
8-8-3-5: Airport License Fees
8-8-3-6: Licenses For Flying Clubs
8-8-3-7: Airport License Not To Be Transferred
8-8-4: Construction Of Improvements
8-8-5: Tie Down And Hangar Lease Fees
8-8-6: Commercial Operators
8-8-6-1: Commercial Operators Generally
8-8-6-2: License For Commercial Operators
8-8-6-3: Office For Commercial Operators
8-8-6-4: Permits Required Of Commercial Operators
8-8-6-5: Maintenance Of Improvements And Utilities By Commercial Operators
8-8-6-6: Area Of Operation Of Commercial Operator
8-8-6-7: Cooperation Of Commercial Operators With City
8-8-6-8: Complaints Against Commercial Operators
8-8-6-9: Discrimination By Commercial Operators
8-8-6-10: Revocation Of License Of Commercial Operator
8-8-7: Vehicular Traffic
8-8-8: Advertising
8-8-9: Airport Runway Traffic Patterns Adopted
8-8-10: Aircraft Regulations
8-8-10-1: Removal Of Damaged Aircraft
8-8-10-2: Parking Of Aircraft
8-8-10-3: Repair Of Aircraft
8-8-10-4: Starting Aircraft
8-8-11: Refuse
8-8-12: Agricultural Operations
8-8-13: Authority Of Control Tower
8-8-14: Violation Of Chapter A Misdemeanor
8-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
AIRPORT: The Glenns Ferry municipal airport and all of the area, buildings,
facilities and improvements within the exterior boundaries of such airport as
it now exists or as it may hereafter be extended or enlarged.
AIRPORT MANAGER: The mayor of the city of Glenns Ferry, Idaho, or his designee.
CITY: The city of Glenns Ferry, Elmore County, Idaho.
COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Glenns Ferry, Idaho.
DOT: The United States department of transportation.
FAA: The federal aviation administration.
FLYING CLUB: A partnership, corporation or other association of more than three
(3) persons who own one or more aircraft which are used solely by the partners
or members of the corporation or association for their personal or business
transportation and not for profit.
PERSONS: Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association, body politic or club, and includes any receiver,
assigns or other similar representative thereof. (Ord. 509, 6-28-2005; amd.
Ord. 528, 11-30-2007)
8-8-2: AIRPORT MANAGER:
The mayor of the city of Glenns Ferry or his designee shall be the airport
manager. The airport manager shall at all times have authority to take such
action as may be necessary for the handling, policing, protection and
safeguarding the public while present at the airport and to regulate vehicular
traffic at the airport. The airport manager may suspend or restrict any or all
operations without regard to other conditions whenever such action is deemed
necessary in the interest of safety, subject to the review of such action by
the council. (Ord. 509, 6-28-2005)
8-8-3: LICENSES:
8-8-3-1: LICENSES REQUIRED OF ALL BUSINESSES OPERATING AT AIRPORT:
No person shall use the airport, or any portion thereof, or any of its
improvements or facilities for commercial or business activities without first
obtaining all appropriate permits and licenses for such activities from the
city or the state of Idaho. (Ord. 509, 6-28-2005)
8-8-3-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSES:
All applications for licenses to conduct any commercial or business activity at
the airport shall be made to the council through the airport manager upon forms
provided by the city. Each such application shall be signed by the business
owner seeking a license. Upon receipt of an application by the airport manager,
he/she shall examine and consider the application and forward it to the council
with his/her recommendation as to the granting of the license. The council may
hold a public hearing on the question of whether the license should be granted.
(Ord. 528, 11-30-2007)
8-8-3-3: DOCUMENTS SUPPORTING APPLICATION:
The applicant may be required to submit specified or all of the following
information and documents in writing with its application, together with such
other information as requested by the airport manager or council:
   A.   The current financial statement prepared or certified by a certified
public accountant.
   B.   A list of the assets owned or being purchased by the applicant that
will be used in the proposed business at the airport.
   C.   A current credit report covering all areas in which the applicant has
done business during the past ten (10) years.
   D.   Authorization from the FAA and the DOT and all aviation or aeronautic
commissions, administrators or departments of all states in which the applicant
has engaged in aviation business to supply the city with all information in
their files relating to the applicant or his operation. The applicant shall
execute such forms, releases and discharges as may be requested by any of the
above agencies. (Ord. 528, 11-30-2007)
8-8-3-4: GROUNDS FOR DENIAL OF APPLICATIONS:
The council may deny an application for a license to conduct a business or
commercial activity at the airport for any of the following reasons:
   A.   The applicant for any reasons does not meet the qualification standards
and requirements established by this chapter.
   B.   The applicant's proposed operations will create a safety hazard at the
airport.
   C.   The granting of the application will require the city to spend city
funds or to supply labor or materials in connection with the proposed business
or operation to an extent which the council determines is not in the best
interests of the public.
   D.   There is no appropriate, adequate or available space or building at the
airport to accommodate the activity of the applicant at the time of the
application.
   E.   The proposed operation or development does not comply with the master
plan of the airport.
   F.   There is insufficient volume of business at the airport to support the
proposed operation or business activity.
   G.   The applicant has supplied the council with false information or has
misrepresented a material fact in its application or supporting documents or
has failed to make full disclosure on his application or supporting documents.
   H.   The applicant has a record of violating this chapter or the rules and
regulations of another airport, the DOT, federal aviation regulations or any
other applicable rules and regulations.
   I.   The applicant has defaulted in the performance of a lease or other
agreement with the city.
   J.   The applicant has a credit report which contains derogatory information
and the applicant does not appear to be of satisfactory business responsibility
and reputation.
   K.   The applicant does not appear to have, or have access to, the financial
resources necessary to conduct the proposed operation.
   L.   The applicant has violated any law of such a nature that it indicates
to the council that the applicant would not be a desirable operator at the
airport.
   M.   The protection of the health, welfare, safety or morals of the
inhabitants of the city require such denial.
Nothing contained herein shall be construed to prohibit the council from
granting or denying, for any reason it deems sufficient, an application to do
business at the airport for the purpose of selling or furnishing nonaviation
products and supplies or any service or business of a nonaeronautical nature.
(Ord. 509, 6-28-2005)
8-8-3-5: AIRPORT LICENSE FEES:
Prior to the issuance of any license to conduct any business at the airport, an
annual license fee shall be paid to the city according to the schedule set
forth from time to time through resolution.
Each of the services or businesses offered by each applicant shall be listed on
the application. Regardless of the number of services offered, no applicant
shall be required to pay more than a total amount in annual license fees as set
by resolution. Each license shall commence January 1 of each year and expire
December 31 of the same year. Any applicant applying for a license after July 1
of any year shall pay only one-half (1/2) of the above fees and the total fee
shall not exceed a fee as set by resolution. (Ord. 509, 6-28-2005)
8-8-3-6: LICENSES FOR FLYING CLUBS:
No flying club shall use the airport, or any portion thereof, for any purpose
without first obtaining a license from the city. All applications for licenses
for flying clubs shall be made to the council through the airport manager upon
forms provided by the city. Each such application shall contain the following:
(Ord. 509, 6-28-2005; amd. Ord. 528, 11-30-2007)
   A.   The names and addresses of each of the members, partners or
stockholders of the club;
   B.   The respective interest of each member, partner or stockholder in the
aircraft and equipment owned by the club;
   C.   A list of all aircraft owned, leased or being purchased by the club;
and
   D.   An affidavit signed by the officers of the club stating that the club
is not being conducted as a commercial or business venture or for a profit.
Upon a proper showing that applicants for flying club licenses meet the
definition of a "flying club" and are not being conducted in any way as a
commercial or business venture or for profit, then the city may issue such a
license. No fee shall be required for a flying club license. Each such license
shall be an annual license and shall commence on January 1 of each year and
expire on December 31 of the same year.
No flying club may engage in any business or commercial activity or conduct its
operations to make a profit without first purchasing a license for each such
activity as provided in this chapter. As a condition for a flying club license,
the city may require any applicant therefor to make its books and financial
records available to the city for inspection to enable the city to determine
whether the club is being conducted as a business or commercial venture and for
a profit.
Members, partners or stockholders of flying clubs may take student instruction
in aircraft owned or operated by the flying club without losing its status as a
flying club, if the instructor has a flight instructor and ground school
license from the city. A member, partner or stockholder who is an FAA licensed
instructor may provide flight instruction to the other members of the same club
without providing office space required of fixed commercial operators. Flying
clubs shall maintain liability insurance in the amount of one million dollars
($1,000,000.00). (Ord. 509, 6-28-2005)
8-8-3-7: AIRPORT LICENSE NOT TO BE TRANSFERRED:
Licenses and permits issued to conduct any business or other activity at the
airport shall not be assigned, sold or transferred in any manner without the
written consent of the council. (Ord. 509, 6-28-2005)
8-8-4: CONSTRUCTION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
No lessee, licensee or any other person shall construct, alter or remove any
improvements of any kind at the airport without the prior approval of the
council. The council may require an appropriate bond to guarantee the
completion of any construction or alteration in accordance with the plans and
specifications approved by the council. All improvements shall be constructed
or altered in compliance with the airport manager, city council and federal
aviation administration (FAA) standards and regulations. (Ord. 528, 11-30-2007)
8-8-5: TIE DOWN AND HANGAR LEASE FEES:
The city shall maintain aircraft parking spaces with appropriate tie downs
which shall be available to the public under the direction and supervision of
the airport manager. There shall be hangar lease and tie down fees as set forth
by resolution of the council. (Ord. 526, 7-24-2007)
8-8-6: COMMERCIAL OPERATORS:
8-8-6-1: COMMERCIAL OPERATORS GENERALLY:
A "commercial operator" is a person who carries on one or more of the following
services for profit at the airport:
   A.   Aircraft sales.
   B.   Sale of parts and accessories.
   C.   Charter operations, including, without limitation, passenger or "air
taxi", freight or delivery, photography, aerial survey and agricultural
spraying.
   D.   Aircraft rental.
   E.   Flight instruction or ground school.
   F.   Maintenance services including airframe overhaul and repair, engine
overhaul and repair, radio and electrical shop, instrument shop, aircraft
interior work and refinishing and painting.
   G.   Line services including supplying fuel, oil and other fluids, deicing
fluids, interior cleaning and in-flight food service.
   H.   Aircraft storage, whether inside a hangar or outside a hangar. (Ord.
509, 6-28-2005)
8-8-6-2: LICENSE FOR COMMERCIAL OPERATORS:
No person shall operate as a commercial operator at the airport until such
person has applied for and received from the city a license therefor and has
met the requirements of this chapter.
An applicant for a commercial operator's license shall specify all services
which the applicant desires to conduct at the airport. A commercial operator
shall engage in only those services for which he qualifies and which are
specified in the license granted by the city. Upon the issuance of a license to
a commercial operator he shall, as the construction of any required physical
facilities permit, immediately commence and conduct on a full time basis all
business activities and services authorized in his license. (Ord. 509, 6-28-
2005)
8-8-6-3: OFFICE FOR COMMERCIAL OPERATORS:
Except in cases of commercial operators offering aircraft storage only, each
commercial operator shall provide and maintain an office, staffed and open to
the public during normal business hours. The office shall be the operator's
office or place of business at the airport and shall contain at the minimum a
waiting area with appropriate furnishings, restrooms and a public telephone.
These facilities and the office shall be kept in a neat, clean and orderly
condition. Only one such office shall be required of each commercial operator.
(Ord. 509, 6-28-2005)
8-8-6-4: PERMITS REQUIRED OF COMMERCIAL OPERATORS:
A commercial operator and all of his employees and agents shall be competent
and shall hold all current, valid certificates, permits and licenses required
by the DOT and FAA, including required FAA air taxi permits and public
commission certificates. Fixed commercial operators shall not utilize any pilot
in any aircraft operation who does not hold valid and current certificates from
the DOT and FAA necessary for him to conduct such activities. If as a result of
any action, order or ruling of the DOT or FAA, any commercial operator is
grounded or his commercial pilot certificate or instructor's certificate is
suspended or revoked for a period of ninety (90) days or more, the council may
revoke the commercial operator's license and authority to conduct business
activities at the airport as a commercial operator. (Ord. 509, 6-28-2005)
8-8-6-5: MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS AND UTILITIES BY COMMERCIAL OPERATORS:
Unless otherwise provided, a commercial operator shall, at his own expense,
provide, construct, install, equip and maintain all utilities, buildings,
structures, ramps, tie down areas, taxiways, fences and all other facilities
and improvements approved by the council for the commercial operator to carry
out the activities or services authorized in his license. A commercial operator
shall promptly pay when due, all charges for sewer, water, power, telephone
service and other utilities and services supplied to his place of business at
the airport. (Ord. 509, 6-28-2005)
8-8-6-6: AREA OF OPERATION OF COMMERCIAL OPERATOR:
A commercial operator shall carry on his business operations strictly within
the area assigned him by the city and his operations shall not interfere with
the operations of other commercial operators, agencies or other businesses
operating at the airport, the use of the airport by the general public or with
any common use area. Commercial operators shall not use any common use area
except as authorized. (Ord. 509, 6-28-2005)
8-8-6-7: COOPERATION OF COMMERCIAL OPERATORS WITH CITY:
Commercial operators shall cooperate with the airport manager in the operation,
management and control of the airport and shall do all things reasonable to
promote the Glenns Ferry airport and aeronautical activities thereon and to
develop the airport into an attractive, efficient and modern airport. (Ord.
509, 6-28-2005)
8-8-6-8: COMPLAINTS AGAINST COMMERCIAL OPERATORS:
Complaints against any commercial operator for the violation of the ordinances
of the city or any other rule or regulation shall be made in writing, signed by
the complaining party and shall specify the nature of the complaint, the time
of its occurrence and witnesses, if any. (Ord. 509, 6-28-2005)
8-8-6-9: DISCRIMINATION BY COMMERCIAL OPERATORS:
Commercial operators shall conduct their business in a fair and
nondiscriminatory manner and shall not discriminate in the prices charged for
their services, except they may make reasonable allowance discounts or rebates
to volume purchasers, if permitted by the law. (Ord. 509, 6-28-2005)
8-8-6-10: REVOCATION OF LICENSE OF COMMERCIAL OPERATOR:
The council shall have the right to terminate and revoke the license of any
commercial operator to conduct any services or business at the airport for any
cause or reason provided in this chapter and in addition thereto, upon the
happening of any one or more of the following:
   A.   Filing of a voluntary or involuntary petition for the adjudication of a
commercial operator as a bankrupt.
   B.   A general assignment for the benefit of creditors by a commercial
operator.
   C.   The abandonment or discontinuance of any permitted operation at the
airport by a commercial operator where the failure to conduct them on a full
time basis without prior approval of the council.
   D.   A violation of any provision of this chapter or the default in any
provision of this chapter or the default in any provision of a lease of airport
property from the city to a commercial operator.
   E.   The failure to promptly pay to the city, when due, any license fees.
   F.   The commission by a commercial operator, or any partner, officer or
director thereof, of any unsafe or reckless conduct in the operation of any
aircraft or in the operation of any business at the airport.
   G.   Providing the city with any false information or misrepresenting any
material fact to the city in its application for a license, supporting
documents or in any statements to the city.
In the event of the termination or revocation of a license of a commercial
operator, he/she shall cease and desist all business operations at the airport
immediately. (Ord. 509, 6-28-2005)
8-8-7: VEHICULAR TRAFFIC:
The traffic laws of the city of Glenns Ferry apply fully to the use of motor
vehicles at the Glenns Ferry airport, and are hereby incorporated in this
chapter as though fully set forth herein. Except for firefighting equipment,
ambulances and other emergency vehicles, no person shall take or drive any
vehicle on the airport, other than on established streets, roads and automobile
parking facilities, unless permission has first been obtained from the airport
manager. To minimize unnecessary vehicular traffic, only airplanes shall be
stored in hangars, and they will not be used as general miscellaneous storage
sites. (Ord. 509, 6-28-2005)
8-8-8: ADVERTISING:
No signs or other advertising shall be placed or constructed at the airport or
any building or structure or improvement thereon, without the prior approval of
the airport manager. No signs or advertising shall be permitted if, in the
airport manager's opinion, it is undesirable, unnecessary or in any way creates
a safety hazard. All signs must otherwise be in compliance with this code.
(Ord. 509, 6-28-2005; amd. Ord. 528, 11-30-2007)
8-8-9: AIRPORT RUNWAY TRAFFIC PATTERNS ADOPTED:
The city hereby adopts the standard FAA left hand traffic pattern for runway 8
at the Glenns Ferry municipal airport and a standard left hand traffic pattern
for runway 26 at the Glenns Ferry municipal airport and every person operating
an aircraft at the airport shall comply with said traffic patterns. (Ord. 509,
6-28-2005)
8-8-10: AIRCRAFT REGULATIONS:
8-8-10-1: REMOVAL OF DAMAGED AIRCRAFT:
In the event any aircraft is wrecked or damaged to the extent that it cannot be
moved under its own power, the airport manager shall be immediately notified.
Subject to governmental investigations and inspection of the wreckage, the
owner or pilot of the wrecked or damaged aircraft, or the owner's agent or
legal representative shall, as soon as reasonably possible, obtain the
necessary permission for removal of the aircraft and shall promptly remove such
aircraft from any landing area, taxi strip, ramp, tie down area, and any
traffic area as designated by the airport manager. No such wrecked or damaged
aircraft shall be permitted to remain exposed to the general public at the
airport. In the event the owner of the aircraft fails for any reason to remove
the wrecked or damaged aircraft from the traffic areas as herein provided, the
airport manager may cause the removal and storage or disposal of such wrecked
or damaged aircraft at the expense of the aircraft owner. (Ord. 509, 6-28-2005)
8-8-10-2: PARKING OF AIRCRAFT:
No person shall park, store, tie down or leave any aircraft on any area of the
airport, other than as prescribed by the airport manager. No aircraft shall be
parked or stored at the airport unless it is properly tied down and secured. It
shall be the sole responsibility of the owner or pilot of any aircraft to tie
down or secure the aircraft at all times required by this chapter or by weather
or other conditions at the airport. It shall be the responsibility of the owner
or pilot of all aircraft to secure the aircraft in the best manner possible and
not park the aircraft in an area or manner so that it causes damage to other
aircraft or buildings at the airport. Owners of all aircraft shall be held
solely responsible for any damage or loss resulting from the failure of such
owner or the pilot of such aircraft to comply with this chapter. No person
shall take or use any aircraft anchoring or tie down facility when such
facilities are already in actual use by another person. (Ord. 509, 6-28-2005)
8-8-10-3: REPAIR OF AIRCRAFT:
All repairs to aircraft or aircraft engines shall be made in the spaces or
areas designated for this purpose by the airport manager and not on any part of
the landing area, taxiways, or gassing or service areas of a commercial
operator, unless such commercial operator consents to such use for repairs.
(Ord. 509, 6-28-2005)
8-8-10-4: STARTING AIRCRAFT:
No aircraft engine shall be started on any aircraft unless a competent operator
is in control of the aircraft and parking brakes have been set or the wheels
have been set with blocks that are equipped with ropes or other suitable means
for removing such blocks. The engine shall be started, warmed up and run up
only in the places designated for such purposes by the airport manager. No
aircraft engine shall be started, run or run up unless the aircraft is in such
a position that the propeller blast clears all hangars, shops, other buildings,
persons, other aircraft and vehicles in the area and the flight path of the
landing aircraft. (Ord. 509, 6-28-2005)
8-8-11: REFUSE:
No person shall throw, dump or deposit any waste, refuse or garbage on the
airport. All waste, refuse or garbage shall be placed and kept in closed
garbage cans or containers and all operating areas shall be kept in a safe,
neat, clean and orderly condition at all times and in such a manner so as to
minimize any hazards. All waste disposal must otherwise comply with this code.
(Ord. 509, 6-28-2005)
8-8-12: AGRICULTURAL OPERATIONS:
Aerial applicator application, fee, and permit:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for aerial applicators to use the airport for
business operations without first obtaining an aerial applicator's permit at
the Glenns Ferry city hall.
   B.   It shall be the burden of the applicant to provide proof of premises
liability insurance at the time of application, indemnifying the city of Glenns
Ferry, Idaho, in the amount of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00). Proof of
insurance should contain a thirty (30) day notice of cancellation clause and
should name the city of Glenns Ferry, Idaho, as additional insured as respects
the operations of the applicant. Said proof of insurance should be in the form
of a certificate of insurance from an insurance company acceptable to the city.
   C.   The applicant shall agree to advise city hall of proposed flying dates
and chemicals to be used at least one business day prior to using the airport.
If such contact is not possible, pertinent information must be available from
flight support personnel at the airport.
   D.   The applicant shall agree to provide the city with a binder containing
MSDS sheets for all the chemicals likely to be applied. In addition support
personnel at the airport will have labels for all products applied that day.
Applicant agrees to supply city with the telephone number for Chemtrec (800-
424-9300) which is the twenty four (24) hour chemical emergency number for any
spills, leaks, fires, exposure, or accident.
   E.   Fees shall be assessed at the time of application and shall be set from
time to time by council resolution.
   F.   Applicants shall agree to use containment systems and cleanup methods
approved by the airport manager. All chemical transfer operations shall be
conducted at a specific location on the airport assigned to the applicant.
Applicants shall be responsible for testing soil for contamination at the
beginning of operations and at such time as operations are ceased. Applicant's
liabilities will terminate upon delivery of an "uncontaminated soil" report
after cessation of activities. Applicant shall be responsible for the cleanup
of any contaminates found by the soil testing after the cessation of
activities. City agrees to "lease" any mixing and loading area to only one
applicant. The containment system required can be satisfied by either a
portable or permanent structure. A permanent structure must consist of a
nonpermeable layer and a means of collection.
   G.   A permit shall be issued upon meeting the application requirements and
shall remain on the person of the applicant at all times while utilizing the
airport for business operations.
   H.   Aircraft loaded with chemicals will take off to the west to avoid the
tall trees and a state park located to the east. Any deviation will be based on
safety considerations as determined by the pilot making the deviation. Aircraft
will avoid overflying the city and the city water plant which is below the
water tower on the north bank of the Snake River.
   I.   Applicant agrees to conduct operations according to the "Professional
Operating Standards" booklet published by the NAAA. Applicant further agrees to
supply the city with the new AC-137 when it is a completed document.
   J.   Vehicles transporting pesticides, miscellaneous chemicals, and any
hazardous materials will use approved truck routes.
   K.   Noncompliance may result in termination of aerial applicator's permit.
(Ord. 513, 2-28-2006)
8-8-13: AUTHORITY OF CONTROL TOWER:
The provisions governing the use of the airport contained in this chapter may
be altered upon the authorization of a control tower, when one is established
at the airport. (Ord. 509, 6-28-2005)
8-8-14: VIOLATION OF CHAPTER A MISDEMEANOR:
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions of this
chapter. The violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be a
misdemeanor and punishable by a fine of up to three hundred dollars ($300.00)
or thirty (30) days in jail, or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 509,
6-28-2005)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
9-1-1: Building Codes Adopted
9-1-2: Enforcement Officer
9-1-3: Building Permit Fees
9-1-4: Expiration Of Permits
9-1-5: Notice Of Violation
9-1-6: Contractor Registration
9-1-7: Penalty
9-1-1: BUILDING CODES ADOPTED:
   A.   Adopted: The following editions of nationally recognized codes, as
adopted by the State of Idaho or the Idaho Building Code Board, are adopted as
the official Building Codes of the City of Glenns Ferry:
      1.   International Building Code, together with any amendments or
revisions to the International Building Code made by the Idaho Building Code
Board through the negotiated rulemaking process, including all rules
promulgated by the board to provide equivalency with the provisions of the
Americans With Disabilities Act accessibility guidelines and the Federal Fair
Housing Act accessibility guidelines;
      2.   International Residential Code;
      3.   International Energy Conservation Code, together with any amendments
or revisions to the International Building Code made by the Idaho Building Code
Board through the negotiated rulemaking process;
      4.   National Electrical Code, together with any amendments or revisions
made by the Idaho Building Code Board through the negotiated rulemaking
process;
      5.   Idaho State Plumbing Code, based on the Uniform Plumbing Code;
      6.   International Mechanical Code, together with any amendments or
revisions made by the Idaho Building Code Board through the negotiated
rulemaking process;
      7.   International Fuel Gas Code.
The adopted versions of the foregoing codes shall be deemed superseded by
successive versions of such codes as they are adopted or approved by the Idaho
Building Code Board effective on the date any such codes are made effective by
the Idaho Building Code Board. Building fees shall be in accordance with the
schedule as established by the City Council. (Ord. 18-567, 2-27-2018)
   B.   Exemptions: Agricultural buildings are exempt from the Building Codes
adopted herein, but shall remain subject to placement requirements established
by zoning regulations. (Ord. 507, 1-25-2005)
   C.   Copies On File: One copy of said codes shall be duly certified and kept
on file in the Office of the City Clerk for use and examination by the public.
(Ord. 507, 1-25-2005; amd. Ord. 10-542, 12-28-2010, eff. 1-1-2011)
   D.   Manufactured Homes: Manufactured or modular homes in a Single-Family
Residential Zone shall be placed on a permanent foundation.
   E.   Permit Requirement: No person shall construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
move, demolish, or change the occupancy of any buildings or structure regulated
by the adopted codes, or cause any such work to be done, without first
obtaining a building permit from the City of Glenns Ferry. (Ord. 532, 7-8-2008;
amd. Ord. 22-588, 3-8-2022; Ord. 25-611, 5-13-2025)
9-1-2: ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
The City's designated enforcement officer shall have the right to enter on the
premises where any activity affecting any building or structure is being
conducted in order to inspect the same and ascertain compliance with the City
Building Codes. (Ord. 442, 1-14-1998)
9-1-3: BUILDING PERMIT FEES:
Schedule Established: The City Council hereby establishes the schedule for
building permit fees by resolution.
(2004 Code; amd. Ord. 22-588, 3-8-2022)
9-1-4: EXPIRATION OF PERMITS:
Every permit issued prior to the effective date hereof shall expire by
limitation and become null and void if the building or work authorized by such
permit is not commenced within one hundred eighty (180) days from the effective
date hereof, or if the building or work authorized by such permit is suspended
or abandoned for a period of one hundred eighty (180) days at any time after
the work is commenced. (Ord. 442, 1-14-1998)
9-1-5: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
Upon finding a violation of the city building codes, the city's designated
enforcement officer shall serve upon the occupant, owner, or agent of such
building or premises a notice of violation. (Ord. 442, 1-14-1998)
9-1-6: CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION:
   A.   The city council desires to comply with Idaho Code 54-5209 and will
require all contractors to provide a contractor's registration number or claim
an exemption when applying for a building permit.
   B.   The city council desires to suspend or revoke any building permit when
a contractor provides the city with a false registration number, claiming a
false exemption status, or hiring unregistered subcontractors that do not
qualify for exempt status.
   C.   The city council chooses to impose a penalty prescribed in Idaho Code
54-5217 and violation of the registration requirements is a misdemeanor
punishable by a one thousand dollar ($1,000.00) fine, up to six (6) months in
jail or both. (Res. 06-01, 1-10-2006)
9-1-7: PENALTY:
Anyone convicted of violating the city building codes shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day of violation may be considered a separate offense
under the city building codes and the fine and/or imprisonment set forth herein
may be imposed for each such offense. (Ord. 442, 1-14-1998; amd. 2004 Code;
Res. 06-01, 1-10-2006)
CHAPTER 2
GAS INSTALLATIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Inspection By Gas Supplier
9-2-1: INSPECTION BY GAS SUPPLIER:
The gas supplier shall be responsible for making all necessary gas related
inspections on behalf of their customers, including gas pressure checks. (Ord.
455, 3-24-1999)
CHAPTER 3
MANUFACTURED HOMES
(Rep. by Ord. 532, 7-8-2008)
CHAPTER 4
FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Application Of Chapter
9-4-2: Definitions
9-4-3: General Provisions
9-4-4: Administration
9-4-5: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
9-4-6: Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
9-4-7: Severability
9-4-1: APPLICATION OF CHAPTER:
The following measures as set forth in this chapter shall be required within
zone A of the flood hazard boundary map issued by the federal insurance
administration for this community. (Ord. 380, 6-4-1987)
9-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the same meanings as they have in common
usage and so as to give this chapter its most reasonable application:
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equalled or
exceeded in any given year, also referred to as the "100-year flood".
Designation on maps always includes the letters A or V.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source (see definition of Flood).
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, useable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of this chapter found at subsection
9-4-5B1b.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. It does not
include recreational vehicles or travel trailers. For floodplain management
purposes the term "manufactured home" also includes park trailers, travel
trailers and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than one
hundred eighty (180) consecutive days.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structure for which the start of construction commenced on or
after the effective date hereof.
PERSON: Includes any individual or group of individuals, corporation,
partnership, association, or any other entity, including state and local
governments and agencies.
RIVERINE: Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, placement or other improvement was within one hundred eighty
(180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of a slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure.
STRUCTURE: For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure either:
   A.   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
   B.   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred. For the purposes of this definition, substantial improvement
is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor,
or other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that
alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term does not,
however, include either:
1. Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or
local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which are solely necessary
to assure safe living conditions; or
2. Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of Historical
Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 380,
6-4-1987)
9-4-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Applicability: This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood
hazard within the jurisdiction of the city of Glenns Ferry, county of Elmore,
state of Idaho. (Ord. 380, 6-4-1987)
   B.   Penalties For Noncompliance: Any person who violates this chapter or
fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation. In addition, each calendar day of
noncompliance shall be deemed an additional and separate violation and subject
to the penalties aforementioned. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the
city from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to remedy or prevent
any violation. (Ord. 380, 6-4-1987; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Greater Restrictions: Where this chapter and another ordinance,
easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes
the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   D.   Disclaimer: This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the
city, any officer or employee thereof, or the federal insurance administration,
for any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder. (Ord. 380, 6-4-1987)
9-4-4: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Development Permit Required: A development permit shall be obtained
before construction or development begins within any area of special flood
hazard established in section
9-4-6 of this chapter. The permit shall be for all structures including
manufactured homes, as set forth in the section
9-4-2, and for all development as also set forth in section
9-4-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Applications For Development Permit: Applications for a development
permit shall be made on forms provided by the city clerk's office.
Specifically, the following information is required:
      1.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all structures;
      2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any structure has
been floodproofed;
      3.   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meets the
floodproofing criteria in subsection 9-4-5B2 of this chapter; and
      4.   Description of the extent to which a watercourse will be altered or
relocated as a result of the proposed development.
   C.   Review Of Application For Permit: The city clerk is appointed as the
person responsible for receiving applications and examining the plans and
specifications for the proposed construction or development. The clerk is also
to administer and implement this chapter by granting or denying development
permit applications in accordance with its provisions. In addition, the duties
of the clerk shall include, but not be limited to:
      1.   Permit Review:
         a.   After reviewing the application, the clerk shall require any
additional measures which are necessary to meet the minimum requirements of
this chapter.
         b.   The clerk shall review all development proposals to assure that
all necessary permits have been received from those governmental agencies from
which approval is required by federal or state law.
         c.   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development is located in the floodway. If located in the floodway, assure that
the encroachment provisions of subsection 9-4-5C of this chapter are met.
      2.   Use Of Other Base Flood Data: When base flood elevation data has not
been provided in accordance with section
9-4-6 of this chapter, the clerk shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize
any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state or
other source, in order to administer subsections 9-4-5B and 9-4-5C of this
chapter.
      3.   Information To Be Obtained And Maintained:
         a.   Where base flood elevation data is provided through the flood
insurance study or required as in subsection C2 of this section, obtain and
record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, and
whether or not the structure contains a basement.
         b.   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed structures:
            (1)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean
sea level); and
            (2)   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in
subsection B3 of this section.
         c.   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this chapter.
      4.   Alteration Of Watercourses:
         a.   Notify adjacent communities and the Idaho department of water
resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit
evidence of such notification to the federal insurance administration.
         b.   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is
not diminished.
      5.   Variance Procedure:
         a.   The city council shall hear and decide appeals and requests for
variances from the requirements of this chapter.
         b.   The city council shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged
there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination made by the
clerk in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
         c.   Those aggrieved by the decision of the city council may appeal
such decision to the court after all administrative remedies have been
exhausted.
         d.   In passing upon such applications, the city council shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, and the standards
specified in other sections of this chapter.
         e.   Upon consideration of the factors and the purposes of this
chapter, the city council may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
         f.   The clerk shall maintain the records of all appeal actions and
report any variances to the federal insurance administration upon request.
      6.   Conditions For Variance:
         a.   Variances shall not be issued within a designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
         b.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
         c.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
            (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
            (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant;
            (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense; create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
         d.   Variances, as interpreted in the national flood insurance
program, are based upon the general zoning law principal that they pertain to a
physical piece of property; they are not personal in nature and do not pertain
to the structure, its inhabitants, economic or financial circumstances. They
primarily address small lots in densely populated residential neighborhoods. As
such, variances from the flood elevations should be quite rare. (Ord. 380, 6-4-
1987)
9-4-5: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
   A.   General Standards: In all areas of special flood hazard, the following
standards are required:
      1.   Anchoring:
         a.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
         b.   All manufactured homes must likewise be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement, and shall be installed using methods
and practices that minimize flood damage. Anchoring methods may include, but
are not limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors
(reference FEMAs "Manufactured Home Installation in Flood Hazard Areas" guide
book for additional techniques).
      2.   Construction Materials And Methods:
         a.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
         b.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
         c.   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or otherwise
elevated or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components during conditions of flooding.
      3.   Utilities:
         a.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
         b.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems, and
discharge from the systems into floodwaters; and
         c.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid
impairment to them, or contamination from them, during flooding.
      4.   Subdivision Proposals:
         a.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
         b.   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
         c.   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided
to reduce exposure to flood damage; and
         d.   Where base flood elevation data has not be provided or is not
available from another authoritative source, it shall be generated for
subdivision proposals and other proposed developments which contain at least
fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres (whichever is less).
      5.   Review Of Building Permits: Where elevation data is not available
either through the flood insurance study or from another authoritative source,
applications for building permits shall be reviewed to assure that proposed
construction will be reasonably safe from flooding. The test of reasonableness
is a local judgment and includes use of historical data, high water marks,
photographs of past flooding, etc., where available. Failure to elevate at
least two feet (2') above grade in these zones may result in higher insurance
rates.
   B.   Specific Standards: In all areas of special flood hazards where base
flood elevation data has been provided as set forth in section
9-4-6 or subsection 9-4-4C2 of this chapter, the following provisions are
required:
      1.   Residential Construction:
         a.   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
base flood elevation.
         b.   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to
flooding are prohibited, or shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect, or must meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
            (1)   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding shall be provided;
            (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
(1') above grade;
            (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other
coverings or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters.
      2.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the level
of the base flood elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall:
         a.   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood level the structure
is watertight, with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
         b.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
         c.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice for meeting provisions of this subsection based upon
their development and/or review of the structural design, specifications and
plans. Such certifications shall be provided to the official as set forth in
subsection 9-4-4C3b of this chapter;
         d.   Nonresidential structures that are elevated, not floodproofed,
must meet the same standards for space below the lowest floor as described in
subsection B1b of this section;
         e.   Applicants floodproofing nonresidential buildings shall be
notified that flood insurance premiums will be based on rates that are one foot
(1') below the floodproofed level (e.g., a building constructed to the base
flood level will be rated as one foot below that level).
      3.   Manufactured Homes: All manufactured homes to be placed or
substantially improved within zones A1 through A30, AH, and AE shall be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is at or above the base flood elevation and be securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system in accordance with the
provisions of subsection A1b of this section.
   C.   Floodways: Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
section
9-4-6 of this chapter are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is
an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters which carry
debris, potential projectiles, and erosion potential, the following provisions
apply:
      1.   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other development unless certification by a
registered professional engineer or architect is provided demonstrating that
encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      2.   If subsection C1 of this section is satisfied, all new construction
and substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this section. (Ord. 380, 6-4-1987)
9-4-6: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the federal insurance
administration through those identified areas on flood insurance map dated
January 23, 1974, is hereby incorporated by reference and declared to be a part
of this chapter. (No flood insurance study has been performed by the federal
insurance administration, as of this date, in the Glenns Ferry unit.) (Ord.
380, 6-4-1987)
9-4-7: SEVERABILITY:
If any part, term, or provision of this chapter is by the courts held to be
illegal or in conflict with any law of the state or federal government, the
validity of the remaining portions or provisions shall not be affected, and
this chapter shall be construed and enforced as if this chapter did not contain
that particular part, term, or provision held to be invalid. (Ord. 380, 6-4-
1987)
TITLE 10
WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 1
PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR 1
SECTION:
10-1-1: Appointment
10-1-2: Duties
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 8, chapter 1, and section
  10-3-7 of this code.
10-1-1: APPOINTMENT:
The mayor may appoint, with approval of the council, a public works director
who shall hold office for the duration of his appointment unless sooner removed
by the mayor with the concurrence of the council. (1961 Code § 1-18-1)
10-1-2: DUTIES:
The public works director shall have the following duties:
   A.   Water: He shall supervise the installation and maintenance of all water
mains and water services, except the installation of water mains so
accomplished by contract.
   B.   Sewer: He shall supervise the installation and maintenance of all sewer
lines in the city, except in installation of sewer projects which are
accomplished by contract.
   C.   Equipment: He shall supervise the repair and upkeep of all equipment
placed under his control.
   D.   Employment And Supervision: He may employ, with the consent of the city
council, such help as is needed to carry on the work of the city, such help to
be directly under his supervision.
   E.   Other Duties: The superintendent shall be responsible for the
accomplishment of such other work of the city which the city council may from
time to time assign to him.
   F.   To Make Report: The superintendent shall present to the council at its
regular meeting each month a written report of the public work accomplished the
preceding month and also, as far as can be foreseen, public work planned for
the current month. (1961 Code § 1-18-2; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 2
WATERWORKS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Purpose
10-2-2: Definitions
10-2-3: Applicability
10-2-4: Water Service Prohibited In Floodplain
10-2-5: Use Of City Water Required
10-2-6: Use Of Domestic Water For Irrigation Purposes Prohibited
10-2-7: Installation Of Water Meters
10-2-8: Industrial And Commercial Water Connections And Rates
10-2-9: Cross Connections Required By Certain Users
10-2-9-1: Use Of Backflow Prevention Devices
10-2-9-2: Cross Connection Inspection
10-2-9-3: Additional Remedies
10-2-10: Specifications
10-2-10-1: Extension Costs
10-2-11: Placing Of Taps
10-2-12: Basis For Authorized Water User Charges
10-2-13: Purpose Of Monthly Water User Charge
10-2-14: Application For Water Supply
10-2-15: Water User Charges
10-2-16: Payment Of User Charges; Late Fee
10-2-17: Disputed Bills; Hardship
10-2-18: Disconnected Water Rate
10-2-18-1: Temporary Discontinuation Of Service
10-2-19: Denial And Termination Of Service; Payment Agreement Rules
10-2-20: Emergency Restrictions
10-2-21: Illegal Use
10-2-22: Inspection
10-2-23: Separate Taps
10-2-24: Water Fund
10-2-25: Summary Of Rules
10-2-26: Unlawful Acts
10-2-27: Penalty
10-2-1: PURPOSE:
It is hereby determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to and for
the protection of the health, safety and welfare of the public and inhabitants
of the city, and for the purpose of controlling the use and connection to, and
for providing an equitable distribution of the costs and expenses of
maintenance, operation, upkeep and repair of the entire municipal water system
which includes the water supply, water storage and water distribution
facilities of the city, to charge and collect service charges or fees upon all
lots, lands, property and premises served or benefited by the municipal water
system of the city, which system and facilities consist generally of all wells,
storage reservoirs, transmission mains, structures, buildings, chlorination
facilities, valves, service connections, service meters, fittings, mechanical
equipment and all other facilities as required for the furnishing and
distribution of water as a public system to the citizens of the city; and to
provide for the control, use and administration of the installation of private
domestic water systems where a public water system is not available. (Ord. 12-
550, 6-11-2013)
10-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ADVANCE PAYMENT: A payment made prior to receiving service that will be
credited to the customer's account at a later date.
AUTHORIZED WATER USER: Any person making authorized and proper use of the
municipal water system and/or the water delivered thereby and who has made
application for water service and such application has been granted and has
paid for such service, water, and all fees required. An authorized water user
may be an owner, his tenant, by lease or rental, a developer, etc.
CITY: Refers to the city of Glenns Ferry, Idaho, or its authorized or
designated agent, representative or deputy thereto.
CITY WATER SERVICE LINE: That portion of any individual water service line that
runs from its connection with the public water main to, and including, the
corporation stop, valve box and meter that is installed in the service line. It
will usually be installed within the limits of the public right of way or
utility easement and, after approved installation, it is to be owned and
maintained by the city.
CUSTOMER: A person, public or private legal entity, the United States, the
state of Idaho, the city of Glenns Ferry, Elmore County, or any governmental or
other entity who uses, or is entitled to use, water service from the city. The
city classifies customers as residential, school, commercial, or industrial,
unless further restricted by the rules of the public works department. The city
will maintain on file a list of which customer classes of a given utility are
residential, school, commercial, or industrial.
DEPOSIT: Any payment held as security for future payment or performance that is
reimbursable.
MASTER WATER PLAN: Any document which the city of Glenns Ferry has accepted by
official action of the city council which describes or otherwise indicates an
overall view of proposed future water system needs, minimum water main sizing,
and/or minimum water main spacing and routing.
MUNICIPAL WATER SYSTEM: Includes all components and facilities of the public
water system that are owned, operated, or maintained by the city of Glenns
Ferry, Idaho, for domestic and other uses.
OWNER: Refers to the property owner that is served by the municipal water
system or desires to be served by the municipal water system.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
PRIVATE WATER SERVICE LINE: The portion of the water service line that runs
from the building being served to the point of connection with the water meter.
PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM: Any water system for domestic use that is not owned,
operated and maintained by the city of Glenns Ferry, Idaho.
SPRINKLER IRRIGATION: Refers to any system for the purpose of watering lawns,
gardens, shrubs, trees, etc., as they are normally grown in the out of doors or
open spaces.
WATER MAIN: Any pipeline owned by the city for the purpose of transportation
and/or distribution of water to serve more than one water service line or user.
(Ord. 12-550, 6-11-2013)
10-2-3: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Application: The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all property
within the corporate limits of the city, and any special users outside of the
corporate limits of the city, including all property owned or occupied by the
United States Of America, the state of Idaho, and Elmore County.
   B.   City Authority: The water system for the supply of the city shall be
under the sole and exclusive control of the mayor and council, who may, from
time to time, direct the construction of such works, placing of mains, service
pipes and fire hydrants, as the necessities of the city may require. (Ord. 12-
550, 6-11-2013)
10-2-4: WATER SERVICE PROHIBITED IN FLOODPLAIN:
City water service shall not be provided to any new structure located within
the 100-year floodplain as identified on the most recent federal emergency
management agency (FEMA) floodplain map. (Ord. 12-550, 6-11-2013)
10-2-5: USE OF CITY WATER REQUIRED:
   A.   Connection To City System: The owner or occupant of any house, building
or property used for residential, commercial, industrial, governmental or
recreational use, or any other purpose, situated within the city which is
abutting on or having a permanent right of access to any street, alley or right
of way in which there is located a city water line is hereby required to cease
using any other water system and at his expense to connect such building
directly with the city water in accordance with the provisions of this chapter,
within sixty (60) calendar days after the date of official notice from the city
to do so.
   B.   Disconnection Of Private System Required: At such time as the municipal
water system becomes available to the property served by the private water
system, and the owner or tenant connects his property to municipal service as
required, it is mandatory that the private water supply is not connected or
cross connected in any way to the water lines served by the city water system.
The disconnection of the private water supply line shall be inspected and
approved by the public works director or his designated representative.
   C.   Compliance: All persons and companies within the corporate limits of
the city of Glenns Ferry may obtain city domestic and irrigation water service
from the city waterworks, if available, by complying with the provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 12-550, 6-11-2013)
10-2-6: USE OF DOMESTIC WATER FOR IRRIGATION PURPOSES PROHIBITED:
Use of domestic water for irrigation purposes shall be prohibited if alternate
irrigation watering systems are available. The use of city irrigation water is
governed by chapter 5 of this title. (Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
10-2-7: INSTALLATION OF WATER METERS:
   A.   Water Meter Required: No person, firm, corporation, partnership or
association shall receive domestic water from the city water system unless the
amount of water so received is measured by a meter approved by the city public
works department.
   B.   Installation Fee: The owner of said property, requesting new water
service, shall pay the installation fee that is set by the city council before
the city shall provide water to said property.
   C.   Meters Property Of City: All water meters installed and connected to
the city water system shall become the property of the city.
   D.   New Subdivisions: All new subdivisions shall be required to pay all
costs associated with the installation of water services to said subdivision
and provide all new services in compliance with Idaho public works construction
standards. (Ord. 12-550, 6-11-2013; amd. Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
10-2-8: INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL WATER CONNECTIONS AND RATES:
All industrial and commercial water customers shall be charged at the rate to
be set by council resolution. Industrial and commercial customers shall be
required to pay for all new water system improvements necessary to connect to
the water system. (Ord. 12-550, 6-11-2013; amd. Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
10-2-9: CROSS CONNECTIONS REQUIRED BY CERTAIN USERS:
   A.   Backflow Prevention Device Required: No water service connection to any
premises shall be installed or continued in use by the city unless the water
supply is protected by backflow prevention devices as may be required by this
section.
   B.   Cross Connection Endangering Water Quality:
      1.   Prohibited: The installation or maintenance of a cross connection
which will endanger the water quality of the potable water supply of the city
shall be unlawful and is prohibited.
      2.   Declared Nuisance: Any such cross connection now existing or
hereafter installed is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and the same
shall be abated at the expense of the property owner.
      3.   Control Or Elimination: The control or elimination of cross
connections shall be in accordance with this section together with the latest
editions of appropriate manuals of standard practice pertaining to the cross
connection control approved by the state of Idaho. The city shall have the
authority to establish requirements more stringent than state regulations if it
deems that the conditions so dictate. The city shall adopt rules and
regulations as necessary to carry out the provisions of this section. (Ord. 12-
550, 6-11-2013; amd. Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
10-2-9-1: USE OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
   A.   Circumstances Requiring Installation Of Device: Backflow prevention
devices shall be installed at the ties on the premises or the materials used in
connection with service connection or within any premises where, in the
judgment of the city and/or health officer, the nature and extent of the
activities, or materials stored on the premises, would present an immediate and
dangerous hazard to health and/or be deleterious to the quality of the water
should a cross connection occur; even though such cross connection does exist
at the time the backflow prevention devices shall be installed under
circumstances including, but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply.
      2.   Premises having internal cross connections that are not correctable,
or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impractical to ascertain
whether or not cross connections exist.
      3.   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to assure that cross connections do not exist.
      4.   Premises having a repeated history of cross connections being
established or reestablished.
      5.   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as to
permit entry into the public water supply, or where a cross connection could
reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of process
waters and cooling waters.
      6.   Premises where materials of a toxic or hazardous nature are handled
in such a way that if back siphonage should occur, a serious health hazard
might result.
      7.   The following types of facilities will fall into one of the above
categories where a backflow prevention device is required to protect the public
water supply. A backflow prevention device shall be installed at these
facilities:
         a.   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics.
         b.   Laboratories.
         c.   Metal plating industries.
         d.   Sewage treatment plants.
         e.   Food or beverage processing plants.
         f.   Chemical plants using a water process.
         g.   Petroleum processing or storage plants.
         h.   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors.
         i.   Others specified by the state of Idaho.
      8.   Other premises, as specified by the city, where backflow prevention
devices are required to protect the public water supply.
   B.   Type Of Device: The type of protective device required shall depend on
the degree of hazard which exists.
      1.   Health Or System Hazard: An air gap separation or reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device shall be installed where the public water
supply may be contaminated with sewage, industrial waste of a toxic nature, or
other contaminant which could cause a health or system hazard.
      2.   Objectionable But Not Hazardous: In the case of a substance which
may be objectionable but not hazardous to health, a double check valve
assembly, air gap separation, or a reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device shall be installed.
   C.   Location: Backflow prevention devices required by this section shall be
installed at the meter, at the property line of the premises when meters are
not used, or at a location designated by the purveyor. The device shall be
located so as to be readily accessible for maintenance and testing, and
furthermore, where no part of the device will be submerged.
   D.   Installation: Backflow prevention devices required by this section
shall be installed under the supervision of and with approval of the city.
   E.   Model; Cost: Any protective device required by this section shall be a
model approved by the Idaho department of environmental quality or the Central
district health department. A double check valve assembly or a reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device will be approved if it has successfully
passed performance tests of the state of Idaho or other testing laboratories
satisfactory to the state of Idaho and the supervisor. These devices shall be
furnished and installed by and at the expense of the customer.
   F.   Inspection; Testing; Maintenance: Backflow prevention devices installed
pursuant to this section, except atmospheric vacuum breakers, shall be
inspected and tested annually or more often if necessary. Inspections, tests
and maintenance shall be at the customer's expense. Whenever the devices are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired, overhauled or replaced at the
customer's expense. Inspections, tests, repairs and records thereof shall be
accomplished under the city's supervision by the certified testers, and copies
of the test results shall be submitted to the city.
   G.   Underground Sprinkling Device: No underground sprinkling device will be
installed without adequate backflow prevention devices at the point from which
the water for irrigation is taken from the public water supply.
   H.   Failure To Comply: Failure of the customer to cooperate in the
installation, maintenance, testing or inspection of backflow prevention devices
required by this section shall be grounds for terminating water service to the
premises, or, in the alternative, the installation of an air gap separation at
the customer's expense. (Ord. 12-550, 6-11-2013; amd. Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
10-2-9-2: CROSS CONNECTION INSPECTION:
   A.   Inspection Required: No water shall be delivered to any structure
hereafter built within the city or within areas served by city water until the
same shall have been inspected by the city for possible cross connection and
approved as being free of same.
   B.   Hazardous Facilities: Any construction for industrial or other purpose
which is classified as a hazardous facility, or where it is reasonable to
anticipate intermittent cross connections, or as determined by the supervisor,
shall be protected by the installation of one or more backflow prevention
devices at the point of service from the public water supply or at any other
location designated by the city.
   C.   Periodic Inspections: Inspections shall be made periodically of all
buildings, structures or improvements of any nature now receiving water through
the city's system, for the purpose of ascertaining whether cross connections
exist. Such inspections shall be made by the city. (Ord. 12-550, 6-11-2013;
amd. Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
10-2-9-3: ADDITIONAL REMEDIES:
In the event an improper cross connection is not corrected within the time
limit set by the supervisor, or, in the event the city is refused access to any
property for the purpose of determining whether or not cross connections exist,
delivery of water to the property shall cease until the deficiency is corrected
to the city's satisfaction. In addition, the city may effect the necessary
repairs or modifications at the expense of the property owner and refuse
delivery of water to the property until the cost thereof shall have been paid.
(Ord. 12-550, 6-11-2013; amd. Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
10-2-10: SPECIFICATIONS:
All taps made on said mains or laterals for supplying water to customers
hereunder shall be no less than one inch (1") pipe. All such connections to the
city water mains shall be made by the city public works department employees.
Single-family dwelling units shall not have more than a one inch (1") water
pipe. (Ord. 12-550, 6-11-2013; amd. Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
10-2-10-1: EXTENSION COSTS:
Costs for all proposed extensions of the city water mains to service
undeveloped areas within the existing corporate limits or newly annexed areas
shall be the responsibility of that property owner or said owner's agent. All
extensions shall comply with existing policies, specifications, master plans,
or requirements established by the city engineer. The plans for all extensions
to the city water mains shall be prepared under the direction of and signed by
a registered professional engineer as per the licensing requirements of the
Idaho Code, and three (3) copies of the said plans shall be filed with the
city. In approving a plan for extension to the city water mains, the city
reserves the right to stipulate other requirements such as a special permit
fee, rights of way limits, sequence of construction, time limits for having
existing service disrupted, the filing of a financial guarantee and other
similar measures as may be required to protect the public. No work shall
commence on any such extension of the city water mains until the extension
project has been approved by the city council and all applicable fees have been
paid. (Ord. 12-550, 6-11-2013; amd. Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
10-2-11: PLACING OF TAPS:
All taps and connections to the water mains or laterals shall be made at the
direction of the city public works director. (Ord. 12-550, 6-11-2013; amd. Ord.
16-561A, 11-8-2016)
10-2-12: BASIS FOR AUTHORIZED WATER USER CHARGES:
   A.   System Established: There is hereby established a system of periodic
service charges and fees for the authorized use of, and for service rendered by
the municipal water system of the city, and which charges and fees shall be as
near as possible, uniform as to the different users served by said municipal
water system. The rates, charges and fees provided by this chapter are hereby
levied and assessed against the authorized water user or owner, and his
property, having any water service connection with the municipal water system
of the city.
   B.   Property Subject To Charges: It is specifically enacted that all
improved property in the city to which the municipal water system is available,
but is not used by the owner or occupier of said parcel of land, is still
subject to user charges under the provisions of this chapter to cover the cost
of standby fire protection facilities and other benefits. (Ord. 12-550, 6-11-
2013; amd. Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
10-2-13: PURPOSE OF MONTHLY WATER USER CHARGE:
The monthly water user charge is established to cover operation and maintenance
costs of the system, and to provide a fund to pay for repairs and replacements
of the system, increase efficiencies, meet state of Idaho or federal
requirements, or redemption of bonds that have been used to finance system
improvements, all as a part of the city's responsibility to provide adequate
domestic water service and facilities for the city. The monthly water user
charge as described herein, or as amended, shall be effective immediately upon
acceptance and passage of this chapter, or an amending ordinance, and monthly
user charge billing under the rates described herein shall begin at the end of
the first calendar month following acceptance of this chapter. For new
connections, the water user charge is to begin when the connection to the city
service line has been inspected and approved or within sixty (60) days after
the city service line has been installed, whichever is the earliest. (Ord. 12-
550, 6-11-2013; amd. Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
10-2-14: APPLICATION FOR WATER SUPPLY:
   A.   Application Required: Whenever any person desires to obtain a supply of
water from the city waterworks, he shall apply to the public works department
for service and agree to be governed by such rules and regulations not
inconsistent with this chapter, as may be prescribed by the mayor and city
council for the control of the water supply.
   B.   Contents Of Application; Grant Of Application:
      1.   New Construction: The applicant must state the location, type of
building, and uses therein, and fully and truly state the purpose for which the
water is to be used, and shall furnish a set of floor plans showing all water
uses and a site plan if the water is to be used for irrigation. If the
application is granted, the public works department may authorize the
extension, at the expense of the applicant, and at no expense to the city, of
the service pipe and meter tile, meter yoke, meter tile lid, curb stop and any
other fittings that are necessary to install service to the inside line of the
curb at the point most convenient for supplying the applicant.
      2.   Existing Water Service: In the case of an existing water service
connection, if the real property or improvement is sold or otherwise
transferred, the person entitled to possession shall make application to the
municipal billing department to transfer the account, and shall supply the
department with all information requested by the department.
      3.   Third Party Billing: After establishing an account for water
service, a property owner may direct that a third party, such as a property
management company, or a tenant, receive the billing for water, sewer, and
solid waste collection services. The third party to whom the billings are sent
shall also execute such documentation as is necessary to confirm the billing
information. In the event such an account becomes delinquent, the municipal
billing department shall send a delinquency notice to the billing recipient,
and the owner, at the addresses contained in the agreements. The city will
charge a third party billing account setup fee which must be paid at the time
of the application. The fee will be set by resolution of the city council. The
third party billing agreement shall also provide that the property owner
remains primarily responsible for charges assessed to the account, and further,
that all unpaid charges constitute a lien against the real property. An owner
may appoint an agent, to act for the owner, to establish an account, receive
billings, or do anything else an owner may do, or be required to do, pursuant
to this code.
   C.   Street Paving: In cases where street paving is contemplated, the
abutting property owners must either connect their premises with the water
mains before the trench is backfilled or pay the cost of service from the main
to curb if made thereafter. (Ord. 12-550, 6-11-2013; amd. Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-
2016)
10-2-15: WATER USER CHARGES:
   A.   Set By Resolution Of Council: Every person, company or organization
receiving water service from the city shall pay a minimum monthly water service
charge, as shall be set from time to time by resolution of the city council.
The monthly user fee shall be based on the amount of water used and the amount
of fire and health protection provided by the municipal water supply system.
(Ord. 12-550, 6-11-2013; amd. Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
   B.   Deposits: Each new customer desiring water service shall make
application with the city clerk. Before such service shall be instituted, the
applicant shall pay a deposit, established by resolution. After one year of
good credit history, the deposit shall be refunded to property owners. For
tenants, the deposit shall be applied against any amount owing the city for
water user charges, and any amount of the deposit in excess of those charges
shall be refunded the customer at the time the service is discontinued.
   C.   Disconnection For Nonpayment; Charge For Returned Checks:
      1.   Notice: All fees for water sold, furnished, supplied or delivered by
the city shall be due and payable on the first of the month, and if not paid by
the twentieth day of the same month a disconnect notice will be sent by U.S.
mail to the customer on the twenty first day of the same month. (Ord. 14-555,
1-27-2015; amd. Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
      2.   Returned Check Charge: There will be a charge rendered for any
dishonored or returned check received in payment on an account. The amount
charged shall be established by resolution approved by the mayor and city
council and shall include the actual costs for all checks which have been
returned without payment, for any reason.
      3.   Disconnection For Noncompliance: The public works department shall
disconnect, in accordance with the provisions of this section, the water system
connection of any customer who has failed to comply with the provisions of this
chapter. The public works department shall not disconnect the water system
prior to forty eight (48) hours after the hand delivery of, or five (5) days
after the mailing of the disconnect notice.
      4.   Additional Charges: The city treasurer may issue a disconnection
notice for any delinquent bill, in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, and all services for a customer receiving such notice by mail or other
delivery may be disconnected without further notice. After the issuance of a
disconnection notice and at the time of disconnect, a disconnect charge in an
amount established by resolution approved by the mayor and city council will be
made and added to other amounts due from the customer. When service has been
disconnected for nonpayment of bills, it shall not be reconnected to the same
customer except upon payment of all prior billing for service at this account
and all other accounts for this customer. If a customer turns on or causes to
be turned on a disconnected service, the public works department may again turn
off the service using any means to ensure that service may not be reconnected
by the customer or an agent of the customer and an additional disconnect charge
may be assessed and/or the actual cost for disconnection including replacement
costs for any damaged equipment, whichever amount is greater, in addition to
other amounts due from the customer.
      5.   Reestablish Credit: On the failure of any customer to comply with
the terms of this chapter regarding the payment of bills and where the deposit
has been refunded, the city treasurer may require the customer to reestablish
credit in the manner specified for original service.
   D.   Liens: All delinquent charges or fees, as provided by this chapter, not
paid after the final determination of the water user's account shall be imposed
as a lien against and upon the property or premises against which such charge
or fee is levied or assessed, and the city clerk shall certify such
delinquencies together with all penalties to the tax collector of Elmore
County, and, when so certified, the same shall be a lien upon the property and
will be collectible as other taxes.
   E.   Reconnection Fee: Each time a public works department representative
returns to a customer's premises to reconnect a service, an additional fee,
established by resolution approved by the mayor and city council, shall be
charged and collected from the customer before service is restored. When same
day service restoration is requested, the service restoration fee shall be an
additional fee as established by resolution.
   F.   Liability Of Landlord Or Owner: In the event that a premises is vacant
or there is no responsible party on file with the city, the owner of such
premises or landlord of such premises shall be liable to the city for the
payment of any charges incurred. This includes all charges incurred between the
time a tenant vacates the premises and the premises is reoccupied by a new
tenant.
   G.   Interest Added On Delinquent Accounts: The city may apply interest to
all delinquent accounts at a rate established by the law of the state of Idaho
on money owed after the same becomes due. (Ord. 12-550, 6-11-2013; amd. Ord.
16-561A, 11-8-2016)
10-2-16: PAYMENT OF USER CHARGES; LATE FEE:
All water charges shall be due and payable on the first day of each month and
shall be considered late after the twentieth day of the same month, at which
time a late fee, as may be set by resolution of the city council, shall be
assessed. (Ord. 12-550, 6-11-2013; amd. Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
10-2-17: DISPUTED BILLS; HARDSHIP:
   A.   Protest: Water service will not be disconnected if, within forty eight
(48) hours following the personal delivery of a disconnection notice, or within
five (5) days of mailing of a disconnection notice, the customer submits a
written protest of the disputed bill containing all facts and evidence
necessary to review the protest. The city council shall have final and
conclusive determination of these protests and shall provide this determination
to the customer in writing. Should the protest be denied, water service shall
be disconnected within forty eight (48) hours after the hand delivery of, or
five (5) days after the mailing of the written determination by the city
council regarding the protest of the disconnect notice.
   B.   Hardship: A customer who does not have the financial ability to pay the
required fee may request temporary relief based upon financial hardship. The
hardship request must be delivered to the city clerk within forty eight (48)
hours following hand delivery or five (5) days following mailing of the
disconnect notice. When a residential customer certifies, in writing, to the
city council that payment by the ordinary due date creates a hardship due to
the particular date when the customer receives funds, the due date may be
extended up to an additional fifteen (15) days at the discretion of the city
council. (Ord. 12-550, 6-11-2013; amd. Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
10-2-18: DISCONNECTED WATER RATE:
   A.   Rates: The city council will establish by resolution rates and
requirements for disconnected water service and such rates may be changed by
resolution.
   B.   Permanent Disconnection: For water service disconnected for more than
sixty (60) consecutive days in any twelve (12) month period, water service will
be permanently disconnected.
   C.   Future Connection: Future connection to the water system shall be at
the then existing new connection fee and rates.
   D.   Notice Of Permanent Disconnection: Such permanent disconnection shall
not occur until notice has been provided to the property owner and current
resident by certified mail. Such notice shall be sent at least fourteen (14)
days prior to disconnection during which time the owner or resident may
reconnect to the water system if all accounts are current and all connection
fees are paid. (Ord. 12-550, 6-11-2013; amd. Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
10-2-18-1: TEMPORARY DISCONTINUATION OF SERVICE:
   A.   Requests may be made to temporarily discontinue water service for a
period not to exceed twenty four (24) months. Upon request to discontinue water
service an administrative fee, as set by resolution, will be assessed. The city
shall assess, throughout the duration of the water revenue bond, a charge, set
by resolution, for every month the water service is temporarily discontinued.
Upon request to continue water service, any costs incurred necessary to provide
full service shall be assessed together with an administrative charge, as set
by resolution.
   B.   If a customer fails to pay the monthly bond payment and the payment has
become sixty (60) days delinquent, or the twenty four (24) month limitation has
been exceeded, a fourteen (14) day notice shall be issued allowing the customer
to relinquish all rights concerning access to the city water system. If the
appropriate forms are not completed and signed during the fourteen (14) day
period, the city will remove the water meter and the customer will forfeit all
rights pertaining to access to the water system. To regain said rights, the
customer will pay the current reconnection fees. (Ord. 12-550, 6-11-2013; amd.
Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
10-2-19: DENIAL AND TERMINATION OF SERVICE; PAYMENT AGREEMENT RULES:
   A.   Notice Required Prior To Termination: The city may deny or terminate
service to a customer or applicant without the customer's or applicant's
permission, but only after adequate notice has been given in accordance with
these rules, for one or more of the following reasons:
      1.   The customer or applicant did not pay an undisputed delinquent bill
or paid a delinquent bill with any check not honored by the bank.
      2.   The customer or applicant failed to make a security deposit, make an
installment payment on a deposit, or obtain a guarantee, where it is required.
      3.   The customer or applicant failed to abide by the terms of a payment
agreement.
      4.   The customer or applicant misrepresented the customer's or
applicant's identity for the purpose of obtaining city service.
      5.   The customer or applicant denied or wilfully prevented the city's
access to the meter.
      6.   The city determines as prescribed by relevant state, or other
applicable standards that the customer is wilfully wasting service through
improper equipment or otherwise.
      7.   The customer or applicant is using service for which the customer or
applicant did not apply. Nothing in this rule requires the city to provide
service to a customer who applies for city water and/or sewer who owes money on
an existing or previous account.
   B.   Termination Without Prior Notice: The city may deny or terminate
service without prior notice to the customer or applicant and without the
customer's or applicant's permission for one or more of the following reasons:
      1.   A condition immediately dangerous or hazardous to life, physical
safety, or property exists, or if necessary to prevent a violation of federal,
state or local safety or health codes.
      2.   The city is ordered to terminate service by any court, city council,
or any other duly authorized public authority.
      3.   The service is obtained, diverted or used without the authorization
or knowledge of the city.
      4.   The city has tried diligently to meet the notice requirements, but
has been unsuccessful in its attempts to contact the customer affected.
   C.   Requirements For Notice Prior To Termination:
      1.   Five Day Notice: If the city intends to terminate service, with
prior notice, the city shall send to the customer written notice of termination
mailed at least five (5) calendar days before the proposed date of termination.
This written notice shall contain the information required by subsection D of
this section.
      2.   Payment With Check Not Honored By Bank: The requirement of five (5)
days' written notice shall not apply when:
         a.   The customer does not make an initial payment according to a
payment agreement or makes the initial payment with a check not honored by the
bank.
         b.   The customer tenders payment with a check not honored by the bank
and incurred bank service charges of fifteen dollars ($15.00) or such other fee
as may be set by resolution.
         c.   In the event a customer attempts to tender payment with a check
not honored by the customer's bank, the city shall assess an additional fifteen
dollar ($15.00) service charge or such other fee as may be set by resolution,
on that amount that is assessed by the bank, whichever is the greater. (Ord.
12-550, 6-11-2013; amd. Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
   D.   Contents Of Notice Of Intent To Terminate Service: The written or oral
notice of intent to terminate service required shall state:
      1.   The reason(s), citing these rules, why service will be terminated
and the proposed date of termination;
      2.   Actions the customer may take to avoid termination of service;
      3.   A certificate notifying city of a serious illness or medical
emergency in the household may delay termination as prescribed by subsection F
of this section;
      4.   That the customer may submit a written protest disputing the bill or
hardship request pursuant to section
10-2-17 of this chapter; and
      5.   Upon written request of the customer on a city supplied form, the
city may accept payment agreements as provided in subsection J of this section.
(Ord. 14-555, 1-27-2015; amd. Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
   E.   Third Party Notification, Residential Service: The city shall provide a
program for its residential customers known as third party notification. Under
this program, the city will, at the request of the customer, notify orally or
in writing a third party designated by the customer of the city's intention to
terminate service. No customer can be considered to have refused to enter a
payment agreement unless either the customer or the designated third party has
been given notice of the proposed termination of service and of the customer's
opportunity to make a payment agreement.
   F.   Serious Illness Or Medical Emergency:
      1.   Medical Certificate; Postponement Of Termination Of Service: The
city shall postpone termination of utility service to a residential customer
for thirty (30) days from the date of the receipt of a certificate by a
licensed physician or public health official with medical training that states:
         a.   The customer, a member of the customer's family, or other
permanent resident of the premises where the service is rendered is seriously
ill, or has a medical emergency, or will become seriously ill, or have a
medical emergency because of termination of service; and
         b.   Termination of utility service would adversely affect that
customer, member of the customer's family, or resident of the household.
      2.   Contents Of Medical Certificate: This certificate must be in writing
and show clearly the name of the person whose serious illness or medical
emergency would be adversely affected by termination, the nature of the serious
illness or medical emergency, and the name, title, and signature of the person
giving notice of or certifying the serious illness or medical emergency.
      3.   Restoration Of Service: If service has already been terminated when
the medical certificate is received, service shall be restored. The customer
must receive service for thirty (30) days from the city's receipt of the
certificate.
      4.   Payment Arrangements: Before the expiration of the medical
postponement, the customer must make a payment agreement with the city in
accordance with subsection J of this section.
      5.   Second Postponement: The city may postpone termination of service
upon receipt of a second certificate stating that the serious illness or
medical emergency still exists.
      6.   Verification Of Medical Certificate: The city may verify the
authenticity of the certificate and may refuse to delay termination of service
if it is determined that the certificate is a forgery or is otherwise
fraudulent.
   G.   Medical Facilities; Shelter Care: Where service is provided to a
customer known to the city to be or identifying itself as a medical care
facility, including a hospital, medical clinic with resident patients, nursing
home, intermediate care facility or shelter care facility, notice of pending
termination shall be provided to the city council and to the state department
of health and welfare as well as to the customer. Upon request from the city
council, a delay in termination of no less than seven (7) calendar days from
the date of notice shall be allowed so that action may be taken to protect the
interests of the facility's residents.
   H.   Restrictions On Termination; Opportunity To Avoid Termination Of
Service:
      1.   When Termination Not Allowed: Unless the customer affected has
consented, in writing, service shall not be terminated on any Friday after
twelve o'clock (12:00) noon, or on Saturday, Sunday, or legal holidays
recognized by the state of Idaho, or after twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on any
day immediately preceding any legal holiday, or at any time when the city's
business offices are not open for business, except as authorized by a condition
immediately dangerous or hazardous to life, physical safety, or property
exists, or if necessary to prevent a violation of federal, state, or local
safety or health codes; or the city is ordered to terminate service by any
court, the city council, or any other duly authorized public authority.
Services may be terminated only between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
and four o'clock (4:00) P.M., except as authorized by the court, city council,
or dangers that are hazardous to life.
      2.   Personnel To Authorize Reconnection: The city shall have personnel
available after the time of termination who are authorized to reconnect service
if the conditions cited as grounds for termination are corrected to the city's
satisfaction.
      3.   Opportunity To Prevent Termination Of Service: Immediately preceding
termination of service, the customer may present evidence to the employee
designated to terminate service that all outstanding bills are satisfied. Upon
presentation of evidence that outstanding bills are satisfied, service shall
not be terminated.
      4.   Notice Of Procedure For Reconnecting Service: The employee of the
city designated to terminate service shall give to the customer or leave in a
conspicuous location at the service address affected a notice showing the
employee's name, the time of and grounds for termination, steps to be taken to
secure reconnection, and the telephone numbers of utility personnel or other
authorized representatives who are available to authorize reconnection.
      5.   No Termination While Council Action Pending: Except as authorized by
order of the city council, service shall not be terminated for failure to pay
amounts in dispute prior to the city council meeting where the customer has
requested to appear before the city council.
   I.   Termination Of Service To Master Metered Accounts And Residents Or
Occupants Who Are Not Customers:
      1.   Notice To Occupants Or Residents Not Customers: Except if a
condition immediately dangerous or hazardous to life, physical safety, or
property exists, or if necessary to prevent a violation of federal, state, or
local safety or health codes; or the city is ordered to terminate service by
any court, the city council, or any other duly authorized public authority, no
utility shall terminate service without providing written notice to the
residents or occupants of:
         a.   A building or mobile home court where service is master metered,
or
         b.   A residence where the customer billed for service is not a
resident or occupant of the premises being served.
      2.   Five Day Notice To Occupants Or Residents: The city must notify the
residents or occupants of its intent to terminate service at least five (5)
calendar days before the proposed date of termination. The notice should be
delivered to the premises or, in the case of multi-occupant buildings or mobile
home parks, posted in common areas or a conspicuous location. The notice shall
state:
         a.   The date of the notice;
         b.   The proposed termination date;
         c.   The amount due for the most recent billing period; and
         d.   The resident(s) or occupant(s) can negotiate directly with the
city to purchase future service at that location in the resident's(s') or
occupant's(s') own name(s). (Ord. 12-550, 6-11-2013; amd. Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-
2016)
   J.   Payment Agreements:
      1.   Agreements Allowed: When a customer cannot pay a bill in full, the
city shall continue to serve the customer if the customer and the city agree on
a reasonable portion of the outstanding bill to be paid immediately, and the
manner in which the balance of the outstanding bill shall be paid. Such
agreements shall be in writing and approved by the city council. Pending
consideration of the agreement at the next council meeting, the mayor shall
have the discretion to temporarily continue the customer's water service.
      2.   Reasonableness: In deciding on the reasonableness of a particular
agreement, the city will take into account the customer's ability to pay, the
size of the unpaid balance, the customer's payment history, and the amount of
time and reasons why the debt is outstanding.
      3.   Application Of Payment: Payments are to be applied first to the
oldest balance owed on the customer's bill, except in the case of a disputed
bill. If the customer disputes a bill, the customer's payments are to be
applied first to the oldest undisputed amount.
      4.   When Agreement Not Binding: No payment agreement shall be binding
upon a customer if it requires the customer to forego any right provided for in
these rules.
      5.   First Payment Due: The first payment, under the agreement, will be
due one business day after the agreement is executed, unless the city grants an
extension in the agreement. If the initial payment is not made, or if any check
not honored by the bank is offered as initial payment, the city may terminate
service without further notice.
      6.   Third Party Contact: If the city has been unable to contact a
customer concerning termination, but has contacted the customer's third party
and has failed to receive a response from the customer within seven (7) days
after the third party was contacted, the city may treat the customer as one who
has been contacted and has declined to enter into a reasonable payment
agreement. (Ord. 14-555, 1-27-2015; amd. Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
10-2-20: EMERGENCY RESTRICTIONS:
The mayor and council are empowered to set restrictions and regulations which
may be applied to all water users of the city for the purpose of regulating and
restricting the use of water in times of drought conditions or other factors,
upon a finding by the council that an emergency exists, or is threatened by
reason of water shortage. Such rules and regulations shall be posted in at
least four (4) public places in the city, including the office of the clerk,
and shall take effect immediately upon such posting. Such regulation and
restrictions shall remain in effect until they are countermanded by action of
the council. (Ord. 12-550, 6-11-2013; amd. Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
10-2-21: ILLEGAL USE:
When a water consumer supplies water from his taps to parties living on
premises not connected with the city water system, who do not pay a water
charge, except in cases of emergency, such consumer's water supply will be cut
off after notice and remain shut off until a proper showing is made that this
practice will be discontinued and a charge of five dollars ($5.00) will be made
and must be paid before water service is turned on again. (Ord. 12-550, 6-11-
2013; amd. Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
10-2-22: INSPECTION:
The city may, at any time, inspect all taps and when a connection or fixture is
found leaking unnecessarily, unless repaired as directed within twenty four
(24) hours after being notified so to do, the water will be shut off, and a
charge of five dollars ($5.00) will be made and must be paid before water will
be turned on again. (Ord. 12-550, 6-11-2013; amd. Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
10-2-23: SEPARATE TAPS:
Separate taps must be installed or an extra charge paid for each residence
standing on one or more lots, owned by one person, where residences are
occupied by different families. (Ord. 12-550, 6-11-2013; amd. Ord. 16-561A, 11-
8-2016)
10-2-24: WATER FUND:
All money derived from the operation of the city water works and the sale of
water shall be placed in a fund to be hereafter known as the water fund. (Ord.
12-550, 6-11-2013; amd. Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
10-2-25: SUMMARY OF RULES:
The city shall make available to its customers a summary of this chapter
approved by the city council. The summary shall be available at city hall.
(Ord. 12-550, 6-11-2013; amd. Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
10-2-26: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation or any city water user, person
or corporation to violate any of the terms of this chapter. (Ord. 12-550, 6-11-
2013; amd. Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
10-2-27: PENALTY:
Any person or corporation in violation of the provisions of this chapter shall
be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 12-550, 6-11-2013; amd. Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER SYSTEM
SECTION:
10-3-1: Declaration Of Policy
10-3-2: Purpose
10-3-3: Applicability
10-3-4: City Authority
10-3-5: Construction Of Chapter
10-3-6: Definitions
10-3-7: Public Works Director
10-3-8: Operation And Maintenance Of System
10-3-9: Users Liable For Violation
10-3-10: Maintenance Of Lines
10-3-11: Point Of Liability For Maintenance
10-3-12: City Not Liable For Damage Or Stoppage
10-3-13: City Monies
10-3-14: Authority To Amend Regulations
10-3-15: Sewer Plans
10-3-16: Use Of Sewers Required
10-3-17: Use Of Public Sewers
10-3-18: Injury To Sewerage System Unlawful
10-3-19: Permission To Discharge Objectionable Waste Or Water
10-3-20: Building Sewers And Service Connections
10-3-21: Industrial Users
10-3-22: Powers And Authority Of City Authorized Representative
10-3-23: Inspection
10-3-24: Rejections Or Disapprovals
10-3-25: Backfilling
10-3-26: Sewer Line Extensions
10-3-27: Sewer Charge Appraisal
10-3-28: Basis For Sewer Charges
10-3-29: Sewer User Charges
10-3-30: Sewer Connection, Permit And Inspection
10-3-31: Sewer Connection Charge
10-3-32: Industrial User Charges
10-3-33: Operation And Maintenance Charges
10-3-34: Industrial Cost Recovery
10-3-35: Special Sewer User Charge For Outside City Boundary
10-3-36: Monthly User Charges; When Due And Payable
10-3-37: Delinquency Notice
10-3-38: Sewerage System Fund
10-3-39: Unavailability Of Public Sewer
10-3-40: Penalties
10-3-1: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
It is hereby declared that the city owns and operates a sewer system. It is the
policy of the city to operate the sewer system for the mutual benefit of the
residents of the city. (Ord. 383, 2-4-1988)
10-3-2: PURPOSE:
It is hereby determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to and for
the protection of the health, safety and welfare of the public and inhabitants
of the city, and for the purpose of controlling the use and connection to and
for providing an equitable distribution of the costs and expenses of
maintenance, operation, upkeep and repair of the entire sewerage system which
includes the sewer collection system and sewage disposal facilities of the
city, to charge and collect service charges or fees upon all lots, lands,
property and premises served or benefited by the sewerage system of the city,
which system and facilities consist generally of all pipelines, conduits, catch
basins, manholes, cleanouts, sewer mains, intercepting sewers, outfall sewers,
lift stations, pumps, structures, mechanical equipment and facilities for the
treatment and disposal of sewage or sewage byproducts; to provide for
industrial cost recovery from all industrial users. (Ord. 383, 2-4-1988)
10-3-3: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all property within the
boundaries of the city including all property owned or occupied by the United
States, Elmore County or the state. (Ord. 525, 7-24-2007)
10-3-4: CITY AUTHORITY:
The sewer system for the transmission, treatment and disposal of sewage for the
city shall be under the sole and exclusive control of the mayor and council,
who may, from time to time, direct the construction, expansion, extension,
repair and maintenance of the sewer system owned and operated by the city as
the necessity of the city may require. The cost of maintenance and repair of
the city sewer system may be paid out of the sewerage system fund. (Ord. 383,
2-4-1988)
10-3-5: CONSTRUCTION OF CHAPTER:
This chapter shall be construed to fully and effectually carry out the purposes
and intent thereof, and if any part or portion thereof be declared invalid, or
the application thereof to any person, circumstance or thing is declared
invalid, the validity of the remainder of this chapter and the applicability
thereof to any person, circumstance or thing shall not be affected thereby, and
it is the intention of the city to preserve any and all parts of this chapter
wherever possible. (Ord. 383, 2-4-1988)
10-3-6: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
ACT: The federal water pollution control act entitled public law 92-500, and
its amendments, as administered by the united states environmental protection
agency (EPA).
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter (mg/l).
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (5') outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the point of
connection with the public sewer or other place of disposal.
CITY: The city of Glenns Ferry, Elmore County, Idaho, or its authorized or
designated agent, representative or deputy thereto.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
FLOW: The volume of sewage being discharged into the sewage system.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY: Financial recovery by the city, from the industrial
users of the sewerage system, of that portion of the present worth value of the
treatment facilities allocable to the treatment of wastes from such users.
INDUSTRIAL USERS: Any nongovernmental user of publicly owned treatment works
identified in the standard industrial classification manual, 1972, office of
management and budget, as amended and supplemented under the following
divisions:
   A.   Division A - agriculture, forestry and fishing.
   B.   Division B - mining.
   C.   Division D - manufacturing.
   D.   Division E - transportation, communications, electric, gas and sanitary
services.
   E.   Division I - services.
   F.   An industrial user is also defined as follows:
1. A nongovernmental, nonresidential user which discharges more than the
equivalent of twenty five thousand (25,000) gallons per day of sanitary waste
and which is identified in the standard industrial classification manual under
divisions A, B, D, E and I; or
2. A user which discharges any wastewater containing toxic pollutants or which
has any other adverse effect on the treatment works; or
3. A commercial user of an individual system. A user in the divisions listed
may be excluded if it is determined that it will introduce primarily segregated
domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing processes,
trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
MULTIPLE BUILDING DEVELOPMENT: Includes the various types of developments that
would have common or joint ownership areas such as condominiums, townhouses,
mobile home parks or courts, shopping centers, etc.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface or ground water.
OWNER: A person owing real estate which is, or proposes to be, connected to the
sewage system.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation,
partnership, or group.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per
liter of solution, with a pH value of 7 neutral.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not admitted.
SERVICE CONNECTION: The point at which the building sewer connects to the
public sewer.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT OR WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY: Any devices and system
used in the storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of city sewage or
industrial wastes of a liquid nature.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
SEWER OR WASTE MATTER: A combination of the water carried wastes from
residences, business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments,
together with such ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
SEWER USER: Any individual, firm, company, association, society or corporation
or group who has connected to the sewerage system.
SEWERAGE SYSTEM: All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
SHALL: "Shall" is mandatory. "May" is permissive.
SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in concentration
of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of
duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes for more than five (5) times the
average twenty four (24) hour concentration of flows during normal operation.
STORM DRAIN (Sometimes Termed STORM SEWER): A sewer which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted water such as cooling water.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids, organic or inorganic, that either float on the
surface of, or are in suspension in, water, sewage or other liquids, and which
are removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in "Standard Methods for
the Examination of Water and Wastewater" and referred to as nonfilterable
residue.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (Ord. 383, 2-4-1988)
10-3-7: PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR 1 :
There is hereby created the office of public works director, who shall, under
the direction of the mayor and council, have charge of such works, mains,
laterals, trunk lines, treatment plant, connection of service pipes and
conduits and all other matters pertaining to the city sewer system. The public
works director, shall report to the mayor and council monthly, or as often as
required, the condition of the sewer system and make such recommendation as the
nature of the service may require. (Ord. 383, 2-4-1988)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 8, chapter 1 of this code, and chapter 1 of this title.
10-3-8: OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM:
The sewer system shall be kept in repair by the public works director and no
other person, unless authorized by the public works director, shall work on or
operate said system or any part thereof. It shall be the public works
director's duty, at all times, to maintain said system in such a working
condition that the sewage of the city is efficiently and sanitarily carried
from the premises of the users of said system and processed in the sewer
treatment plant owned and operated by the city. (Ord. 383, 2-4-1988)
10-3-9: USERS LIABLE FOR VIOLATION:
No user of the city sewer service shall permit or allow any person from any
other premises or any unauthorized person to discharge sewage into said system,
and the permit to connect with the sewer system shall be limited to the person
and the premises designated in the permit. Any violation of this section by
either the permit holder or an unauthorized person shall be deemed a
misdemeanor. Any such violations shall be grounds for the city to withhold
sewer service until a separate service connection is put in for each user.
(Ord. 383, 2-4-1988)
10-3-10: MAINTENANCE OF LINES:
All users of the sewer system shall keep their pipe connections and other
apparatus in good repair and protected from freezing at their own expense, but
no person, except under the direction of the public works director, shall be
allowed to dig into the street, alley, sidewalk or easement beneath which the
lateral and trunk line sewers run, or to tap into any such lateral or trunk
line in any manner. (Ord. 383, 2-4-1988)
10-3-11: POINT OF LIABILITY FOR MAINTENANCE:
   A.   User: All users shall have the responsibility of, and be liable for,
and shall pay for, all costs and expenses of maintaining their own sewer lines
extending from their property until such sewer lines pass the vertical plane of
the user's property line or until they reach city sewer lines, whichever point
is reached last. Thus liability of the user shall include the entire sewer
service connection apparatus and plumbing equipment and materials.
   B.   City: Thus, the city's end point of liability for maintenance shall be
at such point as the city service line connects to the user's sewer service
connection, and not thereafter, with the user having complete responsibility
for the sewer service connection to the city sewer lines.
   C.   Public Works Director's Direction And Authorization Required: This
section shall not be construed to be in conflict with section
10-3-10 which states that no person shall be allowed to dig into the street,
alley, sidewalk or easement beneath which the lateral and trunk line sewers run
or tap into any such lateral or trunk line in any manner without the public
works director's direction and authorization, in that such person shall still
have to contact the public works director to obtain his permission to perform
work within the street, alley, sidewalk or easement for which the user is
liable. (Ord. 383, 2-4-1988)
10-3-12: CITY NOT LIABLE FOR DAMAGE OR STOPPAGE:
The city shall not be held liable for damages to any sewer user by reason of a
stoppage or other interruption of his sewer disposal service caused by
accidents to the works, alterations, additions or repairs to the sewer system
or from other unavoidable causes beyond the control of the city. (Ord. 383, 2-
4-1988)
10-3-13: CITY MONIES:
All monies collected by the city clerk under the provisions of this chapter
shall be paid, received, disbursed and accounted for as directed by the mayor
and council. (Ord. 383, 2-4-1988)
10-3-14: AUTHORITY TO AMEND REGULATIONS:
Nothing herein contained shall prohibit the mayor and council from amending,
altering or adding to the provisions of this chapter in relation to the sewer
service supplied by the city in regard to rates, charges, expansion,
alteration, repair or any other matter related to the sewer system, as changed
conditions may require from time to time. (Ord. 383, 2-4-1988)
10-3-15: SEWER PLANS:
   A.   Sewer Plans Adopted: The sewer plans as defined in the "1982 Step 1
Wastewater Facility Plan - City of Glenns Ferry" are hereby adopted as the
sewer plan for the city.
   B.   Sewage Treatment: Sewage treatment for the city will be economically
efficient; environmentally beneficial; in compliance with Idaho and federal
regulations; and consisting of primary treatment at sewage lagoons, and
advanced treatment at rapid infiltration basins with discharge of the effluent
to the Snake River. (Ord. 383, 2-4-1988)
10-3-16: USE OF SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Connection Required: The owner or occupant of any house, building or
property used for residential, commercial, industrial, governmental or
recreational use, or other purpose, situated within the city which is abutting
on or having a permanent right of access to any street, alley or right of way
in which there is located a public sewer of the city is hereby required to
cease using any other method of disposing of sewage, waste or polluted water,
and at their expense to connect such building directly with the public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within fifteen (15) days after
date of official notice from the city to do so; provided, however, that said
sewer is within three hundred feet (300') of any property line of the building
to be served or common property line in a multiple building development.
   B.   New Subdivisions: The developer of a new subdivision shall, at their
expense, construct the necessary extensions of the public sewer system to
provide public sewer facilities for each lot in said subdivision.
   C.   Prohibited Deposits: It shall be unlawful for any person to place or
deposit in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the city,
or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   D.   Prohibited Discharge: It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural
outlet within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any
sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   E.   Privy, Septic Tank, Cesspool, Etc.: Except as hereinafter provided, it
shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank,
cesspool or other facilities intended or used for the disposal of sewage. (Ord.
383, 2-4-1988)
   F.   Sewer Use Exceptions:
      1.   Lots, parcels, or sites consisting of one acre or forty three
thousand five hundred sixty (43,560) square feet or more; and if the closest
property line is in excess of three hundred feet (300') from the sewer main,
may construct a septic system with city, county and state approvals.
      2.   Lots, parcels, or sites consisting of less than one acre or less
than forty three thousand five hundred sixty (43,560) square feet shall hook up
to the city sewer system with no consideration to its location or distance from
the sewer main. (Ord. 533, 7-8-2008)
10-3-17: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS:
The use of the public sewers of the city shall be in accordance with the
following regulations:
   A.   Protection Of Sewage System: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged from any connection any stormwater, surface water, ground water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted
industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   B.   Unpolluted Drainage: Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall
be discharged to such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or
to a natural outlet approved by the city. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged, complying with the requirements of
section 308 of the act and, on approval of the city, to a storm sewer or
natural outlet.
   C.   Prohibited Discharges: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public
sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including but not limited
to cyanides in excess of two-tenths (0.2) mg/l as CN in the wastes as
discharged to the public sewer;
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works; and
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
   D.   Harmful Materials/Substances: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged the following described substances, materials, waters or wastes if
it appears likely, in the opinion of the city, that such wastes can harm either
the sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on
the receiving drainage or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or
constitute a nuisance. In forming its opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the city will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials or
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C). (Ord. 383, 2-4-1988)
      2.   Any water or waste containing toxic or poisonous materials, fats,
wax, grease or oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred (100)
mg/l or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between thirty two and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (32°
and 150°F) (0° and 65°C). (Ord. 383, 2-4-1988; amd. 2004 Code)
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the
city.
      4.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances in concentrations exceeding EPA
categorical standards; or wastes exerting any excessive chlorine requirement to
such degree that any such material received in the composite sewage at the
sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established by the city for such
materials.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the city as necessary, water treatment of the composite sewage,
to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies of
jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the city in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations.
      8.   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
      9.   Materials which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
         b.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         c.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and
         d.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined herein.
      10.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
   E.   Authority To Reject, Require Pretreatment Or Control Quantity: If any
waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be discharged to the public
sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the characteristics
enumerated in subsection D of this section, and which, in the judgment of the
city, may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment
or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a
public nuisance, the city may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      4.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of
section
10-3-29 of this chapter.
If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the design
and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the review and
approval of the city and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes,
ordinances and laws.
   F.   Interceptors Required: Grease, oil and interceptors shall be provided
when, in the opinion of the city, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes,
sand or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the city and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. These interceptors
shall be adequately maintained and are subject to periodic inspection by the
city.
   G.   Owner's Expense: Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing
facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at their
expense.
   H.   Control Manhole: When required by the city, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the city. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at the owner's expense,
and shall be maintained by said owner so as to be safe and accessible at all
times.
   I.   Measurements, Tests And Analyses: All measurements, tests and analyses
of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made in this
chapter shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of "Standard
Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater", published by the American
Public Health Association, and shall be determined at the control manhole
provided or upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event
that no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be
considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the
point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out
by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the
sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and
property.
   J.   Special Agreement/Arrangement: No statement contained in this chapter
shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between
the city and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual
strength or character may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to
payment therefor, by the industrial concern.
   K.   Violation; Remedy: Any property owner or sewer user violating the
provisions of this section shall, upon notice by the city, immediately install
such preliminary treatment through separators, traps and/or chemical, physical
or biochemical processes as will make and assure that the sewage contributed
from such property or premises will meet the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 383, 2-4-1988)
10-3-18: INJURY TO SEWERAGE SYSTEM UNLAWFUL:
   A.   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the sewerage works.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit any garbage, rubbish,
dead animal or any substance having a tendency to obstruct the flow of the
sewer in any manhole, cleanout or sewer opening. (Ord. 383, 2-4-1988)
10-3-19: PERMISSION TO DISCHARGE OBJECTIONABLE WASTE OR WATER:
The admission into the public sewers of any water or wastes having:
   A.   Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) greater than three hundred (300) mg/l;
(Ord. 383, 2-4-1988)
   B.   Chemical oxygen demand (COD) greater than nine hundred (900) mg/l; or
(Ord. 463, 5-30-2000)
   C.   Suspended solids in excess of three hundred (300) mg/l, shall be
subject to the review and approval of the city.
Where necessary, in the opinion of the city, the owner shall provide, at said
owner's expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary to reduce the
BOD to three hundred (300) mg/l, the COD to nine hundred (900) mg/l and the
suspended solids to three hundred (300) mg/l. Plans, specifications and any
other pertinent information relating to proposed preliminary treatment
facilities shall be submitted for the approval of the city and of the Idaho
department of health and welfare, and no construction of such facilities shall
be commenced until said approvals are obtained in writing. (Ord. 383, 2-4-1988)
10-3-20: BUILDING SEWERS AND SERVICE CONNECTIONS:
All materials and workmanship in the installation of building sewers and
service connections shall conform to the following regulations:
   A.   Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the city.
The permit is not to be issued until all sewer connection charges and fees have
been paid in full.
   B.   Classes Of Permit: There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer
permits: 1) a general permit for residential and commercial sewer service; and
2) industrial user permits for sewer service to establishments producing
industrial wastes.
      1.   General Permit: Fees: General permits shall be applied for by the
owner or said owner's agent on a form provided by the city clerk. The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the city at the time the
application is filed. Also, the owner or the owner's agent shall pay to the
city, at the time the application is filed, a hookup fee, which shall be
established by resolution of the mayor and council; and
      2.   Industrial User Permit; Fees: Industrial user permits shall be
applied for by the owner or said owner's agent by letter to the mayor and
council accompanied by an executed copy of the industrial user agreement
together with any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the city. Industrial user permits shall be
approved by the mayor and council based on recommendation by the engineer for
the city. Approval shall be contingent upon the availability of excess capacity
in the sewage treatment plant, the provisions of this chapter and any other
considerations the mayor and council deem appropriate. The amount of the
permit, inspection fee and hookup fee for an industrial wastes sewer service
will vary with each permit and shall be established by the city at the time of
application.
   C.   Costs: All costs and expenses incident to the installation and
connection of the building sewer and service connection shall be borne by the
owner. The owner shall indemnify and hold harmless the city from any loss or
damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the
building sewer and the marking of the service connection for same to the public
sewer.
   D.   Separate Sewer And Connection Required; Exception: A separate and
independent building sewer and service connection shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no separate sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   E.   Old Building Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in connection with
new buildings only when they are found, on examination and being tested as
required by the city, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   F.   Materials And Method Of Construction: The materials of construction of
the building sewer and service connections, and the methods to be used in
excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing and backfilling the trench,
shall all conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes,
latest editions.
   G.   Specifications: The building sewer from the building drain to the
public sewer and the service connection thereto shall not be smaller than four
inch (4") diameter sewer pipe. The minimum grade or slope of the building sewer
shall be as follows:
      1.   Four inch (4") diameter sewer pipe shall be laid in a grade of not
less than one-fourth inch (1/4") per foot (1').
      2.   Six inch (6") diameter sewer pipe shall be laid on a grade of not
less than one-eighth inch (1/8") per foot (1'); and
      3.   Eight inch (8") diameter sewer pipe shall be laid on a grade of not
less than four feet (4') per one thousand feet (1,000').
The alignment of the building sewer from the outlet of the building drain to
the public sewer connection shall be straight with no bends, warps or sags
permitted except with the permission of the city. The trench bottom shall be
cut to proper grade so that, when the pipe is laid, the body or barrel of the
pipe shall be on solid material. Bell holes are to be excavated in the trench
bottom at all pipe joints.
   H.   Surface Runoff; Groundwater: No person shall make connection of roof
downspouts, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of
surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   I.   Service Connection: The service connection to the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes, latest
editions, as adopted by the city. In addition, the materials and workmanship of
the service connection shall be meet the following requirements:
      1.   A precast service connection fitting shall be installed as an
increment of the sewer pipe line or installed as an external fabrication to the
sewer pipe line; said fabrication to be installed within the center one-third
(1/3) of an individual laying length of the public sewer pipe, as a precaution
in preventing the breaking of the bell or the spigot end of the sewer pipe. The
service connection fitting shall be installed as a watertight connection to the
public sewer, care being taken not to extend the building sewer line into the
public sewer line, therefore creating a possible restriction. The invert of the
building sewer line at the service connection fitting shall be at an elevation
above the invert of the public sewer at least equal to two-thirds (2/3) of the
diameter of the public sewer. All foreign material shall be removed from the
sewer pipe, and there shall be a permanent connection which is airtight and
watertight between the public sewer line and the building sewer line; and
      2.   The building sewer service connection fitting to reinforced concrete
sewer pipe lines shall be made as specified under subsection I1 of this
section, except that in cutting a hole in reinforced pipe for installation of
the service connection tee, extreme care shall be exercised to avoid damage to
the pipe. The hole for the tee shall be carefully chipped first to expose the
reinforcing steel and the steel cut by torch or saw. No chisel cutting of the
reinforcing steel of any character will be permitted.
In lieu of a standard service connection fitting, a riser service connection
may be made to sewer lines that are deep below ground surface. The branch or
riser shall be connected the same as a tee, except that it shall be set
vertically over the public sewer pipe, and extended vertically upward such that
the top of the riser is not to be less than five feet (5') below the surface of
the ground.
   J.   Notification To Inspect: The applicant for the building sewer permit
shall notify the city when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer.
   K.   Excavations; Barricades, Lights: All excavations for building sewer
installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to
protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public
property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner
satisfactory to the city. (Ord. 383, 2-4-1988)
10-3-21: INDUSTRIAL USERS:
All industrial users of the sewerage system shall comply with any applicable
requirements of section 204(b), 307 and 308 of the act. There shall be two (2)
classes of industrial users: major contributing industry, and minor
contributing industry. They are defined as follows:
   A.   Major Contributing Industry: A major contributing industry is one that:
      1.   Will contribute greater than ten percent (10%) of the design
hydraulic flow of the treatment works;
      2.   Will contribute greater than ten percent (10%) of the design
pollutant loading of the treatment works;
      3.   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under section 307(a) of the act; or
      4.   Has significant impact, either singly or in combination with other
contributing industries, on the sewerage system or the quality of its effluent.
   B.   Minor Contributing Industry: A minor contributing industry shall be all
industries not included in the "major contributing industry" classification as
defined herein: (Ord. 383, 2-4-1988)
      1.   All major contributing industries' wastes shall be monitored by the
industry and city on a regular basis at intervals not less than monthly, and
more frequently as the characteristics of the specific industrial discharge may
dictate. Minor contributing industries shall be monitored by the industry as
the characteristics of the specific industrial discharge may dictate as
determined by the city.
      2.   All major and minor contributing industries shall submit to the
city, on the first day of each month, a statement in writing regarding specific
actions taken to achieve full compliance with the requirements of section 307
of the act. (Ord. 463, 5-30-2000)
      3.   Each contributing industry shall report any substantial (exceeding
10 percent plus or minus) change in flow or characteristics of wastewater being
discharged into the sewerage system. The report shall include quantity and
quality of effluent and duration and frequency of discharge. (Ord. 383, 2-4-
1988)
10-3-22: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF CITY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE:
   A.   Authority To Enter: The city, through its authorized representative,
bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The city shall
have no authority to inquire into any processes including metallurgical,
chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point
having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the public
sewers or natural waterways.
   B.   Safety Rules; Indemnification: While performing the necessary work on
private properties referred to in the preceding paragraph, the authorized
representative of the city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the
premises established by the sewer user, and the sewer user shall be held
harmless for injury or death to any city authorized representative, and the
city shall indemnify the sewer user against loss or damage to its property by
any authorized city representative and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury and property damage asserted against the sewer user and growing
out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the sewer user to maintain safe conditions as required
in this chapter or as reasonably required by a prudent man standard.
   C.   Access To Easements: The city, through its authorized representative,
bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewerage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved. (Ord. 383, 2-4-1988)
10-3-23: INSPECTION:
No connection of any kind to a public sewer line shall be made and no sewage
permitted to flow through such connection except pursuant to inspection of and
approval issued by the city. See section
10-3-20 sewer permits, inspection fees, inspection notices, etc. (Ord. 383, 2-
4-1988)
10-3-24: REJECTIONS OR DISAPPROVALS:
The city may reject any material or workmanship for cause and, upon such order,
rejected material shall be removed and replaced with approved material.
Disapproved workmanship shall cause the removal and replacement of all
materials involved, including appurtenances, excavation, backfilling and other
work items. (Ord. 383, 2-4-1988)
10-3-25: BACKFILLING:
Backfilling of building sewers and service connections within the limits of
public rights of way or easements shall conform to special specifications
promulgated by the city for sewer installation, and shall be subject to
inspection by and approval of the city. (Ord. 383, 2-4-1988)
10-3-26: SEWER LINE EXTENSIONS:
   A.   Compliance Required; Costs: All proposed extensions of the city
sewerage system to serve undeveloped areas within the existing city boundaries,
newly annexed areas or areas outside the city boundaries shall comply with the
facility plan. Costs for all extensions which lie outside the boundary limits
of the property for which the extension is requested shall be the
responsibility of that property owner or said owner's agent. Cost for sewer
extensions within the property for which the extension is requested shall also
be the responsibility of the owner or said owner's agent. The city may, if it
has uncommitted funds in its sewer construction account, participate in a
portion of the cost of any oversized sewer lines. When it is necessary to
install oversized lines as part of an extension, the cost of all oversized
lines will normally be the responsibility of the owner or said owner's agent.
   B.   Construction; Design: Unless a special permit is granted by the city,
all city sewerage system extensions into newly developing areas shall be
installed prior to the construction of any new streets. All design and
construction of any extensions to the city sewerage system shall comply with
the official specifications for sewerage system extensions as adopted by the
city.
   C.   Plans: The plans for all extensions to the sewerage system shall be
prepared and signed by a registered professional engineer as per the licensing
requirements of the Idaho Code. Three (3) copies of the said plans shall be
filed with the city. Two (2) copies of the plans shall be filed with the Idaho
department of health and welfare for their review and approval as required by
the Idaho Code. In approving a plan for extension to the city sewerage system,
the city reserves the right to stipulate other requirements such as a special
permit fee, rights of way limits, sequence of construction, time limits for
having existing service disrupted, the filing of a performance bond and other
similar measures as may be required to protect the public. No work shall
commence on any such extension of the city sewerage system until the extension
project has been approved by the city.
   D.   Certification By Engineer; Acceptance By City: After the construction
of any city sewer system extensions, it shall be the obligation of the owner,
or said owner's agent, to have a registered professional engineer certify to
the city and to the Idaho department of health and welfare that the said system
extensions were installed in accordance with the approved plans and
specifications on file with the respective agencies. Following certification by
the registered professional engineer and acceptance by the city, the entire
extension of the city sewerage system, including the city sewer service lines,
shall become the property of the city, and it shall be the city's
responsibility to maintain and operate the system thereafter.
   E.   Hookup Fees: If it is necessary for the city to permit a sewer service
connection and/or sewer service line at any time after the extension has been
originally accepted by the city, the owner or said owner's agent shall be
required to pay the sewer hookup fee as well as the standard permit and
inspection fees as may be established by the city for such purposes. (Ord. 383,
2-4-1988)
10-3-27: SEWER CHARGE APPRAISAL:
Each parcel being subject to sewer connection charges, periodic user charges,
industrial cost recovery charges or other fees as provided for in section
10-3-31 of this chapter shall be appraised and assessed by the mayor and
council for the purpose of establishing the equivalent connection rating, the
sewer connection charge, the inspection fee, the industrial charges, the
monthly service charge or other fees to be charged or assessed to and against
such property. In making such appraisement and assessment, there shall be taken
into consideration the area of land being served and the amount of flow (Q),
the biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), the suspended solids (SS) and any other
pertinent components of the wastes that the user is contributing to the system
so as to establish, as nearly as possible, the rate, charge or fee for each
property on the same relative basis as is imposed upon other like property
within the city that has or will receive the sewer service. (Ord. 383, 2-4-
1988)
10-3-28: BASIS FOR SEWER CHARGES:
   A.   System Of Charges Established: There is hereby established a system of
connector charges, permit and inspection fees, industrial cost recovery
charges, periodic service charges and other fees for the use of, and for
service rendered by, the sewerage works of the city, and which charges, rates
and fees shall be as near as possible uniform as to the different classes of
property served by said sewerage works. The rates, charges and fees provided by
this chapter are hereby levied and assessed against each lot, parcel of land,
building or property having any connection with the sanitary sewerage works of
the city or otherwise discharging sanitary sewage, industrial wastewater or
other liquids directly into the sanitary sewerage works of the city. The rates,
charges and fees shall be billed to and paid by the owner of each lot, parcel
of land, building or property served by the sewerage system.
   B.   Unused Property Subject To Charges: It is specifically enacted that all
property in the city to which a public sewer is available and is required to
connect to the sewer as required in section
10-3-16 of this chapter, but is not used by the owner or occupier of said
parcel of land, is still subject to user charges under the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 383, 2-4-1988)
10-3-29: SEWER USER CHARGES:
The monthly user rates for sanitary sewer service in the city, as hereafter
developed in accordance with section
10-3-28 of this chapter, are determined on an annual winter usage basis,
calculated based on the volumetric amount of water passing through a city water
meter during the months of November, December, January, February and March,
actual meter size, or number of living units and/or spaces. Exempt from this
method of billing are those accounts with sewer flow meters or industrial water
waste agreements.
The monthly user rates for sanitary sewer service shall be set from time to
time by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 501, 3-16-2004)
10-3-30: SEWER CONNECTION, PERMIT AND INSPECTION:
   A.   Application For Service: To obtain city sewer service, the owner or
said owner's agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the
city. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications
or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the city. A permit
and inspection fee shall be paid to the city at the time the application is
filed. Also, the owner or said owner's agent shall pay to the city, at the time
the application is filed, a connection charge in the amount as provided for in
section
10-3-31 of this chapter. The amount of the permit and inspection fee shall be
determined by the mayor and council.
   B.   Materials And Method Of Construction: The materials of construction of
the sewer service line and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the
pipe, jointing, testing and backfilling of the trench and surface replacement
shall all conform to the requirements of specifications and codes as have been
or may be adopted by the city.
   C.   Separate Connections Required; Notice For Inspection: A separate and
independent city sewer service connection shall be provided for each building.
The applicant for the city sewer service connection shall notify the city when
the connection of the sewer service connection and line to the public sewer
main is ready for inspection. (Ord. 383, 2-4-1988)
10-3-31: SEWER CONNECTION CHARGE:
The owner, or said owner's agent, of all properties connecting to the public
sewer of the city under the terms of this chapter shall pay a sewer connection
charge, as shall be set from time to time by resolution of the city council,
for each equivalent connection or fraction thereof as may be assigned to the
property by the city. (Ord. 461, 4-10-2000)
10-3-32: INDUSTRIAL USER CHARGES:
All industrial users shall be charged a sewer rate based on their water meter
size unless, however, the industrial user has installed a sewer flow meter, in
which case all industrial user charges shall be established by separate
agreement between each separate contributing industry and the mayor and
council. All charges so established shall be in proportion to the benefits
derived by the user from the sewerage system. The charges so established shall
generate sufficient revenue to pay the operation and maintenance of the
sewerage system, and the industrial cost recovery charges. Special allowances
may be made on a case by case basis for temporary industrial connections. The
charges shall be based on the amount of flow (Q), the biochemical oxygen demand
(BOD), the suspended solids (SS) and any other pertinent components of the
wastes that the industrial user is contributing to the sewerage system or that
may affect the wastewater treatment system. (Ord. 463, 5-30-2000)
   A.   Annual Review: All contributing industrial user charges shall be
reviewed annually and revised as necessary to ensure that each contributing
industrial user pays its allocable share. If the discharge of a contributing
industrial user changes significantly, greater than ten percent (10%) plus or
minus (by strength, volume, delivery flow rate or other pertinent component
characteristics), such industrial user's charge shall be adjusted accordingly
to assure that the user continues to pay its allocable share.
   B.   Pretreated Wastes: Contributing industrial users discharging pretreated
process wastes into the sewerage system shall pay industrial user charges based
on the characteristics of the waste effluent from the pretreatment facilities.
(Ord. 461, 4-10-2000)
   C.   Basis For Payment: The amount of payment required from an industry for
industrial user charges is to be the sum of the operation and maintenance
charges and the industrial cost recovery charges. Special allowances may be
made for temporary connections. (Ord. 463, 5-20-2000)
   D.   Actions For Nonpayment: Actions for nonpayment will be in accordance
with section
10-3-37 of this chapter. (Ord. 461, 4-10-2000)
   E.   Monitoring Equipment: The industry is responsible for providing and
installing the monitoring equipment, its operation and maintenance, and all
testing and laboratory fees. (Ord. 463, 5-30-2000)
10-3-33: OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE CHARGES:
   A.   The operation and maintenance charges shall be allocated in proportion
to the benefit of the proposed facility to each wastewater characteristic as
follows:
Q = 80% of operation and maintenance costs
BOD = 14% of operation and maintenance costs
SS = 6% of operation and maintenance costs
The operation and maintenance costs of any future expansion, upgrading or
reconstruction of the waste treatment facility shall be allocated in proportion
to the benefit of the said improvement to any wastewater characteristic so
benefited at that time.
   B.   The total cost per unit of each characteristic shall be calculated as
follows:
 
               Percent of Operation and
Q Unit Cost =   (Operation & Maint. Cost) (Maint. Cost Allocated to Q)
               (Total Design Flow of Facility in Gallons per Day)
               Percent of Operation and
BOD Unit Cost = (Operation & Maint. Cost) (Maint. Cost Allocated to BOD)  
               (Total Design BOD Capability of Facility in Pounds per Day)
               (Based upon sludge removed from lagoons)
               Percent of Operation and
SS Unit Cost =  (Operation & Maint. Cost) (Maint. Cost Allocated to SS)
               (Total Design SS Capability of Facility in Pounds per Day)
 
   C.   The cost to an industry for the operation and maintenance portion of
the user charge is calculated as follows:
 
                 = (Annual Q contributed by Industry) (Q Unit Cost)
Annual O&M Cost  + (Annual BOD contributed by Industry) (BOD Unit Cost)
                 + (Annual SS contributed by Industry) (SS Unit Cost)
Monthly O&M Cost = Annual O&M Cost
                12
 
   D.   For small contributing industrial concerns where the city determines it
is impractical to develop a monitoring program to measure wasteload discharges,
operation and maintenance charges may be made on the basis of estimated flows
alone; provided, that the industry does not discharge an excessive strength
waste that may disrupt the treatment process as determined by the city. The
operation and maintenance payments will be calculated on a similar basis as
described herein, except that one hundred percent (100%) of the operation and
maintenance cost will be allocated to flow. (Ord. 463, 5-30-2000)
10-3-34: INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY:
All contributing industrial users of the sewerage system shall make industrial
cost recovery payments according to the following:
   A.   The city may permit contributing industrial users to reserve extra or
additional capacity in the sewerage system for future use by the industry. Such
capacity shall be reserved through formal, written agreement and shall be
subject to pertinent industrial cost recovery regulations. The industrial user
shall be required to pay the full industrial cost recovery allocable to the
capacity reserved. In the event that the city has unused capacity in its
sewerage system available for use and the said industrial user is permitted by
the city to exceed its agreed upon reserved capacity, the industry shall be
required to pay industrial cost recovery calculated on the full reserved
capacity plus the additional industrial cost recovery for the use above the
limits of the original agreed upon reserve capacity or any element thereof.
   B.   All contributing industrial users shall be required to pay any
additional industrial cost recovery charges associated with the cost of future
upgrading of the treatment works as may be required of the city to comply with
discharge requirements.
   C.   Industrial cost recovery for expansion of the treatment works shall be
required from those industries which have exceeded their reserved capacity and
have been a contributing factor to the need for expansion. Industrial cost
recovery payments will be required for that portion of the expanded capacity
which is allocable to the industrial user's discharge. (Ord. 383, 22-4-1988)
   D.   The amount of payment required from an industry for industrial cost
recovery is to be determined by the following procedure:
      1.   The value of the treatment facility shall be allocated in proportion
to the benefit of the facility to each wastewater characteristic as follows:
Q = 80% of present worth value of treatment facilities
BOD = 14% of present worth value of treatment facilities
SS = 6% of present worth value of treatment facilities
The value of any future expansion, upgrading or reconstruction of the waste
treatment facility shall be allocated in proportion to the benefit if the said
improvement to any wastewater characteristic so benefited at that time. (Ord.
463, 5-30-2000)
      2.   The present worth value of the facilities at any time shall be based
on the following formula:
 
                                    Present Engineering News-Record
                                   (Const, Cost) (Const. Cost Index)
Present Worth Value of Facilities = (Engineering News-Record Construction
                                    Cost at Time of Construction)
 
      3.   The total cost per unit of each characteristic shall be calculated
as follows:
 
                (Percent of Present Worth Value
               (Present Worth Value of Facilities) of Facilities Allocated to
Q Unit Cost =   Q)
                (Total Design Flow of Facility in Gallons per Day)
               (Percent of Present Worth Value
BOD Unit Cost = (Present Worth Value of Fac.) of Fac. Allocated to BOD)
                (Total Design BOD Capability of Facility in Pounds per Day)
                (Percent of Present Worth Value
               (Present Worth Value of Facilities) of facilities Allocated to
SS Unit Cost =  SS)
                (Total Design SS Capability of Facility in Pounds per Day)
 
      4.   The cost to an industry for industrial cost recovery (ICR) is
calculated as follows:
 
               = (Industry's Final Reserve Amount of Q) (Q Unit Cost)
Total ICR Cost + (Industry's Final Reserve Amount of BOD) (BOD Unit Cost)
               + (Industry's Final Reserve Amount of SS)(SS Unit Cost)
 
The total ICR cost shall be paid back according to the following payment
schedule:
         a.   An industry shall pay, within one month of initiation of sewage
treatment service, a lump sum payment equal to the present worth value of the
portion of the treatment facility that the industry is utilizing for waste
treatment at the time of the agreement, according to the formulas for said
payment stated hereafter.
 
                                   (Industries Initial    
                                   = Amount of Q)        (Q Unit Cost)
ICR Payment (Initial Contribution) + (Industries Initial  
                                   Amount of BOD)        (BOD Unit Cost)
                                   + (Industries Initial  
                                   Amount of SS)         (SS Unit Cost)
 
         b.   An industry may reserve a portion of the treatment facility
exceeding the portion utilized for waste treatment at the time of the
agreement. The ICR payments for the reserve portion of the treatment facilities
shall be paid back over the period of time estimated to be necessary to utilize
the full amount of the reserved portion according to the following formula:
 
ICR Payment (Reserve Portion) =
(Industries Final Reserved - Industries Initial) (Q unit Cost)
Amount of Q                  Amount of Q
+
(Industries Final Reserved - Industries Initial) (BOD Unit Cost)
Amount of BOD                Amount of BOD
+
(Industries Final Reserved - Industries Initial) (SS Unit Cost)
Amount of SS                 Amount of SS
Monthly ICR Payment =        Total ICR Payment (Reserve Portion)
(Reserve Portion)            (Estimated Number of Months to Reach
                             Reserve Capacity of Sewerage System)
 
The time period to reach the reserve capacity of the system is subject to
negotiations, and the mayor and council reserve the right to limit the time
period for utilizing the reserve capacity. ICR payments for the reserve portion
of the treatment facilities shall begin within a month of the date of
initiation of service by the industry of the treatment facility. (Ord. 383, 2-
4-1988)
         c.   For small contributing industrial concerns where the city
determines it is impractical to develop a monitoring program to measure
wasteload discharges, industrial cost recovery payments may be made on the
basis of estimated flows alone; provided, that the industry does not discharge
an excessive strength waste that may disrupt the treatment process as
determined by the city. The industrial cost recovery payments will be
calculated on a similar basis as described herein, except, that one hundred
percent (100%) of the present worth value of the facilities shall be allocated
to flow. (Ord. 463, 5-30-2000)
         d.   All industrial cost recovery payments collected from industry and
paid to the city shall be allocated according to the following:
            (1)   All ICR payments based on the original construction cost
shall be used to pay off the bonded indebtedness.
            (2)   For any ICR payments based on a present worth value of the
treatment facilities which is higher than the original construction cost, the
amount of the payment corresponding to the original construction cost shall be
used to pay off the bonded indebtedness, and any amount exceeding the portion
assigned to the original construction cost shall be deposited in a sinking fund
to provide for future capital improvements to the sewage treatment plant.
         e.   Actions for nonpayment will be in accordance with section
10-3-37 of this chapter. (Ord. 383, 2-4-1988)
10-3-35: SPECIAL SEWER USER CHARGE FOR OUTSIDE CITY BOUNDARY:
The city may permit the use of the sewerage works by individual properties that
are partially or entirely outside the city boundary. Each request for such
service must be approved by the mayor and council, and all regulations of this
chapter must be complied with by such special sewer user. The sewer user will
be considered a special user as long as the property being served remains
outside the city boundary. In addition to all other charges and fees as are
required to be paid by any sewer user, including industrial users, the special
sewer user may be charged a supplemental monthly user charge that will be to
reimburse the city for any other costs to the city that are attributable to
administering, operating and/or maintaining the said special sewer user
service. (Ord. 383, 2-4-1988)
10-3-36: MONTHLY USER CHARGES; WHEN DUE AND PAYABLE:
All monthly sewer charges shall be due and payable from the owner to the city
clerk between the first and tenth day of each month for billing from the
previous cycle. For new construction, this would be when the service connection
has been inspected and approved or when the building being served is
substantially completed, whichever is the latest date. Upon failure to pay the
same, as prescribed, each user shall pay, in addition to the amount due, a
penalty charge of one dollar ($1.00) or ten percent (10%) of charges due,
whichever is greater. (Ord. 383, 2-4-1988)
10-3-37: DELINQUENCY NOTICE:
   A.   Delinquency; Lien: If a sewer user has not paid his monthly charges by
the tenth of the month, it shall be deemed delinquent. The city shall notify
the sewer user of the delinquency, and if the charges are not paid within ten
(10) days after the delinquency notice, an additional penalty of one dollar
fifty cents ($1.50) or fifteen percent (15%) of charges due, whichever is
greater, shall be added to the account. All delinquent charges or fees, as
provided by this chapter, not paid after the final determination of the sewer
user's account shall be imposed as a lien against and upon the property or
premises against which such charge or fee is, levied or assessed, and the city
clerk shall certify such delinquencies together with all penalties to the tax
collector of Elmore County, and, when so certified, the same shall be a lien
upon the property and will be collectable as other taxes.
   B.   New Location: The owner of any property leaving a delinquency in sewer
fees at any location shall not be entitled to the use of the sewerage system at
any new location until all fee delinquencies are paid. (Ord. 383, 2-4-1988)
10-3-38: SEWERAGE SYSTEM FUND:
   A.   Fund Established; Purpose: All fees and charges received and collected
under authority of this chapter shall be deposited and credited to the sewerage
system fund. The accounts of said fund shall show all receipts and expenditures
for the maintenance, operation, upkeep and repair of the sewerage works and any
payments into sinking funds as may be established for the purpose of:
      1.   Paying principal and interest on the sewer bonds of the city which
shall from time to time be outstanding.
      2.   Sewerage capital improvement fund for industrial cost recovery
payments that are to be used exclusively for future expansion, upgrading or
reconstruction on the sewage system.
      3.   Other special funds as may be established by the mayor and council.
   B.   Funds Available For Payments: As provided by law, when budgeted and
appropriated, the funds and credits to the account of the sewerage system fund
shall be available for the payment of the requirements for the maintenance,
operation, repairs and upkeep of the sewerage works of the city and, to the
extent legally available, for payment into the sinking fund established for the
payment of the principal of and interest on the sewer bonds of the city which
shall from time to time be outstanding. (Ord. 383, 2-4-1988)
10-3-39: UNAVAILABILITY OF PUBLIC SEWER:
   A.   Connection To Private System: Where a public sanitary sewer is not
available under the provisions of this chapter, the building sewer shall be
connected to a private sewer disposal system complying with all rules,
regulations, standards and recommendations of any local, state or federal
authority having jurisdiction over such matters. The city exercises no rights
or responsibilities pertaining to the private disposal of sewage.
   B.   Connection To Public Sewer When Available: At such time as a public
sewer becomes available to property served by a private sewage disposal system,
a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this
chapter and any septic tank, cesspool or similar private sewage disposal
facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   C.   Septic Tank Pumpings: Septic tank pumpings shall not be deposited in
any manhole, cleanout or sewer opening. (Ord. 383, 2-4-1988)
10-3-40: PENALTIES:
Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall be served
by the city with written notice stating the nature of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit, but in any event not to exceed ninety (90)
days, for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the
period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become liable
to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the city by reason of
such violation. (Ord. 383, 2-4-1988)
CHAPTER 4
CESSPOOLS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Nuisance
10-4-1: NUISANCE:
Every cesspool, outside toilet and unsanitary septic tank within a lateral
sewer district and not now connected with the sewer system is hereby declared
to be a nuisance. (Ord. 166, 8-20-1928)
CHAPTER 5
MUNICIPAL IRRIGATION SYSTEM REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Title
10-5-2: Glenns Ferry Municipal Irrigation District Established
10-5-3: Definitions
10-5-4: Applicability
10-5-5: Powers And Authority Of City
10-5-6: Connection Requirements And Procedures
10-5-7: Municipal Irrigation System Fund
10-5-8: Assessments And Fees
10-5-9: Restrictions On Water Use
10-5-10: Upkeep Of Service Pipes And Fixtures
10-5-11: Shutting Off Water Supply
10-5-12: Failure Of Water Supply
10-5-13: Miscellaneous Regulations
10-5-14: Prohibited Acts
10-5-15: Penalties
10-5-16: Petition To Exclude Property From Glenns Ferry Municipal Irrigation
System
10-5-17: Severability
10-5-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the GLENNS FERRY MUNICIPAL IRRIGATION DISTRICT
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
10-5-2: GLENNS FERRY MUNICIPAL IRRIGATION DISTRICT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established the Glenns Ferry municipal irrigation district to
exercise the rights and authorities as provided by chapter 18, title 50, Idaho
Code. The irrigation system for the supply of the city shall be under the sole
and exclusive control of the city council, who may from time to time direct the
construction and extension of such works, placing of mains and service pipes,
as the necessity of the city may require. (Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
10-5-3: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
CITY: The city of Glenns Ferry, Elmore County, Idaho, or its authorized or
designated agent, representative or deputy thereof.
CITY IRRIGATION SERVICE LINE: That portion of an irrigation service line that
runs from its connection with the city irrigation main to and including the
corporation stop installed in the service line. The irrigation service line is
owned and maintained by the city and will usually be installed within the
limits of the public right of way or utility easement.
CITY IRRIGATION SYSTEM: Includes all components and facilities of the
irrigation system that is owned, operated and/or maintained by the city of
Glenns Ferry, Idaho, to provide irrigation water supply.
IRRIGATION MAIN: Any portion of the city irrigation system used for the purpose
of transportation and/or distribution of irrigation water to serve more than
one irrigation service line or user.
IRRIGATION PURPOSES: Includes the use of water for lawns, gardens, pastures,
parks, greenbelts, golf courses, and open space.
IRRIGATION WATER: Refers to water used for the purpose of irrigation in a
beneficial manner, regardless of the water source.
MUNICIPAL IRRIGATION FUND: In accordance with Idaho Code section 50-1806, a
separate fund which will be the repository for city fees, assessments, and
charges arising from the operation of the Glenns Ferry municipal irrigation
district.
NONPOTABLE WATER: Water which does not conform to drinking water quality
standards.
OWNER: Refers to any person owning property served by the city irrigation
system.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, partnership, association, firm, public
agency or any other legal entity.
POTABLE WATER: Water which conforms to drinking water quality standards.
PRESSURE IRRIGATION SYSTEM: A system that delivers irrigation water under
pressure through a closed distribution piping system.
PRIVATE IRRIGATION SERVICE LINE: This is the irrigation service line from the
city corporation stop to and throughout the property being served.
PRIVATE IRRIGATION SYSTEM: Any irrigation system that is not owned, operated
and maintained by the city.
PROPERTY: Refers to all property, whether privately or publicly owned, within
the duly adopted boundaries of the city irrigation system.
USER: Any consumer of water from the Glenns Ferry municipal irrigation
district.
WATER: When the term water is used in this chapter without the prefix
irrigation or potable, it shall refer to both irrigation and potable water.
WATER RIGHTS: The legal right to divert and beneficially use the public waters
of the state of Idaho where such right is evidenced by a decree, a permit or a
license issued by the Idaho department of water resources, a beneficial or
constitutional use right evidenced by an adjudication claim or claim based on
section 42-243, Idaho Code, or a right based on federal law. (Ord. 16-561A, 11-
8-2016)
10-5-4: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all property within the corporate
limits of the city and within the duly adopted boundaries of the city
irrigation system, including all property owned or occupied by the United
States Of America, the state of Idaho and Elmore County. (Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-
2016)
10-5-5: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF CITY:
The city through its authorized representative bearing proper identification
shall be permitted at proper and reasonable hours of the day to enter all
properties, premises or buildings to which water is furnished from the city
irrigation system for testing or for any other purpose necessary for the proper
administration of the city irrigation system. Also, the city, through its
authorized representative bearing proper credentials and identification, shall
be permitted to enter all private properties through which the city holds an
easement for the purpose of inspection, observation, repair, maintenance, or
any other purpose or function reasonably related to the city irrigation system.
All entry and subsequent work, if any, within said easement shall be done in a
workmanlike manner. The city shall make reasonable efforts to provide notice to
owners prior to entering properties, premises or buildings. (Ord. 16-561A, 11-
8-2016)
10-5-6: CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   Boundaries: The city council shall establish by ordinance the
boundaries of the city irrigation system and may, from time to time, contract,
extend or enlarge the boundaries of the said system by ordinance. A copy of any
such ordinance duly certified to be correct by the city clerk shall be recorded
in the office of the recorder of Elmore County, Idaho.
   B.   Property Connections: Each lot within the duly described boundaries of
the city irrigation system may be connected to the irrigation main through a
city irrigation service line, upon compliance with the terms of this chapter
and any policies adopted pursuant thereto.
   C.   Application For Service Connection And Permit To Use Water: An
application for city irrigation service shall be made by the owner of the
property to the public works director or other designated city official. The
application shall contain a full, true and accurate statement of the size of
the connection desired, a description of the premises upon which such
connection is to be made, the full name of all owners and shall otherwise
conform to the rules and regulations provided for the city irrigation system.
No water shall be introduced into any connection unless a permit has first been
approved by the public works director or designated city official, and all fees
set forth in the rate schedule adopted by resolution of the city council have
been paid. The applicant shall have the responsibility of determining and/or
providing the appropriate water rights. If the city engineer and city council
determine that the irrigation system is at or near capacity, acceptance of
applications for irrigation system connections may be stopped until such time
that the irrigation system has the capacity available to provide service to new
connections.
   D.   Private Irrigation Service Line: All materials and workmanship used in
the installation of private irrigation water service lines shall conform to
city specifications and codes. The furnishing of all labor and materials shall
be the sole responsibility of the owner.
   E.   Owner Responsible For Costs: All costs and expenses incident to the
installation and connection of a parcel to the city irrigation system shall be
borne by the applicant and/or owner. The owner shall indemnify the city from
any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the irrigation connection.
   F.   Extension Of Irrigation Mains And Irrigation Main Fee:
      1.   All proposed extensions of the irrigation mains to service
undeveloped areas within the boundaries of the city irrigation system shall
comply with existing policies, specifications, master plans, or requirements
established by the city engineer. The plans for all extensions to the city
irrigation mains shall be prepared under the direction of and signed by a
registered professional engineer as per the licensing requirements of Idaho
law, and three (3) copies of said plans shall be filed with the city. In
approving a plan for extension of irrigation mains, the city reserves the right
and discretion to establish other conditions and requirements such as a special
permit fee, rights of way limits, sequence of construction, time limits for
having existing service disrupted, the filing of a performance bond and other
similar measures as may be required to protect the public. No work shall
commence on any extension of irrigation mains until the extension project has
been included within the boundaries of the city irrigation system and written
approval of design plans have been provided by the city engineer. A permit
shall not be issued until all applicable fees have been paid.
      2.   All irrigation main extensions and appurtenances shall be
constructed at the expense of the applicant by a qualified contractor in
accordance with city specifications and subject to conditions and fees
established by the city.
      3.   The city shall charge an irrigation main extension fee on all new
development that will be provided irrigation service by the city irrigation
system. The amount of the fee and the methods of derivation shall be in
accordance with the rate schedule adopted by resolution of the city council.
   G.   Construction Methods And Materials: The materials and methods used for
construction of city irrigation service lines, private irrigation service
lines, irrigation mains or city irrigation system appurtenances shall conform
to the requirements of all codes and specifications as may be adopted by the
city council. The city may reject any materials or workmanship for cause, and
upon such order, the rejected materials shall be removed and replaced with
approved materials.
   H.   Regulations For Connection To Municipal Irrigation System: The public
works director may adopt, subject to approval of the city council by
resolution, regulations regarding the manner of connection to the city
irrigation system and prescribe the manner of the completion of the work.
   I.   Illegal Connections:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to make or cause to be made any
connection with the city irrigation system or to introduce or cause to be
introduced water from the city irrigation system into any connection made
therewith unless a permit has been first duly issued for such purpose by the
public works director in compliance and conformity with the provisions of this
chapter and the rules and regulations of the city that are now or may hereafter
be established therefor; or to cause a connection to become noncompliant with
the provisions of this chapter and the rules and regulations of the city that
are now or may hereafter be established; or to interfere with or injure any
line appurtenance or any portion of the city irrigation system.
      2.   The city, by and through the public works director, shall give
notice in writing to the owner and/or occupant of any premises connected to and
served by the city irrigation system in all cases in which said connections are
illegal. Said notice shall state the violation and require that the violations
be cured within ten (10) days from notice thereof.
      3.   In the event that said illegal connection continues beyond the ten
(10) day period, the city is authorized to discontinue irrigation service to
said premises without further notice and until said illegal connection is
remedied and all costs of the city associated therewith and fines have been
paid.
      4.   A violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor, punishable as
set forth in Idaho law. (Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
10-5-7: MUNICIPAL IRRIGATION SYSTEM FUND:
All fees, charges and assessments received and collected under the authority of
this chapter shall be deposited and credited to funds designated as the
municipal irrigation fund. The accounts of said funds shall show all receipts
and expenditures for the maintenance and operation of the irrigation system and
any payments into a sinking fund established for the purpose of paying
principal of and interest on bond indebtedness of the municipal irrigation
systems which shall from time to time be outstanding. As provided by law, when
budgeted and appropriated, the funds and credits to the account of the
municipal irrigation fund shall be available for the payment of the
requirements for the maintenance and operation, repairs and upkeep of the
municipal irrigation system of the city, and to the extent legally available,
for payment into a sinking fund established for the payment of the principal of
and interest on any municipal irrigation fund indebtedness of the city which
shall from time to time be outstanding. (Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
10-5-8: ASSESSMENTS AND FEES:
   A.   Assessments: The annual irrigation assessment shall be established by
the city council pursuant to Idaho law. The levying of annual assessment,
processing of payments received and the disposition of delinquent accounts,
including statutory penalties and interest, shall be in accordance with chapter
18, title 50, Idaho Code. No irrigation water shall be supplied to any lots,
parcels or property within the boundaries of the city irrigation system until
such assessments have been paid in full.
   B.   Service Connection Fees: In addition to any applicable inspection fees
and irrigation main extension fees, applicants for connection to the city
irrigation system shall be required to pay a service connection fee. The amount
of the service connection fee shall be in accordance with the rate schedule
adopted by resolution of the city council. A copy of current service connection
fees for various line sizes will be on file in the office of the public works
director.
   C.   Reconnection Fees: In the event the public works department turns off
irrigation water connection for nonpayment of assessments and/or other fees,
the city may charge a reconnection fee established by resolution of the city
council.
   D.   Municipal Irrigation Fund: All assessments, fees, and charges received
and collected under the authority of this chapter shall be deposited and
credited to the municipal irrigation fund, and all expenditures therefrom shall
be dedicated to the operation, maintenance, replacement, upgrade and extension
of the city irrigation system. (Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
10-5-9: RESTRICTIONS ON WATER USE:
No person supplied with water from the city irrigation system will be entitled
to use it for any other purpose than stated in the permit, nor shall water be
supplied to other properties, or allowed to be taken off the premises with the
intent of bypassing the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
10-5-10: UPKEEP OF SERVICE PIPES AND FIXTURES:
All service pipes and fixtures on private property are the responsibility of
the property owner and shall be kept in good repair and protected from freezing
at the property owner's expense. The property owner shall be responsible for
all damages resulting from leaks or breaks in service pipes and fixtures. Water
will not be furnished to any private irrigation service line or system where
there is a leak in the service piping or in a fixture. If a leak is discovered,
the irrigation service may be discontinued immediately until all leaks have
been repaired. (Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
10-5-11: SHUTTING OFF WATER SUPPLY:
The city reserves the right at any time without notice to shut off the water
supply for repairs, extensions or any other reason, and the city shall not be
responsible for damaged pipes or fixtures, or any other damage resulting from
the shutting off of the water. (Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
10-5-12: FAILURE OF WATER SUPPLY:
The city shall not be liable under any circumstance for a deficiency or a
failure in the supply of water whether by the shutting off of the water to make
repairs or connections, or for any cause whatsoever. (Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
10-5-13: MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS:
   A.   Sprinklers Required: Users are required to use a nozzle, sprinkler or
other similar device for irrigation. It shall be unlawful for any user, while
irrigating, to run water from an open faucet or hose.
   B.   Irrigation Schedules: Irrigation from the city irrigation system may be
scheduled to occur on alternate days by order of the city council or designated
city official. If an order is instituted, homes with a street address ending
with an odd number shall irrigate on odd numbered days and homes with a street
address ending with an even number shall irrigate on even numbered days. (Ord.
16-561A, 11-8-2016)
10-5-14: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Interference And Obstruction With City Irrigation System: It shall be
unlawful for any person, except one duly authorized by the city, to operate,
interfere with, or connect anything with any portion of the city irrigation
system, i.e., valves, pipes, shutoff valves, ditches, pump stations. Further,
it shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the access to any city
irrigation system appurtenances.
   B.   Malicious Or Wilful Waste Of Water: It shall be unlawful for any person
to allow or permit the waste of irrigation water by allowing said water to flow
upon or into any storm or sanitary sewer, street, alley or other public right
of way, or by allowing said water to flow on or upon adjacent or adjoining
property so as to cause unnecessary inconvenience or expense to the owner of
such adjacent or adjoining property or by using more of said water than good
husbandry requires for the maintenance and cultivation of premises being
irrigated. The city will make a visual determination of where water has been
wasted and shall notify the user of that determination in writing. It shall
then be the user's responsibility to make the necessary repairs, or to
institute actions that will correct that situation within thirty (30) days of
the city's notification to the user.
   C.   Interconnection With Potable Water System: It shall be unlawful for any
person to interconnect or cause to be interconnected the potable and nonpotable
portions, distribution systems or service lines of dual water supplies or
extensions thereof without the installation of an inspected and approved
reduced pressure type backflow prevention device.
   D.   Illegally Turning On Irrigation Water: It shall be unlawful for any
person who, after the irrigation water has been turned off to the property on
account of nonpayment of assessments and/or fees, or other violation of the
rules and regulations pertaining to the irrigation system, to turn on or permit
the irrigation water to be turned on, or use or permit the irrigation water to
be used without authority. (Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
10-5-15: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall be
served by the city with a written notice stating the nature of the violation
and provided a specified maximum period of time, said period not to exceed
thirty (30) days, for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall,
within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all
violations.
   B.   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in subsection A of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
and on conviction thereof shall be subject to fine and/or imprisonment up to
but not exceeding the maximum penalties set forth in Idaho Code section 50-302,
as amended. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed
a separate offense.
   C.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become
liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the city by
reason of such violation. (Ord. 16-561A, 11-8-2016)
10-5-16: PETITION TO EXCLUDE PROPERTY FROM GLENNS FERRY MUNICIPAL IRRIGATION
SYSTEM:
   A.   Any person or legal entity seeking to exclude real property from the
municipal irrigation system must file with the city clerk a petition therefor
on a form approved by the city council and pay the fee for the processing of
the petition as established by resolution.
   B.   Upon the filing of a petition to exclude real property from the
municipal irrigation system, the city clerk shall:
      1.   Transmit a copy of the petition to the city engineer, the public
works director or water master, and the King Hill irrigation district.
      2.   Set the matter for hearing.
      3.   Publish a notice of public hearing not less than seven (7) days in
advance of the hearing and provide a copy to the petitioner, the city engineer,
the public works director or water master, and the King Hill irrigation
district.
      4.   Obtain a copy of the then current ad valorem tax notice for the
subject property.
   C.   A public hearing shall be held at which time the city council shall
receive the reports of the city clerk, the public works director or water
master, the city engineer, the King Hill irrigation district, the applicant,
and any protestant with relevant evidence.
   D.   The real property may be excluded from the municipal irrigation system
if the following conditions have been met:
      1.   The applicant is the owner of the real property which is the subject
of the petition;
      2.   The real property description of the subject real property is
verified to be correct;
      3.   The real property is a parcel of greater than five (5) acres;
      4.   The real property is being used for agricultural purposes
exclusively and the owner has no immediate plans to change the existing
agricultural use; and/or
      5.   The irrigation allotment and/or irrigation schedule administered by
the city as opposed to the irrigation allotment or irrigation schedule
applicable to the real property adversely affects the agricultural use of the
real property; and/or
      6.   The real property is not being served by the distribution system of
the municipal irrigation system; and/or
      7.   A reason demonstrated by a preponderance of the evidence that the
exclusion from the municipal irrigation system of the real property is in the
best interests of the use of the real property and of the continued operation
and maintenance of the municipal irrigation system.
   E.   The city council shall make a determination on the matter as to whether
to grant or deny the petition for exclusion of real property from the municipal
irrigation system and shall then prepare its findings of fact, conclusions of
law and order of decision and notify the petitioner, and any protestants who
demand notice of decision, and the King Hill irrigation district, which order
shall be the final action of the city.
   F.   In the event the city council shall determine to grant the petition for
the exclusion of real property from the municipal irrigation system, it shall
direct the city attorney to prepare the necessary ordinance. (Ord. 16-561A, 11-
8-2016)
10-5-17: SEVERABILITY:
It is the intention of the council that the provisions of this chapter are
severable, and if any provision of this chapter shall be declared
unconstitutional or invalid by the judgment or decree of a court of competent
jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect or
invalidate any of the remaining provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 16-561A, 11-
8-2016)
TITLE 11
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Authority
11-1-3: Jurisdiction
11-1-4: Conflicting Provisions
11-1-5: Use Districts Established
11-1-6: Official Zoning Map
11-1-7: Appeals
11-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known as the ZONING ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF GLENNS FERRY,
and includes, in addition to the text, the "Official Zoning Map" as is now or
hereafter adopted and/or amended by ordinance and shall have the same force and
effect as if said map or maps are fully set forth and described herein. Said
map(s) shall be filed in the office of the city clerk. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-1-2: AUTHORITY:
This zoning ordinance is adopted pursuant to authority granted by chapter 65,
title 67 of the Idaho Code and article 12, section 2 of the Idaho constitution,
as amended. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-1-3: JURISDICTION:
These regulations shall apply to the development of all land within the defined
city limits, to property outside the city limits for which annexation has been
requested, to land the city has jurisdiction over pursuant to chapter 65, title
67 Idaho Code, and under the area of city impact agreement as negotiated
between the city of Glenns Ferry and Elmore County. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-1-4: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
Whenever the requirements of this title are in conflict with the requirements
of this or any other lawfully adopted ordinances, rules or regulations, the
most restrictive, or that imposing the higher standards, shall govern. (Ord.
487, 7-23-2002)
11-1-5: USE DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Established: The following use districts are hereby established:
A   Agricultural
R-1 Single-family residential
R-2 Mixed residential
R-3 Multiple-family residential
R-4 Recreational
C   Commercial
DO  Downtown overlay district
M-1 Light industrial
M-2 Heavy industrial
 
   B.   Use Of Land Or Premises: Land or premises shall be used, unless
otherwise provided in this title, only in conformity with the regulations set
forth by this title for the use district in which such land or premises are
located.
   C.   Erection, Alteration Or Use: No building or structure shall be erected,
structurally altered or used, unless otherwise provided in this title, except
in conformity with the regulations set forth by this title for the use district
in which such building or structure is located.
   D.   Minimum Requirements: For the purpose of ensuring orderly development
and to provide adequate access for firefighting equipment and other services to
all buildings, no residence or commercial building shall be erected or moved
onto any lot, tract or parcel of land in any use district adopted under the
provisions of this title unless said lot, tract or parcel of land meets the
minimum requirements of this title and has reasonably efficient access for
vehicular traffic and has been legally subdivided; and provided further, that a
building permit has been issued for construction of a residence with a private
easement where, in the opinion of the commission, the following conditions have
been met:
      1.   Minimum easement width of twenty feet (20').
      2.   Maximum easement length of four hundred feet (400').
      3.   Minimum turnaround radius of forty feet (40').
      4.   Maximum grade of ten percent (10%).
      5.   The easement must serve land which otherwise would not have access
to a public road. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-1-6: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
   A.   District Boundaries: The boundaries of use districts shall be
established and clearly indicated upon the zoning map adopted as though fully
set forth in this title.
   B.   Amendments: All amendments of the official zoning map shall follow the
procedure set forth in chapter 17 of this title. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-1-7: APPEALS:
   A.   Appeal To Council: Appeals to the council concerning interpretation or
administration of this title may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any
officer or bureau of the legislative authority affected by any decision of the
planning and zoning administrator (hereinafter "administrator"). Such appeal
shall be taken within twenty (20) days after the decision of the administrator
by filing with the administrator and with the council a notice of appeal
specifying the grounds upon which the appeal is being taken. The administrator
shall transmit to the council all the papers constituting the record upon which
the appeal is based.
   B.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of
the action taken unless the administrator certifies to the council after the
notice of appeal is filed with him that by reason of facts stated in the
application, a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril of life and
property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a
restraining order which may be granted by the council or by a court based upon
an application, with notice to the administrator showing due cause. (Ord. 487,
7-23-2002)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: General Definitions
11-2-1: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, certain terms are defined as set forth. All
words in the present tense include the future tense; the plural includes the
singular, and all words in the singular include the plural unless the natural
construction of the sentence indicates otherwise. The word "shall" is
mandatory.
ACCESSORY BUILDING: A building that is subordinate to, and incidental to the
principal building on the same lot, but does not include any building
containing a "dwelling unit" as hereinafter defined.
ACCESSORY USE: A use incidental and subordinate to the principal use of the
same premises. Accessory uses must relate to the principal use of the property.
AGRICULTURE OR AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITIES: Tilling of soil, horticulture, raising
crops, livestock, dairying, including all uses customarily accessory and
incidental thereto; but excluding slaughterhouses and commercial feedlots.
AIRPORT: Any area of land or water which is used or intended for use by
aircraft and including the necessary accessory structures or facilities located
thereon.
ANIMAL, AGRICULTURAL: Animals normally kept for commercial production and sale,
utility, and/or family food production, not to include large animals.
ANIMAL HOSPITAL: Any building or portion thereof designed or used for the care
or treatment of cats, dogs, or other animals.
ANIMAL, LARGE: Including, and not limited to, animals to be considered, at
maturity, "large" such as cattle, horses, donkeys, mules, llamas, alpacas,
emus, and ostriches.
AUTOMOBILE SALES LOT: The premises on which new or used passenger automobiles,
trailers, campers, boats, recreational vehicles, or trucks in operating
condition are displayed in the open for sale or trade, and where no repair or
service work is done.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: The premises used primarily for the retail sale and
delivery to the vehicle of motor vehicle fuel and of lubricating oils, tires
and incidental vehicular accessories, and providing vehicular lubrication and
related services, including minor motor vehicle repairs.
AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD: Any use of premises, excluding fully enclosed
buildings, on which two (2) or more motor vehicles not in operating condition
are standing more than thirty (30) days, or on which used motor vehicles, or
parts thereof, are dismantled or stored.
BLOCK: The space along one side of a street between the two (2) nearest
intersecting streets, or between an intersecting street and a right of way,
waterway or other similar barrier, whichever is lesser.
BOARDING HOUSE: A building other than a hotel or restaurant where meals and
overnight accommodations are provided for compensation to three (3) or more
persons, but not more than twelve (12) persons who are not members of the
householder's family.
BUILDING: Any structure with substantial walls and roof securely affixed to the
land and entirely separated on all sides from any other structure by space or
by walls in which there are no communicating doors, windows or opening, that is
designed or intended for the shelter, enclosure or protection of persons,
animals, chattels or property of any kind.
BUILDING, DETACHED: A building surrounded by open space on the same lot.
BUILDING, NONCONFORMING: Any building that does not conform to the requirements
of this title, such as, but not limited to, setbacks, lot coverage, height,
etc.
BUILDING, PUBLIC (GOVERNMENT): A building owned or used by the federal, state,
county or city government, or any political subdivision, agency or
instrumentality thereof.
BUSINESS OR COMMERCE: The purchase, sale, exchange or other transaction
involving the handling or disposition of any article, substance or commodity
for profit or livelihood, or the ownership or management of office buildings,
offices, recreation or amusement enterprises or the maintenance and use of
offices or professions and trades rendering services.
CHILDCARE FACILITY: Any facility where children regularly receive care and
supervision, usually unaccompanied by the children's parents, guardians or
custodians, and regardless of whether the facility does or does not provide any
instruction.
   A.   Exclusions: This use excludes the case of:
1. The operator's children or legal wards or children related by blood or
marriage;
2. Occasional personal guests; and
3. Children aged twelve (12) years and over.
Any home, place, or facility providing overnight custodial services for lodging
or boarding for the occupants therein shall not be considered a childcare
facility.
   B.   Types: There are three (3) types of childcare facilities:
1. Family daycare home: A childcare facility for six (6) or fewer children.
Babysitting services are an accessory use to residential uses.
2. Group daycare facility: A childcare facility for seven (7) to twelve (12)
children.
3. Daycare center: A childcare facility for thirteen (13) or more children.
CITY: The city of Glenns Ferry, Idaho.
CITY CLERK: The city clerk of the city.
COMMISSION: The planning and zoning commission of the city. The commission is
declared to be also the zoning commission of the city.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The comprehensive plan for the city officially adopted by
the council as such.
CONDITIONAL USE: A use or occupancy of a structure, or use of land, permitted
only upon issuance of a conditional use permit and subject to the limitations
and conditions specified therein.
COUNCIL: The city council of the city.
DECIBEL: A unit of measurement of the intensity (loudness) of sound weighted to
the A scale (dBA).
DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment, other than an automobile service
station, that is designed to accommodate the motor vehicles of patrons in such
manner as to permit the occupants of such vehicles, while remaining in the
vehicle, to make purchases or receive services.
DWELLING: A building, or a portion of a building, containing one or more
dwelling units. The term dwelling does not include any "trailer", "motel",
"camper", "recreational vehicle", or "boarding house" as defined by this
section.
DWELLING, HIGH RISE MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A multiple-family building or portion
thereof, containing five (5) or more stories and which may include off street
parking facilities, and having at least one passenger elevator to serve the
dwelling units.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A detached building designed for, and occupied
exclusively by one family.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms designed for, or used as a residence for not
more than one family, including all necessary household employees of such
family, and constituting a separate and independent housekeeping unit, with a
single kitchen permanently installed. The term does not imply or include such
types of occupancy as a lodging or boarding house, club, sorority, fraternity
or hotel.
FENCE, OPEN VISION: A fence that does not restrict or impede vision or sight
through the fence by more than twenty percent (20%).
FLOOR AREA, GROSS: The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors
including the exterior walls of a building or portion thereof.
FLOOR AREA, NET: That portion of the gross floor area of the building occupied
by the listed use or uses and shall include hallways, storage and packaging
space, dressing or rest rooms and laboratory or work rooms, provided however,
that floor space within the building reserved for parking or loading of
vehicles, and basement space used only for building maintenance and utilities
shall be excluded.
FRONTAGE: The portion of a lot, site, tract or parcel of land adjoining a
public or private right of way and measured as a length along said road.
HEIGHT, BUILDING: The vertical distance from the grade to the highest point of
the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof or the average
height of the highest gable of a pitch or hip roof.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any gainful occupation engaged in by an occupant of a dwelling
unit including handicrafts, dressmaking, millinery, laundering, preserving,
office of clergyman, teaching of music, dancing and other instruction when
limited to attendance of one pupil at a time and other like occupancies which
meet all of the following conditions:
   A.   The use is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling
for dwelling purposes.
   B.   The use is conducted entirely within a dwelling and is carried on by
the inhabitants thereof.
   C.   No article shall be sold or offered for sale on the premises, except
such as is produced by the occupants on the premises, and no mechanical or
electrical equipment shall be installed or maintained other than such is
customarily incidental to domestic use.
   D.   The use does not change the character of the dwelling or adversely
affect the uses permitted in the residential district.
   E.   No persons outside family residents are employed.
   F.   Not more than one-fourth (1/4) of the gross area of one floor of said
dwelling is used for such use.
   G.   No internal or external alterations or construction features not
customary for residential dwellings are involved.
   H.   Home occupations may not display a sign advertising the home occupation
1 .
HOSPITAL: An institution specializing in giving clinical, temporary, or
services of a medical or surgical nature to human patients and injured persons,
and licensed by the state of Idaho to provide facilities and services in
surgery, obstetrics, and general medical practices.
JUNKYARD: An outdoor space where junk, waste, discarded or salvaged materials
are stored or handled, including automobile wrecking yards, and yards for used
building materials and places or yards for storage of salvaged building and
structural steel materials and equipment; excluding yards or establishments for
the sale, purchase or storage of said cars or machinery in operable condition,
and the processing of used, discarded or salvaged materials as part of a
permitted manufacturing operation on the same premises.
KENNEL, COMMERCIAL: Any lot or premises or portion thereof, on which three (3)
or more dogs, cats or other household domestic animals are maintained,
harbored, possessed, boarded, bred or cared for in return for compensation or
kept for sale.
LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACE, OFF STREET: An open off street area of land other
than a street or public way, the principal use of which is for the standing,
loading and unloading of motor vehicles, tractors and trailers, to avoid undue
interference with public streets and alleys.
LOT: A unit of land described by metes and bounds or a portion of a recorded
subdivision so recorded for transfer of ownership.
LOT, CORNER: A lot which is bounded on two (2) or more sides by street lines;
where the angle of intersection does not exceed one hundred thirty five degrees
(135°).
LOT COVERAGE: The area of a lot occupied by the principal building or buildings
and all accessory buildings.
LOT LINE: The boundary property line encompassing a lot. The front lot line is
the boundary line which abuts a public street. For a corner lot, the owner may
select either street line as the front lot line. The rear lot line is the lot
line most nearly parallel to and most remote from the front property line. All
other lot lines are side lot lines. An interior lot line is a side line in
common with another lot.
LOT, WIDTH: The horizontal distance between side lot lines measured at right
angles to the depth at a point midway between the front and rear lot lines.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/340e5e600882dfb90300ed215b2bc1127270dae9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3704.png]
MOTEL: A building, or group of buildings on the same premises whether detached
or in connected rows, containing sleeping or dwelling units independently
accessible from the outside, with garage space or parking space located on the
premises and designed for, or occupied by, travelers. The term includes, but is
not limited to, any buildings or building groups designated as auto courts,
motor lodge, tourist courts or by any other title or sign intended to identify
them as providing lodging to motorists.
NONCONFORMING USE: Any use lawfully occupying a building, structure or land at
the effective date hereof or of subsequent amendments thereto, which does not
conform to the regulations for the district in which it is located.
NURSING HOME, CONVALESCENT HOME: A building housing any facility, however
named, whether operated for profit or not, the purpose of which is to provide
skilled nursing care and related medical services for two (2) or more
individuals suffering from illness, disease, injury, deformity, or requiring
care because of old age.
OPEN SPACE: Any open area free from structures, including, but not limited to,
parks, yards, playgrounds, beaches, waterways, and streets.
OUTDOOR ADVERTISING DISPLAY: A freestanding structure of any kind or character
erected or maintained for directing attention, or for outdoor advertising
purposes, which exceeds two hundred fifty six (256) square feet of gross sign
area.
PARKING LOT: An open, graded and surfaced area, other than a street or public
way, to be used for the storage, for limited periods of time, of operable
passenger automobiles and commercial vehicles, and available to the public,
whether for compensation, free, or as an accommodation to clients or customers.
PARKING SPACE: Usable space within a public or private parking area or a
building, not less than one hundred eighty (180) square feet (9' x 20'),
exclusive of access drives, aisles or ramps for the storage of one passenger
automobile or commercial vehicle.
PLAT: A map or representation of a subdivision or division of land into lots,
blocks, and roads to be filed as a public document.
PRINCIPAL USE: The specific purpose for which a lot is arranged, intended,
designed, occupied or maintained.
PROFESSIONAL OFFICE: An office primarily devoted to professional activities,
including real estate, insurance or other agency offices; an office of an
accountant, physician, teacher, dentist, engineer, lawyer or other recognized
professional for which specific training and/or licensing is required.
PUBLIC UTILITY FACILITY: A public utility facility involving construction of
facilities of a complex nature, including, but not limited to, station houses
or grounds, pumping stations, power substations, dam structures, fire stations,
telephone transmission stations, sewage disposal or storage stations, public
libraries, railroad transportation lines or spurs, railroad classification
yards, high voltage or high pressure transmission lines, or structures
principally used in interstate transmission of electricity, natural gas, or
fuel. The lot coverage, height and/or setback requirements for the zoning
district in which such use is located may be waived where the city council
finds the use will not significantly impair the use and enjoyment of
surrounding property.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A portable vehicular unit or structure used primarily for
vacations, extended travel, camping, and sports. Recreational vehicles (RVs)
may be self-propelled or towed. RVs may include, but are not limited to, motor
homes, converted buses, pickup campers and travel trailers.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: A plot of land upon which four (4) or more
recreational vehicles are located, established or maintained for occupancy of
recreational vehicles by the general public as temporary living quarters for
recreation or vacation purposes with a parking limit of six (6) months (with
exception).
REST HOME, ELDERLY HOUSING: Places where housing is provided to the elderly;
however, medical care is not administered.
RESTAURANT: Any land, building or part thereof, other than a boarding house or
bed and breakfast, where meals are provided for compensation, including, among
others, such uses as cafe, cafeteria, coffee shop, lunchroom, tearoom and
dining room.
RETAIL: The selling of goods to ultimate consumers for personal or household
consumption.
SCHOOL: An organization specializing in the instruction of students.
SCHOOL, ACADEMIC: An accredited school specializing in the instruction of
students in kindergarten through twelfth grade.
SCHOOL, PUBLIC: A free, tax supported school controlled by a local government
authority.
SETBACK AREA: The space on a lot required to be left open and unoccupied by
buildings or structures, either by the front, side or rear yard requirements of
this title, or by delineation on a recorded subdivision map.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/340e5e600882dfb90300ed215b2bc1127270dae9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3706.png]
SIGN: Any structure or natural object, such as a tree, rock, bush, and the
ground itself, or part thereof or device attached thereto or painted or
represented thereon, which shall be used to attract attention to any object,
product, place, activity, person, institution, organization or business, or
which shall display or include any letter, word, model, banner, flag, pennant,
insignia, device or representation used as, or which is in the nature of an
announcement, direction or advertisement. For the purpose of this definition,
the word "sign" does not include the flag, pennant or insignia of any nation,
state, city or other political unit, or any political, educational, charitable,
philanthropic, civic, professional, religious, or like campaign, drive,
movement, or event.
SIGN, ON PREMISES: A freestanding sign advertising or identifying an on
premises use or business.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the upper surface of any
floor and the upper surface of the floor next above, except that the topmost
story shall be that portion of a building included between the upper surface of
the topmost floor and the ceiling or roof above. If the finished floor
elevation directly above a basement or cellar is more than six feet (6') above
grade, such basement or cellar shall be considered a story.
STREET: A public or private right of way which provides vehicular and
pedestrian access to adjacent properties. The term "street" includes the terms
"highway", "thoroughfare", "road", "avenue", "boulevard", "lane", "place" and
other such terms.
STREET, PUBLIC: A city, county, state or federal owned right of way constructed
for vehicular transportation.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, except fences, not exceeding three
feet (3') in height, which requires permanent location on the ground or is
attached to something having location on the ground.
STRUCTURE, NONCONFORMING: See definition of Building, Nonconforming.
SUBDIVISION: The division of land into lots, parcels, tracts, or sites for
purposes of sale or lease, whether immediate or future, and shall include a
redivision of land or future division.
TAVERN OR LOUNGE: A building where alcoholic beverages are sold for consumption
on the premises not including restaurants where the principal business is
serving food.
TRAILER: Any vehicle designed to be towed or transported by another vehicle.
The term "trailer" does not include mobile homes that exceed ten feet by fifty
feet (10' x 50').
TRAILER PARK: A mobile home park.
USE, NONCONFORMING: See definition of Nonconforming Use.
VARIANCE: A modification of the bulk requirements of this title as to lot size,
lot coverage, width, depth, front yard, side yard, rear yard, setbacks, parking
space, height of buildings, or other ordinance provision affecting the size or
shape of a structure or the placement of the structure upon lots, or the size
of lots. A variance shall not be considered a right or special privilege, but
may be granted to an applicant only upon showing of undue hardship because of
characteristics of the site and that the variance is not in conflict with the
public interest.
YARD: An open space on the same lot with a principal building or group of
buildings, which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its lowest level upward,
except as otherwise permitted in this title, and which extends along a lot line
and at right angles thereto to a depth or width specified in the yard
regulations for the district in which the lot is located.
YARD, FRONT: The yard extending across the full width of the lot adjacent to
the front street line.
YARD, REAR: The yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying
between the rear line of the lot and the nearest line of the principal
building.
YARD, SIDE: The yard lying between the nearest wall of the principal building,
accessory building and side lot line, and extending from the front yard or the
front lot line to the rear yard.
ZONING COMMISSION: The planning and zoning commission (see definition of
Commission). (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002; amd. Ord. 490, 9-3-2002; 2004 Code; Ord.
523, 5-8-2007; Ord. 531, 7-8-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  11-3-5, last paragraph, of this title.
CHAPTER 3
A AGRICULTURAL ZONE
SECTION:
11-3-1: Purpose
11-3-2: Restrictions
11-3-3: Lot Coverage (Rep. by Ord. 531, 7-8-2008)
11-3-4: Uses Permitted
11-3-5: Uses Prohibited
11-3-6: Height Regulations
11-3-7: Setback Requirements
11-3-8: Conditional Uses
11-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the A agricultural zone is to set aside land to guide
development at the community borders. These borders are deemed important for
preservation of rural character. Such areas may be considered to be in
transition from rural agricultural activities to more concentrated development.
(Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-3-2: RESTRICTIONS:
In the A agricultural zone, no building or premises shall be used nor shall any
building or structure hereafter be erected or altered (unless provided by this
title) except for one or more of the uses set forth in section
11-3-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-3-3: LOT COVERAGE:
(Rep. by Ord. 531, 7-8-2008)
11-3-4: USES PERMITTED:
   A.   Property Of Six Thousand Square Feet Or Greater With Access To Public
Street: On property not less than six thousand (6,000) square feet with a
minimum width of fifty feet (50') and deeded access to a public street the
following uses are permitted:
"Home occupation" as defined in section
11-2-1 of this title.
One single-family dwelling and accessory buildings. (Ord. 531, 7-8-2008)
   B.   Property Of One Acre Or Greater And A Minimum Of One Hundred Feet Wide
With Frontage On A Public Street: On property not less than one acre (43,560
square feet) with a minimum width of one hundred feet (100'); with a minimum
one hundred feet (100') of continuous frontage on a public street the following
uses are permitted:
Cemetery; provided it meets all standards of Idaho Code and is approved by the
Central health district and the Glenns Ferry city engineer.
"Home occupation" as defined in section
11-2-1 of this title.
Keeping and care of agricultural and large animals, of this code:
      1.   On a parcel of forty three thousand five hundred sixty (43,560)
square feet the number of animals allowed shall be limited to four (4) "large"
or eight (8) "agricultural" animals. Every additional acre will allow four (4)
additional large or eight (8) additional agricultural animals.
      2.   Buildings, runs, pens, enclosures, stables, and corrals (not
perimeter fencing) housing agricultural animals or their tack, feed, or
equipment shall be set back at least fifty feet (50') from any residential
structures.
One single-family dwelling and accessory buildings. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002; amd.
Ord. 531, 7-8-2008)
11-3-5: USES PROHIBITED:
Prohibited uses in the A agricultural zone include, but are not limited to, the
following: (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
General commercial uses, except as specifically permitted in this zone.
General manufacturing uses, except as specifically permitted in this zone.
Outdoor advertising displays (billboards), except a sign identifying home
occupation, or a sign indicating proposed sale or rental of the property on
which the sign is located. (Ord. 531, 7-8-2008)
11-3-6: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
Dwellings or portions erected hereafter shall not exceed two and one-half (21/
2) stories or thirty five feet (35'), whichever is greater. (Ord. 487, 7-23-
2002)
11-3-7: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Front Yard: No building or structure shall be erected closer than
twenty feet (20') from the front property line or the closest edge of the
street easement.
   B.   Side Yard: No building shall be erected closer than five feet (5') to
any side property line; except corner lots shall maintain a fifteen foot (15')
side yard adjacent to the street that intersects the street upon which the
building fronts.
   C.   Rear Yard: No building or structure shall be erected closer than three
feet (3') from the rear lot line. (Ord 487, 7-23-2002; amd. Ord. 531, 7-8-2008;
Ord. 25-608, 2-11-2025)
11-3-8: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses may be considered by the governing body in accordance with
chapter 12 of this title:
Airport.
Bed and breakfast:
   A. Maximum of seven (7) rooms for lodging of paying guests;
   B.   Must provide one off street parking space for each guestroom as well as
all vehicles owned by permanent residents;
   C.   Rooms cannot be added for the sole purpose of use as a bed and
breakfast facility;
   D.   One sign, limited to four (4) square feet;
   E.   May provide meals to lodging guests only;
   F.   No other commercial uses are permitted in conjunction, for example:
restaurant, meeting hall, group home, etc.
Commercial boarding kennel.
Communications tower.
Golf course and driving range.
Grain elevator and bulk storage such as for potatoes, hay, and other similar
uses.
Land application of treated wastewater.
Mining, dredging and excavation of sand, dirt, gravel, or other aggregate.
Private amusement park, ballpark, racetrack, or similar uses.
Public or private school.
Public utility facility.
Sewage treatment facilities.
No other use shall be allowed unless set forth herein. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002;
amd. Ord. 504, 8-17-2004)
CHAPTER 4
R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONE
SECTION:
11-4-1: Purpose
11-4-2: Restrictions
11-4-3: Area Requirements
11-4-4: Uses Permitted
11-4-5: Lot Coverage (Rep. by Ord. 531, 7-8-2008)
11-4-6: Height Regulations
11-4-7: Setback Requirements
11-4-8: Accessory Uses
11-4-9: Conditional Uses
11-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the R-1 single-family residential zone is to maintain
residential neighborhoods, to prevent overcrowding and to encourage the
development of low density areas that are best suited for residential purposes.
(Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-4-2: RESTRICTIONS:
In the R-1 single-family residential zone, no building or premises shall be
used nor shall any building or structure hereafter be erected or altered
(unless provided by this title) except for one or more of the uses set forth in
section
11-4-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-4-3: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
The following site area requirements apply to the R-1 single-family residential
zone, except that where a lot has less area or frontage than required in this
chapter as shown by an official plat on file in the office of the county clerk
or shown by the last conveyance of record at the time of the passage hereof;
these regulations shall not prohibit one private dwelling and its accessory
buildings on such lot. Setback area requirements are free from buildings or
structures horizontally and vertically. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002; amd. Ord. 25-607,
2-11-2025)
11-4-4: USES PERMITTED:
   A.   Property Of Nine Thousand Square Feet Or Greater And A Minimum Of Fifty
Feet Wide: On property of not less than nine thousand (9,000) square feet and
on property with a minimum lot width of fifty feet (50') of continuous frontage
on a public street, the following uses are permitted: (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002;
amd. Ord. 523, 5-8-2007)
"Home occupation" as defined in section
11-2-1 of this title.
Nonprofit park, playground, or recreational facility.
One single-family dwelling and accessory buildings.
Temporary buildings and temporary uses necessary for construction purposes for
a period not to exceed one year.
   B.   Property Not Less Than Fifteen Thousand Square Feet With A Minimum Lot
Width Of One Hundred Twenty Five Feet: On property of not less than fifteen
thousand (15,000) square feet and a minimum lot width of one hundred twenty
five feet (125') with a minimum of one hundred twenty five feet (125') of
continuous frontage on a public street, the following uses are permitted:
Any of the uses listed in subsection A of this section.
Church.
Hospital.
Public or private academic school.
Retirement, convalescent, or nursing home. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-4-5: LOT COVERAGE:
(Rep. by Ord. 531, 7-8-2008)
11-4-6: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
Any building or structure or portions erected hereafter shall not exceed two
and one-half (21/2) stories or thirty five feet (35'), whichever is greater.
(Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-4-7: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Front Yard: No building or structure shall be erected closer than
twenty feet (20') from the front property line or the closest edge of the
street easement.
   B.   Side Yard: No building shall be erected closer than five feet (5') from
any side property line.
   C.   Rear Yard: No building or structure shall be erected closer than three
feet (3') from the rear lot line. A record of survey must be provided to place
building or structure up to rear lot line. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002; amd. Ord. 531,
7-8-2008)
11-4-8: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses are permitted if constructed either at the same time or
subsequent to the primary allowed building. Such uses shall be limited to one
story in height and shall not encroach upon the front yard. (Ord. 487, 7-23-
2002)
11-4-9: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses may be considered by the commission in accordance with
chapter 12 of this title:
Bed and breakfast:
   A.   Maximum of seven (7) rooms for lodging of paying guests;
   B.   Must provide one off street parking space for each guestroom as well as
all vehicles owned by permanent residents;
   C.   Rooms cannot be added for the sole purpose of use as a bed and
breakfast facility;
   D.   One sign, limited to four (4) square feet;
   E.   May provide meals to lodging guests only;
   F.   No other commercial uses are permitted in conjunction, for example:
restaurant, meeting hall, group home, etc.
Cemetery.
Golf courses and driving ranges.
Nonprofit community clubhouse.
Public utility facilities. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
CHAPTER 5
R-2 MIXED RESIDENTIAL ZONE
SECTION:
11-5-1: Purpose
11-5-2: Restrictions
11-5-3: Area Requirements
11-5-4: Uses Permitted
11-5-5: Lot Coverage (Rep. by Ord. 531, 7-8-2008)
11-5-6: Height Regulations
11-5-7: Setback Requirements
11-5-8: Accessory Uses
11-5-9: Conditional Uses
11-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the R-2 mixed residential zone is to provide medium density
residential development, well designed and properly located in the community
pattern. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-5-2: RESTRICTIONS:
In the R-2 mixed residential zone, no building or premises shall be used nor
shall any building or structure, hereafter, be erected or altered (unless
provided by this title) except for one or more of the uses set forth in section
11-5-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-5-3: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
The following site area requirements apply to the R-2 mixed residential zone,
except that where a lot has less area or frontage than required in this chapter
as shown by an official plat on file in the office of the county clerk or shown
by the last conveyance of record at the time of the passage hereof; these
regulations shall not prohibit one private dwelling and its accessory buildings
on such lot.
Setback area requirements are free from buildings or structures horizontally
and vertically. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002; amd. Ord. 25-607, 2-11-2025)
11-5-4: USES PERMITTED:
   A.   Property Of Six Thousand Square Feet Or Greater And A Minimum Lot Width
Of Fifty Feet: On property of not less than six thousand (6,000) square feet,
and on property with a minimum lot width of fifty feet (50') of continuous
frontage on a public street, the following uses are permitted:
"Home occupation" as defined in section
11-2-1 of this title.
Multiple-family dwelling limited to not more than six (6) units (each unit
above 2 units shall add square feet to the minimum lot size requirement).
Nonprofit park, playground, or recreational facility.
One single-family dwelling with the usual accessory structures.
Temporary buildings and temporary uses necessary for construction purposes for
a period not to exceed one year.
   B.   Property No Less Than Fifteen Thousand Square Feet With A Minimum Lot
Width Of One Hundred Twenty Five Feet: On property of not less than fifteen
thousand (15,000) square feet with a minimum lot width of one hundred twenty
five feet (125') and frontage on a public street not less than equal to its lot
width, the following uses are permitted:
Any of the uses listed in subsection A of this section.
Church.
Hospital.
Public or private academic school.
Retirement, convalescent or nursing home. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002; amd. Ord. 523,
5-8-2007; Ord. 25-606, 2-11-2025)
11-5-5: LOT COVERAGE:
(Rep. by Ord. 531, 7-8-2008)
11-5-6: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
Any building or structure or portions erected hereafter shall not exceed two
and one-half (21/2) stories or thirty five feet (35'), whichever is greater.
(Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-5-7: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Front Yard: No building or structure shall be erected closer than
twenty feet (20') from the front property line or the closest edge of the
street easement.
   B.   Side Yard: No building shall be erected closer than five feet (5') from
any side property line.
   C.   Rear Yard: No building or structure shall be erected closer than three
feet (3') from the rear lot line. A record of survey must be provided to place
building or structure up to rear lot line. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002; amd. Ord. 531,
7-8-2008; Ord. 608, 2-11-2025)
11-5-8: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses are permitted if constructed either at the same time or
subsequent to the primary allowed building. Such uses shall be limited to one
story in height and shall not encroach upon the front yard. (Ord. 487, 7-23-
2002)
11-5-9: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses may be considered by the governing body in accordance with
chapter 12 of this title:
Bed and breakfast:
   A.   Maximum of seven (7) rooms for lodging of paying guests.
   B.   Must provide one off street parking space for each guestroom as well as
all vehicles owned by permanent residents;
   C.   Rooms cannot be added for the sole purpose of use as a bed and
breakfast facility.
   D.   One sign, limited to four (4) square feet.
   E.   May provide meals to lodging guests only.
   F.   No other commercial uses are permitted in conjunction, for example:
restaurant, meeting hall, group home, etc.
Cemetery.
Childcare facility.
Golf course and driving range.
Multiple-family dwelling exceeding six (6) units.
Nonprofit community clubhouse.
Public utility facility. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
CHAPTER 6
R-3 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONE
SECTION:
11-6-1: Purpose
11-6-2: Restrictions
11-6-3: Area Requirements
11-6-4: Uses Permitted
11-6-5: Lot Coverage (Rep. by Ord. 531, 7-8-2008)
11-6-6: Height Regulations
11-6-7: Setback Requirements
11-6-8: Accessory Uses
11-6-9: Conditional Uses
11-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the R-3 multiple-family residential zone is to provide for
medium to high density residential development; and in certain appropriate
areas, upon city approval, permit mobile home park development. (Ord. 487, 7-
23-2002)
11-6-2: RESTRICTIONS:
In the R-3 multiple-family residential zone, no building or premises shall be
used nor shall any building or structure hereafter be erected or altered
(unless provided by this title) except for one or more of the uses set forth in
section
11-6-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-6-3: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
The following site area requirements apply to the R-3 multiple-family
residential zone, except that where a lot has less area or frontage than
required in this chapter as shown by an official plat on file in the office of
the county clerk or shown by the last conveyance of record at the time of the
passage hereof; these regulations shall not prohibit one private dwelling and
its accessory buildings on such lot. Setback area requirements are free from
buildings and structures horizontally and vertically. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002;
amd. Ord. 25-607, 2-11-2025)
11-6-4: USES PERMITTED:
   A.   Property Of Six Thousand Square Feet Or Greater And A Minimum Lot Width
Of Fifty Feet: On property of not less than six thousand (6,000) square feet,
and on property with a minimum lot width of fifty feet (50') of continuous
frontage on a public street, the following uses are permitted:
Childcare facility.
"Home occupation" as defined in section
11-2-1 of this title.
Multiple-family dwelling, except each unit above two (2) shall add one thousand
feet (1,000') to the minimum lot size requirement.
Nonprofit park, playground, or recreational facility.
One single-family dwelling and accessory structures.
Professional office.
Temporary buildings and temporary uses necessary for construction purposes for
a period not to exceed one year.
   B.   Property No Less Than Fifteen Thousand Square Feet With A Minimum Lot
Width Of One Hundred Twenty Five Feet: On all property of not less than fifteen
thousand (15,000) square feet with a minimum lot width of one hundred twenty
five feet (125') and on a public street frontage not less than equal to its lot
width, the following uses are permitted:
Any of the uses listed in subsection A of this section.
Church.
Club or lodge of a service and fraternal character when not operated for
profit.
Hospital.
Nonprofit community clubhouse.
Public or private academic school.
Retirement, convalescent home; nursing home. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002; amd. Ord.
523, 5-8-2007; Ord. 25-606, 2-11-2025)
11-6-5: LOT COVERAGE:
(Rep. by Ord. 531, 7-8-2008)
11-6-6: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
Any building or structure hereafter erected shall not exceed five (5) stories
or forty five feet (45') in height, whichever is greater. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-6-7: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Front Yard: No building or structure shall be erected closer than
twenty feet (20') from the front property line or the closest edge of the
street easement.
   B.   Side Yard: No building shall be erected closer than five feet (5') from
any side property line.
   C.   Rear Yard: No building or structure shall be erected closer than three
feet (3') from the rear lot line. A record of survey must be provided to place
building or structure up to rear lot line. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002; amd. Ord. 531,
7-8-2008; Ord. 25-608, 2-11-2025)
11-6-8: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses are permitted if constructed either at the same time or
subsequent to the primary allowed building. Such uses shall be limited to two
(2) stories in height and shall not encroach upon the front yard. (Ord. 487, 7-
23-2002)
11-6-9: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses may be considered by the commission in accordance with
chapter 12 of this title:
Bed and breakfast:
   A.   Maximum of seven (7) rooms for lodging of paying guests;
   B.   Must provide one off street parking space for each guestroom as well as
all vehicles owned by permanent residents;
   C.   Rooms cannot be added for the sole purpose of use as a bed and
breakfast facility;
   D.   Sign shall be limited to four (4) square feet;
   E.   May provide meals for lodging guests only;
   F.   No other commercial uses are permitted in conjunction, for example:
restaurant, meeting hall, group home, etc.
Childcare facility.
Mobile home park.
Public utility facility.
Recreational vehicle park. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002; amd. Ord. 492, 11-6-2002)
CHAPTER 7
R-4 RECREATIONAL ZONE
SECTION:
11-7-1: Purpose
11-7-2: Restrictions
11-7-3: Area Requirements
11-7-4: Uses Permitted
11-7-5: Lot Coverage (Rep. by Ord. 531, 7-8-2008)
11-7-6: Height Regulations
11-7-7: Setback Requirements
11-7-8: Accessory Uses
11-7-9: Conditional Uses
11-7-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the R-4 recreational zone is to provide for a mix of
residential, passive and active recreational use and recreation related
commercial uses. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-7-2: RESTRICTIONS:
In the R-4 recreational zone, no building or premises shall be used nor shall
any building or structure hereafter be erected or altered (unless provided by
this title) except for one or more of the uses set forth in section
11-7-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-7-3: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
The following site area requirements apply to the R-4 recreational zone, except
that where a lot has less area or frontage than required in this chapter as
shown by an official plat on file in the office of the county clerk or shown by
the last conveyance of record at the time of the passage hereof; these
regulations shall not prohibit one private dwelling and its accessory buildings
on such lot. Setback area requirements are free from buildings and structures
horizontally and vertically.(Ord. 487, 7-23-2002; amd. Ord. 25-607, 2-11-2025)
11-7-4: USES PERMITTED:
   A.   Property Of Six Thousand Square Feet Or Greater And A Minimum Lot Width
Of Fifty Feet: On property of not less than six thousand (6,000) square feet,
and on property with a minimum lot width of fifty feet (50') of continuous
frontage on a public street, the following uses are permitted:
Bed and breakfast:
      1.   Maximum of seven (7) rooms for lodging of paying guests.
      2.   Must provide one off street parking space for each guestroom as well
as all vehicles owned by permanent residents.
      3.   Rooms cannot be added for the sole purpose of use as a bed and
breakfast facility.
      4.   Sign shall be limited to four (4) square feet.
      5.   May provide meals for lodging guests only.
      6.   No other commercial uses are permitted in conjunction, for example:
restaurant, meeting hall, group home, etc.
Golf courses.
"Home occupation" as defined in section
11-2-1 of this title.
Marinas.
Nonprofit park, playground, or recreational facility.
One single-family dwelling and accessory structures.
Temporary buildings and temporary uses necessary for construction purposes for
a period not to exceed one year.
   B.   Property No Less Than Fifteen Thousand Square Feet With A Minimum Lot
Width Of One Hundred Twenty Five Feet: On all property of not less than fifteen
thousand (15,000) square feet with a minimum lot width of one hundred twenty
five feet (125') and on a public street frontage not less than equal to its lot
width, the following uses are permitted:
Any of the uses listed in subsection A of this section.
Church.
Club or lodge of a service and fraternal character when not operated for
profit.
Nonprofit community clubhouse.
Retirement, convalescent home; nursing home. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002; amd. Ord.
523, 5-8-2007; Ord. 25-606, 2-11-2025)
11-7-5: LOT COVERAGE:
(Rep. by Ord. 531, 7-8-2008)
11-7-6: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
Any building or structure hereafter erected shall not exceed three (3) stories
or thirty-five feet (35') in height, whichever is greater. (Ord. 487, 7-23-
2002; amd. Ord. 21-587, 12-28-2021)
11-7-7: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Front Yard: No building or structure shall be erected closer than
twenty feet (20') from the front property line or the closest edge of the
street easement.
   B.   High Water Mark: No building or structure shall be erected closer than
thirty feet (30') of from the high water mark.
   C.   Side Yard: No building shall be erected closer than five ten feet (5')
from any side property line.
   D.   Rear Yard: No building or structure shall be erected closer than three
feet (3') from the rear lot line. A record of survey must be provided to place
building or structure up to rear lot line. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002; amd. Ord. 531,
7-8-2008; Ord. 25-608, 2-11-2025)
11-7-8: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses are permitted if constructed either at the same time or
subsequent to the primary allowed building. Such uses shall be limited to one
story in height and shall not encroach upon the front yard or side yard. (Ord.
487, 7-23-2002)
11-7-9: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses may be considered by the commission in accordance with
chapter 12 of this title:
Activities associated with recreational use.
Bed and breakfast greater than seven (7) rooms.
Motels.
On premises signs.
Public utility facility.
Recreational retail and rental outlet.
Recreational vehicle park.
Resorts.
Restaurants. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002; amd. Ord. 490, 9-3-2002; Ord. 492, 11-6-
2002)
CHAPTER 8
C COMMERCIAL ZONE
SECTION:
11-8-1: Purpose
11-8-2: Restrictions
11-8-3: Area Requirements
11-8-4: Uses Permitted
11-8-5: Lot Coverage (Rep. by Ord. 531, 7-8-2008)
11-8-6: Height Regulations
11-8-7: Setback Requirements
11-8-8: Accessory Uses
11-8-9: Conditional Uses
11-8-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the C commercial zone is to provide commercial areas to fulfill
the need for a retail and service trade area within the community. (Ord. 487,
7-23-2002)
11-8-2: RESTRICTIONS:
In the C commercial zone, no building or premises shall be used nor shall any
building or structure hereafter be erected or altered (unless provided by this
title) except for one or more of the uses set forth in section
11-8-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-8-3: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
There shall be no minimum lot size except that residential uses within the C
commercial zone require the same area setbacks and parking requirements as set
forth in the R-3 multiple-family zone. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-8-4: USES PERMITTED:
Automobile sales lot.
Bowling alley.
Childcare facility.
Church.
Club or lodge.
Golf course and/or driving range.
Hospital.
Hotel.
Light manufacturing, provided such use does not:
   A.   Adversely impact the surrounding residents and businesses; or
   B.   Require excessive use of city sewer, water and other services.
Motel.
Residential uses.
Restaurant.
Retail store and/or service shop.
Retirement, convalescent or nursing home.
Theater. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002; amd. Ord. 531, 7-8-2008; Ord. 22-590, 4-12-2022)
11-8-5: LOT COVERAGE:
(Rep. by Ord. 531, 7-8-2008)
11-8-6: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
Any building or structure hereafter erected shall not exceed five (5) stories
or forty five feet (45') in height, whichever is greater. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-8-7: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Front Yard: The front yard setback shall be a minimum of twenty feet
(20') when a lot abuts, touches or adjoins, or is across the street from a
residential zone; otherwise, no front yard setback is required.
   B.   Side Yard: The side yard setback shall be a minimum of twenty feet
(20') when a lot abuts, touches or adjoins, or is across the street from a
residential zone; otherwise, no side yard setback is required. (Ord. 487, 7-23-
2002)
   C.   Rear Yard: The rear yard setback shall be a minimum of fifteen feet
(15') when a lot abuts, touches or adjoins, or is across the street from a
residential zone; otherwise, no rear yard setback is required. (Ord. 531, 7-8-
2008)
11-8-8: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses are permitted if constructed either at the same time or
subsequent to the primary allowed building. Such structures shall be limited to
two (2) stories in height and shall not encroach upon the front yard. (Ord.
487, 7-23-2002)
11-8-9: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses may be considered by the planning and zoning commission in
accordance with chapter 12 of this title:
Communications tower.
Mobile home/manufactured home sales lot.
Outdoor advertising display (billboard).
Public utility facility.
Recreational vehicle park. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
CHAPTER 9
DO DOWNTOWN OVERLAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-9-1: Purpose
11-9-2: Restrictions
11-9-3: Area Requirements
11-9-4: Uses Permitted
11-9-5: Uses Prohibited
11-9-6: Lot Coverage
11-9-7: Height Regulations
11-9-8: Setback Requirements
11-9-9: Accessory Uses
11-9-10: Parking Requirements
11-9-11: Conditional Uses
11-9-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the DO downtown overlay district is to provide the traditional
downtown area with specific standards in addition and in some cases in
replacement of the those standards found in the underlying commercial zone in
order to maintain and enhance the desired characteristics of the traditional
downtown area. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-9-2: RESTRICTIONS:
In those areas with the C commercial zone and the DO downtown overlay district
designations, no building or premises shall be used nor shall any building or
structure hereafter be erected or altered except for one or more of the uses
set forth in section
11-9-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-9-3: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
The same area requirements in the C commercial zone are applied in the DO
downtown overlay district. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-9-4: USES PERMITTED:
All uses permitted in the C commercial zone are permitted within the DO
downtown overlay district with the exception of those uses specifically
prohibited by this chapter. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-9-5: USES PROHIBITED:
General manufacturing.
Golf courses and/or driving ranges.
Outdoor advertising displays (billboards).
Recreational vehicle parks.
Residential uses, except those residential units located above the first floor
of a building or those allowed with conditional uses according to section 11-8-
11 of this chapter. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-9-6: LOT COVERAGE:
There is no lot coverage restriction for commercial land uses within the DO
downtown overlay district. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-9-7: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
The same height regulations in the C commercial zone are applied in the DO
downtown overlay district. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-9-8: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
There are no setback requirements for commercial land uses within the DO
downtown overlay district. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-9-9: ACCESSORY USES:
All accessory uses allowed within the C commercial zone are allowed within DO
downtown overlay district. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-9-10: PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
All commercial uses, and residential units above the first floor of a
commercial building, within the DO downtown overlay district are exempt from
off street parking space requirements. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-9-11: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses may be considered by the planning and zoning commission in
accordance with chapter 12 of this title:
All conditional uses listed in the C commercial zone unless specifically
prohibited by this section.
Residential units at or below the first floor, including detached residential
dwellings. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
CHAPTER 10
M-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL ZONE
SECTION:
11-10-1: Purpose
11-10-2: Restrictions
11-10-3: Uses Permitted
11-10-4: Uses Prohibited
11-10-5: Lot Coverage
11-10-6: Height Regulations
11-10-7: Setback Requirements
11-10-8: Conditional Uses
11-10-1: PURPOSE:
The M-1 light industrial zone is established to provide for and encourage the
grouping together of light industrial uses capable of being operated under such
standards as to location and appearance of buildings and treatment of land
about them, that they will be unobtrusive and not detrimental to surrounding
commercial or residential uses. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-10-2: RESTRICTIONS:
In the M-1 light industrial zone, no building or premises shall be used nor
shall any building or structure hereafter be erected or altered (unless
provided by this title) except for one or more of the uses set forth in section
11-10-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-10-3: USES PERMITTED:
On property of not less than fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet with a
minimum lot width of one hundred feet (100') and a minimum of one hundred feet
(100') of continuous frontage on a public street, the following uses are
permitted:
Contracting equipment, maintenance or operating equipment of public agencies or
public utilities, or materials and equipment of a similar nature including
lumber, coal, sand and gravel yards and provided these uses shall:
   A.   Be carried on in such a manner and with such precautions against fire,
explosion hazards, or other physical damage to any adjacent building or
vegetation.
   B.   Screen or store all raw materials, finished products, machinery, and
equipment, including company owned or operated trucks, within a building, a
sight obscuring fence or vegetated barrier.
   C.   Emit no obnoxious odors of any kind.
   D.   Exhaust no waste or dust created by business operation into the air.
   E.    Discharge no treated or untreated sewage or waste into any stream or
river.
   F.   Conduct no mining, extraction, filling or soil stripping operations.
   G.   Use only oil, gasoline, diesel, or electricity as industrial fuel.
   H.   Not emit noise causing sound levels greater than fifty five (55)
decibels between seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and
sixty five (65) decibels seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00)
P.M. beyond the boundaries of the site on which such use is conducted.
   I.   Not cause vibration beyond the boundaries of the site on which such use
is conducted.
Manufacturing, assembling, fabricating, processing, packing, repairing, laundry
cleaning, or dry cleaning which has not been declared a nuisance by statute,
resolution, or any court of competent jurisdiction.
Wholesaling, warehousing, storage, and distribution. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-10-4: USES PROHIBITED::
Prohibited uses in the M-1 light industrial zone include, but are not limited
to, the following:
The commercial extraction, preparation, and processing of dust producing
mineral products including, but not limited to, abrasives, cement, lime,
fertilizer, plaster, crushed stone, mining of sand, gravel, topsoil.
The manufacture and storage of explosive products, including, but not limited
to, dynamite, commercial explosives, TNT, military explosives, and fireworks.
The production of corrosive and noxious chemicals, including, but not limited
to, acids, acetylene gas, ammonia, chlorine, and bleaching compounds.
The production and processing of coal and coal tar, the processing of petroleum
and petroleum products, petroleum refining, and the aboveground storage of more
than twenty thousand (20,000) gallons (per site) of petroleum products.
Public or private academic schools, hospitals, churches, and cemeteries.
Residential uses.
Smelting and reduction of metallic ores including, but not limited to, blast
furnaces, open hearth, and electric furnaces, Bessemer converters, and
nonferrous metal smelters.
Stockyards, soap manufacture, glue manufacture, tannery, paper manufacture,
wool scouring and cleaning, cotton textile sizing, scouring, leaching, dyeing,
and similar uses; varnish manufacture; creosote products manufacture. (Ord.
487, 7-23-2002)
11-10-5: LOT COVERAGE:
No building or structure, or total combined square footage of all buildings and
structures, shall cover more than twenty percent (20%) of the building lot.
(Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-10-6: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
Any building or structure or portions thereof hereafter erected shall not
exceed five (5) stories or forty five feet (45') in height, whichever is
greater. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-10-7: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Front Yard: No setback is required; except when a light industrial lot
abuts, touches, adjoins, or is across the street from a residential zone, the
front yard setback shall be no less than thirty five feet (35').
   B.   Side Yard: No setback is required; except when a light industrial lot
abuts, touches, adjoins, or is across the street from a residential zone, the
side yard setback shall be no less than thirty five feet (35').
   C.   Rear Yard: No setback is required; except when a light industrial lot
abuts, touches, adjoins, or is across the street from a residential zone, the
rear yard setback shall be no less than thirty five feet (35'). (Ord. 487, 7-
23-2002)
11-10-8: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses may be considered by the planning and zoning commission in
accordance with chapter 12 of this title:
Commercial boarding kennel.
Communications tower.
Grain elevator and bulk storage such as for potatoes, hay, and other similar
uses.
Land application of treated wastewater.
Public or private school.
Public utility facility.
Storage, for wholesale or for distribution in bulk, of any flammable liquid
above or below ground. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
CHAPTER 11
M-2 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL ZONE
SECTION:
11-11-1: Purpose
11-11-2: Restrictions
11-11-3: Area Requirements; Lot Coverage
11-11-4: Setback Requirements
11-11-5: Uses Permitted
11-11-6: Smoke And Particulate Matter
11-11-7: Odorous Matter
11-11-8: Toxic Matter
11-11-9: Radioactive Materials
11-11-10: Explosive And Flammable Materials
11-11-11: Noise
11-11-12: Property Control
11-11-13: Height Regulations
11-11-1: PURPOSE:
The M-2 heavy industrial district is established to provide for and encourage
suitable areas in which industrial uses may locate, substantially free from
residential or retail commercial activities. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-11-2: RESTRICTIONS:
In the M-2 heavy industrial zone, no building or premises shall be used nor
shall any building or structure hereafter be erected or altered (unless
provided by this title) except for one or more of the uses set forth in section
11-11-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-11-3: AREA REQUIREMENTS; LOT COVERAGE:
The following site area requirements apply to the M-2 heavy industrial zone:
Twenty percent (20%) of the area of the site must be left in open space free
from structural elements. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-11-4: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Front Yard: No setback is required, except when an industrial lot
abuts, touches, adjoins, or is across the street from a residential zone the
front yard setback shall be no less than thirty five feet (35').
   B.   Side Yard: No setback is required, except when an industrial lot abuts,
touches, adjoins, or is across the street from a residential zone, the side
yard setback shall be no less than thirty five feet (35').
   C.   Rear Yard: No setback is required, except when an industrial lot abuts,
touches, adjoins, or is across the street from a residential zone, the rear
yard setback shall be no less than thirty five feet (35'). (Ord. 487, 7-23-
2002)
11-11-5: USES PERMITTED:
   A.   Uses Permitted: Buildings, structures, or premises shall be used and
buildings and structures shall hereinafter be erected, altered, enlarged, only
for the following uses:
General businesses: All uses allowed in the C (commercial) and M-1 (light
industrial) district.
Industrial:
Blacksmithing shop.
Bottling plant.
Contractor equipment.
Farm produce storage.
Flour milling.
Gunstock manufacturing.
Ice manufacturing, storage and sales.
Large implements and heavy equipment.
Machine shop.
Metal or wood fabrication plant.
Metalizing shop.
Paint shop, manufacture, storage, or both.
Planing mill.
Railroad.
Septic pumping service.
Sheet metal shop.
Storage yard for coal and/or fuel.
Tool and hardware manufacturing.
Trailer manufacturing, such as travel, house, and manufactured homes.
Welding shop.
Wholesale storage.
And any similar industry.
   B.   Uses Prohibited:
Automobile wrecking yards.
Concrete or asphalt batch plants.
Dumping or reduction operations.
Junkyards.
Pulp and paper mills.
Rendering plants.
Any use which might be especially obnoxious, offensive, hazardous, or
detrimental to the public health and welfare of the residents of the city.
   C.   Conditional Uses: A conditional use may be granted for a permanent use
that is not in conflict with the comprehensive plan and that is not permitted
outright, because it may conflict with other uses in the district, unless
special provisions are taken. Conditional use permits may be granted for the
following uses:
Any plants or businesses that may consume high volumes of water.
Auction sales.
Bulk plants.
Food processing plants.
Junk, rags, paper, metal, and hides storage and sorting, collecting and/or
baling, when conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building.
Milk products manufacturing.
Plastics fabrication.
Poultry and rabbit slaughter, processing and sales.
Towing services and impound yard.
Any uses not specifically listed above as prohibited or permitted uses, or as
conditional uses, may, where appropriate, be considered. (Ord. 523, 5-8-2007)
11-11-6: SMOKE AND PARTICULATE MATTER:
Emissions of dust fall, smoke, and suspended matter shall meet the requirements
of the state of Idaho air pollution control commission. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-11-7: ODOROUS MATTER:
"Odorous matter" is defined as any material, gaseous, liquid, or solid that
produces a response in the normal human nose. The release of odorous material
from any plant shall be controlled so as not to become a nuisance or source of
unreasonable discomfort at any point beyond the plant property line. (Ord. 487,
7-23-2002)
11-11-8: TOXIC MATTER:
The discharge of toxic matters shall meet the requirements of the state of
Idaho air pollution control commission. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-11-9: RADIOACTIVE MATERIALS:
The manufacture, utilization, and storage of radioactive materials is
prohibited. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-11-10: EXPLOSIVE AND FLAMMABLE MATERIALS:
   A.   Materials Or Products That Detonate: The manufacture, transportation,
storage, and use of materials or products that decompose by detonation shall be
conducted in accordance with the National Fire Protection Association standard
no. 495, "Code For Manufacture, Transportation, Storage And Use Of Explosive
And Blasting Agents", and the rules and regulations governing explosives
promulgated by the state of Idaho and other authorities having jurisdiction.
Explosive materials not covered by these standards and regulations shall be
manufactured, stored or utilized not closer than one hundred feet (100') from a
plant property line or two hundred feet (200') from the boundary line
separating it from a residential or commercial area.
   B.   Flammable Materials: The manufacture, transportation, utilization, and
storage of flammable materials shall be conducted in accordance with accepted
standards for safety and fire prevention. Such standards shall include the
national fire codes, and the appropriate standards of the American Petroleum
Institute, the Manufacturing Chemists' Association and other organizations that
promulgate standards of good practice. The storage, utilization, or manufacture
of flammable gases or liquids having a flashpoint below one hundred ten degrees
Fahrenheit (110°F) shall not be permitted within two hundred feet (200') of the
boundary line separating a site from any area within the city limits, except
when stored underground or in containers of five thousand (5,000) gallons or
less aboveground. (When flammable gases are stored in the gaseous phase, the
above limits in gallons shall be multiplied by 30 to obtain the limit in cubic
feet at 14.7 pounds per square inch absolute and 60 degrees Fahrenheit.)
   C.   Flammable Liquids/Waste System: Flammable liquids, that may get into
the waste system, shall be trapped and contained at a point within the plant
boundaries. No flammable liquids shall be permitted in the central waste
collection and treatment system. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-11-11: NOISE:
Land uses in the M-2 heavy industrial zone shall not emit noise causing sound
levels greater than sixty five (65) decibels between seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and eighty five (85) decibels between seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. beyond the boundaries of the
site on which such use is conducted. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-11-12: PROPERTY CONTROL:
   A.   Signs: On premises signs are permitted in the M-2 heavy industrial
zone.
   B.   Storage Of Materials And Machinery: All storage must be indoors, or
within a six foot (6'), sight obscuring fence, or screened with vegetative
materials so that the storage areas cannot be seen by adjacent properties and
the traveling public. Storage areas must conform to the minimum setback
regulations of the zone. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-11-13: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
There are no height restrictions for buildings or structures in the M-2 heavy
industrial zone. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
CHAPTER 12
CONDITIONAL USES
SECTION:
11-12-1: Purpose And Interpretation
11-12-2: General Standards
11-12-3: Public Sites And Open Spaces
11-12-4: Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards
11-12-5: Conditional Use Permit
11-12-1: PURPOSE AND INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Uses Considered Individually: It is recognized that an increasing
number of new kinds of uses are appearing daily, and that many of these, and
some other more conventional uses, possess characteristics of such unique and
special nature relative to location, design, size, method of operation,
circulation and public facilities that each specific use must be considered
individually.
   B.   Considered Conforming Use: Any use which is permitted as a conditional
use in a district under the terms of this title shall not be deemed a
nonconforming use in such district, but shall, without further action, be
considered a conforming one. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-12-2: GENERAL STANDARDS:
The commission/council shall review the particular facts and circumstances of
each proposed conditional use in terms of the following standards and shall
find adequate evidence showing that such use at the proposed location:
   A.   Will, in fact, constitute a conditional use as established in each
zoning district within this title;
   B.   Will be harmonious with and in accordance with the general objectives
or with any specific objective of the comprehensive plan and/or this title;
   C.   Will be designed, constructed, operated and maintained to be harmonious
and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended character of the
general vicinity and that such use will not change the essential character of
the same area;
   D.   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future neighboring
uses;
   E.   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and services
such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage structures,
refuse disposal, water and sewer and schools; or that the persons or agencies
responsible for the establishment of the proposed use shall be able to provide
adequately any such services;
   F.   Will not create excessive additional requirements at public cost for
public facilities and services and will not be detrimental to the economic
welfare of the community;
   G.   Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment and
conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any persons, property or
the general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic, noise, smoke,
fumes, glare or odors;
   H.   Will have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be so
designed as not to create an interference with traffic on surrounding public
thoroughfares; and
   I.   Will not result in the destruction, loss or damage of a natural, scenic
or historic feature of major importance. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-12-3: PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES:
Public sites and open spaces shall conform to the following:
   A.   Public Uses: Where it is determined that a proposed park, playground,
school or other public use shown on the future acquisition map, as authorized
in section 67-6517 Idaho Code, is located in whole or in part within a proposed
agency concerning the land proposed to be acquired, within thirty (30) days of
the date of notice, the public agency may request the governing body to suspend
consideration on the permit for sixty (60) days from the date of the request;
however, if an agreement is not reached within sixty (60) days, the commission
shall resume consideration of the conditional use application.
   B.   Natural Features: Existing natural features which add value to
residential development and enhance the attractiveness of the community (such
as trees, watercourses, historic spots and similar irreplaceable assets) shall
be preserved in the design of the development.
   C.   Special Developments: In the case of planned unit developments and
large scale developments, the council may require sufficient park or open space
facilities of acceptable size, location, and site characteristics that may be
suitable for the proposed development. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-12-4: SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS:
In granting any conditional use, the council may prescribe appropriate
conditions, bonds and safeguards in conformity with this title. Violations of
such conditions, bonds or safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which
the conditional use is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this title.
(Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-12-5: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
   A.   Application For Conditional Use Permit: An application for conditional
use permit shall be filed with the administrator by at least one owner or
lessee of the property for which such conditional use is proposed. At a
minimum, the application shall contain the following information:
      1.   Name, address and phone number of applicant;
      2.   Legal description of property;
      3.   Description of existing use;
      4.   Zoning district;
      5.   Description of proposed conditional use;
      6.   A plan for the proposed site for the conditional use showing the
location of all buildings, parking and loading area, traffic access and traffic
circulation, open spaces, landscaping, refuse and service areas, utilities,
signs, yards and such other information as the commission may require to
determine if the proposed conditional use meets the intent and requirements of
this title; and
      7.   A narrative statement evaluating the effects on adjoining property;
the effect of such elements as noise, glare, odor, fumes and vibration on
adjoining property; a discussion of the general compatibility with adjacent and
other properties in the district; and the relationship of the proposed use to
the comprehensive plan.
   B.   Supplemental Information: Prior to granting a conditional use permit,
the council may request studies from the planning staff or public agencies
concerning social, economic, fiscal and environmental effects on the proposed
conditional use.
   C.   Procedure For Approval Of Conditional Use Permit: The commission shall
hold a public hearing on each conditional use permit. The council may approve,
conditionally approve, or deny a conditional use permit under conditions as
herein specified and considering such additional safeguards as will uphold the
intent of this title.
      1.   Public Hearing; Notice: Prior to granting a conditional use permit,
the commission shall hold a public hearing in which interested persons shall
have an opportunity to be heard. The public hearing shall be scheduled within
thirty (30) days of receipt of an application. Notice shall be provided as
required by chapter 18 of this title.
      2.   Action By Commission And Council: Within fifteen (15) days after the
public hearing, the commission shall transmit its recommendation of approval or
denial to the council. Within forty five (45) days after receipt of the
commission's recommendation, the council shall approve or deny the application.
The city council shall follow notice and hearing requirements set forth in
chapter 18 of this title. If the application is approved or approved with
modifications, the council shall direct the administrator to issue a
conditional use permit listing the specific conditions specified by the council
for approval.
      3.   Specifications Of Council: Upon granting or denying an application,
the council shall specify:
         a.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
         b.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
         c.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit.
      4.   Notice To Applicant: Within ten (10) days after a decision has been
rendered, the administrator shall provide the applicant with written notice of
the action on the request.
   D.   Conditions Of Permit: Upon the granting of a conditional use permit,
conditions may be attached to said permit including, but not limited to, those:
      1.   Minimizing adverse impact on other development;
      2.   Controlling the sequence and timing of development;
      3.   Controlling the duration of development;
      4.   Assuring that development is maintained properly;
      5.   Designating the exact location and nature of development;
      6.   Requiring the provision for on site or off site public facilities or
services; and
      7.   Requiring more restrictive standards than those generally required
in this title.
   E.   Transfer Of Permit: A conditional use permit is not transferable from
one parcel of land to another.
   F.   Effect Of Issuance On Other Conditional Uses: A conditional use permit
shall not be considered as establishing a binding precedent to grant other
conditional use permits. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
CHAPTER 13
APPEALS, VARIANCES AND HEARINGS
SECTION:
11-13-1: Intent
11-13-2: Appeals
11-13-3: Variances
11-13-4: Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards
11-13-5: Procedure For Approval Of Appeal Or Variance
11-13-6: Request For Hearing By Affected Persons
11-13-7: Waiver Of Standards
11-13-1: INTENT:
The council shall consider variances from the terms of this title and requests
for hearings from affected persons. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-13-2: APPEALS:
   A.   Appeals From Interpretation Or Administration: Appeals to the council
concerning interpretation or administration of this title may be taken by any
person aggrieved or by any officer or bureau of the legislative authority
affected by any decision of the administrator. Such appeal shall be taken
within twenty (20) days after the decision of the administrator by filing with
the administrator and with the council a notice of appeal specifying the
grounds upon which the appeal is being taken. The administrator shall transmit
to the council all the papers constituting the record upon which the appeal is
based.
   B.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of
the action taken, unless the administrator certifies to the council after the
notice of appeal is filed with him that, by reason of facts stated in the
application, a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril of life and
property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a
restraining order which may be granted by the council or by a court based upon
the application, with notice to the administrator, showing due cause. (Ord.
487, 7-23-2002)
11-13-3: VARIANCES:
   A.   Authority To Grant Variances: The council may authorize, in specific
cases, such variance from the terms of this title as will not be contrary to
the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement
of the provisions of this title would result in unnecessary hardship. No
nonconforming use of neighboring lands, structures or buildings in the same
district and no permitted or nonconforming use of lands, structures or
buildings in other districts shall be considered grounds for issuance of a
variance. Variances shall not be granted on the grounds of convenience or
profit, but only where strict application of the provisions of this title would
result in unnecessary hardship.
   B.   Application And Standards For Variance: A variance from the terms of
this title shall not be granted by the council unless and until a written
application for a variance is submitted to the administrator and the council
containing:
      1.   Name, address and phone number of applicant(s);
      2.   Legal description of property;
      3.   Description of nature of variance requested; and
      4.   A narrative statement demonstrating that the requested variance
conforms to the following standards:
         a.   Special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar to
the land, structure or building involved and which are not applicable to other
lands, structures or buildings in the same district;
         b.   A literal interpretation of the provisions of this title would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the
same district under the terms of this title;
         c.   Special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant; and
         d.   Granting the variance requested will not confer on the applicant
any special privilege that is denied by this title to other lands, structures
or buildings in the same district.
A variance shall not be granted unless the council makes specific findings of
the fact based directly on the particular evidence presented to it which
support conclusions that the abovementioned standards and conditions have been
met by the applicant. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-13-4: SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS:
Under no circumstances shall the council grant an appeal or variance to allow a
use not permissible under the terms of this title in the district involved, or
any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the terms of this title in
said district. In granting any appeal or variance, the council may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this title. Violation
of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which
the appeal or variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this title.
(Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-13-5: PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF APPEAL OR VARIANCE:
   A.   Public Hearing, Notice: Prior to granting a variance, public hearings
in which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard shall be
held. The public hearing before the planning and zoning commission shall be
scheduled within thirty (30) days of receipt of an application. The commission
shall follow the notice requirements provided by chapter 18 of this title.
   B.   Action By Commission And Council: Within fifteen (15) days after the
public hearing, the commission shall transmit its recommendation of approval,
conditional approval or denial to the council. The city council shall follow
the notice requirements provided by chapter 18 of this title and, within forty
five (45) days after receipt of the commission's recommendation, the council
shall approve, conditionally approve, or deny the request for appeal or
variance.
   C.   Specifications Of Council: Upon granting or denying an application, the
council shall specify:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
variance.
   D.   Notice To Applicant: Within ten (10) days after a decision has been
rendered, the administrator shall provide the applicant with written notice of
the action on the request. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-13-6: REQUEST FOR HEARING BY AFFECTED PERSONS:
   A.   Definition: An affected person shall mean one having an interest in
real property which may be adversely affected by the issuance or denial of a
permit authorizing the development.
   B.   Right To Request Hearing: Any affected person may, at any time prior to
final action on rezone, conditional use, or variance permit, if no hearing has
been held on the application, petition the council, in writing, to hold a
hearing as required; provided however, that if twenty (20) affected persons
petition for a hearing, the hearing shall be held.
   C.   Action By Council: After a hearing, the council may:
      1.   Grant or deny a permit; or
      2.   Delay such a decision for a definite period of time for further
study of hearing.
   D.   Appeals: An affected person aggrieved by a decision may, within sixty
(60) days, after all remedies have been exhausted under local ordinances, seek
judicial review under the procedures provided by subsections 67-5215(b) through
(g) and section 67-5216 Idaho Code. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-13-7: WAIVER OF STANDARDS:
This Section provides an administrative process and required procedures to
allow the consideration and approval of waivers of certain prescribed standards
for minimum lot sizes for certain uses, setbacks, building height, and building
placement. Each waiver application shall be considered on a case-by-case basis
and shall not constitute a precedent for approval or disapproval of subsequent
applications.
   A.   Standards for which waivers may be granted:
      1.   Setbacks as set forth in each of the zoning districts in Chapters 3
through 11 of this Title.
      2.   Building Height as set forth in each of the zoning districts in
Chapters 3 through 11 of this Title.
      3.   Minimum Lot Size for certain uses as set forth in Chapters 3 through
11 of this section. If the use for which a Minimum Lot Size Waiver is requested
is a Conditional Use, the Minimum Lot Size Waiver shall be processed through
the conditional use permitting process as part of that application and shall
not be granted through this administrative approval process.
   B.   Administrative Approval Process:
      1.   Application, Contents, Fee.
         a.   Applications for waivers shall be in writing on a form approved
by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
         b.   The application shall also be accompanied by a photograph of the
area and a drawing, to scale, showing the locations of relevant property
boundaries, streets, adjoining properties, existing structures on the subject
and neighboring properties, and locations and dimensions of proposed
structures, and any other features relevant to the request.
         c.   For side setbacks, only the immediately adjacent property owner
statement is required. For front and rear setback waivers, and height
restriction waivers, all adjacent property owners' statements are required.
         d.   Fees for waiver applications shall be set by resolution of the
City Council.
      2.   Application review. Upon submission of a completed application and
payment of the application fee, the planning and zoning administrator or city
clerk shall review the application and the relevant standards, and make a
written staff report and recommendation to the planning and zoning commission
for consideration at the next regularly scheduled meeting after such review and
recommendation is completed. Notice of the meeting shall be provided to the
applicant and any adjoining property owners regarding the application.
      3.   Hearing.
         a.   Upon receipt and review, and completion of a staff report and
recommendation, the planning and zoning administrator shall place the
application on the next regularly scheduled planning and zoning meeting. Notice
shall be provided to adjoining property owners not less than 14 days prior to
the meeting.
         b.   At the hearing, the planning and zoning commission shall hear the
applicant's testimony, the administrator's staff report and recommendation, and
any adjoining property owner who wishes to testify. Upon completion of
adjoining property owner testimony, the applicant shall be offered the
opportunity to rebut and conclude.
      4.   Approval, Denial, Modifications and Conditions which may be imposed
upon granting the waiver. At the close of the hearing the planning and zoning
commission shall consider the staff report and recommendation, relevant
testimony offered, and the following factors in rendering a decision on the
request:
         a.   Whether the waiver has validity and merit regarding stated
hardships in relation to the intent underlying existing standards and
regulations, and which cannot be mitigated by the variance process or other
means.
         b.   Whether the waiver will impair reasonable or appropriate use of
adjoining properties.
         c.   Whether the waiver will impair sight distances on public roads
         d.   Whether the waiver will impair fire suppression or law
enforcement functions
         e.   Whether or not the waiver sought is the minimum amount necessary
to achieve the stated purpose.
         f.   Whether or not a modification to the waiver request would be
appropriate to mitigate concerns, and the applicant's consent to said
modification if expressed during the hearing.
      At the conclusion of deliberation, the commission may approve the waiver
as presented, approve a modified waiver or a waiver with conditions, or deny
the waiver. In no case shall any conditions imposed by the Commission be
removed or separated from the modified waiver, either by the applicant or the
City Council on appeal. The decision shall be in writing and shall be a final
decision, appealable to the City Council. The written decision on the
application shall be rendered at that meeting so as to be final and appealable
as of the date of that meeting.
      5.   Appeal. An applicant whose waiver request is denied may submit a
written appeal to the City Council. Such appeal must be made in writing,
specifying the basis of the appeal, and must be delivered to the city clerk not
less than 14 days following the commission's decision. Notice of the appeal
must be given to any person who testified at the commission hearing. Upon
receipt of the appeal, the City clerk shall place the appeal as an agenda item
at the next practicable city council meeting. Notice of the time and date shall
be given the applicant and any parties who testified at the commission hearing.
The City Council shall consider the staff report, the administrator's
recommendation, the testimony provided, the written decision, and the standards
set forth above in considering the appeal. The Council shall either sustain or
overturn the commission's decision, and render a written decision setting forth
the reasons for its decision. Such decision shall be final.
      6.   Commencement, Duration, Lapse, Revocation, Violation, Penalties:
         a.   Upon approval of the waiver, the construction or use for which
the waiver was sought shall commence no later than one year following approval
by the commission or council, whichever is later. Failure to commence
construction within one year shall deem the waiver permit void and the
applicant must reapply. No extensions shall be granted. Waivers approved under
this Chapter shall be treated as nonconforming uses or structures subject to
the restrictions on reconstruction or resumption of uses contained in this
Title and Idaho Code. Failure to abide by the terms and conditions of the
granted waiver, or any deviation from the provided drawings, shall render the
waiver void.
         b.   The zoning administrator shall have the authority to revoke any
voided waiver, in writing, with notice to the applicant. No construction shall
commence or continue, and any building permit issued thereunder shall be
revoked, when the waiver is revoked under this section. Violation of this
section shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of up to one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) and no jail time may be imposed. (Ord. 25-609, 2-25-2025)
CHAPTER 14
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-14-1: Intent
11-14-2: Interpretation Of District Boundaries
11-14-3: Traffic Regulation Improvements For Developments
11-14-4: Yard And Setback Requirement Exceptions
11-14-5: Nonconforming Uses
11-14-6: Nonconforming Structures
11-14-7: Advertising Signs
11-14-8: Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements
11-14-9: Number Of Primary Uses And Primary Buildings On One Lot
11-14-10: Mobile Home And Travel Trailer Location
11-14-11: Unique Land Use Provisions
11-14-12: Accessory Dwelling Units
11-14-1: INTENT:
The following provisions shall be subject to the general regulations of this
title and to the special provisions and exceptions in this and the following
sections so to secure the intent of this title. In all cases of administration
and enforcement of this title for which no other specific provision is made in
this chapter and other provisions herein, the commission shall provide for the
same by order, resolution or the adoption of a rule, regulation or bylaw, which
provision shall be in accord with and consistent with the objectives and
standards of this title. Uses not specified within use districts are prohibited
unless determined by the commission or its authorized representative to be
similar in nature to those specified. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-14-2: INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
Whenever any uncertainty exists as to the boundary of any district shown on any
zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
   A.   Where any such boundary line is indicated as following a street, alley
or public way, it shall be construed as following the centerline thereof.
   B.   Where a boundary line is indicated as approximately following a lot
line, such lot line shall be construed to be such boundary line.
   C.   Where a boundary line divides a lot or crosses unsubdivided property,
the location of such boundary shall be indicated upon the zoning map. (Ord.
487, 7-23-2002)
11-14-3: TRAFFIC REGULATION IMPROVEMENTS FOR DEVELOPMENTS:
If it is determined by the city or Idaho transportation department that traffic
control devices or other traffic regulation improvements are required as a
result of a development, the applicant shall be responsible for the cost of
installation or construction of said improvements. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-14-4: YARD AND SETBACK REQUIREMENT EXCEPTIONS:
Certain structures within and projections into required yard areas are
permitted, as specified, and shall not be considered to be obstructions or
included in the calculation of coverage unless otherwise specified:
   A.   Cornices, Canopies, Eaves Or Other Projections: Cornices, canopies,
eaves or other projections that do not increase the volume of space enclosed by
the building; provided, that none of these shall project into any required yard
more than two feet (2').
   B.   Exterior Stairs: Exterior stairs of open design; provided, that no such
stairs shall project into a required front or side yard more than three feet
(3') and into any rear yard more than six feet (6'). (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
   C.   Fences, Walls And Hedges: Fences, walls and hedges are permitted in any
required yard or along the edge of any yard to a height of six feet (6');
provided, that no fence, wall, or hedge along the sides or front edge of any
front yard shall be over three feet (3') in height; with the exception of an
open vision fence in any front yard or side yard adjoining a cross street,
which may be four feet (4') in height. On a corner lot in any residential
district nothing shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow in any
such manner as to materially impede vision between a height of three feet (3')
and ten feet (10') above the centerline grades of intersecting streets bounded
by the property lines of such corner lots on a line joining points along said
property lines for thirty feet (30'). (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002; amd. Ord. 523, 5-8-
2007)
11-14-5: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Existing Uses: Any use lawfully occupying a building or land at the
effective date hereof, or of subsequent amendments thereto, which does not
conform to the regulations for the district in which it is located shall be
deemed to be a nonconforming use and may be continued.
   B.   Enlargement Or Extension Of Building Occupied By Nonconforming Use: A
building occupied by a nonconforming use may be enlarged or extended only if
thereafter the entire building is devoted to a conforming use.
   C.   Enlargement Or Expansion Of Space Occupied By Nonconforming Use: No
building partially occupied by a nonconforming use shall be altered in such a
way to permit the enlargement or expansion of the space occupied by such
nonconforming use.
   D.   Nonconforming Use Expanded To Occupy Open Space: No nonconforming use
may be enlarged or extended in such a way as to occupy any required open space,
or any land beyond the boundaries of the lot on which it existed at the
effective date hereof, nor may any such nonconforming use displace any
conforming use in the same building or on the same parcel. (Ord. 487, 7-23-
2002)
   E.   Discontinued Use: Whenever a nonconforming use of land or building has
been discontinued for a period of five (5) years such use shall not thereafter
be reestablished, and the use of the premises thereafter shall be in conformity
with the regulations of the use district. Provided, however, if the nonuse
continues for a period of five (5) years the city may, with written request,
require that the owner declare his intention within twenty eight (28) days of
receipt of the request. The right to use the property for its previous purpose
shall pass from the seller to the purchaser of the property, and shall continue
for a period of five (5) years thereafter. If the property is not used for its
designed purpose within that period of time, the property owner shall be deemed
to have abandoned any grandfather right to the prior use of the property. (Ord.
535, 7-8-2008)
11-14-6: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
   A.   Destruction By Fire Or Other Calamity: Any nonconforming building
destroyed by fire or other calamity to an extent of fifty percent (50%) or more
of the appraised value may not be restored unless such restoration shall make
the building a conforming building and any intended use shall be a conforming
use; provided, however, that nothing in this title shall be construed to
prevent the restoration and the resumption of former lawful use of any building
that is damaged or partially destroyed by fire, or other calamity, to the
extent of less than fifty percent (50%); provided, that such restoration is
started within one calendar year and diligently progressed to completion.
   B.   Enlargement: A nonconforming structure may be enlarged if the addition
conforms to the bulk regulations and land use regulations of the underlying
zone (see the following diagram):
[image]
   C.   Ordinary Repair: Ordinary repair work may be done to any nonconforming
structure; provided, that the building's volume is not increased. Such repair
work may include repair or replacement of nonbearing walls, fixtures wiring,
and plumbing. Any nonconforming structure declared by the building official to
be unsafe may be strengthened or restored to a safe condition upon receiving a
conditional use permit. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
   D.   Restoration Of Nonconforming Houses: Any nonconforming house made
uninhabitable from age or fire in zones R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, commercial and
agricultural may not be restored unless the owner obtains a valid conditional
use permit from the city. Any restoration shall be limited to the original
building footprint. An increase of square footage may be accomplished through a
basement or additional stories in accordance with the height regulations of
each zone. (Ord. 504, 8-17-2004)
11-14-7: ADVERTISING SIGNS:
   A.   Restricted: No advertising signs shall be erected or maintained in, on
or over the streets, sidewalks and alleys lower than ten feet (10') from the
surface of the ground; the same shall not extend into the street farther than
the curb line thereof.
   B.   Application Required: All persons desiring to erect or maintain
advertising signs on the streets, sidewalks or alleys thereof shall make
application therefor to the council, which council shall have the right to
specify the size, position and dimensions and construction of the signs and
grant or refuse the request.
   C.   Power To Cause Removal: The council shall have power to cause to be
removed any signs which are erected contrary to the provisions of this section
and charge the expense of such removal to the owner thereof. (Ord. 487, 7-23-
2002)
11-14-8: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Increase In Intensity Of Use: When the intensity of use of any
building, structure or premises is increased through the addition of dwelling
units, gross floor area, seating capacity or other units of measurement
specified as requiring parking or loading facilities, parking and loading
facilities as required shall be provided for such increase in intensity of use.
   B.   Change In Use: Whenever the existing use of a building or structure is
changed to a new use, parking or loading facilities shall be provided as
required for such new use.
   C.   Access To Parking Spaces: Access to parking spaces as required for
commercial and industrial uses shall be not less than twelve feet (12') wide
and not more than forty feet (40') wide at the curb line.
   D.   Lawfully Existing Building: No lawfully existing building shall be
deemed to be a nonconforming building solely because of the lack of any such
required spaces; provided that space being used for off street parking or
loading in connection with any such building at the time of the effective date
hereof shall not be further reduced in area or capacity.
   E.   Fractional Numbers: When the calculation of the required number of
spaces called for by this title results in a fractional number, fractions equal
to or greater than one-half (1/2) shall be adjusted to the next higher whole
number of spaces.
   F.   Uses Not Specifically Mentioned: Parking space requirements for a use
not specifically mentioned shall be the same as for a use specified which has
similar traffic generating characteristics.
   G.   Mixed Uses: Except as required for dwellings and motels, off street
parking facilities for several buildings, structures or uses, or for mixed
uses, may be provided collectively; provided, that the total number of spaces
so located together shall not be less than the sum of the separate requirements
for each of the buildings or uses.
   H.   Hard Surface Required: Every open off street parking area having more
than four (4) parking spaces shall be hard surfaced, including access
driveways.
   I.   Lighting; Screening: Lighting used to illuminate off street parking
areas shall be directed away from residential properties, and such parking
areas shall be effectively screened on any side adjoining property in a
residential zone by a wall, fence, or hedge to a height of six feet (6') except
for the front yard setback area of the adjoining residential property, in which
case the maximum height shall be three feet (3').
   J.   Dwellings: Required parking spaces for dwellings shall be upon the same
premises as the dwelling.
   K.   Number Of Spaces Required: Parking spaces as hereinafter set forth
shall be provided for all uses allowed and conditional uses permitted in any
zone; provided, that a greater number of spaces may be required in any case
where a conditional use permit is involved:
Use  Number Of Spaces Required
Use                                      Number Of Spaces Required
1. Dwelling unit                        1 space, as defined herein, sufficient
                                         for a garage of carport
2. Guest bedroom in hotel, motel,        1 parking space; plus 1 parking space
club, lodging house, fraternity or      for each 3 beds in a dormitory in the
sorority house                           above
                                         For each 4 beds, 1 parking space; plus
3. Convalescent, nursing or rest home,   1 parking space for each doctor
home for the care of children or the    assigned full time to the staff, plus
aged                                     2 parking spaces for each 3 other
                                         employees
                                         1 parking space for each 1,000 square
4. Hospital                             feet of net floor area, plus 1 parking
                                         space for each 4 regular employees
5. Church, auditorium, theater or       1 parking space for each 5 seats in
sports arena                             the principle assembly room or area
6. For floor space used by the public    A number of parking spaces equal to
or by members in a social hall, dance    20% of the capacity in persons. For
hall, night club, pool hall,            the purposes of this section,
restaurant, or other similar             "capacity in persons" shall mean the
enterprise or establishment              gross floor area divided by 15 square
                                         feet
7. Bowling alley                        2 parking spaces for each alley
                                         A reservoir space at the entrance
8. Drive in theater                     containing 1 parking space for each 10
                                         vehicles accommodated within
9. Business offices not otherwise       1 parking space for each 250 square
specified                                feet of net floor area
10. Medical or dental office or clinic  1 parking space for each 250 square
                                         feet of net floor area
11. Mortuary                            12 parking spaces
                                         1 parking space for each 200 square
12. Retail stores, banks and shops,      feet of net floor area in excess of
other than as specified below           2,000 square feet; and for a drive-in
                                         bank, 3 additional parking spaces for
                                         each teller window
13. Retail establishments handling
only durable goods or bulky machinery,   1 parking space for each 600 square
furniture or vehicles, personal         feet of net floor area in excess of
service and repair shops, wholesale      2,000 square feet
stores
                                         1 parking space for each employee,
14. Manufacturing establishments        based on the greatest number of
                                         employees at any one time
 
   (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-14-9: NUMBER OF PRIMARY USES AND PRIMARY BUILDINGS ON ONE LOT:
   A.   Residential Uses: Unless otherwise specifically noted in this title,
only one residential dwelling shall be allowed on a single parcel of property.
   B.   Commercial Uses: More than one primary commercial building, under the
same ownership, may be located on a single parcel provided the requirements of
the underlying commercial or light industrial zone are met.
   C.   Industrial Uses: More than one primary industrial building, under the
same ownership, may be located on a single lot as long as the requirements of
the underlying light industrial or heavy industrial zone are met. (Ord. 487, 7-
23-2002)
11-14-10: MOBILE HOME AND TRAVEL TRAILER LOCATION:
"Mobile homes" and "travel trailers", as defined by section
11-2-1 of this title, are prohibited except in city approved mobile home parks,
trailer courts and recreational vehicle parks or as specified in individual
districts. This provision shall not apply to the storage of travel trailers or
campers, not hooked up to sanitary or water services, on the site of a
permanent residence. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-14-11: UNIQUE LAND USE PROVISIONS:
Certain unique land uses pose special problems that may have detrimental
influences on surrounding land uses. The following performance standards for
such unique land uses shall be adhered to in addition to all other provisions
of this title. Some of these land uses may require a conditional use permit as
specified by the underlying zoning district:
   A.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings will not be located in any
required front yard area.
   B.   Animal Care Uses: Animal clinic, animal hospital, veterinary office and
kennel uses:
      1.   Will be located at least three hundred feet (300') from any
residence including motels and hotels, except for a caretaker's residence. The
city council may modify these requirements if the animals are completely housed
in soundproof structures that completely screen them from view of the abutting
residential property.
      2.   Will comply with all state and local regulations relative to such an
operation, and maintain adequate housekeeping practices designed to prevent the
creation of a nuisance and to reduce to a minimum the factors of noise and
odor.
   C.   Animal Products Uses: Animal commercial feedlots, meat packing,
processing plant, and slaughterhouse facilities:
      1.   Will be located when housing animals, feedlots or holding pens not
less than six hundred feet (600') from any residence, except for a caretaker's
residence. Such facilities shall have a minimum setback of thirty feet (30')
from any property line.
      2.   Will be designed and located with full consideration to their
proximity to adjacent uses, their effect upon adjacent and surrounding
properties, and to the reduction of such nuisance factors as odor.
      3.   Will be adequately maintained with housekeeping practices to prevent
the creation of a nuisance and shall also be subject to the health authority
requirements as to the elimination of waste materials and the maintenance of
water quality control.
   D.   Aboveground Storage: Bulk storage of flammable liquids and gases,
aboveground and for resale:
      1.   Will be located at least three hundred feet (300') from a
residential district, a residence, motel, hotel, except for a caretaker's
residence.
      2.   Will be erected subject to the approval of the fire chief or in his
absence the state fire marshall.
      3.   Will have suitable loading and unloading spaces and off street
parking facilities subject to the approval of the fire chief or in his absence
the state fire marshall.
   E.   Manufacture And Storage Of Hazardous Products: Chemicals, pesticide and
fertilizer storage and manufacturing: will have adequate fire protection,
storage area, handling and disposal as approved by the fire chief or in his
absence the state fire marshall.
   F.   Housing Of Materials And Equipment: Contractor's yard:
      1.   Will have a six foot (6') sight obscuring fence around the areas
utilized for storage of equipment.
      2.   Will be limited to storage, maintenance and processing incidental to
contracting work. There shall be no general industrial or commercial uses.
   G.   Care Facilities: Daycare center: the permittee shall obtain a daycare
license from the Idaho department of health and welfare and shall submit a copy
of the license to the Glenns Ferry city clerk before operation of the daycare
center may commence.
   H.   Restaurants: Drive in restaurant:
      1.   Will be enclosed on the property line with landscaping and fencing,
except for ingress and egress, to prevent objects (debris) from moving onto
other properties.
      2.   Will have a six foot (6') high sight obscuring fence along the
property lines that adjoin a residence.
      3.   Will avoid the direction of night lighting toward any residence.
      4.   Will provide for adequate trash receptacles.
   I.   Earth Moving Activities: Filling, grading, lagooning, dredging or other
earth moving activity:
      1.   Will result in the smallest amount of bare ground exposed for the
shortest time feasible.
      2.   Will provide temporary ground cover, such as mulch.
      3.   Will use diversions, silting, basins, terraces and other methods to
trap sediment.
      4.   Will provide lagooning in such a manner as to avoid creation of fish
trap conditions.
      5.   Will not restrict a floodway, channel or natural drainageway.
      6.   Will construct and stabilize sides and bottom of cuts, fills,
channels and artificial watercourse to prevent erosion or soil failure.
      7.   Will not have below grade excavation except for drainageways within
fifty feet (50') of any lot line or public right of way.
      8.   Will restore topsoil or loam to a depth of not less than four inches
(4").
   J.   Natural Resource Extraction: Gravel pits, rock quarries, sand and clay
pits, and other natural resources of commercial value:
      1.   Application: The applicant shall submit an application to include,
but not limited to, the following information:
         a.   Location of proposed site drawn to scale on an accurate map
showing site boundaries, and boundaries of proposed excavation.
         b.   The method for the disposal of storm water drainage.
         c.   The zoning classifications of properties lying within one
thousand feet (1,000') of the operations site.
         d.   A typical cross section of proposed pit showing degree of slope
for each class of material to be excavated.
         e.   The approximate location of major building, processing plants,
loading areas, parking areas, protective fencing.
         f.   Submit evidence of ownership or authority for operation, in
writing, from owner or owners of property, whether private or public.
         g.   Submit statements and drawings showing method of approach and
proposed construction and maintenance of private roads at their approach to and
intersection with designated public thoroughfares.
         h.   Submit a statement setting forth the applicant's proposed method
of rehabilitation of suspended or depleted excavation if such rehabilitation is
proposed.
         i.   If the operation includes rock crushers, cement batch plants and
asphalt hot plants, they shall be operated in conjunction with gravel, sand or
clay pits and/or rock quarries. If one of these uses is proposed subsequent to
the original approval of a pit or quarry, an additional conditional use permit
for that use is required.
      2.   Operational Conditions.
         a.   All operations shall be carried on subject to accepted safety
conditions for the type of excavation being performed.
         b.   The extent of rehabilitation upon depletion or completion of
excavation shall be determined with due consideration being given as to what is
reasonable in keeping with what is suitable and compatible with the area
surrounding the area under consideration.
         c.   Whenever subject area is depleted, all temporary buildings and
structures except property line fences and structures for the loading,
measuring or weighing of salable material in storage shall be entirely removed
from the property. The salable materials and equipment may be stored in a
depleted area when compatible with the applicant's proposal for rehabilitation
as outlined under subsection J2b of this section.
         d.   A processing, storage, sales and reprocessing operation may be
carried on in a depleted deposit when materials for processing, storage, sales
and reprocessing are obtained from another source.
         e.   The operation shall comply with all other applicable federal,
state, and city regulations particularly, but not limited to air and water
quality and site reclamation.
   K.   Outdoor Storage Of Materials: Outdoor storage of commercial and
industrial materials:
      1.   Will be screened from view from any existing adjoining residence or
residentially zoned area, whether or not such property is separated by an
alleyway or street.
      2.   Will not be located in any front yard area.
   L.   Recreational Vehicle Parks:
      1.   Purpose: Recreational vehicle parks are for temporary living
quarters of not more than six (6) months in duration and are not permanent or
year round housing.
      2.   Distance Between Structures: Recreational vehicles shall be
separated from each other and from other structures by at least ten feet (10').
Any accessory structures, such as attached awnings, shall, for the purpose of
this separation requirement, be considered to be part of the recreational
vehicle.
      3.   Vehicular Parking Pad: Each recreational vehicle lot shall contain a
stabilized vehicular parking pad composed of paving, compacted crushed gravel,
or other all weather material.
      4.   Lot Depth: Each recreational vehicle lot shall have a minimum depth
of sixty feet (60').
      5.   Access: Internal roads and parking service areas shall provide safe
and convenient access for service and emergency vehicles and to amenities
within the recreational vehicle park. Internal roads shall not be designed to
encourage use by outside traffic to traverse the recreational vehicle park to
adjoining developed areas.
      6.   Parking: The applicant shall provide a minimum of one parking space
per RV site in addition to the RV pad.
      7.   Removal Of Wheels: Any action toward removal of wheels of a
recreational vehicle or to attach the recreational vehicle to the ground for
stabilizing purposes is prohibited.
   M.   Equestrian Uses: Riding stables and schools:
      1.   Will locate all stables or loafing sheds not nearer than one hundred
feet (100') from any residence, except for a caretaker's residence. All
facilities shall be set back a distance of thirty feet (30') from any property
line.
      2.   Will be designed and located with full consideration being given to
their proximity to adjacent uses and their effect upon adjacent and surrounding
properties, as to the storage of horse trailers and the factors of noise and
odor.
      3.   Will require that the owner or operator of such use have a
continuous obligation to maintain adequate housekeeping practices to prevent
the creation of a nuisance.
   N.   Wrecking Yard: Regulation of wrecking yards shall include the following
provisions:
      1.   All petroleum products shall be prevented from coming into contact
with the natural surface of the ground. This includes, but is not limited to,
maintenance areas, vehicle wash areas, and storage areas.
      2.   Newly constructed and/or operated wrecking yards shall not be
located within four hundred feet (400') of a residential zone.
      3.   Will not result in the storage of automobile, junk or salvage
material that is visible from any public right of way.
      4.   All wrecking yards shall have a six foot (6') sight obscuring fence
or shall be screened with vegetative materials so that storage areas cannot be
seen by adjacent properties and the traveling public.
      5.   Will not result in the storage of automobiles that exceed the height
of the fence.
      6.   Will have such landscaping that is appropriate with the surrounding
area. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002; amd. Ord. 20-581, 11-10-2020)
11-14-12: ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of allowing accessory dwelling units (ADU) in
Glenns Ferry is to meet the need for more affordable housing, both owner-
occupied and rental, and to generate income and/or living cost offsets for
families and households of moderate incomes, while minimizing the impact on
infrastructure costs and disruption to existing neighborhoods, and while
maintaining the small-town character and scale of the subject properties.
   B.   Definition:
      ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU): A residential living unit on a parcel that
a single-family dwelling occupies or on which a single-family dwelling may be
constructed. The ADU is associated with and subordinate to the principal
dwelling unit. The ADU shall provide a complete, independent living facility
for one (1) or more persons, with provision for a kitchen and at least one (1)
bath and may take on various forms, as a detached unit, or a unit that is part
of an accessory structure such as a detached garage, or an attached unit that
is part of an expanded or remodeled primary dwelling. All ADU's must meet all
applicable codes governing construction of residential structures, as
referenced in title 9 of the Glenns Ferry city code.
   C.   Standards And Findings: ADUs shall be subject to specific standards and
approvals. The planning and zoning commission shall make a determination
regarding compliance with the following regulations prior to granting tentative
approval of an ADU permit:
      1.   Applicability: No more than one (1) ADU shall be allowed upon a
legal parcel of record upon which exists no more than one (1) single-family
dwelling located in zoning districts A, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, and C. The
accessory dwelling unit shall be created by new construction or modification,
in one of the forms delineated in (B) above.
      2.   Square Footage: The ADU shall not exceed nine hundred (900) square
feet, or
      3.   Setback Requirements: ADUs shall be subject to the same setback
requirements as the primary structure. No portion of the ADU structure, whether
a new or existing detached structure or addition to an existing structure,
shall encroach into the required existing setbacks.
      4.   Height: The height of the ADU shall not exceed the height of the
primary dwelling or as permitted by the underlying zoning district, whichever
is lesser.
      5.   Parking: The ADU must be provided with at least one dedicated off-
street parking space in addition to the minimum parking requirement for the
primary dwelling.
      6.   Foundation: All ADU's shall be placed on and anchored to a permanent
foundation.
      7.   Addressing: Accessory dwelling units shall have a separate address
from the primary dwelling unit.
      8.   Water & Sewer: Utility connections shall comply with all city and
applicable code requirements. For ADUs and primary dwelling units: Separate
taps must be installed, and an additional monthly water base rate will be
assessed for each residential unit standing on one or more lots, owned by one
person, where residences are occupied by different families.
For ADUs And Primary Dwelling Units: A separate, independent building sewer and
service connection shall be provided for every dwelling unit standing on one or
more lots. Exception allowed only under Glenns Ferry city code §
10-3-20(D) Old building sewers may only be used under Glenns Ferry city code §
10-3-20(E).
      9.   Design Elements: The ADU must utilize design elements of the primary
structure in order to maintain its subordinate relationship to the primary
structure. These elements may include, but are not limited to, roof type and
pitch, siding, structure shape and placement, etc. The exterior appearance must
be compatible with that of the primary structure.
   D.   Uses Prohibited:
      1.   For commercial purposes.
      2.   On parcels containing a duplex, triplex, fourplex or other
residential multifamily buildings.
      3.   RVs, Travel Trailers, and any other unit not installed on a
permanent foundation shall not be allowed as an ADU.
   E.   Process: Accessory dwelling unit permit applications shall be submitted
to the planning and zoning administrator to be reviewed by the planning and
zoning commission to ensure that the proposed ADU meets the standards in the
zoning regulations and will be a condition for obtaining a building permit. The
application shall also be accompanied by photographs, a scaled drawing showing
the locations of relevant property boundaries, streets, adjoining properties,
existing structures on the subject and neighboring properties, and locations
and dimensions of proposed structures, and any other features relevant to the
request. ADU permit applications shall be submitted on forms provided by the
city, with plans and the appropriate fees as part of the building permit fee.
The application shall be either approved or denied, resulting in the following
actions:
      1.   Approval: Tentative approval of the permit application is granted.
Final approval and issuance of a building permit is subject to review and
approval by the building official/inspector, public works, and the fire
department, and upon receipt of the building permit fees by the city. Stamp and
signature of all of the above reviewers, including planning & zoning, shall be
affixed to the final permit set of plans.
      2.   Denial:
         a.   A resubmittal by the applicant of materials revised to comply
with planning and zoning regulations will be reviewed by the planning and
zoning commission for approval or denial. If additional subsequent reviews are
necessary, additional review fees may be required to be paid by applicant.
         b,   The findings and decision may be appealed to the city council,
who will find in favor or denial of the applicant. The city council's decision
on an application for an ADU constitutes the final decision of the City of
Glenns Ferry. (Ord. 25-610, 5-13-2025)
CHAPTER 15
MOBILE HOME PARK STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-15-1: Purpose
11-15-2: Area Requirement
11-15-3: Infrastructure And Service Requirements
11-15-4: Uses Permitted
11-15-5: Development Requirements
11-15-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the mobile home park standards is to set standards for the
development of mobile home parks within the city of Glenns Ferry under a
conditional use permit. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-15-2: AREA REQUIREMENT:
A mobile home park shall consist of a minimum of one acre and contain five (5)
or more sites for mobile homes or manufactured homes. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-15-3: INFRASTRUCTURE AND SERVICE REQUIREMENTS:
A mobile home park shall be served by city water and sewer facilities and have
access to a public road. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-15-4: USES PERMITTED:
Mobile home parks may be permitted in districts listing mobile home parks as
conditional uses, if such conditional use permit is obtained through the
procedures set forth in chapter 12 of this title. Manufactured home
subdivisions are subject to Glenns Ferry subdivision ordinance and are not
subject to the requirements of this section of the Glenns Ferry zoning
ordinance. Uses permitted are:
   A.   Manufactured homes and mobile homes for residential use.
   B.   Management office, recreational facilities and community building for
use by park residents and their guests.
   C.   One storage shed on an individual rental lot.
   D.   Community RV outdoor storage area visually screened from public view
for use by park residents only.
   E.   One garage or carport on an individual rental lot. (Ord. 487, 7-23-
2002)
11-15-5: DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
Mobile home parks shall conform to the following requirements:
   A.   Minimum Rental Lot Size: Three thousand five hundred twenty (3,520)
square feet.
   B.   Setback Requirements:
      1.   Conventional Single Rental Lot:
         a.   Front Yard: No mobile home or structure shall be erected nearer
than fifteen feet (15') from the abutting park street.
         b.   Flanking Street: No mobile home or structure shall be erected
nearer than fifteen feet (15') from the flanking park street.
         c.   Side Yard: No mobile home or structure shall be erected nearer
than ten feet (10') from the side rental lot line.
         d.   Rear Yard: No mobile home or structure shall be erected nearer
than twenty five feet (25') from the rear rental lot line.
      2.   Zero Rental Lot Line: The side yard setback requirement may be zero
feet (0') on one side and twenty feet (20') on the other as long as no two (2)
buildings within the park are located closer than twenty feet (20') from each
other.
      3.   Accessory Buildings:
         a.   Front Yard: Accessory buildings are prohibited in the front yard.
         b.   Side Yard: Three feet (3') within a conventional rental lot
design, zero feet (0') within a zero rental lot line design.
         c.   Rear Yard: Three feet (3').
         d.   Accessory buildings shall not be located nearer than ten feet
(10') to any other building.
   C.   Lot Coverage: No building or structure, or total combined square
footage of all buildings and structures shall cover more than forty percent
(40%) of its rental lot.
   D.   Streets: All mobile homes within the park shall have direct access to a
park street. All park streets and drives shall be paved.
   E.   Vehicular Access: Mobile home parks street systems shall have direct
access to a public road.
   F.   Sidewalks: A four foot (4') wide sidewalk shall be installed on at
least one side of a park street. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
CHAPTER 16
PERSONAL WIRELESS FACILITIES, ANTENNAS, OTHER STRUCTURES
SECTION:
11-16-1: Purpose
11-16-2: Towers In Residential Zoning Districts
11-16-3: Colocation Requirements
11-16-4: Tower And Antenna Design Requirements
11-16-5: Tower Setbacks
11-16-6: Tower Lighting, Signage And Attachments
11-16-7: Amateur Radio Antennas
11-16-8: Accessory Utility Buildings
11-16-9: Abandoned Or Unused Towers Or Portions Of Towers
11-16-10: Additional Application Submittal Requirements
11-16-11: Permits
11-16-12: Additional Requirements For Notice Of Public Hearing
11-16-13: Restricted Areas
11-16-1: PURPOSE:
To accommodate the communication needs of residents and businesses while
protecting the public health, safety, and general welfare of the community, the
council finds that regulations regarding personal wireless facilities, spires,
poles, antennas, steeples, towers, and other such structures are necessary in
order to:
   A.   Facilitate the provision of telecommunication services, broadcast
services and such other modes of electronic communication to the residents and
businesses of the city;
   B.   Minimize adverse visual effects of spires, poles, antennas, steeples,
towers, and other such structures through careful design and siting standards;
   C.   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from spire, pole,
antenna, steeple, tower, and other such structures' failure, through structural
standards and setback requirements; and
   D.   Maximize the use of existing and approved towers and buildings to
accommodate new wireless telecommunication antennas in order to reduce the
number of towers needed to serve the community. (Ord. 468, 9-13-2000)
11-16-2: TOWERS IN RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS:
   A.   Amateur Radio Antennas: On residentially zoned parcels, towers
supporting amateur radio antennas shall not be permitted in the front, side or
corner side yard.
   B.   Personal Wireless Facilities: Personal wireless facilities shall be
prohibited in all residential (R) zones. (Ord. 468, 9-13-2000)
11-16-3: COLOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Towers In Excess Of Thirty Five Feet: A proposal for a new commercial
wireless telecommunication service tower in excess of thirty five feet (35') in
height shall not be approved unless the city council finds that the
telecommunications equipment planned for the proposed tower cannot be
accommodated on an existing or approved tower or building within the following
radii of the proposed tower:
      1.   A two (2) mile radius for towers with a height over one hundred ten
feet (110').
      2.   A one mile radius for towers with a height over eighty feet (80')
but not more than one hundred ten feet (110').
      3.   A one-half (1/2) mile radius for towers with a height over fifty
feet (50') but not more than eighty feet (80').
      4.   A one-quarter (1/4) mile radius for towers with a height over thirty
five feet (35') but not more than fifty feet (50').
   B.   Burden Of Applicant To Demonstrate: It shall be the burden of the
applicant to demonstrate that the proposed tower or antenna cannot be
accommodated on an approved tower or building within the required search radius
due to one or more of the following reasons:
      1.   Unwillingness of another tower or facility owner to entertain shared
use.
      2.   The proposed colocation of an existing tower or facility would be in
violation of any local, state or federal law.
      3.   The planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity of the
existing or approved tower or building, as documented by a qualified and
licensed professional engineer, and the existing or approved tower cannot be
reinforced, modified, or replaced to accommodate planned or equivalent
equipment at a reasonable cost.
      4.   The planned equipment would cause interference materially impacting
the usability of other existing or planned equipment at the tower or building
as documented by a qualified and licensed professional engineer and the
interference cannot be prevented at a reasonable cost.
      5.   Existing or approved towers and buildings within the search radius
cannot accommodate the planned equipment at a height necessary to function
reasonably, as documented by a qualified and licensed professional engineer.
      6.   Other unforeseen reasons that make it unfeasible to locate the
planned telecommunications equipment upon an existing or approved tower or
building, as documented by a qualified and licensed professional engineer or
other professional qualified to provide necessary documentation.
   C.   Design: Any proposed commercial wireless telecommunication service
tower shall be designed, structurally, electrically, and in all respects, to
accommodate both the applicant's antennas and comparable antennas for at least
two (2) additional users if the tower is over one hundred ten feet (110') in
height, for at least one additional user if the tower is over fifty feet (50')
in height.
   D.   Future Rearrangement: Towers must be designed to allow for future
rearrangement of antennas upon the tower and to accept antennas mounted at
varying heights.
   E.   No Additional Permit Required: Personal wireless facilities proposed at
a location which has an approved conditional use permit (approved after the
effective date hereof) for an existing facility which was required to allow
colocation, shall not be required to obtain a separate conditional use permit
as long as all the requirements of the previously approved conditional use
permit will be complied with. Design review, and subsequent building permit,
will be required for any such proposal. (Ord. 468, 9-13-2000)
11-16-4: TOWER AND ANTENNA DESIGN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Design Approval Required: All personal wireless facilities shall be
required to obtain design approval by the city council prior to construction.
   B.   Surrounding Environment: Towers and antennas shall be required to blend
into the surrounding environment through the use of color and camouflaging
architectural treatment, except in instances where the color is dictated by
federal or state authorities such as the federal aviation administration.
   C.   Monopole Design: Personal wireless facility towers shall be of a
monopole design unless the city council determines that an alternative design
would better blend into the surrounding environment.
   D.   Crossing Over Public Street, Highway, Sidewalk Or Property Line: With
the exception of necessary electric and telephone service and connection lines
approved by the issuing authority, no part of any antenna or tower nor any
lines, cable, equipment or wires or braces in connection with either shall at
any time extend across or over any part of the right of way, public street,
highway, sidewalk, or property line.
   E.   Discourage Climbing Of Tower: Every tower affixed to the ground shall
be protected to discourage climbing of the tower by unauthorized persons. Such
protection shall include six foot (6') high chainlink fencing with barbed wire
affixed to the top. The climbing pegs within the bottom twenty feet (20') of
the tower shall be removed and shall only be used when the tower is being
serviced.
   F.   Metal Towers: Metal towers shall be constructed of, or treated with,
corrosive resistant material.
   G.   Wood Poles: Wood poles shall be impregnated with rot resistant
substances. (Ord. 468, 9-13-2000)
11-16-5: TOWER SETBACKS:
   A.   Exception To District Regulations: Towers shall meet the setbacks of
the underlying zoning district, with the exception of industrial zoning
districts, where towers may encroach into the rear setback area; provided, that
the rear property line abuts another industrially zoned property, and the tower
does not encroach upon any easements.
   B.   Height Limitations: If the tower does not exceed the height limitations
of the zone in which it is located, the tower shall meet the setback
requirement of the zone except as allowed in subsection A of this section. If
the tower exceeds the height limit of the zone in which it is located, the
tower shall be set back one foot (1') for every ten feet (10') in total tower
height. In either case, the tower shall be constructed to the
Telecommunications Industry Association/Electronic Industries Association (TIA/
EIA) 222 Revision F Standard entitled "Structural Standards for Steel Antenna
Supporting Structures" or as hereinafter may be amended. Otherwise, the tower
shall be located a minimum of one foot (1') for each foot of height from all
property lines (the fall zone). No storage or structures other than the
accessory utility buildings, are permitted in the fall zone, except as may be
specifically permitted by the city council through a conditional use process.
   C.   Setback From Public Rights Of Way: Towers shall be set back from all
existing public right of way lines (or planned right of way lines if additional
is to be acquired in the future) by a minimum distance equal to twice the
height of the tower including all antennas and attachments. If this requirement
conflicts with other setback requirements of this code, the setback with the
greater distance shall prevail, except as may be allowed in subsection E of
this section.
   D.   Prohibited Location: Towers shall not be located between a principal
structure and a public street.
   E.   Reduction In Setback: A tower's setback may be reduced or its location
in relation to a public street varied, at the sole discretion of the city
council, to allow the integration of a tower into an existing or proposed
structure such as a church steeple, light standard, power line support device,
or similar structure. (Ord. 468, 9-13-2000)
11-16-6: TOWER LIGHTING, SIGNAGE AND ATTACHMENTS:
   A.   Stationary Lights, Strobe Lights, Reflectors, Or Other Illuminating
Devices: No antenna or tower shall have affixed or attached to it in any way,
except during time of repair or installation, any stationary lights, strobe
lights, reflectors, flashers, or other illuminating device, except as
specifically required by the federal aviation administration, federal
communications commission, or other federal or state authority.
   B.   Approved Light Fixtures: When incorporated into the approved design of
the tower, light fixtures used to illuminate ball fields, parking lots, or
similar areas may be attached to the tower if approved by the city.
   C.   Signs: The use of any portion of a tower for signs, other than warning
or equipment information signs, is prohibited.
   D.   Platform, Catwalk, Crow's Nest Or Like Structure: No tower shall have
constructed thereon, or attached thereto, in any way, any platform, catwalk,
crow's nest, or like structure, except during periods of construction or
repair. (Ord. 468, 9-13-2000)
11-16-7: AMATEUR RADIO ANTENNAS:
In accordance with the federal communications commission's preemptive ruling
PRB 1, towers erected for the primary purpose of supporting amateur radio
antennas may exceed thirty feet (30') in height; provided, that a determination
is made by the city that the proposed tower height is technically necessary to
successfully engage in amateur radio communications. A conditional use permit
is required for any amateur radio antenna in excess of thirty five feet (35').
(Ord. 468, 9-13-2000)
11-16-8: ACCESSORY UTILITY BUILDINGS:
All utility buildings and structures accessory to a tower are required to have
design approved by the city prior to construction. (Ord. 468, 9-13-2000)
11-16-9: ABANDONED OR UNUSED TOWERS OR PORTIONS OF TOWERS:
As a condition of approval of any required conditional use permit for personal
wireless facilities, all abandoned or unused towers and associated facilities
shall be required to be removed within sixty (60) days of cessation of use as a
personal wireless facility unless a time extension is granted by the city. A
copy of the relevant portions of a signed lease, which requires the applicant
to remove the tower and associated facilities upon cessation of the use as a
personal wireless facility, shall be submitted at the time of application. In
the event that the tower and associated facilities are not removed within the
sixty (60) days, the tower and associated facilities may be removed by the city
and the costs of removal assessed against the property. (Ord. 468, 9-13-2000)
11-16-10: ADDITIONAL APPLICATION SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:
In addition to the information required elsewhere in this code, development
applications for personal wireless facilities, shall include the following
supplemental information:
   A.   Documentation Of Compliance: Documentation from a qualified and
licensed professional engineer showing that the proposed facility will be in
compliance with the FCC standards regarding radio frequency (RF) emissions.
   B.   Engineering Documentation Describing Height And Design: A report from a
qualified and licensed professional engineer which describes the tower height
and design (including a cross section and elevation); documents the height
above grade for all potential mounting positions for collocated antennas and
the minimum separation distances between antennas; describes the tower's
capacity, including the number and type of antennas that it can accommodate;
documents what steps the applicant will take to avoid interference with
established public safety telecommunications; includes an engineer's stamp and
registration number; and includes other information necessary to evaluate the
request.
   C.   Letter Of Intent: For all personal wireless facilities, a letter of
intent committing the tower owner and their successors to allow the shared use
of the tower, as required by this code, if an additional user agrees, in
writing, to meet reasonable terms and conditions for shared use.
   D.   Documentation Showing Compliance With FAA: Documentation showing that
the proposed tower complies with regulations administered by federal aviation
administration.
   E.   Written Approval: Written approval of the site location with specific
reference to the height of the antenna structure and any lighting issues, from
the federal aviation administration, the chief of the Idaho bureau of
aeronautics, and the Glenns Ferry airport.
   F.   Propagation Charts: Propagation charts showing existing and proposed
transmission coverage at the subject site and within an area large enough to
provide an understanding of why the facility needs to be in the chosen
location.
   G.   Written Analysis: A written analysis demonstrating that the proposed
site is the most appropriate site within the immediate area. For the purposes
of this subsection, the analysis shall include all properties within the search
radii stated above. The analysis shall include, but is not limited to, the
following:
      1.   Description of the surrounding area, including topography;
      2.   Natural and manmade impediments that would obstruct adequate
cellular telephone transmissions;
      3.   Physical site constraints that would preclude construction of a
cellular telephone facility on any other site;
      4.   Technical limitations of the system that limit siting options. (Ord.
468, 9-13-2000)
11-16-11: PERMITS:
   A.   Permits Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to erect,
construct, reerect, or replace, any tower in excess of thirty five feet (35')
without first making application to the city and securing a building permit, a
conditional use permit and any other necessary zoning permit.
   B.   Temporary Antennas: A building/zoning permit shall not be required for
antennas and/or towers erected temporarily for test purposes, for emergency
communication, or for broadcast remote pick up operations. Temporary antennas
shall be permitted for a maximum of seventy two (72) hours, unless specifically
approved by the city council.
   C.   Additional Findings Imposed: In addition to the findings required and
conditions permitted for conditional use permits, as stated within this title,
the city council shall make an additional finding concerning the duration of
the conditional use permit. Upon finding that the conditional use permit is to
be limited in duration, a condition limiting the duration and the basis for
such a condition shall be included within the findings of fact and conclusions
of law for the conditional use permit. (Ord. 468, 9-13-2000)
11-16-12: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING:
All personal wireless facilities requiring a conditional use permit shall
comply with the conditional use notice requirements within this code with the
following additional requirements:
   A.   Notice To Adjoining Property Owners: All property owners within one
thousand feet (1,000') of all property lines of the site (or lease boundary
lines, if applicable) shall be notified of the public hearing by the city, by
mail, a minimum of fifteen (15) days before the scheduled public hearing. The
applicant will be required to provide the names of the property owners to the
city.
   B.   Public Notice Signs: Any required public notice signs, to be located on
a proposed site, shall be a minimum size of sign face of four feet wide by four
feet high (4' x 4'). (Ord. 468, 9-13-2000)
11-16-13: RESTRICTED AREAS:
   A.   Towers In Excess Of Thirty Five Feet: Restricted areas for
telecommunications towers in excess of thirty five feet (35') in height shall
be determined on a case by case basis by the planning and zoning commission and
the city council through the conditional use permit process.
   B.   Encouraged To Locate Near City Limit Boundaries: Telecommunications
towers shall be encouraged to be located near the boundary of the Glenns Ferry
city limits on properties zoned industrial and commercial that do not abut
against agricultural, recreational, or residential zones. The zones are shown
on the official zoning map in effect at the time of application. (Ord. 468, 9-
13-2000)
CHAPTER 17
AMENDMENTS AND RECLASSIFICATIONS
SECTION:
11-17-1: Initiation Of Proceedings
11-17-2: Action By Commission
11-17-3: Action By Council
11-17-1: INITIATION OF PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Amendments: This title may be amended whenever the council deems that
an amendment is required for public convenience or necessity, or general
welfare. Any amendment shall be enacted pursuant to this section, and for
purposes of this section, includes any measure to change district boundaries,
establish or disestablish districts, to change district regulations, to add,
repeal or amend any other provisions of this section or the whole of this
title.
   B.   Amendment Of Text Or Zoning Map: An amendment to the text of this title
or to the official zoning map may be initiated by a resolution of intention by
the commission or the council or by an application of one or more of the owners
of property affected by the proposed amendment.
   C.   Property Owner Applications: Applications from a property owner shall
be filed with the secretary of the commission on forms prescribed by the
commission, accompanied by such data and information necessary to assure the
fullest presentation of facts.
   D.   Reapplication: No application from an owner of property for the same
general purpose concerning the same property which has been denied by the city
shall be accepted or processed by the secretary of the commission within twelve
(12) months of such denial except by the unanimous action of the commission.
(Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-17-2: ACTION BY COMMISSION:
   A.   Hearing Required: The commission, prior to recommending an amendment of
this title to the city council, shall conduct at least one public hearing in
which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard.
   B.   Publication Of Notice: At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing,
notice of the time and place and a summary of the plan to be discussed shall be
published in the official newspaper or paper of general circulation within the
jurisdiction.
   C.   Notice Of Intent: Notice of intent to amend this title shall be sent to
all political subdivisions providing services within the city and its impact
area, including school districts, at least fifteen (15) days prior to the
public hearing. If the commission is considering a zoning reclassification of
property within the city, it shall follow the notice requirements provided by
section
11-18-1 of this title.
   D.   Material Change; Further Notice Required: Following the commission
hearing, if the commission makes a material change to the amendment, further
notice and hearing shall be provided before the commission forwards its
recommendation to the city council.
   E.   Investigation: The commission shall cause to be made by any of its own
members or by any member of its staff, such investigation of facts bearing upon
such application or matter set for hearing as in the opinion of the commission
will serve to provide the necessary information to enable the commission to
act.
   F.   Testimony: At every hearing before the commission, all interested
persons shall be heard. The commission may impose a time limit for persons
testifying at the public hearing. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-17-3: ACTION BY COUNCIL:
   A.   Recommendation From Commission Required: The city council shall not
take any action concerning an amendment to this title until after receiving a
recommendation from the commission concerning the proposed amendment. (Ord.
487, 7-23-2002)
   B.   Public Hearing Required: The city council, prior to making a decision
regarding the recommendation of the commission, may conduct a public hearing in
which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard. The council may
impose a time limit for persons testifying at the public hearing. (Ord. 504, 8-
17-2004)
   C.   Publication Of Notice: At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing,
notice of the time and place and a summary of the amendment to be discussed
shall be published in the official newspaper or paper of general circulation
within the jurisdiction.
   D.   Notice Of Intent: Notice of intent to amend this title shall be sent to
all political subdivisions providing services within the city and its impact
area, including school districts, at least fifteen (15) days prior to the
public hearing.
   E.   Notice To Property Owners: If the council is considering a zoning
reclassification of property within the city, it shall send notice of the time
and place of the public hearing to all property owners within three hundred
feet (300') of the external boundaries of the subject land area.
   F.   Material Change; Further Notice Required: Following the council
hearing, if the council makes a material change to the amendment, further
notice and hearing shall be provided before the council adopts the amendment.
   G.   Amendment Becomes Effective: No amendment shall be effective unless
adopted by the city council. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
CHAPTER 18
GENERAL NOTICE REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
11-18-1: Notice Requirements
11-18-1: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Public Hearings: On every land use action for which notice is provided
in this section, both the planning and zoning commission and the city council
shall hold a public hearing in which interested persons shall have an
opportunity to be heard. No notice of a city council hearing shall be given
prior to receiving a recommendation from the planning and zoning commission.
Following any hearing, if a material change from what was advertised in the
notice and presented at the public hearing is proposed, further notice and
hearing shall be provided before the final decision is made.
   B.   Published And Mailed Notice For Comprehensive Plan And Zoning And
Subdivision Ordinance Text Enactments, Amendments, And Repeals: At least
fifteen (15) days prior to each hearing, notice of the time and place of the
hearing and a summary of the proposed action shall be published in the official
newspaper or paper of general circulation within the city. Notice shall also be
made available to other papers, radio, and television stations serving the city
for use as a public service announcement. Notice shall be sent to all political
subdivisions providing services with the city, including school districts, at
least fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing.
   C.   Published And Mailed Notice For Comprehensive Plan Use Map Amendment,
Zoning Ordinance Map Amendment, Development Agreement, Conditional Use Permit,
Variance, Planned Unit Development, And Subdivision:
      1.   Publication And Other Media: At least fifteen (15) days prior to
each hearing, notice of the time and place of the hearing and a summary of the
request and proposed action shall be published in the official newspaper or
paper of general circulation within the city. Notice shall also be made
available to other papers, radio, and television stations serving the city for
use as a public service announcement.
      2.   Notice By Mail: At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing,
additional notice shall be provided by mail to political subdivisions providing
services, including school districts, and to property owners and purchasers of
record of the land being considered, of land within three hundred feet (300')
of it, and of any additional area that may be impacted by the proposed change
as determined by the zoning administrator or planning and zoning commission.
When notice is required to two hundred (200) or more property owners or
purchasers of record, in lieu of the mail notification, three (3) notices in
the official newspaper or paper of general circulation is sufficient; provided,
that the third notice appears ten (10) days prior to the public hearing.
   D.   Posted Notice: Except as noted within this subsection, any time notice
is required under subsection C of this section, the land being considered shall
be posted not less than ten (10) days prior to the planning and zoning
commission hearing and again not less than ten (10) days prior to the city
council hearing. For comprehensive plan land use map amendments and/or zoning
ordinance map amendments consisting of changes to more than ten (10) parcels of
land, posted notice shall not be required unless all parcels under request for
amendment are contiguous, and if the parcels abut a public right of way. In
such cases a minimum of one four foot by eight foot (4' x 8') plywood sign
shall be placed adjacent to the right of way. Otherwise, three (3) notices in
the official newspaper or paper of general circulation, with the third notice
appearing a minimum of ten (10) days prior to the public hearing, shall be
published. The notice shall include a six inch by six inch (6" x 6") minimum
size graphic representation showing the proposed comprehensive plan land use
map or zoning ordinance map amendments. Except as noted herein, posting of the
property must be in substantial compliance with the following requirements:
      1.   Signage Requirements:
         a.   The sign(s) shall consist of four foot by four foot (4' x 4')
plywood or other hard surface mounted on two (2) four inch by four inch (4" x
4") posts in such a manner that it is perpendicular to the roadway along which
the sign is posted, and the bottom of the sign is at least three feet (3')
above the ground.
         b.   Centered at the top of the four foot by four foot (4 'x 4') sign
board(s) in six inch (6") letters shall be the words "Public Notice". In
addition, each sign will inform the public of the name of the applicant and, if
applicable, the proposed development, the date, time, place, and nature of the
public hearing and a summary of the proposal to be considered. Each sign shall
be painted white and the letters shall be painted black and shall appear on
both sides.
         c.   In lieu of the above conditions, for conditional use permit
applications, the sign shall consist of one eleven inch by seventeen inch (11"
x 17") sign on paper or other material and lettering sufficient to inform the
public of the name of the applicant and, if applicable, the proposed
development, the date, time, place, and nature of the public hearing and a
summary of the proposal to be considered.
      2.   The sign(s) shall be posted on the land being considered along each
roadway that is adjacent to it. The signs shall be located on the property
outside of the public right of way, if they can be so located and remain
clearly visible from the roadway; otherwise, the consent of the owner of the
right of way must be obtained and the sign(s) located therein. Except as noted
herein, if the land being considered consists of more than one parcel of
record, a sign must be located upon each parcel. The zoning administrator, upon
finding that adequate notice will be provided, may not require all signs to
comply with the size requirements of subsection D1 of this section. In the
event that the land being considered includes properties with five hundred feet
(500') or more of road frontage, a sign shall be placed on each end of the
property roadway frontage. If this property includes a corner lot, three (3)
signs shall be posted, one on the corner and one on each end of the property
roadway frontages.
      3.   No later than three (3) days after the noticed hearing and any
continuation thereof, sign(s) must be removed. A penalty of twenty five dollars
($25.00) per day shall be imposed against each applicant for late removal of
the signs. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
CHAPTER 19
ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-19-1: Enforcement
11-19-2: Severability
11-19-3: Conflict With Other Laws
11-19-4: Violation; Penalty
11-19-1: ENFORCEMENT:
An enforcing officer shall be appointed, and such officer shall be responsible
for the enforcement of the provisions of this title. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-19-2: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this title or the application thereof to any persons or
circumstances is held invalid, the remainder of the title or the application or
provisions to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-19-3: CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS:
It is not intended by this title to impair or interfere with other regulations
of state or local law, or with private restrictions on the use of land,
improvements, and structures. Where this title imposes greater restriction than
that imposed by other law or private restrictions, this title shall prevail.
(Ord. 487, 7-23-2002)
11-19-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Separate Offense: Any person violating any of the provisions of this
title, shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or
portion thereof during which any violations of any of the provisions of this
title is committed, continued or permitted.
   B.   Upon conviction of any violation of any of the provisions of this
title, such persons shall be punished by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 487, 7-23-2002; amd. 2004 Code)
TITLE 12
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Authority
12-1-2: Purpose
12-1-3: Jurisdiction
12-1-4: Interpretation
12-1-5: Administration
12-1-1: AUTHORITY:
These regulations are authorized by title 50, chapter 13 of the Idaho Code;
title 67, chapter 65 of the Idaho Code; and article 12, section 2 of the Idaho
constitution, as amended or subsequently codified. (Ord. 434, 6-11-1997)
12-1-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of these regulations is to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare, and to provide for:
   A.   The harmonious development of the city and its impact area;
   B.   The coordination of streets and roads within the subdivision with other
existing or planned streets and roads;
   C.   Adequate open space for travel, light, air and recreation;
   D.   Adequate transportation, water drainage and sanitary facilities;
   E.   The avoidance of sprawled subdivision of land that would result in
either of the following:
      1.   The lack of water supply, sewer service, drainage, transportation or
other public services; and
      2.   The unnecessary imposition of an excessive expenditure of public
funds for the supply of such services.
   F.   The requirements as to the extent and the manner in which:
      1.   Roads shall be created and improved; and
      2.   Water and sewer and other utility mains, piping connections or other
facilities shall be installed.
   G.   The manner and form of making and filing of any plat; and
   H.   The administration of these regulations by defining the powers and
duties of approval authorities.
   I.   Implementation of the goals and policies of the comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 434, 6-11-1997)
12-1-3: JURISDICTION:
These regulations shall apply to the subdividing of land within one mile of the
corporate limits of the city. (Ord. 434, 6-11-1997; amd. 2004 Code)
12-1-4: INTERPRETATION:
All "subdivisions" as herein defined shall be submitted for approval by the
council and shall comply with the provisions of these regulations. These
regulations shall supplement all other regulations, and where at variance with
other laws, regulations, ordinances or resolutions, the more restrictive
requirements shall apply. (Ord. 434, 6-11-1997)
12-1-5: ADMINISTRATION:
The administration of this title shall be conducted by the administrator. The
administrator shall be appointed by the mayor with the approval of the council.
(Ord. 434, 6-11-1997)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
12-2-1: Definitions
12-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, certain terms are defined as set forth. All
words in the present tense include the future tense; the plural includes the
singular, and all words in the singular include the plural unless the natural
construction of the sentence indicates otherwise. The word "shall" is
mandatory.
ADMINISTRATOR: An officer appointed by the mayor with the approval of the
council.
ALLEY: A thoroughfare through the middle of a block giving access to the rear
of lots or buildings.
ARTERIAL STREET: As defined by the rural functional classification system.
BANK LETTER OF CREDIT: See definition of Financial Guarantee.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS: City public services such as roads, sewer, wastewater
treatment, water system, etc.
COLLECTOR STREET: As defined by the rural functional classification system.
COMMISSION: The Glenns Ferry planning and zoning commission.
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT: A use or occupancy of a structure, or use of land,
permitted only upon issuance of a conditional use permit and subject to the
limitations and conditions specified therein.
COUNCIL: The city of Glenns Ferry city council.
CUL-DE-SAC: A street closed at one end with a round paved area for turning
around.
DEDICATION: The intentional appropriation (donation) of land by an owner for
any public use.
DELIBERATION: A meeting at which the council or commission publicly discusses
and considers a plat application without accepting public testimony.
DRIVEWAY: An accessway off a public street to an individual lot.
EASEMENT: An interest in land owned by another that entitles its holder to a
specific limited use or enjoyment.
FINAL PLAT: A final drawing or map(s) of the subdivision and dedication
prepared for filing for the record with the county recorder and containing all
of the elements set forth in the Idaho Code and in this title.
FINANCIAL GUARANTEE: An acceptable guarantee by the developer to the city, that
under any circumstances that could arise after the initial negotiation, the
city will have access to a specified amount of money in the form of a certified
check, a surety bond, a cash deposit, a negotiable bond, an irrevocable bank
letter of credit or other agreement.
FLOODPLAIN: That area adjoining the channel of a river, stream, watercourse,
lake or other body of water which may be inundated by flood, as defined by the
federal emergency management agency's flood insurance map.
IMPROVEMENTS: See definition of Capital Improvements.
LOCAL STREET: As defined by the rural functional classification system.
NEGOTIABLE BOND: See definition of Financial Guarantee.
PLAT: A map of representation of a subdivision or division of land into lots,
blocks, or roads to be filed as a public document.
PRELIMINARY PLAT: An approximate drawing of a proposed subdivision together
with appropriate documents, maps, and other elements which shall furnish a
basis for approval or disapproval of the general layout of a subdivision.
PRIVATE STREET: A street not held in public ownership.
RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS: Limitations placed on property by its owner prior to
sale of the property.
REZONE: An application to change the zoning of a parcel or an area of property.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land of a defined width held for or containing public
services such as roads, utilities, etc.
SKETCH PLAN: A conceptual drawing of a subdivision to be reviewed by the
administrator prior to submitting a preliminary plat application.
STUB STREET: A temporary cul-de-sac street constructed with the intention of
extending the street through future development.
SUBDIVIDER: An individual or entity proposing a subdivision of land.
SUBDIVISION: The division of land into five (5) or more lots, parcels, tracts,
or sites for the purpose of immediate sale or lease. Future division of lots,
parcels, tracts, or sites may occur after five (5) years of ownership. A
division of up to four (4) parcels may be accomplished without the necessity to
subdivide.
SUCCESSIVE CONTIGUOUS SEGMENTS: The phasing of the final approval and
construction of a subdivision over a period of time.
SURETY BOND: See definition of Financial Guarantee.
T INTERSECTION: A three-way intersection where one street terminates by
intersecting another street at a ninety degree (90°) angle forming a T.
TABLE: The decision to postpone action to a later date.
VARIANCE: A modification of the requirements of this title as to lot size, lot
coverage, width, depth, front yard, side yard, rear yard, setbacks, parking
space, height of buildings, or other provision of this title affecting the size
or shape of a structure or the placement of the structure upon lots, or the
size of lots. A variance shall not be considered a right or special privilege,
but may be granted to an applicant only upon showing of undue hardship because
of characteristics of the site and that the variance is not in conflict with
the public interest. (Ord. 434, 6-11-1997; amd. Ord. 534, 7-8-2008)
CHAPTER 3
PROCEDURE FOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL
SECTION:
12-3-1: Subdivision Approval Required
12-3-2: Preapplication
12-3-3: Preliminary Plat
12-3-4: Extension Of Preliminary Plat Action
12-3-5: Final Plat
12-3-6: Lot Splits
12-3-1: SUBDIVISION APPROVAL REQUIRED:
Any person desiring to divide land into five (5) or more lots, parcels, tracts
or sites for the purpose of immediate sale or lease shall submit all necessary
applications to the city clerk on forms as provided by the city. No final plat
shall be filed with the county recorder or improvements made on the property
until the plat has been acted upon by the commission and the council. No lots
shall be sold until the plat has been recorded in the office of the county
recorder. (Ord. 434, 6-11-1997; amd. Ord. 534, 7-8-2008)
12-3-2: PREAPPLICATION:
   A.   Application: The subdivider shall submit a preapplication to enable the
administrator to review and comment on the proposed subdivision. The
preapplication shall include at least three (3) copies of a sketch plan. The
sketch plan shall include the entire development scheme of the proposed
subdivision, in schematic form and include the following:
      1.   The general layout and approximate dimensions of the streets, blocks
and lots in sketch form;
      2.   The existing conditions and characteristics of the land on and
adjacent to the proposed subdivision site; and
      3.   The areas set aside for schools, parks and other public facilities.
   B.   Fee: A fee for processing and checking a preapplication shall be due
upon submittal of the preapplication to the administrator. The amount of the
fee shall be established by resolution of the council.
   C.   Administrator Action: The administrator shall notify the subdivider
within fifteen (15) days from the date of receiving an acceptable
preapplication as to the general conformance or nonconformance of the proposal
with this title, and shall provide the necessary forms and checklists, as well
as the following considerations:
      1.   Compliance of the proposed development with existing local or state
policies, title 11 of this code, and other applicable ordinances;
      2.   Determination if additional permits or ordinance conflicts, such as
rezone, conditional use permit or variance are needed and the manner of
coordinating such permits;
      3.   Consideration of any unique environmental features or hazard
concerns that may be directly or indirectly associated with the subject
property, such as areas that have been designated as areas of critical
environmental concern, unique plant or animal life and floodplains; and
      4.   Consideration of other local and state agencies that the subdivider
should contact before preparing a preliminary plat application. (Ord. 434, 6-
11-1997)
12-3-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Application: The subdivider shall file with the administrator a
complete subdivision application form and preliminary plat documents as
required by this title.
   B.   Content Of Preliminary Plat: The contents of the preliminary plat and
related information shall be in such form as stipulated by the commission;
however, additional maps or data as deemed necessary by the administrator may
also be required. The subdivider shall submit to the administrator at least the
following:
      1.   Preliminary Plat: Ten (10) copies of the preliminary plat of the
proposed subdivision, drawn in accordance with the requirements hereinafter
stated; each copy of the preliminary plat shall be on good quality paper and
shall be drawn at a scale of not less than one inch equals one hundred feet (1"
= 100') and contain lettering of such size as to enable the same to be placed
on eighteen inch by twenty seven inch (18" x 27") drawing paper. No part of the
drawing shall be nearer than three inches (3") to the left edge and one-half
inch (1/2") to the other edges of the drawing. The plat shall show the drafting
date and a north arrow.
      2.   Written Application: A written application requesting approval of
the preliminary plat.
   C.   Requirements Of Preliminary Plats: The following shall be shown on the
preliminary plat or shall be submitted separately together with any other
pertinent information requested by the administrator:
      1.   The name of the proposed subdivision, which does not duplicate the
name of any other subdivision in Elmore County;
      2.   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the subdividers, the
engineer or surveyor who prepared the plat, and any other professional person
involved in the subdivision;
      3.   The names and addresses of all surrounding property owners within
three hundred feet (300') of the subject property (attach separately);
      4.   The legal description of the subdivision by section, township and
range.
      5.   A statement of the intended use of the proposed subdivision, such as
residential single-family, two-family and multiple housing, commercial,
industrial, or recreational and a showing of any site proposed for parks,
playgrounds, schools, churches or other public uses;
      6.   A map of the entire area scheduled for development if the proposed
subdivision is a portion of a larger holding intended for subsequent
development;
      7.   A vicinity map showing the relationship of the proposed plat to the
surrounding area (covering at least a 4 square mile area);
      8.   The land use and existing zoning of the proposed subdivision and the
adjacent land;
      9.   Existing streets, street names, rights of way and roadway widths,
including adjoining streets or roadways, along with the type of surface and the
existence of sidewalks and greenways;
      10.   Approximate location and length of the boundary lines of each lot,
parcel or site and the proposed lot and block numbers.
      11.   Approximate acreage enclosed by the subdivision and each lot;
      12.   Existing contour lines, shown at five foot (5') intervals where
land slope is greater than twenty percent (20%), and at two foot (2') intervals
where land slope is twenty percent (20%) or less, referenced to an established
benchmark of the city vertical control system, including its location and
elevation;
      13.   A site report as required by the appropriate health district where
individual wells or septic tanks are proposed;
      14.   Location, size and direction of flow of all existing utilities,
including, but not limited to, storm and sanitary sewers, irrigation laterals,
ditches, drainages, bridges, culvert, water mains, fire hydrants, gas, power,
and telephone lines, and streetlights. If utilities are not on or adjacent to
the property, indicate direction and distance to nearest ones that can serve
the subdivision.
      15.   A copy of any proposed restricted covenants and/or deed
restrictions.
      16.   Any dedications to the public and/or easements, both public and
private, together with a statement of location, dimensions, and purpose of
such, on both the subject property and surrounding properties;
      17.   A statement as to whether or not any variance will be requested
with respect to any provision of this title describing the particular
provision, the variance requested, and the reasons thereof;
      18.   Location, right of way width and name of all public or private
trafficways, the location, right of way width and use of any proposed public or
private pedestrianways or special ways, and a statement of intended
improvements to be made thereto;
      19.   A statement as to what improvements will be made to existing
utilities and what other on site improvements will be made;
      20.   Approximate lot corner and easement locations of all adjacent
subdivisions;
      21.   Approximate location, size and direction of flow of all drainage,
irrigation, sewer and water line improvements which will be part of the
subdivision development.
   D.   Fees: A fee for processing and checking a preliminary plat shall be due
upon submittal of the preliminary plat to the administrator. The amount of the
fee shall be established by resolution of the council.
   E.   Administrator Review:
      1.   Certification: Upon receipt of the preliminary plat, and all other
required data as provided for herein, the administrator shall certify the
application as complete and shall affix the date of application acceptance
thereon. The administrator shall, thereafter, place the preliminary plat on the
agenda for consideration at the next available regular meeting of the
commission. One copy of the preliminary plat shall be delivered by the
subdivider to each member of the commission at least five (5) days prior to the
meeting for plat consideration.
      2.   Review By Other Agencies: The administrator shall refer the
preliminary plat and application to as many agencies as deemed necessary. Such
agencies include the following:
         a.   Other governing bodies having joint jurisdiction;
         b.   The appropriate utility companies, irrigation companies or
districts and drainage districts;
         c.   The superintendent of the school district; and
         d.   Other agencies having an interest in the proposed subdivision.
      3.   Administrator Review: Upon expiration of the time allowance for
department and agency review, the administrator shall prepare a report for the
commission.
   F.   Commission Recommendation:
      1.   Hearing By Commission: The commission shall review the preliminary
plat, comments from concerned persons and agencies and the report from the
administrator to arrive at a recommendation on the preliminary plat to be
forwarded to the council.
      2.   Commission's Findings: In determining the acceptance of a proposed
subdivision the commission shall consider the objectives of this title and at
least the following:
         a.   The conformance of the subdivision with title 11 of this code;
         b.   The availability of public services to accommodate the proposed
development;
         c.   The continuity of the proposed development with capital
improvements; and
         d.   The other health, safety or environmental problems that may be
brought to the commission's attention.
      3.   Commission Action On Preliminary Plat: The commission may recommend
approval, conditional approval or disapproval to the council, or it may table
for additional information when acting on the preliminary plat. If tabled, a
decision to recommend approval or disapproval shall occur at the regular
meeting following the meeting at which the plat is first considered by the
commission. The recommendation, and the reasons for such recommendation, shall
be stated, in writing, and forwarded to the applicant. The commission shall
also forward a statement of the recommended action and the reasons for such
recommendation together with a copy of the preliminary plat to the council
within the following ten (10) days. Upon its recommendation to grant or deny a
preliminary plat the commission shall specify:
         a.   The regulations and standards used in evaluating the application;
         b.   The reasons for its recommendation of approval or denial.
   G.   Council Action:
      1.   Deliberation By Council: The council shall review the commission's
recommendation at its next available regularly scheduled meeting and will
decide, by majority vote, to approve or disapprove the commission's
recommendation or to hold a public hearing.
      2.   Hearing By Council: If the council does not approve the commission's
recommendation or wishes to substantially alter the conditions recommended by
the commission, it shall set a date for a public hearing at which time all
interested persons may appear before the council to be heard. The council shall
review the commission's recommendation, the preliminary plat, comments from
concerned persons and agencies, and the report from the administrator to arrive
at a decision on the preliminary plat.
      3.   Council's Findings: In determining the acceptance of a proposed
subdivision, the council shall consider the objectives of this title and at
least the following:
         a.   The conformance of the subdivision with title 11 of this code;
         b.   The availability of public services to accommodate the proposed
development;
         c.   The continuity of the proposed development with the city's
capital improvements; and
         d.   The other health, safety or environmental problems that may be
brought to the council's attention.
      4.   Council Action On Preliminary Plat: The council may approve,
conditionally approve, disapprove, or it may table for additional information
when acting on the preliminary plat. If tabled, a decision to approve or
disapprove the preliminary plat shall occur at the regular meeting following
the meeting at which the plat is first considered by the council. The decision,
and the reasons for such decision, shall be stated, in writing, and forwarded
to the applicant. Upon granting or denying a preliminary plat, the council
shall specify:
         a.   The regulations and standards used in evaluating the application;
         b.   The reasons for approval or denial.
   H.   Approval Period:
      1.   Failure To File; Extension Of Time: Failure to file and obtain the
certification of the acceptance of the final plat application by the
administrator within one year after action by the council shall cause all
approvals of said preliminary plat to be null and void, unless an extension of
time is applied for by the subdivider and granted by the council.
      2.   Segmented Development: In the event that the development of the
preliminary plat is made in successive contiguous segments in an orderly and
reasonable manner, and conforms substantially to the approved preliminary plat,
such segments, if submitted within successive intervals of one year, may be
considered for final approval without resubmission for preliminary plat
approval. (Ord. 434, 6-11-1997)
12-3-4: EXTENSION OF PRELIMINARY PLAT ACTION:
   A.   Application: The subdivider may request an extension of the preliminary
plat approval beyond the one year approval period by submitting a request, in
writing, to the administrator.
   B.   Acceptance Of Application: The application must be received and
accepted as complete by the administrator prior to the expiration date of the
preliminary plat.
   C.   Fee: The fee for such extension shall be one-half (1/2) the fee paid
for the original application.
   D.   Council Deliberation: The council, at its next available regularly
scheduled meeting, shall determine whether the preliminary plat complies with
all of the applicable requirements set forth at the time of application for the
time extension and may extend the preliminary plat approval for a period not to
exceed twelve (12) months. (Ord. 434, 6-11-1997)
12-3-5: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Application: After the approval or conditional approval of the
preliminary plat, the subdivider may cause the total parcel, or any part
thereof, to be surveyed, and a final plat prepared in accordance with the
approved preliminary plat. The subdivider shall submit to the administrator:
      1.   Ten (10) copies of the final plat;
      2.   A title report verifying ownership of the subject property; and
      3.   Ten (10) unfolded copies of the final utility and drainage plans.
   B.   Content Of Final Plat: The final plat shall include and be in
compliance with all items required under title 50, chapter 13 of the Idaho Code
and shall be drawn at a scale of not less than one inch equals one hundred feet
(1" = 100') and contain lettering of such size as to enable the same to be
placed on eighteen inch by twenty seven inch (18" x 27") drawing paper. No part
of the drawing shall be nearer than three inches (3") to the left edge and one-
half inch (1/2") to the other edges of the drawing. The reverse of said sheet
shall not be used for any portion of the drawing. The final plat shall include
at least the following:
      1.   Name of subdivision.
      2.   Date of preparation, the scale and a symbol designating true north.
      3.   A legal description of the site.
      4.   A complete description of primary control points to which all
dimensions, angles, bearings and similar data on the plat shall be referenced.
      5.   Boundary lines of the subdivision, right of way lines of streets,
easements, irrigation ditches, and lot lines with accurate bearings and
distances.
      6.   Designations of all streets and other rights of way, including
dimensions and names of each street.
      7.   The location and dimensions of any easements.
      8.   Identification of each lot by lot and block number.
      9.   A vicinity map of the area surrounding the site for a minimum of
four (4) square miles showing the following:
         a.   Zoning districts;
         b.   Traffic circulation system;
         c.   Major public facilities;
         d.   Location of existing municipal boundary lines.
      10.   The location and description of all monuments found or set with
indication of cap numbers.
      11.   Statement of land ownership to include legal description.
      12.   Statement of dedication of easements, rights of way and any site
for public use.
      13.   Certification by surveyor or engineer as to accuracy of survey and
plat.
      14.   Certification of the chairperson of the planning and zoning
commission that the plat has been before the commission for a public hearing.
   C.   Fees: A fee for processing and checking a final plat shall be due upon
submittal of the final plat to the administrator. The amount of the fee shall
be established by resolution of the council.
   D.   Administrator Review:
      1.   Acceptance: Upon receipt of the final plat and compliance with all
other requirements as provided for herein, the administrator shall certify the
application as complete and shall affix the date of acceptance thereon.
      2.   Resubmittal Of Final Plat: The administrator shall review the final
plat for compliance with the approved or conditionally approved preliminary
plat. If the administrator determines that there is substantial difference in
the final plat than that which was approved as a preliminary plat or conditions
which have not been met, the administrator may require that the final plat be
submitted to the commission in the same manner as required in the preliminary
plat process.
      3.   Submission To Council: Upon the review of checked copies of the
final plans and specifications for streets, water, sewer, a master utility plan
and other public improvements to be constructed and a determination that the
final plat is in compliance with the preliminary plat and all conditional
requirements have been met, the administrator shall place the final plat on the
council agenda at the next available regularly scheduled meeting.
   E.   Agency Review: The administrator may transmit one copy of the final
plat, or other documents submitted, for review and recommendation to the
departments and agencies as he deems necessary to ensure compliance with the
preliminary approval and/or conditions of preliminary approval. Such agency
review shall also include the construction standards of improvements,
compliance with health standards, the cost estimate for all improvements and
the legal review of the performance bond.
   F.   Council Action: The council, at its next meeting following receipt of
the administrator's report, shall determine whether:
      1.   Conditions imposed on the preliminary plat have been met or have
been properly guaranteed.
      2.   The facilities and improvements required to be provided by the
subdivider have been completed, or the subdivider will provide a suitable
financial guarantee in a form acceptable to the council, unless the council
requires certain infrastructure to be in place prior to recording the plat.
(See section
12-5-3 of this title.)
      3.   The requirements of all city ordinances and the state law have been
met. The council shall thereupon approve or disapprove the proposed final plat.
If the council approves the plat, it shall be transmitted to the county
recorder for recording. If the council disapproves the plat, it will be
returned to the subdivider with reasons for denial. Final actions to disapprove
must be given within twenty (20) days after the council's meeting.
   G.   Fees: At the time of submittal of plans and specifications a fee to
defray costs and expenses of plan checking, as provided for by resolution of
the city council, shall be paid.
   H.   Approval Period: The final plat shall be filed with the county recorder
within sixty (60) days after written approval by the council; otherwise such
approval shall become null and void, unless, prior to said expiration date, an
extension of time is applied for by the subdivider and granted by the council.
   I.   Method Of Recording: Upon approval of the final plat by the council and
posting of surety bond or other acceptable guarantee and the inclusion of the
following signatures on the plat, the subdivider shall submit the final plat to
the county recorder for recording:
      1.   Certification and signature of the city council verifying that the
subdivision has been approved;
      2.   Certification and signature of the city clerk and the city verifying
that the subdivision meets the city requirements and has been approved by the
council;
      3.   Certification of the sanitation restrictions on the face of the plat
per section 50-1326 Idaho Code;
      4.   Signature of the county surveyor or engineer; and
      5.   The signature of the county treasurer. (Ord. 434, 6-11-1997)
12-3-6: LOT SPLITS:
Any time that an original parcel of land is divided or partitioned into not
more than four (4) lots, parcels, or sites for the purpose of transfer of
ownership or development, the following application process and procedures
shall be followed:
   A.   Application: An application for lot split on a form provided by the
city clerk shall be submitted to the city clerk and shall contain, at a
minimum, the following information:
      1.   Name, address, and telephone number of the applicant.
      2.   Legal description of the property and proof of ownership or agency.
      3.   Description of existing use.
      4.   Zoning district.
      5.   Description of lots after proposed lot split.
      6.   Description of proposed use.
      7.   Documentation of the permission of the owner of the parcel to be
split.
   B.   Procedure: Prior to approving an application under this section, the
city council shall make the following findings:
      1.   The minimum requirements under this code for acreage, density, lot
area and setback lines have been complied with;
      2.   The proposed lot split is in conformity with the comprehensive plan;
and
      3.   The proposed lot split is in the public interest and will not
adversely impact adjoining property interests.
   C.   Notice: Within ten (10) days after a decision has been rendered, the
city clerk shall provide the applicant with written notice of the action on the
request. (Ord. 534, 7-8-2008)
CHAPTER 4
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
12-4-1: Minimum Design Standards Required
12-4-2: Dedication Of Streets
12-4-3: Street Location
12-4-4: Street Specifications
12-4-5: Street Names
12-4-6: Intersections
12-4-7: Pedestrian Walkways
12-4-8: Utility And Drainageway Easements
12-4-9: Lots
12-4-10: Public Sites And Open Spaces
12-4-11: Restrictive Covenants
12-4-12: Right Of Way Requirements
12-4-1: MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS REQUIRED:
All plats submitted pursuant to the provisions of this title, and all
subdivisions, improvements and facilities done, constructed or made in
accordance with said provisions shall comply with the minimum design standards
listed in this chapter; provided, however, that any higher standards adopted by
any highway district, state highway department or health agency with
jurisdictional authority shall prevail. (Ord. 434, 6-11-1997)
12-4-2: DEDICATION OF STREETS:
Within a proposed subdivision, all streets shall be dedicated to the public
except as provided for in subsection 12-4-3G of this chapter. (Ord. 434, 6-11-
1997)
12-4-3: STREET LOCATION:
Street and road location shall conform to the following:
   A.   Street Location And Arrangement: Collector type streets may, for
aesthetic reasons, curve and wind in accordance with these standards, but such
trafficways shall maintain a grid type pattern approximately one-fourth (1/4)
of a mile square.
   B.   Stub Street: Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the arrangement
of streets in new subdivisions shall be such that said streets extend to the
boundary line of the tract to make provisions for the future extension of said
streets into adjacent areas. A vehicular nonaccess reserve strip may be
required and dedicated to the public. Temporary cul-de-sacs shall be required
and shall be dedicated to the public.
   C.   Relation To Topography: Streets shall be arranged in proper relation to
topography so as to result in usable lots, safe streets and acceptable
gradients.
   D.   Alleys: Alleys shall be provided in multiple-dwelling or commercial
subdivisions, unless other provisions are made for service access and off
street loading and parking. Dead end alleys shall be prohibited in all cases.
   E.   Cul-De-Sac Streets: Cul-de-sac streets shall not be more than five
hundred feet (500') in length and shall terminate with an adequate turnaround
having a minimum radius of forty five feet (45') for right of way.
   F.   Half Streets: Half streets shall be prohibited, except where unusual
circumstances make such necessary to the reasonable development of a tract,
special justification shall be presented to the commission. Whenever a tract to
be subdivided borders on an existing half or partial street, the other part of
the street shall be dedicated within such tract. A vehicular nonaccess reserve
street may be required and held in public ownership.
   G.   Private Streets: Private streets and roads are prohibited within a
subdivision; unless the city council specifically finds that there are
circumstances unique to the application that warrant an exception. (Ord. 434,
6-11-1997)
12-4-4: STREET SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Street Right Of Way Widths: Street and road right of way widths shall
conform to the adopted minimum standards under section
12-4-12 of this chapter.
   B.   Street Grades: Street grades shall not exceed ten percent (10%) on
either local or collector streets and six percent (6%) for arterial streets.
Minimum street grades shall be four-tenths percent (0.4%). (Ord. 434, 6-11-
1997)
12-4-5: STREET NAMES:
The naming of streets shall conform to the following:
   A.   Existing Streets: Street names shall not duplicate any existing name
within the limits of this title except where a new street is a continuation of
an existing street. Street names if spelled differently but sound the same as
existing streets shall not be used.
   B.   New Streets: All new streets shall be named as follows:
      1.   North-South: Streets having predominantly north-south direction
shall be named "street" or "way";
      2.   East-West: streets having a predominantly east-west direction shall
be named "avenue" or "road";
      3.   Meandering Streets: Meandering streets shall be named "drive",
"lane", "path", or "trail"; and
      4.   Cul-De-Sacs: Cul-de-sacs shall be named "circle", "court" or
"place".
   C.   Continuation Of Existing Street: When any new subdivision contains any
street which is a continuation of any street, such new street shall take the
name of such existing street. No new street not a continuation of an existing
street shall be given the same or similar name of any existing street.
   D.   Power Of Administrator: The administrator shall have the power to
change the name of any street on any map or plat submitted, to make such map or
plat conform to the provisions of this section. (Ord. 434, 6-11-1997)
12-4-6: INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Angle Of Intersection: Streets shall intersect at ninety degrees (90°)
or as closely thereto as possible, and in no case shall streets intersect at
less than seventy degrees (70°).
   B.   Number Of Streets: No more than two (2) streets shall cross at any one
intersection.
   C.   Intersections: T intersections may be used wherever such design will
not restrict the free movement of traffic.
   D.   Centerline OffSets: Street centerlines shall be offset by a distance of
at least one hundred twenty five feet (125').
   E.   Vertical Alignment Of Intersection: A nearly flat grade with
appropriate drainage slopes is desirable within intersections. This flat
section shall be extended a minimum of one hundred feet (100') each way from
the intersection. An allowance of two percent (2%) maximum intersection grade
in rolling terrain, and four percent (4%) in hilly terrain will be permitted.
(Ord. 434, 6-11-1997)
12-4-7: PEDESTRIAN WALKWAYS:
Rights of way for pedestrian walkways in the middle of long blocks may be
required where necessary to obtain convenient pedestrian circulation to
schools, parks, or shopping areas; the pedestrian easement shall be in
accordance with section
12-4-12 of this chapter. (Ord. 434, 6-11-1997)
12-4-8: UTILITY AND DRAINAGEWAY EASEMENTS:
Unobstructed utility easements shall be provided along front lot lines, rear
lot lines and side lot lines when deemed necessary; total easement width shall
be in accordance with the minimum standards under section
12-4-12 of this chapter. Unobstructed drainageway easements shall be provided
as required by the council. (Ord. 434, 6-11-1997)
12-4-9: LOTS:
Lots shall conform to the following:
   A.   Zoning: The lot width, depth and total area shall not be less than the
requirements of the applicable zoning district or districts.
   B.   Future Arrangements: Where parcels of land are subdivided into
unusually large lots (such as when large lots are approved for septic tanks),
the parcels shall be divided, where feasible, so as to allow for future
resubdividing into smaller parcels. Lot arrangements shall allow for the
ultimate extension of adjacent streets through the middle of wide blocks.
Whenever such future subdividing or lot splitting is contemplated, the plan
thereof shall be approved by the commission prior to the taking of such action.
   C.   Sufficient Area For Septic Tank: Where individual septic tanks have
been authorized, sufficient area shall be provided for a replacement sewage
disposal system. (Ord. 434, 6-11-1997)
12-4-10: PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES:
Public sites and open spaces shall conform to the following:
   A.   Public Uses: Where it is determined that a proposed park, playground,
school or other public use as shown on a future acquisition map, as authorized
in section 67-6517 Idaho Code, is located in whole or in part within a proposed
subdivision, the commission shall notify the appropriate public agency
concerning the land proposed to be acquired. Within thirty (30) days of the
date of notice, the public agency may request the city council to suspend
consideration of the subdivision for sixty (60) days. If an agreement is not
reached within sixty (60) days, the commission shall resume consideration of
the subdivision.
   B.   Natural Features: Existing natural features which add value to
residential development and enhance the attractiveness of the community (such
as watercourses, historic sites and similar irreplaceable assets) shall be
preserved in the design of the subdivision. (Ord. 434, 6-11-1997)
12-4-11: RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS:
Restrictive covenants may be prepared and recorded as part of a subdivision.
This is done to provide protection to future property owners by establishing
higher standards than required under other regulations. The provisions within
protective covenants are enforceable through civil action, and local
governments shall not be required to enforce these provisions. (Ord. 434, 6-11-
1997)
12-4-12: RIGHT OF WAY REQUIREMENTS:
Trafficways Residential Commercial Industrial
Trafficways        Residential Commercial  Industrial
Alley              25 feet     25 feet     Not allowed
One-way road       25 feet     Not allowed Not allowed
Local street       50 feet     60 feet     60 feet
Collector street   60 feet     64 feet     64 feet
Arterial street    80 feet     80 feet     80 feet
Cul-de-sac         90 feet     120 feet    140 feet
Pedestrian walkway 10 feet     10 feet     10 feet
Utility easement   15 feet     15 feet     15 feet
Drainage easement  10 feet     15 feet     20 feet
Access easement    12 feet     12 feet     20 feet
 
(Ord. 434, 6-11-1997)
CHAPTER 5
IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
12-5-1: Responsibility For Plans
12-5-2: Required Public Improvements
12-5-3: Guarantee Of Completion Of Improvements
12-5-1: RESPONSIBILITY FOR PLANS:
It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider of every proposed subdivision
to provide a complete set of construction plans, including profiles, cross
sections, specifications and other facilities. Such construction plans shall be
based on preliminary plans which have been with the preliminary plat, and shall
be prepared in conjunction with the final plat. Construction plans are subject
to approval by the responsible public agencies. All construction plans shall be
prepared in accordance with the public agencies' standards or specifications.
All construction plans shall be stamped by an engineer registered to practice
in the state. (Ord. 434, 6-11-1997)
12-5-2: REQUIRED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
Every subdivider shall install the following public and other improvements in
accordance with the conditions and specifications as follows:
   A.   Monuments: Monuments shall be set in accordance with section 50-1303
Idaho Code.
   B.   Streets And Alleys: All streets and alleys shall be constructed in
accordance with the standards and specifications adopted by the council.
   C.   Sidewalk And Buffer Areas: Sidewalks, pedestrianways or special ways
shall be constructed on both sides of local and collector streets.
   D.   Installation Of Public Utilities: Underground utilities shall be
required in all new subdivisions. Existing utilities or new large transmission
lines shall not be required to be buried underground.
   E.   Driveways: All driveway openings to roads within the city shall be as
specified by the administrator, Glenns Ferry highway district, or Idaho
transportation department.
   F.   Public Water Supply And Sewer Systems: All new public water supply or
sewer systems shall be an extension of an existing public system.
   G.   Fire Hydrants And Water Mains: Adequate fire protection shall be
required in accordance with standards established by the city fire protection
official.
   H.   Street Name Signs: Street name signs shall be installed in the
appropriate locations at each street intersection in accordance with the local
standards. Cost of street signs shall be the responsibility of the subdivider.
   I.   Storm Drainage: An adequate storm drainage system shall be required in
all subdivisions. The requirements for each particular subdivision shall be
established by the council. Construction shall follow the specifications and
procedures established by the council.
   J.   Greenbelt: Greenbelts or landscape screening may be required for the
protection of residential properties from adjacent major arterial streets,
waterways, railroad rights of way or other features. Subdivision plats shall
show the location of any greenbelt areas.
   K.   Street Lighting: Street lights shall be required to be installed at
intersections throughout the subdivision. The cost of the lighting shall be the
responsibility of the subdivider. (Ord. 434, 6-11-1997)
12-5-3: GUARANTEE OF COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Financial Guarantee Arrangements: In lieu of the actual installation of
required public improvements before council's approval of the final plat, the
council may permit the subdivider to provide a financial guarantee of
performance in one or a combination of the following arrangements for those
requirements which are over and beyond the requirements of any other agency
responsible for the administration, operation and maintenance of the applicable
public improvement.
      1.   Surety Bond:
         a.   Accrual: The bond shall accrue to the city covering construction,
operation and maintenance of the specific public improvement.
         b.   Amount: The bond shall be in an amount equal to one hundred
twenty five percent (125%) of the total estimated cost for completing
construction of the specific public improvements, as estimated by the developer
and approved by the city engineer.
         c.   Term Length: The term length for which the bond is in force, for
the duration of that phase of the project, shall be for a period to be
specified by the council for the specific public improvement.
         d.   Bonding For Surety Company: The bond shall be with a surety
company authorized to do business in the state, acceptable to the council.
      2.   Cash Deposit, Certified Check, Negotiable Bond Or Irrevocable Bank
Letter Of Credit:
         a.   Treasurer, Escrow Agent Or Trust Company: A cash deposit,
certified check, negotiable bond, or an irrevocable bank letter of credit
acceptable by the council, shall be deposited with an escrow agent or trust
company.
         b.   Dollar Value: The dollar value of the cash deposit, certified
check, negotiable bond, or an irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be equal
to one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the estimated cost of construction
for the specific public improvement, as estimated by the developer and approved
by the city engineer.
         c.   Escrow Time: The escrow time for the cash deposit, certified
check, negotiable bond, or irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be until
such improvements are completed and accepted by the city engineer.
         d.   Progressive Payment: In the case of cash deposits or certified
checks, an agreement between the council and the subdivider may provide for
progressive payment out of the cash deposit or reduction of the certified
check, negotiable bond, or irrevocable bank letter of credit, to the extent of
the cost of the completed portion of the public improvement, in accordance with
a previously entered into agreement.
   B.   Conditional Approval Of Final Plat: In lieu of actual installation of
public improvements prior to final plat approval, the council may approve a
final plat conditioned upon the subdivider filing a surety. The surety must be
acceptable to the council and be in the form of a cash deposit, certified
check, negotiable bond, surety bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit.
   C.   Inspection Of Public Improvements Under Construction: Before approving
a final plat and construction plans and specifications for public improvements,
an agreement between the subdivider and the council shall be made to provide
for inspecting the construction and its conformity to the submitted plans.
   D.   Penalty In Case Of Failure To Complete Construction Of Public
Improvement: In the event the subdivider shall, in any case, fail to complete
such work within the period of time as required by the conditions of the
guarantee for the completion of public improvements, it shall be the
responsibility of the council to proceed to have such work completed. In order
to accomplish this, the council shall reimburse itself for the cost and expense
thereof by appropriating the cash deposit, certified check, irrevocable bank
letter of credit, or negotiable bond which the subdivider may have deposited in
lieu of a surety bond, or may take such steps as may be necessary to require
performance by the bonding or surety company, and as included in a written
agreement between the council and subdivider. (Ord. 434, 6-11-1997)
CHAPTER 6
HEARING AND NOTICE REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
12-6-1: Preliminary Plat
12-6-2: Final Plat
12-6-3: Notice Requirements
12-6-1: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Commission Action: Preliminary plats are subject to a public hearing
before the commission. Such public hearing is subject to the notice
requirements of section
12-6-3 of this chapter.
   B.   Council Action: Preliminary plat applications are not subject to a
public hearing before the council, unless the council decides to disapprove the
recommendation of commission or wishes to substantially alter the conditions
recommended by the commission. Such public hearing is subject to the notice
requirements of section
12-6-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 434, 6-11-1997)
12-6-2: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Commission Action: Final plat applications are not subject to review by
the commission.
   B.   Council Action: The council shall review final plat applications at a
public meeting, however, public testimony concerning the final plat application
is prohibited. If the council decides it would be appropriate for additional
public testimony, it shall schedule the final plat application for a public
hearing, subject to the notice requirements of section
12-6-3 of this chapter, at its next regularly scheduled meeting. (Ord. 434, 6-
11-1997)
12-6-3: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
All public hearings before the commission or council required by this title are
subject to the following notice requirements:
   A.   Publication Of Notice: Public notice by one publication has been given
in the official newspaper indicating the time, place and purpose for the
hearing at least fifteen (15) days prior to such hearing.
   B.   Notice By Mail: The city has sent notice indicating the time, place and
purpose for the hearing through the U.S. mail to all property owners within
three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of the subject site at
least one week prior to such hearing.
   C.   Posting Of Notice: The applicant has posted three (3) notices (provided
by the city) on the subject property at locations clearly visible by off site
viewers indicating the time, place and purpose for the hearing at least one
week prior to such hearing. (Ord. 434, 6-11-1997)
CHAPTER 7
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
12-7-1: Purpose And Intent
12-7-2: Conditional Use Permit Required
12-7-3: Other Requirements
12-7-4: Ownership
12-7-5: Zoning Conformance
12-7-6: Use Regulations
12-7-7: Developer Benefits
12-7-8: Development Standards
12-7-9: Application Procedure
12-7-10: Improvement Guarantees
12-7-11: Expiration And Extension Of Approval Period
12-7-12: Amendments
12-7-13: Condominium Development
12-7-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The planned unit development process provides an opportunity for land
development that preserves natural features, allows efficient provision of
services, and provides common open spaces or other amenities not found in
traditional lot by lot development. The procedure may allow a combination or
variety of residential, commercial, office, technical and industrial land uses.
It also provides for the consistent application of conditions of approval for
the various phases of the planned unit development. A planned unit development
is intended to achieve the following:
   A.   Greater flexibility and, consequently, more creative design for
development than generally is possible under conventional zoning regulations;
   B.   A maximum choice of living environments by allowing a variety of
housing and building types and permitting an increased density per acre and a
reduction in lot dimensions, yards, building setbacks and area requirements;
   C.   A more useful pattern of open space and recreation areas and, if
permitted as part of the project, more convenience in the location of accessory
commercial uses, industrial uses and services;
   D.   A harmonious variety of neighborhood development and a higher level of
urban amenities;
   E.   A development pattern which preserves and utilizes natural topography
and geologic features, scenic vistas, trees and other vegetation and prevents
the disruption of natural drainage patterns;
   F.   A more efficient use of land than is generally achieved through
conventional development resulting in substantial savings through shorter
utilities and streets; and
   G.   A development pattern in harmony with land use density, transportation
and community facilities objectives of the comprehensive plan. (Ord. 511, 8-9-
2005)
12-7-2: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED:
Every planned unit development requires a conditional use permit and shall be
subject to all conditional use permit application procedures as well as to
procedures specified in this chapter. When a planned unit development includes
mixed land uses (zoning deviation) or is intended to be subdivided for sale to
separate ownerships upon completion, the conditional use permitting procedure
may require two (2) public hearings, one before the planning and zoning
commission and one before the city council. (Ord. 511, 8-9-2005)
12-7-3: OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Whenever there is a conflict or difference between the provisions of
this chapter and those of the other chapters of this title, the provisions of
this chapter shall prevail. Subjects not covered by this chapter shall be
governed by the respective provisions found elsewhere in this title.
   B.   A planned unit development shall be subject to applicable development
requirements as set forth in this title. (Ord. 511, 8-9-2005)
12-7-4: OWNERSHIP:
An application for approval of a planned unit development may be filed by a
property owner or a person having an existing interest in the property to be
included in the planned unit development. The planned unit development
application shall be filed in the name or names of the recorded owner or owners
of property included in the development. However, the application may be filed
by the holder(s) of an equity interest in such property.
Before approval is granted to the final development plan, the entire project
shall be under single or corporate ownership or control and proof of legal
title must be presented with the final development plan. (Ord. 511, 8-9-2005)
12-7-5: ZONING CONFORMANCE:
A planned unit development may be allowed by conditional use permit in any
zoning district when it is in substantial conformity with the underlying zone
and upon taking the following items into consideration:
   A.   The proposed uses shall not be detrimental to present and potential
surrounding uses; nor shall they be detrimental to the health, safety and
general welfare of the public. The suitability of the proposal will be
considered for the location and specific site.
   B.   The density of the planned unit development considered as a whole shall
be in substantial conformity with the density of the underlying zoning
district.
   C.   Any variation from the basic zoning district requirements must be
warranted by the design and amenities incorporated in the preliminary and final
development plan.
   D.   The final development plan must be in conformance with the preliminary
plan.
   E.   The planned unit development must meet the general objectives of the
comprehensive land use plan.
   F.   Existing and proposed streets and utility services must be suitable and
adequate for the proposed development.
   G.   An agreement may be required between the developer and the city which
delineates commitments of the developer to the city and of the city to the
developer. (Ord. 511, 8-9-2005)
12-7-6: USE REGULATIONS:
Any permitted or conditional uses allowed in an underlying zoning district may
also be allowed in the planned unit development. Also, up to twenty percent
(20%) of the gross land area may be directed to other commercial, industrial,
public and quasi-public uses that are not allowed within the land use district;
provided, that there is a favorable finding by the city council:
   A.   That the uses are necessary or desirable and are appropriate with the
residential uses and are not located so as to be detrimental to the surrounding
neighborhood;
   B.   That the uses are intended to serve principally the residents of the
planned unit development;
   C.   That the uses are planned as an integral part of the planned unit
development;
   D.   That the uses be located and so designed as to provide direct access to
a collector or an arterial street without creating congestion or traffic
hazards; and
   E.   That a minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the residential development
occurs prior to the development of the related commercial or industrial land
uses. (Ord. 511, 8-9-2005)
12-7-7: DEVELOPER BENEFITS:
Planned unit developments are intended to provide certain benefits to the
public and to the developer. The installation of public improvements (streets,
water, sewer, streetlights, etc.) and two (2) or more of the amenities set
forth herein ensure a public benefit. To provide the developer with an
incentive to utilize the planned unit development process, the following
allowances may be incorporated into the proposal:
   A.   A variety of housing types may be included in residential projects
including attached units, detached units, single-family units and multiple-
units.
   B.   The minimum lot size of the zoning district may be reduced within the
density limits of the zone. "Density limits" is defined as the gross area less
all unbuildable area divided by the minimum lot size for the zone in which the
site is located.
   C.   Setbacks for buildings within the interior of the project may be less
than required in the zoning district. A distance of ten feet (10') shall be
maintained between all detached buildings unless greater separation is required
by fire or building codes.
   D.   The conditions of approval applied to a large planned unit development
concept plan shall be applied consistently to each subsequent phase unless
otherwise agreed to by both the applicant and the city council.
   E.   Buildings may be clustered to preserve as open space those areas
considered to be environmentally sensitive, such as river areas, floodways,
foothills, and wetlands. Clustering of dwelling units, commercial and
industrial uses are encouraged as long as buffer yards, open space and
emergency access are adequately planned. A fifteen foot (15') minimum buffer
yard shall be required to separate different uses in order to eliminate or
minimize potential interference and nuisances on adjacent properties. Larger
buffer yards may be required by the city.
   F.   Uses which are not allowed within the zoning district may be allowed as
part of the planned development subject to the twenty percent (20%) exception
requirements. (Ord. 511, 8-9-2005)
12-7-8: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The development proposal shall be preplanned in its entirety and be
characterized by a unified site design. Approval of a planned unit development
shall substantially conform to the zoning district in which the development is
located unless otherwise provided herein and based on the following:
   A.   Size: The minimum size for a planned unit development shall be as
follows:
      1.   Three (3) acres for residential development.
      2.   Five (5) acres for residential use with subordinate commercial or
industrial uses.
      3.   Ten (10) acres for commercial use.
      4.   Ten (10) acres for industrial use.
   B.   Increased Residential Density: The number of dwelling units allowed in
a planned unit development shall be calculated by taking the gross area, less
the area set aside for nonresidential excepted uses, less open spaces,
churches, schools, and public roadways, and dividing by the minimum lot area
per dwelling unit required by the zone in which the site is located. To provide
an incentive for a quality planned unit development, the city council may
authorize an increased residential density of up to fifteen percent (15%) of
the allowable number of dwelling units. Character, identity and architectural
and siting variation incorporated in a development shall be considered cause
for density increases, provided these factors make up a substantial
contribution to the objectives of the planned unit development, which are as
follows:
      1.   Landscaping (a maximum increase of 5 percent): Streetscape, open
spaces and plazas, use of existing landscaping, pedestrianway treatment and
recreational areas;
      2.   Siting (a maximum increase of 5 percent): Visual focal points, use
of existing physical features such as topography, view, sun and wind
orientation, circulation pattern, physical environment, variation in building
setbacks and building grouping (such as clustering); and
      3.   Design features (a maximum increase of 5 percent): Street sections,
architectural styles, harmonious use of materials, parking areas broken by
landscaping features and varied use of housing types.
   C.   Yards: Along the periphery of the planned unit development, yards shall
be provided as required by regulation of the district in which the development
is located unless an exception is provided. Where development already exists at
the periphery, the yards shall be matched, where practical (e.g., side yards
should be provided adjacent to side yards, rear yards adjacent to rear yards
and front yards opposite front yards).
   D.   Off Street Parking: Off street parking shall comply with the parking
requirements of the underlying zone. No common parking or maneuvering areas
shall be allowed within twenty feet (20') of the boundary of the planned unit
development. All common parking or maneuvering areas shall be buffered from
adjacent properties. The buffer area must be landscaped, screened, or protected
by natural features with the objective of minimizing adverse impacts to
surrounding properties. In addition to the above requirements, where on street
parking is prohibited, at least one additional parking space per dwelling unit
shall be provided either in approved parking bays along the street or in an off
street parking area.
   E.   Open Space/Common Areas: Unless otherwise approved, not less than ten
percent (10%) of the total gross area of a residential planned unit development
shall be retained as permanent common open space and recreational facilities
for the residents or users of the area being developed and shall not include
strips of less than fifteen feet (15') in width unless designed to accommodate
a water feature such as a pond or stream. A minimum of twenty percent (20%) of
land area of a planned unit development devoted to multiple-family residential
use shall consist of open space.
Of this required open space, portions may be "common area" used for
recreational or other collective enjoyment by occupants of the development,
privately owned properties dedicated by easements to assure that open space
will be permanent, and lands developed as active recreational areas or
preserved in their natural state when such areas contain unique natural assets
such as groves of trees, ponds, rivers or streambeds. If ponds are to be
considered as part of the required open space, no more than twenty five percent
(25%) of the surface area of the ponds shall be used. Public utility and
similar easements and rights of way for watercourses and other similar channels
are not acceptable for common open space dedication unless such land or right
of way is usable as a trail or other similar purpose and approved in advance by
the city council.
      1.   Dimension: In order to be functionally usable, open space should
exist in quantities of some minimum dimension. Therefore, the areas of each
parcel of open space to be used for active recreational use shall have a size
and shape consistent with the planned use.
      2.   Location: Open spaces shall be distributed within projects in
locations near the dwelling units of the people they are intended to serve.
Every property developed under the planned unit development approach should be
designed to abut open space or similar areas. A clustering of dwellings is
encouraged.
      3.   Preliminary Plan: Land indicated as open space, common areas,
amenities (tennis courts, playgrounds, swimming pool, etc.), streets and
sidewalks shall be shown on the preliminary plan and provide on the plan that
they be permanently maintained as such either by a homeowners' association
which provides private covenants, an agreement with the developer, or if
suitable and mutually agreeable, by public dedications.
      4.   Maintenance: The responsibility for the maintenance of all open
spaces shall be specified by the developer and agreed to by the city before
approval of the final development plan.
   F.   Amenities: Amenities shall be provided as a part of each planned unit
development. The number of amenities (minimum of 2) shall be proportionate to
the size of the development and may include, but not be limited to, any of the
following:
      1.   Private recreational facilities such as a swimming pool, tennis
court, barbecue area or playground of a size appropriate to meet needs of the
development.
      2.   Provision for public access to any public open space, park or river
greenbelt.
      3.   Publicly dedicated land in a planned unit development for facilities
such as school, fire station, well site, public park, and public recreational
facility.
      4.   Additional open space for parkways, boulevards, or other features
designed to mitigate vehicle/traffic impact.
      5.   Other amenities as approved by the planning and zoning commission
and council.
   G.   Required Setbacks: Attached structures may be permitted in planned unit
developments. The minimum separation between detached buildings shall be ten
feet (10') unless greater separation is required by fire or building codes.
   H.   Underground Utilities: Underground utilities, including telephone and
electrical systems, are required within the limits of all planned unit
developments. Appurtenances to these systems which can be effectively screened
may be exempted from this requirement if the commission finds that such
exemption will not violate the intent or character of the proposed planned unit
development.
   I.   Commercial Uses: When planned unit developments include commercial
uses, commercial buildings and establishments shall be planned as groups having
common parking areas and common ingress and egress points in order to reduce
the number of potential accident locations at intersections. Planting screens
or fences shall be provided on the perimeter of the commercial areas abutting
residential areas.
The plan of the project shall provide for the integrated and harmonious design
of buildings, and for adequate and properly arranged facilities for internal
traffic circulation, landscaping and such other features and facilities as may
be necessary to make the project attractive and efficient from the standpoint
of the adjoining and surrounding noncommercial areas.
All areas designed for future expansion or not intended for immediate
improvement or development shall be landscaped or otherwise maintained in a
neat and orderly manner.
   J.   Industrial And Technological Uses: Planned unit developments may
include industrial and technological uses if it can be shown that the
development results in a more efficient and desirable use of land.
      1.   Industrial and technological uses and parcels shall be developed in
park like surroundings utilizing landscaping and existing woodlands as buffers
to screen lighting, parking areas, loading areas or docks and/or outdoor
storage of raw materials or products. A planned industrial or technological
area shall provide for the harmony of buildings and a compact grouping in order
to economize in the provision of such utility services as are required.
Thoroughfares shall be kept to a minimum throughout a planned industrial or
technological area in order to reduce through traffic.
      2.   Project side yards of forty feet (40') and a rear yard of fifty feet
(50') shall be required if the project is located adjacent to any residential
uses. All intervening spaces between the right of way line and project building
line and intervening spaces between buildings, drives, parking areas and
improved areas shall be landscaped with trees and plantings and properly
maintained at all times. (Ord. 511, 8-9-2005)
12-7-9: APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
When the planned unit development also qualifies as a subdivision, the
processing of the conditional use permit and subdivision application shall
occur at the same time. The granting of a conditional use permit for a planned
unit development shall require a preapplication, the submission of a
preliminary development plan and approval by the city council of a final
development plan as specified within this title.
   A.   Preapplication: Prior to the filing of an application for approval of a
planned unit development, the developer shall submit to the city five (5)
copies of a conceptual plan of the development proposal to enable, review and
comment. Such plan may be generalized in content and such submission shall not
require the official filing of an application and fee. The conceptual plan
shall include the entire development scheme of the proposed planned unit
development, in schematic form, and the following:
      1.   The general layout of the development showing at a minimum the
location of buildings, open space, types of landscaping, proposed uses, and any
areas set aside for schools, parks or other public facilities.
      2.   The existing conditions and characteristics of the land on and
adjacent to the proposed development site.
      3.   Reasonable information on plans for water, sewer, streets, drainage,
and other major components of infrastructure.
   B.   Preapplication Review: The city staff shall review said plans and data
as submitted and advise the developer as to the general conformance or
nonconformance of the proposed development with this code.
   C.   Preliminary Development Plan/Conditional Use Permit: Upon completion of
the preapplication review, if the developer elects to proceed with the planned
unit development process, he shall pay all fees (as set by resolution of the
city council) and file with the city an application for a conditional use
permit, preliminary development plan and any other required application with
the following required information:
      1.   All necessary information as specified for a conditional use permit,
plus necessary information on other applicable permit.
      2.   Fifteen (15) copies of preliminary development plan which shall
consist of drawings and supplementary written material adequate to provide the
following information:
         a.   Statement Of Intent: Statement of how the purpose and intent of
section
12-7-1 of this chapter will be achieved by the planned unit development,
including sketches or illustrations of the proposed character of the
development, a description of how the planned unit development will relate to
surrounding land uses and identified key neighborhood features, if any, and
whether a zone change, comprehensive plan amendment, variance, floodplain
permit, preliminary plat is also requested.
         b.   Outline Of Proposed Development: An outline of the proposed
planned unit development stating: land use allocation by type, including the
amount of land for housing, density, open spaces, roadways and parking, the
number and type of housing units, and how necessary services will be provided
and whether services are publicly or privately owned and operated.
         c.   Preliminary Drawings: Preliminary drawings at a scale of one inch
to one hundred feet (1" = 100'). The preliminary drawings shall display the
following:
            (1)   The name of the proposed planned unit development, which does
not duplicate the name of any other development in Elmore County.
            (2)   Date, north point and scale of drawing.
            (3)   Legal description of the planned unit development other than
metes and bounds, sufficient to define its location and boundaries.
            (4)   Names, addresses and telephone numbers of the owners,
designer of the planned unit development, and engineer, planner and surveyor,
if any, and the date of the survey.
            (5)   Appropriate identification of the drawing as a preliminary
plan.
            (6)   Names and addresses of all surrounding property owners within
three hundred feet (300') of the subject property (attach separately).
            (7)   A statement of the intended use of the proposed planned unit
development, such as residential single-family, two-family and multiple-family
housing, commercial, industrial, or recreational and a showing of any site
proposed for parks, playgrounds, schools, churches or other public uses.
            (8)   A vicinity map showing the relationship of the proposed plat
to the surrounding area (covering at least a 4 square mile area).
         d.   Natural Features Map: Fifteen (15) copies of a natural features
map showing an inventory of existing site features including:
            (1)   Ground elevations shown by contour lines at two foot (2')
intervals or less.
            (2)   General soil types as documented by a soils engineer or
engineering geologist, if necessary.
            (3)   Fish and wildlife habitats, if any.
            (4)   Proposed and existing stormwater facilities.
            (5)   Water features, such as ponds, wetlands and watercourses.
            (6)   Areas subject to flooding.
            (7)   Natural features, such as trees, watercourses, historic
spots, and similar irreplaceable amenities.
            (8)   Existing on site or abutting sanitary sewer, storm drainage
and water supply facilities. If such facilities are not on or abutting the
site, indicate the direction and distance to the nearest ones.
            (9)   Width, location and purpose of all existing easements of
record on and abutting the site.
            (10)   Information on land areas contiguous and adjacent to the
proposed planned unit development and existing adjacent areas, including zoning
classifications, land uses, densities, circulation systems, public facilities,
unique natural features of the landscape, and approximate locations of nearby
structures.
         e.   Proposed Site Plan: Fifteen (15) copies of a proposed site plan
showing:
            (1)   The locations of dwelling units and/or individual lots.
            (2)   Location of major streets.
            (3)   The proposed yard requirements or locations of single-family
homes for individual lots, if any.
            (4)   The existing and proposed traffic circulation system serving
the planned unit development including: off street parking and maneuvering,
points of access to existing public rights of way, and a plan notation or
descriptive narrative outlining ownership of streets and parking areas.
            (5)   The existing and proposed pedestrian and bicycle circulation
system.
            (6)   Conceptual plans for all necessary services including their
location and whether the services will be publicly or privately owned and
maintained. Location of utilities as would tie into the project and the
calculated effects on city water, sewer, storm drainage and infrastructure.
            (7)   Proposed location and treatment of any public or private
common areas or structures including open spaces, park or recreation areas, and
school sites.
            (8)   The general treatment proposed for the periphery of the site.
            (9)   The approximate amount, location and type of buffering and/or
landscaping.
            (10)   Proposed architectural styles.
         f.   Necessary Studies: Environmental assessment, traffic study,
grading plan or other study necessary for the proposed site.
         g.   Preliminary Subdivision Plat: If the applicant is requesting
preliminary subdivision plat approval concurrently with the preliminary planned
unit development approval, a preliminary subdivision plat shall be submitted.
         h.   Development Schedule: A development schedule indicating to the
best of applicant's knowledge the approximate date on which construction of all
phases of the entire project can be expected to begin, the anticipated rate of
development, and completion date. The schedule, if approved by the planning and
zoning commission, shall become a part of the final development plan and shall
be adhered to by the owner of the property in the planned unit development and
his successors in interest.
         i.   Additional Information: Any additional information required by
city staff or the commission.
   D.   Planning And Zoning Commission Review:
      1.   Hearing By Commission: The commission shall review the plans,
comments from concerned persons and agencies and the report from the
administrator to arrive at a recommendation on the preliminary development plan
to be forwarded to the city council.
      2.   Commission's Findings: In determining the acceptance of a proposed
development plan, the commission shall consider the objectives of this chapter
and at least the following:
         a.   The conformance of the preliminary development plan with title 11
of this code and this title;
         b.   The availability of public services to accommodate the proposed
planned unit development;
         c.   The continuity of the proposed planned unit development with
capital improvements; and
         d.   The other health, safety or environmental problems that may be
brought to the commission's attention.
      3.   Commission Action On The Preliminary Development Plan: The
commission may recommend approval, conditional approval or disapproval to the
city council, or it may table for additional information when acting on the
preliminary development plan. If tabled, a decision to recommend approval or
disapproval shall occur at the regular meeting following the meeting at which
the preliminary development plan is first considered by the commission. The
recommendation, and the reasons for such recommendation, shall be stated in
writing and forwarded to the applicant. The commission shall also forward a
statement of the recommended action and the reasons for such recommendation
together with a copy of the preliminary development plan to the city council
within the following ten (10) days. Upon its recommendation, to approve or
disapprove a preliminary development plan, the commission shall specify:
         a.   The regulations and standards used in evaluating the application;
and
         b.   The reasons for its recommendation of approval or disapproval.
   E.   Council Review:
      1.   Deliberation By Council: The council shall review the commission's
recommendation at its next available regularly scheduled meeting and will
decide, by majority vote, to approve or disapprove the commission's
recommendations or to hold a public hearing.
      2.   Hearing By Council: If the council does not approve the commission's
recommendation or wishes to substantially alter the conditions recommended by
the commission, it shall set a date for a public hearing at which all
interested parties may appear before the council to be heard. The council shall
review the commission's recommendations, the preliminary development plan,
comments from concerned persons and agencies, and the report from the
administrator to arrive at a decision on the preliminary development plan.
      3.   Council's Findings: In determining the acceptance of a proposed
development plan, the council shall consider the objectives of this chapter and
at least the following:
         a.   The conformance of the preliminary development plan with title 11
of this code and this title;
         b.   The availability of public services to accommodate the proposed
planned unit development;
         c.   The continuity of the proposed planned unit development with
capital improvements; and
         d.   The other health, safety or environmental problems that may be
brought to the commission's attention.
      4.   Council Action On The Preliminary Development Plan: The council may
approve, conditionally approve or disapprove, or it may table for additional
information when acting on the preliminary development plan. If tabled, a
decision to approve or disapprove the preliminary development plan shall occur
at the regular meeting following the meeting at which the preliminary
development plan is first considered by the council. The decision, and the
reasons for such decision, shall be stated in writing and forwarded to the
applicant. Upon approving or disapproving a preliminary development plan, the
council shall specify:
         a.   The regulations and standards used in evaluating the application;
         b.   The reasons for its approval or disapproval; and
         c.   If disapproved, the actions, if any, that the applicant could
take to receive approval.
   F.   Final Development Plan: Within one year after approval of the
preliminary development plan, the applicant shall submit to the city a final
development plan for the entire planned unit development or a final development
plan for the first phase of development if the planned unit development has
been approved for phased development. The applicant shall submit final
development plans for any subsequent phases within the time limit specified in
the approval of the preliminary development plan.
The final development plan may be submitted to the planning and zoning
commission upon approval by the city engineer of detailed improvement plans,
including street construction, utility locations, drainage, dedications of
easements and public facilities, along with a proposed schedule for phasing.
All agreements for maintenance, etc., shall be prepared and submitted for
review and approval at this time.
      1.   Items that shall be included in the final development plan are:
         a.   Drawings And Information: The final development plan shall be
drawn in clear and legible form on good quality tracing paper or Mylar drafting
film at a reasonable size and scale to clearly show all required information.
Ten (10) prints of the plan made from this drawing shall accompany the
application.
         b.   Information Required On The Plan: In addition to that required by
the preliminary development plan, or otherwise specified by law, the following
information shall be shown on the plan:
            (1)   Reference points of identified existing surveys related to
the planned unit development plan by distances and bearings and referenced to
field book or map, including stakes, monuments or other evidence found on the
ground and used to determine the boundaries of the planned unit development.
            (2)   The location and width of streets and easements intercepting
the boundary of the tract.
            (3)   Easements and stormwater drainage facilities clearly
identified and, if already of record, their recorded reference. The width of
the easement, its length and bearing, and sufficient ties to locate the
easement with respect to the planned unit development shall be shown. If the
easement is being dedicated by the plan, it shall be properly referenced in the
owner's certificates of dedication.
            (4)   Identification of land to be dedicated for any purpose,
public or private.
            (5)   Other plans and studies as required at preliminary approval
such as a grading plan, soils engineer report, traffic study, detailed
landscaping and buffering plans where required.
         c.   Additional Certificates Or Drawings: The following may be
combined where appropriate:
            (1)   A certificate signed and acknowledged by all parties having
any recorded title interest in the land, consenting to the preparation and
recording of the planned unit development.
            (2)   A certificate signed and acknowledged as above, dedicating
the land intended for public use, if any.
            (3)   A certificate with the seal of and signed by the surveyor
responsible for the survey.
            (4)   A title report issued by the title insurance company
verifying ownership by the applicant of real property that is to be dedicated
to the public.
            (5)   A copy of any deed restrictions applicable to the planned
unit development.
         d.   Detailed Design Plan: A detailed design plan and supporting
engineering calculations for the planned unit development site including:
            (1)   The location of proposed buildings and structures, parking
and maneuvering areas and/or the location of allowable building areas of
individual lots, if any.
            (2)   Building setback lines, if any, that are to be made part of
the planned unit development restrictions.
            (3)   The location and type of proposed buildings, structures or
improvements in common open space areas.
            (4)   The location and detailed information including street
section calculations for all proposed streets, with approval by the city
engineer.
            (5)   Calculations of average, maximum and peak demand and a plan
for water mains and fire hydrants.
            (6)   Calculation of average and peak contributions and a plan for
sanitary sewer approved by the city engineer.
            (7)   Calculations of the 24-hour, 10-year, 25-year and 100-year
storm event and a plan for stormwater drainage with approval by the city
engineer.
            (8)   Plans for additional improvements such as pedestrianways,
street lighting, public utilities, street trees, etc.
         e.   Landscaping And Buffering Plan: A landscaping and buffering plan
for common open space areas, the periphery of the planned unit development and
other required locations.
            (1)   The plan shall show areas to remain in natural vegetation;
and, in a clear manner, the area, sizes, numbers and general types of plant and
other materials to be used. Revegetation of common open space areas and
periphery areas disturbed during the construction of services, dwellings or
other facilities. Proposed schedule if cannot be completed prior to occupancy
of dwellings or as otherwise required by the conditions of approval, an
improvement guarantee of a sufficient amount shall be required to assure timely
completion.
   G.   Commission Recommendation:
      1.   Hearing By Commission: Within forty five (45) days of receipt of the
final development plan, the commission shall review the plans, comments from
concerned persons and agencies and the report from the administrator to arrive
at a recommendation on the preliminary development plan to be forwarded to the
city council.
      2.   Commission's Findings: In determining the acceptance of a proposed
development plan, the commission shall consider the objectives of this chapter
and at least the following:
         a.   The conformance of the preliminary development plan with title 11
of this code and this title;
         b.   The availability and suitability of public services to
accommodate the proposed planned unit development;
         c.   The continuity of the proposed planned unit development with
capital improvements;
         d.   The other health, safety or environmental problems that may be
brought to the commission's attention.
         e.   The proposed development can be initiated within one year of the
date of approval;
         f.   Each individual unit of the development, as well as the total
development, can exist as an independent unit capable of creating an
environment of sustained desirability and stability or that adequate assurance
will be provided that such objective will be attained and the uses proposed
will not be detrimental to present and potential surrounding uses, but will
have a beneficial effect which would not be achieved under standard district
regulations.
         g.   The streets and thoroughfares proposed are suitable and adequate
to carry anticipated traffic, and increased densities will not generate traffic
in such amounts as to overload the street network outside the planned unit
development.
         h.   Any proposed commercial development can be justified at the
locations proposed.
         i.   Any exception from standard district requirements is warranted by
the design and other amenities incorporated in the final development plan, in
accordance with the planned unit development and the adopted policy of the
council.
         j.   The area surrounding said development can be planned and zoned in
coordination and substantial compatibility with the proposed development.
         k.   The planned unit development is in general conformance with the
comprehensive plan.
      3.   Commission Action On The Preliminary Development Plan: The
commission may recommend approval, conditional approval or disapproval to the
city council, or it may table for additional information when acting on the
preliminary development plan. If tabled, a decision to recommend approval or
disapproval shall occur at the regular meeting following the meeting at which
the preliminary development plan is first considered by the commission. The
recommendation, and the reasons for such recommendation, shall be stated in
writing and forwarded to the applicant. The commission shall also forward a
statement of the recommended action and the reasons for such recommendation
together with a copy of the preliminary development plan to the city council
within the following ten (10) days. Upon its recommendation, to approve or
disapprove a preliminary development plan, the commission shall specify:
         a.   The regulations and standards used in evaluating the application;
and
         b.   The reasons for its recommendation of approval or disapproval.
   H.   Council Action:
      1.   Deliberation By Council: The council shall review the commission's
recommendation at its next available regularly scheduled meeting and will
decide, by majority vote, to approve or disapprove the commission's
recommendations or to hold a public hearing.
      2.   Hearing By Council: If the council does not approve the commission's
recommendation or wishes to substantially alter the conditions recommended by
the commission, it shall set a date for a public hearing at which all
interested parties may appear before the council to be heard. The council shall
review the commission's recommendations, the preliminary development plan,
comments from concerned persons and agencies, and the report from the
administrator to arrive at a decision on the preliminary development plan.
      3.   Council's Findings: In determining the acceptance of a proposed
development plan, the council shall consider the objectives of this chapter and
at least the following:
         a.   The conformance of the preliminary development plan with title 11
of this code and this title;
         b.   The availability of public services to accommodate the proposed
planned unit development;
         c.   The continuity of the proposed planned unit development with
capital improvements; and
         d.   The other health, safety or environmental problems that may be
brought to the commission's attention.
      4.   Council Action On The Preliminary Development Plan: The council may
approve, conditionally approve or disapprove, or it may table for additional
information when acting on the preliminary development plan. If tabled, a
decision to approve or disapprove the preliminary development plan shall occur
at the regular meeting following the meeting at which the preliminary
development plan is first considered by the council. The decision, and the
reasons for such decision, shall be stated in writing and forwarded to the
applicant. Upon approving or disapproving a preliminary development plan, the
council shall specify:
         a.   The regulations and standards used in evaluating the application;
         b.   The reasons for its approval or disapproval; and
         c.   If disapproved, the actions, if any, that the applicant could
take to receive approval.
If the application is either approved or approved with conditions, the city
council shall direct the administrator to issue zoning permits only in
accordance with the approved final development plan and the supplementary
conditions attached thereto. (Ord. 511, 8-9-2005)
12-7-10: IMPROVEMENT GUARANTEES:
   A.   Prior to issuance of building permits for structures, the applicant
shall either install and complete all private service improvements, including
pedestrianways, utilities, landscaping and buffering, or file an improvement
guarantee for these items.
   B.   The improvement guarantee is an agreement between the applicant and
city specifying a development schedule setting forth when service improvements
will be made.
   C.   The agreement shall be in a form satisfactory to the city attorney, and
shall be filed with the city clerk.
   D.   The applicant shall file with the agreement one of the following to
assure his full and faithful performance:
      1.   A certified check, checks, or line of credit;
      2.   Other surety acceptable to the city;
      3.   Assurance of full and faithful performance shall be for the amount
of one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated costs of improvements
approved by the city engineer, including related engineering and city
inspections;
      4.   At the discretion of the city, the improvement guarantee may be in
the form of separate bonds or checks covering individual portions or specific
types of improvements, rather than one bond or check covering the work;
      5.   Occupancy permits shall not be issued unless all improvements and
conditions of approval have been fulfilled to the satisfaction of the city;
      6.   The city clerk shall not return the improvement guarantee or
guarantees until the improvements related to the guarantee are completed to the
satisfaction of the city. (Ord. 511, 8-9-2005)
12-7-11: EXPIRATION AND EXTENSION OF APPROVAL PERIOD:
The approval of a final development plan for a planned unit development shall
be for a period not to exceed one year to allow for preparation and recording
of the required subdivision plan and the development of the project. If no
construction has begun within one year after approval is granted, the approved
final development plan shall be void. The applicant may request an extension of
the one year time limit not later than thirty (30) days prior to the expiration
of the final development plan one year limit. An extension of the time limit or
modification of the approved final development plan may be approved if the
council finds that such extension or modification is not in conflict with the
public interest. (Ord. 511, 8-9-2005)
12-7-12: AMENDMENTS:
Any subsequent amendment to the final development plan changing location,
siting, and height of buildings and structures may be authorized by the
commission without additional public hearings, if required by engineering or
other circumstances not foreseen at the time the final plan was approved. In no
case shall the commission authorize changes which may cause any of the
following:
   A.   A change in the use or character of the development.
   B.   An increase in overall coverage of structures.
   C.   An increase of the intensity of use.
   D.   An increase in the problems of traffic circulation and public
utilities.
   E.   A reduction of off street parking and loading space.
   F.   A reduction in required pavement widths.
All other changes in use, rearrangement of lots, blocks and building tracts, or
in the provision of common open spaces and changes other than those listed
above which constitute substantial alteration of the original plan shall
require a public hearing before the commission and approval by the council.
(Ord. 511, 8-9-2005)
12-7-13: CONDOMINIUM DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Conditional Use Permit Required: Every condominium project requires a
conditional use permit application and shall be subject to all conditional use
procedures. In addition, all city codes relating to planned unit developments,
recording, subdivisions and zoning shall apply to condominium developments.
   B.   Condominium Property Act: "Condominium", defined in section 55-101B,
Idaho Code, as an estate consisting of: 1) an undivided interest in common in
real property, in an interest or interests in real property, or in any
combination thereof, together with 2) a separate interest in real property, in
an interest or interests in real property, or in any combination thereof, shall
be developed in accordance with section 55-1501, Idaho Code, the "condominium
property act". (Ord. 511, 8-9-2005)
