CITY CODE
of
GRACE, IDAHO
1982
Code current through:
Ord. 2023-2, passed 4-19-2023
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the City of Grace, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to and
including ordinance 2023-2, passed 4-19-2023. Ordinances of the City adopted
after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the extent that
they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City office in
order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has been
amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 190
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CITY CODE OF GRACE, IDAHO
   BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and City Council of the City of Grace, Idaho, an
Idaho Municipal Corporation:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this Ordinance, the City
Code of the City of Grace, Idaho, prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., under
the direction of the governing body of the City, containing all ordinances of a
general nature in effect at the time of such codification shall be accepted in
all courts without question as the Official Code and Law of the City as enacted
by the Mayor and City Council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the Official City Code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies. Each such new provision
shall become effective upon the passage of the ordinance and the insertion of
the proper replacement pages in the copies of the Code, three (3) copies of
which shall be maintained in the office of the City Clerk, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this Official City
Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said Official City Code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the City Code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the Official City Code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented thereby.
Any person, firm or corporation violating this Section shall be punished as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of the City Code of Grace, Idaho.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This Ordinance and the Code adopted by the same shall be in full
force and effect from and after its passage and approval in accordance with
law, as printed and published in book form by order of the Mayor and City
Council.
   PASSED AND APPROVED THIS 12th day of January, 1982.
CITY OF GRACE, IDAHO
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8899ce9a693b10aa46de2ddb5aa0aadc4cb893df/
IMAGES/0-0-0-604.png]
 
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alteration
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the City Council, this City Code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official City Code of the City of Grace. This
City Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the GRACE CITY CODE, and it
is hereby published by authority of the City Council and shall be kept up to
date as provided in Section
1-1-3 of this Chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause,
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this City Code by title in any legal documents. (1981 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The City Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the City of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Code. (1981 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the City Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this City Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this City Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the City Code. (1981 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATION:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this City Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
City Council. The Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the Clerk. Any
person having in his custody an official copy of the City Code shall make every
effort to maintain said Code in an up to date and efficient manner. He shall
see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the City Clerk.
Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and other interested
persons, shall be and remain the property of the City and shall be returned to
the office of the Clerk when directed so to do by order of the City Council.
(1981 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the City passed prior to the adoption of this City
Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this City Code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
City; and all special ordinances. (1981 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this City Code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as this City Code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case this City Code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1981 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable, if
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party affected, applied to
any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the City herein repealed
and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this Code shall be
deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
City under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this City Code. (1981 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this City Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The City Council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (1981 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this City Code importing the plural number
is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons, any
single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used.
When any subject matter, party or person is referred to in this City Code by
words importing the singular number only, or the masculine gender, several
matters, parties or persons and females as well as males and bodies corporate
shall be deemed to be included; provided, that these rules of construction
shall not be applied to any section of this City Code which contains any
express provision excluding such construction or where the subject matter or
context may be repugnant thereto.
The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the City has been changed
in the content of this City Code to "Title", "Chapter", "Section" and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the City's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1981 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
CITY: The City of Grace, County of Caribou, State of Idaho.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the City of
Grace".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the City for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment in
other than a penitentiary for less than one year may be imposed.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the City; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a hazard
to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or to the
community.
OCCUPANT: Applied to a building or land shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the City of
Grace".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: Includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or
lessee of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small quantities
direct to the consumer.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, and public ways.
TENANT: Applied to a building or land shall include any person who occupies the
whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall
be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things
in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond required by law, it shall be in
the proper handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his
proper mark. (1981 Code; amd. Ord. 2018-4, 11-7-2018)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-
enacted. (1981 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Any person violating any ordinances of the City shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and where no other penalty is set forth in any ordinance, shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) for any one
offense, or by imprisonment for a term not exceeding six (6) months, or by both
such fine and imprisonment 1 . (Ord. 187, 2-10-81)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. 50-302.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The penalty provided in this Chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this City Code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate
section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this City Code
where a duty is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any action which is
of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
upon each day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act
continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in this City Code.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this City Code, the prosecuting officer may
elect under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had
against the same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of
a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this City Code and there shall be no fine
or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this
Chapter shall apply. (1981 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this City Code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intent of the Council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (1981 Code)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Election Of Officers
1-5-2: Acts Under Village Government
1-5-3: Meetings Of The Council
1-5-4: Quorum
1-5-5: Order Of Business
1-5-6: Appointive City Officers
1-5-7: Salaries
1-5-1: ELECTION OF OFFICERS:
There shall be a mayor and four (4) council persons elected in the city as
provided by state statute 1 , said officers to constitute the elected officials
of the city. (Ord. 3, 8-30-1967)
 
Notes
1 1. IC 50-203.
1-5-2: ACTS UNDER VILLAGE GOVERNMENT:
All bylaws, ordinances and resolutions lawfully passed and in force in the city
under its former organization as a village, shall remain in full force and
effect until altered or repealed by the mayor and council of the city, as
provided by HB 3, as amended, of the 39th session of the legislature of the
state of Idaho, and as amended, said HB 3 shall not impair or affect any act
done, offense committed or right accruing, accrued or acquired or liability,
penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred by the village prior to the
effective date of such act, but the same may be enjoyed, asserted, enforced,
prosecuted or inflicted by the city of Grace as fully and to the same extent as
if such act had not been passed. (Ord. 2, 9-12-1967)
1-5-3: MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL:
   (A)   Place Of Meetings: All regular meetings of the city council shall be
held at the city hall, and special meetings of said council may be held at any
place named in the call for such special meeting. (Ord. 1, 11-9-1915)
   (B)   Regular Meetings: Regular meetings of the city council shall be held
on the first and third Wednesdays of each month at six o'clock (6:00) P.M. at
the city hall located at 108 East Center Street, Grace, Idaho. (Ord. 2015-1, 2-
4-2015)
   (C)   Special Meetings: Special meetings of the city council may be held
upon call of the mayor. Special meetings of the council may also be held upon
call of one-half (1/2) plus one of the members of the full council. The object
of such a meeting shall be submitted to the council in writing. The call and
object shall be entered upon the journal of the clerk. (Ord. 180, 2-10-1981)
1-5-4: QUORUM:
At all meetings of the city council a majority of the full council shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. (Ord. 180, 2-10-1981)
1-5-5: ORDER OF BUSINESS:
At all regular and special meetings of the council, the following order of
business, as near as practicable, shall be observed:
   (A)   Call to order.
   (B)   Reading and approving of minutes of previous meetings.
   (C)   Unfinished business.
   (D)   Petitions and communications.
   (E)   Reports of committees.
   (F)   Presentation and allowance of claims.
   (G)   New business.
   (H)   Report of officers.
   (I)   Adjournment. (Ord. 1, 11-19-1915)
1-5-6: APPOINTIVE CITY OFFICERS:
The mayor, with the consent of the city council, shall appoint a city clerk-
treasurer, a city attorney, and such other officers as the city council deems
necessary to the efficient operation of the city. (Ord. 182, 2-10-1981)
1-5-7: SALARIES:
Commencing January 1, 2016, the salaries of the mayor and of the members of the
Grace city council shall be as follows:
   (A)   The mayor shall receive an annual salary in the sum of three thousand
six hundred dollars ($3,600.00); and
   (B)   Each member of the council shall receive an annual salary in the sum
of one thousand eight hundred dollars ($1,800.00). (Ord. 2015-3, 8-5-2015, eff.
1-1-2016)
CHAPTER 6
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: City Clerk-Treasurer
1-6-2: Salaries
1-6-3: Employee Vacation, Sick Leave And Holidays
1-6-4: Employee Retirement Benefits
1-6-5: Temporary Employees; Fringe Benefits
1-6-6: Code Enforcement Officer
1-6-1: CITY CLERK-TREASURER:
   (A)   Duties: The city clerk-treasurer shall perform the following duties:
      1.   Be custodian of and keeper of the municipal seal of the city,
ordinances, public records, documents, resolutions, laws, and orders of the
city and council, and keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the council,
and keep in a separate book a record of ordinances and resolutions passed by
the council and of the titles of such ordinances, and keep all ordinances not
published in book form, indexed in a proper manner;
      2.   See that each ordinance is published as required by law and keep on
file the proof of such publication;
      3.   Affix the municipal seal to all documents as required by law or as
designated by the council;
      4.   Furnish any person with a certified copy of any record, paper,
ordinance, resolution or other public document on file in his office or in his
custody upon that person paying the costs of any copying or certification
expense;
      5.   Keep such books and permanent records of the transactions and
business of his office as may be necessary to actively dispose of all
transactions and business of his office;
      6.   Maintain a full and accurate accounting of municipal monies and
funds received by him showing the date of the receipt thereof, the person from
whom received, on what account, and to what funds the same is credited, with
the date of disbursement, the person to whom disbursed, the account, and
against what fund;
      7.   Keep records of outstanding bonds of the municipality, showing the
number and amount of each, for what and to whom said bonds were issued; and
when any of said bonds are purchased or paid or canceled the record shall show
the fact; and in his report at the end of each fiscal year he shall describe
particularly the bonds issued and sold during the year, the terms of sale, and
itemize each and every expense thereof;
      8.   Receive and safely keep in designated depositories, as required by
law, all monies or funds belonging to the municipality which he may receive;
disburse the same upon an appropriation by ordinance, resolution or other order
of the council, and after allowance by the council of claims submitted, and not
otherwise. Securities belonging to the municipality incapable of deposit in a
checking or savings account shall be kept by him in a safety deposit box in a
proper depository as designated by the council;
      9.   Execute and deliver to every officer or person paying money or funds
to the city a receipt therefor specifying the date of payment, and the amount
thereof, and upon which funds or account the same is received, and file copies
of said receipts with his monthly reports; cause to be published for at least
one insertion in the official newspaper of the city, within thirty (30) days
after the end of each quarter, and every year, a full statement of receipts and
expenditures, unless the same is not required by state statute;
      10.   Deliver to his successor in office all books, monies, papers and
other property pertaining to his office;
      11.   Ensure that all money due and payable to the city on any account
whatsoever is duly collected;
      12.   At the end of each and every month, and at other times when
required by the council, render an account, under oath, showing the state of
the treasury at the date of such account and the balance of money in the
treasury, with a detailed statement of the specified amount in each designated
depository and of the amount and class of security held to guarantee each
deposit. Such accounts shall be accompanied by a statement of all receipts and
disbursements;
      13.   Allow the mayor and any member of the council free access to any
and all books or papers in the office of the clerk- treasurer for the purpose
of inspection or examination so long as the inspection or examination is
conducted within the normal business hours of the city office and city clerk-
treasurer;
      14.   Prepare the city council agenda and notify all parties when they
are to appear at meetings; ensure that all required documents pertaining to the
meeting are assembled and available;
      15.   Notify all interested parties of official council action and answer
inquiries regarding council activities;
      16.   Assist in the preparation of the annual budget by projecting
revenues and expenses and oversee all financial records, accounts, and utility
billings;
      17.   Invest surplus city funds in safe and secure deposits according to
statute;
      18.   Maintain the general ledger, and accounting of LID assessments;
      19.   Prepare advertisements for bids and arrange for publication;
      20.   Prepare and issue city payrolls;
      21.   Issue licenses;
      22.   Perform all necessary election duties, including filing of
petitions of nominations, newspaper publications, printing of ballots,
registration, obtaining election clerks and judges and providing books for
elections;
      23.   Publish quarterly during each fiscal year for at least one
insertion in the official newspaper of the city, a full statement of each
separate account, fund or appropriation for the year to date, and balances of
the debits and credits belonging thereto, indicating salaries, capital outlay
and a percentage comparison to the original appropriation. All published
financial statements shall include the following: "Citizens are invited to
inspect the details supporting records of the above financial statements". Such
statements shall be published within thirty (30) days from the end of each
quarter.
   (B)   Bond: The city clerk-treasurer shall, before entering upon the duties
thereof, execute a bond to the city in the penal sum of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00), conditioned upon the faithful performance of his duties. The bond
of the city clerk-treasurer shall be filed with the mayor of the city. (Ord.
182, 2-10-1981)
1-6-2: SALARIES:
The salary of the city clerk-treasurer and all other appointed officers of the
city shall be as set from time to time by resolution of the city council. (Ord.
182, 2-10-1981)
1-6-3: EMPLOYEE VACATION, SICK LEAVE AND HOLIDAYS:
See the city's personnel policy manual. (Res. 122, 9-2-2003)
1-6-4: EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT BENEFITS:
See the city's personnel policy manual. (Res. 122, 9-2-2003)
1-6-5: TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES; FRINGE BENEFITS:
See the city's personnel policy manual. (Res. 122, 9-2-2003)
1-6-6: CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
   (A)   The city superintendent of the city of Grace, Idaho, is hereby
appointed as the code enforcement officer for the city.
   (B)   The code enforcement officer shall have the following authority and
duties:
      1.   Investigate and enforce this code and all ordinances and regulations
of the city.
      2.   Make reports to the city council of violations of this code and
ordinances and regulations of the city.
      3.   Issue warnings to persons or entities violating any provision of
this code, or ordinance and regulations of the city.
      4.   Sign and issue uniform citations and affidavits in support thereof
for violations of this code, and ordinances and regulations of the city.
      5.   Testify in court as to any act or omission and violation of this
code and ordinances and regulations of the city.
      6.   Perform all other duties as prescribed by the mayor.
   (C)   No person or entity shall interfere with or obstruct the code
enforcement officer in the performance of his duties. Any person who obstructs
or interferes with the performance of the duties by the code enforcement
officer shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punishable by a fine not
to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), or by confinement in the county jail
for a period not to exceed six (6) months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment. (Ord. 285, 4-15-2009)
CHAPTER 7
CIVIL DEFENSE
SECTION:
1-7-1: Organization Established
1-7-2: Civil Defense Director, Board
1-7-3: Duties of Director and Board
1-7-1: ORGANIZATION ESTABLISHED:
A civil defense organization for the City is hereby organized and established.
(Res. dated 7-21-59)
1-7-2: CIVIL DEFENSE DIRECTOR, BOARD:
A Civil Defense Director shall be appointed to work in liaison with the Civil
Defense Board, which Board shall consist of the Mayor of the City, together
with the members of the City Council. (Res. dated 7-21-59)
1-7-3: DUTIES OF DIRECTOR AND BOARD:
Said Civil Defense Director, together with the Civil Defense Board above
mentioned, shall immediately establish the necessary and appropriate
organizations to carry out the purposes above set forth, prepare operational
plans, make agreements needed to fulfill the plans, recruit and train
personnel, conduct research on civil defense problems, procure and stockpile
materials and supplies in anticipation of emergencies among civilians, provide
test and warning systems, construct and prepare shelters and control centers,
make plans for evacuation of the civilian population from critical target areas
before, during and after attacks, enforce defense regulations by military and
civil authorities, evacuate people from shelter areas, control traffic and
panic, fight fires, provide rescue, emergency medical, health and sanitation
services, watch for specific hazards of such weapons and give suitable warning,
reconnoiter for unexploded bombs, clear away debris, repair and restore public
utilities on an emergency basis and provide welfare to needy people; and said
Board, together with the first Civil Defense Director shall adopt such by-laws
as may be necessary to carry out the powers herein granted and make the
necessary appointments to fill such offices as may be hereafter established to
run and guide said Organization. (Res. dated 7-21-59)
CHAPTER 8
AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
1-8-1: Area Of City Impact Designated And Map Adopted
1-8-2: Provisions Applicable To Area Of City Impact
1-8-1: AREA OF CITY IMPACT DESIGNATED AND MAP ADOPTED:
   (A)   The mayor and city council hereby adopt an area of city impact for the
city within the unincorporated areas of Caribou County, Idaho, described as
follows:
Beginning at the Northeast Corner of Section 30, Township 9 South, Range 41
East, B.M.; thence running West to the Northwest Corner of Section 26, Township
9 South, Range 40 East; thence running South to the Southwest Corner, Section
2, Township 10 South Range 40 East; thence running East to the point of
intersection of the Turner Road and the Bear River; thence running in a
Southwesterly direction along Bear River to the West boundary line of Section
11, Township 10 South, Range 40 East; thence running South to the Southwest
corner, Section 14, Township 10 South, Range 40 East; thence running East to
the Southeast Corner, Section 16, Township 10 South, Range 41 East; thence
running in a Northerly direction along the West boundary line of the National
Forest bordering the proposed area of City Impact to the point of beginning.
   (B)   The map attached to city ordinance 195 as exhibit A is hereby adopted
and made part of this section as identifying said area of impact of the city as
if set forth herein.
   (C)   The said area of city impact is adopted pursuant to the provisions of
section 67-6526, Idaho Code, and following the notice and public hearing
provisions as set forth in section 67-6509, Idaho Code, the notice having been
published pursuant to law. (Ord. 195, 6-19-1984)
1-8-2: PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO AREA OF CITY IMPACT:
   (A)   The presently existing comprehensive plan, zoning ordinance,
subdivision ordinance, and other ordinances relating to the zoning and
subdivision process of Caribou County, Idaho, shall apply to the area of city
impact and shall govern all transactions related thereto except as specifically
set forth in this section. Enforcement of said section and the rules and
regulations adopted herein shall be the responsibility of Caribou County.
   (B)   The following rules and regulations shall also apply within the area
of city impact:
      1.   No feed lot operations, dairy farms, pig farms or CAFO operations 1
or similar type operations shall be permitted in the impact area or within a
three (3) mile radius of the exterior boundary of the impact area. (Ord. 284,
4-1-2009)
      2.   The county and the city shall jointly approve applications for
zoning permits in the area of city impact in accordance with internal
procedures adopted by them for zoning permits within their jurisdictions.
Upon receipt of an application for a zoning permit, the county shall
immediately cause a copy to be delivered or sent by facsimile to the city
clerk.
The city council shall approve or disapprove an application for a zoning change
permit following recommendations from the planning and zoning commission.
If either the city or the county disapproves an application for a zoning change
permit, the permit shall be denied by the county. (Ord. 2015-4, 8-5-2015)
      3.   If application is made to construct a subdivision within the area of
city impact, such application shall be submitted to the county, and the county
shall immediately forward a copy of said application to the city for its
review, input and recommendations. In addition, the county shall provide the
city with copies of any preliminary or final plat or other documentation
relating to the subdivision as may be required by the county. The city shall be
given thirty (30) days after receipt of said documents for its review and
recommendations to the county. Review by the city shall be limited to ensure
that compliance is being made by the developer with the county subdivision
ordinance and to make other suggestions as the city deems necessary for the
proposed subdivision. However, the county's ruling on the application shall be
final.
      4.   Streets in proposed subdivisions, or new streets constructed by the
county within the area of city impact shall line up with existing city streets
to ensure conformity for future development and expansion of the city.
      5.   The procedure adopted for applications for subdivisions within the
area of city impact shall also be followed by the county and the city for
conditional use permits or variances to the zoning ordinance within the area of
city impact.
      6.   Any well drilled upon property within the area of city impact shall
be placed and located upon property having a higher elevation to ensure that
contamination does not occur to said well. Septic tanks located within the area
of city impact shall be required to have a nitrate reducing capability as
dictated by the district health department. (Ord. 284, 4-1-2009)
      7.   The latest version of the international building code and the
international residential code, parts I – IV and IX, appendix E, and appendix J
together with the county fee schedule for zoning permits shall apply within the
area of city impact. All inspections shall be conducted by the county building
inspector. All fees for zoning permits shall be the property of the county.
   (C)   All applications for zoning permits, subdivision permits, or other
permits related to the ordinances adopted for the area of city impact shall be
made to Caribou County, Idaho, and the procedures for approval or disapproval
of any such application shall be as is provided by county ordinance except as
modified by the provisions contained in this section. (Ord. 284, 4-1-2009; amd.
Ord. 2012-294, 2-1-2012)
   (D)   Caribou County, Idaho, shall not have the power to change, amend,
modify or otherwise alter any ordinances applicable to the area of city impact
without the consent of the city of Grace, Idaho. If the parties cannot agree as
to a modification, then the procedure for modification of the same as set forth
in section 67-6526, Idaho Code, shall be followed by the county and the city.
(Ord. 284, 4-1-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. As defined in IC § 67-6529C.
CHAPTER 9
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
1-9-1: Commission Created
1-9-2: Members
1-9-3: Meetings
1-9-4: Officers, Committees
1-9-5: Bylaws, Recordkeeping
1-9-6: Receipts And Expenditures
1-9-7: Duties
1-9-8: Conflict Of Interest, Disclosure Required
1-9-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is created a commission to be known and designated as the planning and
zoning commission of the city. (Ord. 202, 4-15-1986)
1-9-2: MEMBERS:
   (A)   Number; Appointment: The commission shall consist of five (5) members
to be appointed by the mayor and confirmed by a majority vote of the city
council. (Ord. 202, 4-15-1986)
   (B)   Residency: All members of the commission shall be residents of the
city or of the area of city impact 1  as the same is prescribed by the mayor
and city council. Appointed members of the commission must have resided in the
county for two (2) years prior to their appointment and must remain residents
of the city or impact area during their service on the commission.
   (C)   Term Of Office; Vacancies: Three (3) members of the commission shall
be appointed for a term of three (3) years and two (2) members shall be
appointed for a term of four (4) years. Vacancies occurring otherwise than
through the expiration of terms shall be filled in the same manner as by the
original appointment. No person shall serve more than two (2) full consecutive
terms without specific concurrence by two-thirds (2/3) of the city council
adopted by motion and recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   Removal: Members of the commission may be removed for cause by a
majority vote of the city council. (Ord. 2012-294, 2-1-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 8 of this title.
1-9-3: MEETINGS:
Regular meetings of the planning and zoning commission shall be held at Grace
City Hall. (Ord. 2014-1, 4-2-2014)
1-9-4: OFFICERS, COMMITTEES:
The commission shall elect a chairman and create and fill any other office that
it may deem necessary. The commission may establish subcommittees, advisory
committees or neighborhood groups to advise and assist in carrying out its
responsibilities as set forth in this chapter and under title 67, chapter 65,
Idaho Code. (Ord. 202, 4-15-1986)
1-9-5: BYLAWS, RECORDKEEPING:
The commission shall prepare organization papers or bylaws consistent with this
chapter and title 67, chapter 65, Idaho Code, for the transaction of business
of the commission. The commission shall maintain a record of meetings,
hearings, resolutions, studies, findings, permits, and actions taken. All
meetings and records shall be open to the public at reasonable times and
places. (Ord. 202, 4-15-1986)
1-9-6: RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES:
Upon approval of the mayor and city council, the commission may receive and
expend funds, goods, and services from the federal government or agencies and
instrumentalities of the state or local governments, or from civic and private
sources and may contract with these entities and provide information and report
as necessary to secure aid. Expenditures by the commission shall be within the
amounts appropriated by the city council. (Ord. 202, 4-15-1986)
1-9-7: DUTIES:
The commission shall actively participate in the planning and zoning for the
city; shall review all subdivision applications, preliminary plats, and final
plats and make recommendations on the same to the city council; shall study all
requests for zoning changes within the city and make recommendations to the
council for any zoning changes or boundary changes in zoning; shall review all
applications for zoning permits and make recommendations to the council
concerning the same; shall maintain studies of the comprehensive plan 1 ,
zoning ordinance 2 , and subdivision ordinance of the city, as well as the city
impact area 3 , and make recommendations concerning changes in the same as they
may be needed; and shall exercise such other duties and functions as may be
delegated by the council. (Ord. 202, 4-15-1986; amd. Ord. 2012-294, 2-1-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 3, chapter 6 of this code.
2 2. See title 3 of this code.
3 3. See chapter 8 of this title.
1-9-8: CONFLICT OF INTEREST, DISCLOSURE REQUIRED:
No member of the commission shall participate in any proceeding or action when
that member, his employer, employee, business partner, business associate, or
any other person related to him by affinity or consanguinity within the second
degree has an economic interest in the procedure or action being considered by
the commission. Any actual or potential interest in any proceeding shall be
disclosed at or before any meeting at which the action is being heard or
considered. (Ord. 202, 4-15-1986)
CHAPTER 10
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
SECTION:
1-10-1: Corporation Established; Powers and Limitations
1-10-2: Charter Issued to Corporation
1-10-3: Composition; Term of Office; Vacancy
1-10-4: Officers of the Board; Bylaws; Reimbursement of Expenses
1-10-5: Financial Interest in Corporation by Officers Not Allowed
1-10-6: Powers of Corporation
1-10-7: City Not to Aid Corporation
1-10-8: Alteration of Charter; Dissolution of Corporation
1-10-1: CORPORATION ESTABLISHED; POWERS AND LIMITATIONS:
The City does hereby create a public corporation to carry out the purposes of
the "Act" 1 . This Chapter shall not be construed to limit or restrict the
purposes of the Act, but shall be liberally construed to effect such purposes.
The name of the public corporation shall be the "Industrial Development
Corporation" of the City of Grace, Idaho (the "Corporation"). The Corporation
shall have all the powers and be subject to all the limitations and provisions
contained in the Act. (Ord. 217, 10-30-89)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. title 50, chapter 27.
1-10-2: CHARTER ISSUED TO CORPORATION:
A charter (the "Charter") is hereby issued by the City to the Corporation. The
Charter grants the Corporation all powers authorized by the Act. A copy of the
Charter is attached to Ordinance 217 as Exhibit "A" and is incorporated herein
by reference. The Charter is hereby approved pursuant to section 50-2703 (1) of
the Act. The Charter may be amended, from time to time, by the Mayor and City
Council. The existence of the Corporation commences at the time the enactment
of this Chapter becomes effective. (Ord. 217, 10-30-89)
1-10-3: COMPOSITION; TERM OF OFFICE; VACANCY:
The Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Board") shall be comprised of
five (5) residents of the City appointed by the City Council, whose terms, if
they are also members of the City Council or Mayor of the City, shall coincide
with their elected terms of office. If a vacancy occurs during an unexpired
term, the President, with the consent of the City Council, shall appoint a
member, who shall also be a resident of the City, to serve the remainder of the
unexpired term. A majority of the members of the Board shall constitute a
quorum, and the approval of a majority of a quorum shall be necessary for the
Board to take any action. (Ord. 217, 10-30-89)
1-10-4: OFFICERS OF THE BOARD; BYLAWS; REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES:
The affairs of the Corporation shall be conducted and carried out by the Board.
The Board shall elect officers from among its own members. Such officers shall
be elected at the initial meeting of the Board in each calendar year, shall
serve until their successors have been duly elected, and shall include a
president and a secretary and may include a vice president and an assistant
secretary. The Board may elect such other officers as it shall, from time to
time, determine to be necessary or desirable. The Board shall adopt bylaws and/
or rules and regulations governing the election of officers, the power and
duties of such officers, the filling of vacancies in the offices, the
scheduling, giving notice of, and conduct of meetings, and the conduct of the
Corporation. Such bylaws, rules and regulations may be amended, from time to
time, by the Board, provided that any such amendments shall be consistent with
the provisions hereof. Members of the Board shall serve without compensation
but with reimbursement of expenses as may be provided in the bylaws, rules and
regulations of the Board. (Ord. 217, 10-30-89)
1-10-5: FINANCIAL INTEREST IN CORPORATION BY OFFICERS NOT ALLOWED:
No director, officer, agent, employee or official of the Corporation shall have
a direct or indirect financial interest in any property to be included in or
any contract for property, services, or materials to be furnished or used in
connection with any industrial development facility financed through the
Corporation. (Ord. 217, 10-30-89)
1-10-6: POWERS OF CORPORATION:
The Corporation shall have all the powers granted by the Act. Such powers shall
include, without limitation, all powers set forth in the Charter. (Ord. 217,
10-30-89)
1-10-7: CITY NOT TO AID CORPORATION:
The City may not give or lend any money or property in aid of the Corporation
except as expressly authorized by the Act. This provision shall not preclude
the City from dealing with the Corporation on an arms length basis. (Ord. 217,
10-30-89)
1-10-8: ALTERATION OF CHARTER; DISSOLUTION OF CORPORATION:
Any net earnings of the Corporation beyond those necessary for retirement of
indebtedness incurred by it shall inure to the City and not for the benefit of
any other person. Alteration of the Charter or dissolution of or audits of the
Corporation shall be as provided by the Act and by subsequent ordinances of the
City. Upon dissolution of the Corporation, title to all property owned by the
Corporation shall vest to the City. (Ord. 217, 10-30-89)
TITLE 2
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS 1
SECTION:
2-1-1: City Bench Mark Established
2-1-2: Interpretation of Elevations
2-1-3: Elevations Enumerated
2-1-4: Lug Wheels Prohibited
2-1-5: Snow and Ice Removal
 
Notes
1 1. See also Chapter 4 of this Title.
2-1-1: CITY BENCH MARK ESTABLISHED:
The elevation of the streets hereinafter mentioned shall be fixed and
established with reference to and shall conform to the City bench mark, which
is a copper monument in the southwest corner of the cement floor of the
vestibule of the public school of Grace, Idaho, which bench mark was
established by the U.S. Geological Survey, and is so marked and the elevation
of which is 5535.965 feet above sea level according to the official records of
the United States Geological Survey. (Ord. 20, 5-8-17)
2-1-2: INTERPRETATION OF ELEVATIONS:
Unless otherwise specifically mentioned, the elevations hereinafter mentioned
refer to the intersection of the center line of the streets, and the slope of
the streets shall be a direct line between the nearest adjacent intersecting
points or fixed elevations, as hereinafter set forth, and to the curb
elevations of the sidewalks, while the sidewalks shall have a rise from the
curb to the property line of one-fourth inch (1/4") for each foot in width from
the property line to the other face of the curb; however, in the case of a
narrow and a wide sidewalk connecting at any street intersection, the fall of
the narrower walk shall control. (Ord. 20, 5-8-17)
2-1-3: ELEVATIONS ENUMERATED:
The street and other points of elevation herein mentioned with reference to the
City bench mark, as hereinbefore described and established, are declared to be
for the street and other points the elevation in feet above sea level as
hereinafter given:
  Elv. 1 foot
                Elv. 1 foot
Main Street, at Intersection With:
 Fourth South  5531.00
 Third South   5531.50
 Second South  5530.00
 First South   5530.15
 Center Street 5528.21
 First North   5527.31
 Second North  5526.41
 Third North   5525.51
 Fourth North  5528.58
 
Center Street, at Intersection With:
 
 Fourth West   5523.76
 Third West    5524.87
 Second West   5525.98
 First West    5527.09
 Main Street   5528.21
 First East    5529.34
 Second East   5530.47
 Third East    5531.60
 Fourth East   5537.32
 
First North, at Intersection With:
 
 Fourth West   5523.76
 Third West    5524.645
 Second West   5525.54
 First West    5526.43
 Main Street   5527.31
 First East    5528.67
 Second East   5530.03
 Third East    5531.39
 Fourth East   5532.74
 
Second North, at Intersection With:
 
 Fourth West   5523.00
 Third West    5523.87
 Second West   5524.74
 First West    5525.61
 Main Street   5526.41
 First East    5527.94
 Second East   5539.29
 Third East    5530.90
 Fourth East   5532.54
 
Third North, at Intersection With:
 
 Fourth West   5522.61
 Third West    5523.335
 Second West   5524.06
 First West    5524.785
 Main Street   5525.51
 First East    5527.244
 Second East   5528.978
 Third East    5530.712
 Fourth East   5532.445
 
Fourth North Street, at Intersection With:
 
 Fourth West   5521.72
 Third West    5523.435
 Second West   5525.150
 First West    5526.865
 Main Street   5528.580
 First East    5529.525
 Second East   5530.470
 Third East    5531.415
 Fourth East   5532.360
 
First South Street, at Intersection With:
 
 Fourth West   5525.26
 Third West    5525.79
 Second West   5527.32
 First West    5528.75
 Main Street   5530.15
 First East    5530.88
 Second East   5521.61
 Third East    5532.34
 Fourth East   5533.06
 
Second South Street, at Intersection With:
 
 Fourth West   5424.76
 Third West    5526.57
 Second West   5528.38
 First West    5530.19
 Main Street   5532.00
 First East    5532.51
 Second East   5533.02
 Third East    5533.53
 Fourth East   5534.05
Third South Street, at Intersection With:
 
 Fourth West   5525.26
 Third West    5526.82
 Second West   5528.38
 First West    5529.84
 Main Street   5531.50
 
Fourth South Street, at Intersection With:
 
 Fourth West   5525.76
 Third West    5527.07
 Second West   5526.38
 First West    5529.69
 Main Street   5531.00
 
(Ord. 20, 5-8-17)
2-1-4: LUG WHEELS PROHIBITED:
No person shall operate a vehicle upon the streets of the City, which vehicle
has wheels equipped with spikes, lugs or other apparatus which may cause damage
to City streets. (Ord. 178, 2-10-81)
2-1-5: SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL:
   (A)   Removal From Sidewalk Required: Any person or entity owning or
occupying a premises adjoining or abutting a sidewalk in the commercial,
business or industrial districts must keep all snow and ice removed from said
sidewalk at all times, but shall be permitted to deposit the same in the city
street right of way so long as said owner or occupant shall cause said snow to
be deposited in the center of the street where the City has provided a berm.
   (B)   Encroachment on Private or Public Property: In removing snow or ice
from any private property, it shall be unlawful for any person to deposit the
same on any private property of another or on any public street, avenue, lane,
alley, parking lots or areas, sidewalk, crosswalk or other public property.
Commercial or business district will be allowed to deposit their snow in the
center of the street as long as there is an existing city made berm, no ridges
are left that will cause ruts, and the snow is deposited so that it does not
narrow the street. No person or entity owning or occupying property in the
residential district of the city shall deposit snow or ice removed from
sidewalks or public streets adjacent to their premises on any private property
of another, or onto any public right of way without a permit issued by the
city.
   (C)   Intersection Sight Distances: It shall be unlawful to deposit or store
snow or ice within a sight triangle on lots which are the corner lots at any
intersection, which triangle shall be bounded by the property lines of such
corner lots on a line joining points along said property lines for thirty feet
(30').
   (D)   Violation; Penalty: Should any person or entities required to do so,
fail, neglect or refuse to remove the snow or ice from the sidewalk adjacent to
his/her premises or should any person deposit snow or ice on private property
without a written permit to deposit snow on any other persons property or in
any intersection sight triangle, or upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other
public property or right of way, they shall be in violation of this ordinance.
Any person violating this section shall be given notice of said violation. Said
notice shall be made by the city making personal service of said notice upon
the person or entity violating said ordinance, or if said person or entity
cannot be found, then by mailing the notice of said violation to the last known
address of said person or entity by first class mail, postage prepaid, which
notice shall be deemed given upon being deposited in the United States postal
service. Within ten (10) days thereafter, the person or entity receiving said
notice of violation shall pay a fine to the city clerk at the city hall located
at 108 East Center Street, Grace, Idaho, in the sum of twenty five dollars
($25.00) for the first violation, and fifty dollars ($50.00) for the second
violation and all subsequent violations occurring within one year thereafter.
If a person or entity should fail to pay said fine to the city clerk within the
time period set forth in this section, then said fines may be levied as the
City may determine in their sole judgment whether it be as a lien against any
property owned by the offender within the City, or assessed via other means.
All fines and penalties herein may be altered by resolution. (Ord. 279, 6-18-
2008; amd. Ord. 2020-3, 8-19-2020)
CHAPTER 2
WATER SYSTEM REGULATIONS
SECTION:
2-2-1: Short Title
2-2-2: Scope
2-2-3: Applications To City Clerk
2-2-4: Definitions
2-2-5: Service Area And Connection To Water System Requirement
2-2-6: Description Of Service
2-2-7: Application For Service
2-2-8: Main Extensions
2-2-9: Services
2-2-10: Meters
2-2-11: Water Charges; Review And Revision Of Rates
2-2-12: Billings, Delinquencies, Payments, Termination Of Services, Hearings,
And Nonhabitation Of Premises
2-2-13: Meter Error
2-2-14: Actions For Collection
2-2-15: Previous Actions Ratified
2-2-16: Resale Of Water Prohibited
2-2-17: Restoration Of Service
2-2-18: Unusual Demands
2-2-19: Access To Property
2-2-20: Responsibility For Equipment
2-2-21: Fire Hydrants
2-2-22: Water Use Restrictions
2-2-23: Suspension Of Rules
2-2-24: Easement
2-2-25: Adoption Of Regional Quality Plan
2-2-26: Penalties
2-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be codified and shall be known as RATES, RULES, AND
REGULATIONS FOR THE OPERATION OF THE WATER SYSTEM OF THE CITY OF GRACE, CARIBOU
COUNTY, IDAHO, and may be so cited and pleaded. (Ord. 2013-1, 6-19-2013)
2-2-2: SCOPE:
The city and all customers receiving services from the city are bound by these
rules and regulations. (Ord. 2013-1, 6-19-2013)
2-2-3: APPLICATIONS TO CITY CLERK:
Applications for furnishing, or for the discontinuance of furnishing, water
services, facilities or commodities shall be in writing and mailed or delivered
to the city clerk. (Ord. 2013-1, 6-19-2013)
2-2-4: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
APPLICANT: The person or persons, firm or corporation, making application for
water service from the city under the terms of these regulations.
AUTO COURT, MOTOR COURT, TRAVEL TRAILER COURT, MOTEL, HOTEL: The combination or
group of two (2) or more dwelling units occupying a building site or area under
one ownership, used for the purpose of furnishing transient living
accommodations.
CITY: The legally constituted municipal government of the city of Grace,
Caribou County, Idaho.
CITY COUNCIL: The legally elected group of members composing the city council,
including the mayor, of the city of Grace, Idaho.
CUSTOMER OR USER: The owner of a residence, building, structure, or tenant of a
single-family dwelling, or tenant of a commercial business with single service
connection, who has made application and who has been accepted under the terms
of these regulations and who receives water service from the city. The term
customer or user shall not include tenants of duplexes, multi-family dwellings,
apartment houses, or commercial business buildings with two (2) or more
connections, and it shall be the owner's responsibility to apply for service
and to pay for service in such cases.
DUPLEX: A building designed, built, rented, or leased for occupancy by two (2)
families living independently of each other.
MODULAR HOME: A modular home is constructed of premade parts and unit modules.
Wall panels, trusses, and other prefabricated house parts are transported on a
flatbed truck from the factory to the building site. At the building site,
these house sections are lifted onto the fixed foundation where they are
permanently anchored. Modular homes must conform to current state of Idaho
codes.
MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING OR APARTMENT HOUSE: Any building or portion thereof which
is designed, built, rented, leased, loaned, or hired out to be occupied or
which is occupied as the home or residence of two (2) or more families or
persons living independently of each other and doing their own cooking within
the premises, which shall also include basement apartments, townhouses or
condominiums.
SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING: A building designed for or occupied by one family for
living or sleeping purposes, and having kitchen or cooking facilities.
SUPERINTENDENT: The person appointed by the city council to supervise the water
system of the city.
TOWNHOUSE: Usually a single-family house of two (2) or sometimes three (3)
stories that is usually connected to a similar house by a common side wall.
TRAILER HOUSE OR MOBILE HOME: A detached single-family dwelling unit used or so
constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon the public streets
or highways and constructed in such a manner as will permit occupancy thereof
as a dwelling or sleeping place for one or more persons. (Ord. 2013-1, 6-19-
2013)
2-2-5: SERVICE AREA AND CONNECTION TO WATER SYSTEM REQUIREMENT:
   (A)   Service Area: The area serviced by the city shall be all that area
included within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   Connection To Water System Required: Every parcel of land or premises
within the boundaries of the city improved by new construction for occupancy,
or occupied or used by any person or persons as a dwelling, or for a commercial
business, or which uses or consumes water in any manner and is located within
one thousand feet (1,000') of a city water main line, shall be connected to the
city water system. The owner or person in charge of such property shall make or
cause to be made such connection within sixty (60) days after adoption of this
chapter and shall disconnect any other culinary water source. All installation
of pipe from the existing city water main to the premises, home or facility to
be served by the city mains shall be extended by the person required to connect
to the city water main at his or her expense from the existing city water main
to his or her premises with pipe of equal size to the city water main to which
the person is connecting, and/or of a size required by the city and/or the
department of environmental quality, state of Idaho, and properly designed and
constructed in conformity with requirements specified by the city and/or the
department of environmental quality. The applicant/customer shall be solely
responsible for payment of all costs for material and labor in installing,
repairing or replacing his or her service line from the water meter to his or
her premises. All connections to the city water main shall be made by city
personnel or by private contractors under the direction and supervision of the
city.
   (C)   Wells Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to
dig, drill or to have dug or drilled, a well or otherwise procure culinary or
domestic waters for consumption, household use, watering of animals, or
irrigation within the city of Grace, Idaho, if said premises is also served, or
is required to be served, by the city water supply, or if outside the city, if
said premises is also served by the city water supply.
   (D)   Waiver Of Prohibition: The provisions of this section may be waived by
the city council upon a showing by the owner of a premises that the same would
constitute an undue hardship upon said person due to the topography or existing
soil conditions through which the city water main would have to be extended by
the owner in order to comply with this chapter. (Ord. 2013-1, 6-19-2013)
2-2-6: DESCRIPTION OF SERVICE:
   (A)   Supply:
      1.   The city will exercise reasonable diligence and care to deliver a
continuous and sufficient supply of water to the customer at a reasonable
pressure and to avoid so far as reasonably possible any shortage or
interruption in delivery.
      2.   The city shall not be liable for damages resulting from the
interruption in service, reduction of service, shortage of water supply or the
lack of service. Temporary suspension of service by the city for improvements
and repairs will be necessary occasionally.
   (B)   Quality: The city will exercise reasonable diligence to supply safe
and potable water at all times.
   (C)   Ownership Of System: All water mains, valves, fittings, hydrants and
other appurtenances, except customer service lines, shall be the property of
the city.
   (D)   Classes Of Service: The classes of service shall be residential,
commercial, standby fire, and contract as follows:
      1.   Residential: Residential services shall consist of all services for
domestic purposes, single-family dwellings, homes, and municipal purposes.
      2.   Commercial: Commercial services shall consist of those services
where water is used for commercial services, such as businesses and multi-
family dwellings.
      3.   Standby Fire: Standby fire service shall consist of those services
where water is available or used for fire protection only.
      4.   Contract: Contract services shall consist of those services for bulk
acquisition, industrial, or independent water district purposes under contracts
authorized by the city council.
   (E)   Special Contracts: When the applicant's requirements for water are
unusual or large, such as an independent water district, or necessitate
considerable special or reserve equipment or capacity, the city, by
authorization of the city council, reserves the right to make a special
contract, the provisions of which are different from and have exceptions to the
regularly published water rates, rules, and regulations. This special contract
shall be in writing, signed by the applicant and approved by the city council
and city attorney and signed by the mayor and city clerk-treasurer.
   (F)   Resale Of Water: Resale of water shall be permitted only under special
contract, in writing, between the city council and the persons, parties, or
corporation selling the water.
   (G)   Service Preference: In case of shortage of supply, the city reserves
the right to give preferences in the manner of furnishing service to customers
in the interest of the city from the standing of public convenience or
necessity. (Ord. 2013-1, 6-19-2013)
2-2-7: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE:
   (A)   Application Form: Each applicant for water service shall sign an
application form provided by the city giving the date of application, location
of premises to be served, the date applicant desires services to begin, purpose
for which services are to be used, the address for mailing of the billings, the
class and the size of the meter service and such other information as the city
may reasonably require. In signing the application, the customer agrees to
abide by the ordinances, rules and regulations of the city. The application is
merely a written request for service and does not bind the city to serve.
   (B)   Permit: Connection to the water facilities shall only be made after
issuance of a permit, to the owner of the property to be connected, by the city
clerk upon approval of the city superintendent. The cost of the connection
shall be paid by the applicant for the connection, and said cost of connection
shall be as is prescribed from time to time by resolution.
   (C)   Rate: A use charge and rate shall be levied against all users of said
water system of the city, which fee and use charge may be changed from time to
time by resolution of the city council, and all users of said water system
shall be responsible for payment of said use charges and rates to the city.
   (D)   Application Amendments: Customers desiring a material change in the
size, character, or extent of equipment or operation which would result in a
material change in the amount of water used shall give the city written notice
of such change prior to the change, and the application for service shall be
amended. Customers desiring a change in the size, location, or number of
services shall fill out an amended application. All amended applications must
be approved by the city council. (Ord. 2013-1, 6-19-2013)
2-2-8: MAIN EXTENSIONS:
   (A)   Within City Limits: Water main extensions to areas within the city
limits not presently served with water shall be installed under procedures to
be established by the city council. Subdividers for newly partitioned
properties will assume all costs of main extensions with the approval of the
city council.
   (B)   Locations Of Extensions: The city will make or permit water main
extensions only on rights of way, easements, or publicly owned property.
Easements or permits secured for main extensions shall be obtained in the name
of the city, along with all rights and title to the main, at the time the
service is provided to the customers paying for the extension. (Ord. 2013-1, 6-
19-2013)
2-2-9: SERVICES:
   (A)   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    CUSTOMER SERVICE LINE: That part of the piping on the customer's property
that connects the service to the customer's distribution system.
   SERVICE CONNECTION: That part of the water distribution system which
connects the meter to the main and shall normally consist of corporation stop,
service pipe, meter, meter yoke, and meter box.
   (B)   Ownership, Installation, And Maintenance:
      1.   The customer shall own, install, and maintain the customer service
line. All trenching and laying of the service pipe to be installed as part of
the service connection shall be performed exclusively by the applicant, at the
applicant's expense, and under such supervision of the city that the city deems
appropriate. The applicant shall use materials approved by the city. The city
shall connect the service connection to the main lines and install the meter
box, and related appurtenances.
      2.   After installation of the service connection, the city shall own and
maintain the entire service connection. Maintenance shall only be performed by
authorized employees of the city. It is unlawful for any person or entity to
damage, adjust, or tamper with any portion of the service connection, any part
of the city water system or the appurtenances thereto, whether the same are
located on public or private property. Without limiting the foregoing, said
prohibition shall apply to any dam, gate, gatehouse, valve house, conduit, air
vent, air box, cover, pipeline, culvert, service box, service cock, fire
hydrant, hydrant, hydrant cap, water meter or any other part or portion of the
city water system. Any person or entity damaging the city water system shall be
liable to the city for all money, services or labor expended in repairing said
damage and may assess and collect the sum expended by the city from the person
or entity causing the same, or from the parent or guardian of any minor who
causes such damage. Such amounts may be included upon the customer's regular
monthly billing for water service, and if the customer fails or refuses to pay
the same, the city may disconnect and terminate water service to that person's
premises. In addition, any person damaging, adjusting or tampering with any
portion of the water system of the city shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
may be punished in accordance with this chapter.
   (C)   Service Connection Charge:
      1.   Payment Required: At the time the applicant files for service where
no service previously existed, he shall submit with his application the service
connection charge for water service and sewer service. This charge is to
include a service connection fee plus the actual cost to the city to connect
the service to the main and the meter and meter housing and related
appurtenances.
      2.   Fee Established: The service connection fee (or charge) shall be
established by the city council by resolution upon passage of this chapter and
be reviewed from time to time and updated by resolution of the city council.
   (D)   Size Of Service: The city will furnish and connect a service of three-
fourths inch (3/4") in diameter. The applicant may request another size
service, provided such requests are reasonable for the applicant's needs. In
such event, the applicant shall pay to the city the actual costs to the city
for labor, materials, and equipment.
   (E)   Changes In Service Size: Changes in the size of a service line or
service connection requested by the customer shall be paid by the customer on
the basis of actual cost to the city for making the change, including labor,
materials, and equipment.
   (F)   Length Of Service:
      1.   Public Right Of Way: Where the main is in a public right of way, the
meter, if required, will be placed at the right of way line nearest the
property to be serviced for the standard connection fee, provided the length of
service line does not exceed the width of the right of way.
      2.   Easement Or Publicly Owned Property: Where the main is on an
easement or publicly owned property other than designated rights of way, the
services shall be installed to the boundary of the easement or public property
by the city, provided the length of service does not exceed thirty feet (30').
      3.   Length Exceeds Maximum Stated: If, in either case cited in this
subsection, the length of service line to the meter location exceeds the
maximum stated, the applicant shall pay the extra cost of the line on the basis
of actual cost to the city for labor, materials and equipment.
   (G)   Joint Service Connections:
      1.   The city may, at its option, serve two (2) or more premises with one
connection. On new service connections, the inside diameter of such joint lines
shall be sufficient to provide a carrying capacity of not less than the
combined capacity of individual service lines of the same size as the meters
installed.
      2.   Service extensions from an existing service to occupancies or
ownerships other than that for which the existing service was intended shall
not be permitted, nor shall separate residences be permitted to receive service
through one meter including duplexes except under special considerations
approved by the city council.
   (H)   Number Of Service Connections On Premises: The owner of a single
parcel of property may apply for and receive as many service connections as he
and his tenants may require, provided his application or applications meet the
requirements of the policies, rules, and regulations. However, the owner shall
be required to pay for all service connections.
   (I)   Standby Fire Protection Service Connections:
      1.   Purpose: Standby fire protection connections of two inch (2") size
and larger will be installed only if adequate provisions are made to prevent
the use of water from such services for purposes other than fire extinguishing.
Sealed fire sprinkler systems with water operated alarms shall be considered as
having such provisions. The city may require that a suitable detector check
meter be installed in the standby fire protection service connections, to which
hose lines or hydrants are connected. All piping on the customer's premises
shall be installed in accordance with the plumbing code of the state of Idaho.
      2.   Charges For Service: Charges for standby fire protection service
shall be determined by resolution by city council upon written request for a
standby fire protection connection. No charge will be made for water used in
the standby fire protection services to extinguish accidental fires or for
routine testing of the fire protection system. The customers shall pay the full
cost of the standby protection service connection, any required detector check
meters, and any required special water meter installed for the service to the
standby connection.
      3.   Violations Of Regulations: If water is used from a standby pipe
connection service in violation of these regulations, an estimate of the amount
used will be computed by the city. The customer shall pay for the water used at
the regular rates, including the minimum charge based on the size of the
service connection and subsequent bills rendered on the basis of the regular
water rates.
   (J)   Fire Service Connections Other Than Standby: A service having fire
protection facilities on the premises and water for other purposes flowing
through the same service connection shall be considered as an ordinary service
and metered as such. All water used through that service, regardless of its
use, will be charged at the regular rates.
   (K)   Temporary Service Connections: For water service of a temporary
nature, applicants shall be required to pay in advance the estimated cost of
installation and removal of metering equipment and materials, plus a reasonable
depreciation charge for the use of equipment and material furnished by the
city.
      1.   Time Limit: Temporary service connections shall be disconnected and
terminated within six (6) months after installation unless an extension of time
is granted, in writing, by the city.
      2.   Charge For Water Served: Charges for water furnished through a
temporary service connection shall be at the established rates set forth in the
current water rate schedule.
      3.   Installation Charge: The applicant for temporary service will be
required:
         a.   To pay the city, in advance, the estimated cost of installing and
removing all facilities necessary to furnish each service.
      4.   Responsibility For Meters And Installation: The customer shall use
all possible care to prevent damage to the meter or to any other loaned
facilities of the city. If the meter or other facilities are damaged, the cost
of making repairs shall be paid by the customer and reimbursed to the city.
   (L)   Customer's Plumbing:
      1.   Plumbing Code: The customer's plumbing, which shall include the
customer's service line and all plumbing, piping, fixtures, and other
appurtenances carrying or intended to carry water, sewer or drainage, shall
comply with the plumbing code of the state of Idaho.
      2.   Control Valves:
         a.   Customers shall install a control valve in the customer service
line, the operation of which will control the entire water supply to the
premises served. In the event a customer's service is discontinued for any
reason, a control valve must be installed, if none exists, as provided by this
section.
         b.   It shall be a violation of these rules and regulations for the
customer to operate, cause, or permit unauthorized operation of the meter stop
or any appurtenances on the service connection. (Ord. 2013-1, 6-19-2013)
2-2-10: METERS:
   (A)   Ownership: The city will own and maintain all water meters. The city
will not pay rent or any other charge for a meter or other water facilities,
including housing and connections on a customer's premises.
   (B)   Installation: Installation of water meters shall be performed only by
authorized employees of the city.
   (C)   Size And Type Of Meter: Applicant may request and receive any size
meter regularly stocked or furnished by the city, provided the request is
reasonable and further provided that the meter is not greatly oversized or
undersized, as determined by the water superintendent. The city reserves the
right to determine the type of meter to be installed.
   (D)   Location Of Meters: Meters shall normally be placed at the curb or
property lines; the meter will be installed wherever the applicant desires
within reason, but the location must be approved by the city.
   (E)   Joint Use Of Meters: The joining of several customers to take
advantage of the single minimum charges and large quantity rates shall be
prohibited, except under special contract, in writing, with the city council.
   (F)   Changes In Size Or Location: If for any reason a change in the size of
a meter and service is required, the installation will be accomplished on the
basis of a new connection, and the customer's application shall be amended.
Meters or services moved for the convenience of the customer will be relocated
only at the customer's expense. (Ord. 2013-1, 6-19-2013)
2-2-11: WATER CHARGES; REVIEW AND REVISION OF RATES:
The water user charges shall be established by resolution by the council upon
the passage of this chapter. These charges shall be reviewed from time to time
and updated, by resolution of the council, to reflect actual costs of
operation, maintenance, replacement, and financing of the water system and
their facilities. Any revisions of the user charges shall be based on actual
operation, maintenance, replacement, and financing expenses and the total water
usage. Revisions due only to changes in expenses and user class shall be made
by the city. All changes in user charges applicable to this chapter shall be
determined by resolution. (Ord. 2013-1, 6-19-2013)
2-2-12: BILLINGS, DELINQUENCIES, PAYMENTS, TERMINATION OF SERVICES, HEARINGS,
AND NONHABITATION OF PREMISES:
   (A)   Meter Readings:
      1.   Meters will be read and customers billed on the basis of the meter
reading to the nearest one thousand (1,000) gallons.
      2.   The City will keep an accurate account on its books of all readings
of meters, and such account so kept shall be offered at all times, places, and
courts as prima facie evidence of the use of water service by the customer.
   (B)   Rendering Of Bills:
      1.   Billing Period: All meters shall be read and bills rendered monthly.
      2.   Bills For More Than One Meter: All meters supplying a customer's
premises shall be billed separately, except that where the City has for
operating purposes installed two (2) or more meters in place of one, the
reading may be combined for billing.
   (C)   Failure To Read Meters: In the event that it shall be impossible or
impractical to read a meter on the regular reading date, the water consumption
shall be prorated on the basis of thirty (30) days per month and the total
water consumption for billing purposes for that period shall be estimated.
(Ord. 2013-1, 6-19-2013)
   (D)   Payment Of Bills: Each bill rendered shall contain the final due date
of the 10th of every month. If the bill is not paid by the end of the month for
which the bill is issued, the account shall be considered delinquent, unless
other arrangements have been made with the City, in writing, that specify
another due date.
   (E)   Delinquent Accounts:
      1.   Delinquent Notice: A reminder of account delinquency may be sent, at
the discretion of the City Clerk-Treasurer, to each delinquent account on or
about fifteen (15) days after the account becomes delinquent.
      2.   Late Charges: Late charges shall be assessed on the last day of the
month when assessments are made for the previous month.
      3.   Turnoff Notice: Once an account becomes delinquent in an amount over
one hundred dollars ($100.00), a turn off notice may be sent or delivered to
the customer. Said notice shall advise that after seven (7) days, the water
will be turned off if the delinquent account is not paid in full prior thereto.
The City is not obliged to, but may work with citizens regarding payment on the
delinquent account at any time.
      4.   Service Turnoff: On the turnoff date, the meter reader or other
agent of the City shall deliver a written notice to the customer stating that
the water service is being turned off until all delinquent amounts have been
paid. The meter reader or other agent of the City shall immediately thereafter
turn off the service. A delivery of the notice to the premises served by the
meter shall be considered a delivery to the customer.
      5.   Service Charge: In all instances where water has been turned off
because of delinquent accounts, a service charge shall be made for the
restitution of services. The service charge for restitution of delinquent
accounts shall be established by resolution, and be reviewed from time to time.
(Ord. 2018-2, 5-16-2018)
   (F)   Hearing Before Council: Any person who protests a proposed termination
of water services as being unjustified shall have the right to request a
hearing before the City Council if the request is in writing and filed with the
City Clerk within fifteen (15) days after the account becomes delinquent. Upon
receipt of the written request for hearing, the City Clerk shall notify the
complainant of the time and place that the hearing shall be held. The
complainant shall have the right to be present at the hearing.
The Council shall give full consideration to the evidence presented by the
complainant and by the City and shall render its decision after discussion of
the same and shall notify the complainant of its decision and of any amount due
and owing by the complainant.
   (G)   Decision Adverse To Complainant: If the decision rendered by the City
Council is adverse to the complainant, he shall pay the charges or fees owing
within five (5) days after the decision has been rendered or water services to
his premises shall be terminated. No water service shall be terminated during
the course of the hearing described in this section.
   (H)   Reconnection Fee: Once water service is disconnected, the person
desiring resumption of water service shall pay a reconnection fee as prescribed
by resolution of the City Council, together with all arrearages due and owing
the City, before services shall be resumed.
   (I)   Installment Payment Of Delinquent Accounts: In cases of extreme
hardship, the City shall have the discretion of renewing service to a
delinquent account upon receipt of a satisfactory installment plan for the
payment of the overdue amount. This decision requires the Mayor's approval.
   (J)   Request For Termination: A user of the water or sewer system may
request in writing the discontinuance or termination of water services to his
premises in order to prevent further user fees. If a user so requests, he shall
pay the city a fee in a sum as set by resolution of the city council. If said
user, or his successors in interest, request reconnection, he shall pay the
city a fee as established by resolution of the city council.
   (K)   Reconnection Following Nonpayment: If a user's water service has been
discontinued or terminated as a result of failure to pay fees owing the city,
prior to reconnecting water service to the premises owned or operated by the
user, the user or his successor in interest, shall request reconnection in
writing, and pay the city a reconnection fee as established by resolution of
the city council.
   (L)   No Habitation: No premises may be used for human occupancy or
habitation during any period that water service has been turned off,
discontinued, or terminated to said premises.
   (M)   Improper Customer Facilities:
      1.   Unsafe Facilities: The city may refuse to furnish water and may
discontinue services to any premises without prior notice where plumbing
facilities, appliances, or equipment using water are dangerous, unsafe, or not
in conformity with the plumbing code of the state of Idaho.
      2.   Cross Connections: A "cross connection" is defined as any physical
connection between the city's system and another water supply. The Idaho state
health division and the U.S. environmental protection agency prohibit cross
connections. No cross connections are allowed. Refer to section
6-1-3 of this code.
      3.   Cross Connection Prohibited: The city will not permit any cross
connection and will discontinue service to any persons or premises where a
cross connection exists. Service will not be restored until the cross
connection is eliminated.
   (N)   Water Waste: Where water is wastefully or negligently used on a
customer's premises, seriously affecting the general service, the city may
discontinue service if such conditions are not corrected after due notice by
the city.
   (O)   Service Detrimental To Others: The city may refuse to furnish water
and may discontinue service to any premises where excessive demands by one
customer will result in inadequate service to others.
   (P)   Fraud Or Abuse: The city will refuse or discontinue service to any
premises where it is deemed necessary to protect the city from fraud or abuse.
Discontinuance of service from one or both of these causes will be made
immediately upon receipt of knowledge by the city that the condition or
conditions exist.
   (Q)   Unauthorized Turn On: Where water service has been discontinued for
any reason and the water is turned on by the customer or other unauthorized
person, the water may then be shut off at the main or the meter removed. The
charges for shutting off the water at the main or removing the meter shall be
computed at actual cost to the city. These charges shall be billed to the
offending customer, and water shall not be furnished to the premises or
customer until such charges are paid and the city has reasonable assurance that
the violation will not reoccur.
   (R)   Noncompliance With Regulations: The city may, upon five (5) days'
notice, discontinue service to a customer's premises for failure to comply with
any of the provisions of these regulations. If an emergency exists as a result
of the customer's action or failure to comply with these rules and regulations,
the city may immediately discontinue service without notice to the customer.
Notice shall be made to the customer as quickly as the emergency permits. (Ord.
2013-1, 6-19-2013)
2-2-13: METER ERROR:
   (A)   Meter Accuracy: All meters will be tested upon installation. No meter
will be allowed to remain in service which is known to have an error in excess
of plus or minus two percent (±2%), under conditions of normal operation.
   (B)   Meter Test:
      1.   On Customer Request: A customer may, giving not less than seven (7)
days' written notice to the city request the city to test the meter servicing
his premises. The city will require the customer to deposit the testing fee.
This fee shall be set by resolution of the Grace city council. The deposit will
be returned to the customer if the test reveals the meter to over register more
than two percent (2%) under the standard test conditions. However, if the meter
tests within two percent (2%) accuracy, the deposit shall be retained by the
city. Customers may, at their option, witness any meter tests which they
request, but the customer shall not interfere with the testing procedure or the
person conducting the test. All tests shall be made during normal business
hours of the city.
      2.   On City Request: If, upon comparison of past water usage, it appears
that a meter is not registering properly, the city may at its option test the
meter and adjust the charges accordingly if the meter either over registers or
under registers. No charge for meter testing will be made to the customer for
the meter test under these conditions.
   (C)   Adjustments Of Bill For Meter Error:
      1.   Meter Variance: No credits or debits will be borne by the city or
the customer should the tested meter show variance high or low, from the
accuracy defined in subsection (A) of this section.
      2.   Nonregistering Meters: The city will bill the customer for water
consumed while the meter was not registering. The bill will be computed upon an
estimate of consumption based either upon the customer's prior use during the
same season of the year, or upon a reasonable comparison with the use of other
customers receiving the same class of service during the same season and under
similar circumstances and conditions. (Ord. 2013-1, 6-19-2013)
2-2-14: ACTIONS FOR COLLECTION:
The city council is hereby authorized and directed to take all action necessary
or appropriate to collect the rates and charges hereinabove prescribed and to
effectuate the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2013-1, 6-19-2013)
2-2-15: PREVIOUS ACTIONS RATIFIED:
All action heretofore taken, not inconsistent with the provisions of this
chapter, by the city council and the officers of the city, directed toward the
prescription and collection of water rates, fees, tolls and charges, be, and
the same hereby is, ratified, approved and confirmed. (Ord. 2013-1, 6-19-2013)
2-2-16: RESALE OF WATER PROHIBITED:
Any water so furnished is for the use and consumption of the responsible person
and shall not be resold by any person. (Ord. 2013-1, 6-19-2013)
2-2-17: RESTORATION OF SERVICE:
   (A)   Nonpayment Of Bills: Restoration of service after discontinuance for
nonpayment of bills shall be made after payment of current and past due charges
are paid in full plus a service and reconnection charge.
   (B)   Unsafe Facilities, Water Waste, Fraud, Abuse Or Noncompliance:
Restoration of service after discontinuance of service for unsafe facilities,
water waste, fraud, abuse, or for noncompliance with any of the policies,
rules, and regulations will only be made after the irregularity has been
corrected and the city has been assured that the irregularity will not reoccur
and all reconnection fees and past due or current fees have been paid prior to
service reinstatement. (Ord. 2013-1, 6-19-2013)
2-2-18: UNUSUAL DEMANDS:
   (A)   Prior Arrangement Required: Arrangements must be made with the city
prior to taking any nonmetered use of water. The cost of the water shall be set
by resolution, and payment in full shall be made at the time the water is
provided.
   (B)   Criteria For Approval: Permission to take water in unusual quantities
will be given only if the city facilities and other consumers are not
inconvenienced. (Ord. 2013-1, 6-19-2013)
2-2-19: ACCESS TO PROPERTY:
All duly appointed employees of the city, under the direction of the water
superintendent, shall have free access, at all reasonable hours of the day, to
any and all parts of structures and premises in which water is or may be
delivered for the purposes of inspecting connections, the conditions of
conduits and fixtures, and the manner and extent in which the water is being
used or being delivered. The city does not, however, assume the duty of
inspecting the customer's service line, plumbing, and equipment, and shall not
be responsible therefor. (Ord. 2013-1, 6-19-2013)
2-2-20: RESPONSIBILITY FOR EQUIPMENT:
   (A)   Responsibility For Customer Equipment: The city shall not be liable
for any loss or damage of any nature whatsoever caused by any defect in the
customer's line, plumbing, or equipment; nor shall the city be liable for loss
or damage due to interruption of service or temporary changes in pressure. The
customer shall be responsible for valves on his premises being turned off when
the water service is turned on.
   (B)   Responsibility For City Equipment: City equipment on the customer's
premises remains the property of the city and may be repaired, replaced, or
removed by the city employees at any time without consent of the customer. No
payment will be made to the property owner for the right to install, maintain,
replace, or remove city equipment on his premises. The property owner must keep
vicious dogs or other animals secured or confined to avoid interference with
the utility operations and maintenance.
   (C)   Damage To City Equipment: The customer shall be liable for any damage
to equipment owned by the city which is caused by an act of the customer, his
tenants, agents, employees, contractors, licensees, or permittees. Damage to
equipment shall include, but not be limited to, breaking of seals and locks,
tampering with meters, injury to meters, including, but not limited to, damages
by hot water, steam, and damaged meter boxes, curb stops, meter stops, and
other appurtenances. (Ord. 2013-1, 6-19-2013)
2-2-21: FIRE HYDRANTS:
   (A)   Operation: No person or persons other than those designated and
authorized by the city shall open any fire hydrant belonging to the city,
attempt to draw water from it or in any manner damage or tamper with it. Any
violation of this regulation will be prosecuted according to law. No tool other
than special hydrant wrenches shall be used to operate a hydrant valve. In
cases where a temporary service has been granted and water is to be received
through a fire hydrant, an auxiliary external valve will be provided to control
the flow of water.
   (B)   Moving Fire Hydrant: When a fire hydrant has been installed in the
locations specified by the proper authority, the city has fulfilled its
obligation. If a property owner or other party desires to change the size,
type, or location of the hydrant, he shall bear all costs of such changes. Any
changes in the location of a fire hydrant must be approved by the city and the
fire department. (Ord. 2013-1, 6-19-2013)
2-2-22: WATER USE RESTRICTIONS:
   (A)   Authority To Regulate: The mayor and city council shall have the right
to prescribe watering hours and days as deemed necessary for the conservation
of water, by resolution of the city council. Notice of any change in watering
hours and days shall be provided to all users either by publication in the
official newspaper of the city or by written notice personally delivered or
mailed to the user of said water services.
   (B)   Applicability, Irrigation Water: This section is intended and shall
regulate solely the use of water for lawns, ornamental shrubs, flowerbeds,
gardens, pastures or other similar uses and is not intended to apply to uses of
water inside residential homes or commercial buildings. This section shall not
affect or apply to indoor residential uses, culinary or bathing purposes.
   (C)   Livestock: The watering of livestock from the city water supply system
shall be allowed. However, all troughs or other devices used for the watering
of livestock shall contain such devices as floats, backflow preventers or other
similar devices to prevent contamination and the continual running of water
into the troughs or other watering devices, so that when the trough or other
device reaches a maximum capacity, said water will automatically shut off.
   (D)   Penalty:
      1.   Any person violating this section shall pay a fine of twenty five
dollars ($25.00) for the first violation of this section, and fifty dollars
($50.00) for the second violation occurring within any one year, and fifty
dollars ($50.00) for each violation thereafter within said one year period.
      2.   Payment of said fine shall be made to the city clerk at the city
hall located at 108 East Center Street, Grace, Idaho, within five (5) days
after service of notice of said water violation to the person or entity
violating this section. Notice of said violation shall be deemed to have been
effectively given when served by any representative of the city upon the owner
or occupant of the property on which the water violation has occurred, or if
said person or entity cannot be located at said address, by the city mailing
notice of said watering violation to the last known address of the person or
entity violating this section by placing a copy of the notice in the United
States mail, postage prepaid. Notice shall be deemed to have been given in that
case when said mail is deposited in a depository of the United States postal
service.
      3.   Any person or entity who has violated this section but has failed to
pay the fine as set forth within this subsection (D) within the required time
period shall be guilty of a misdemeanor for having violated the terms and
conditions of this section and shall be issued a citation by a peace officer of
the Caribou County sheriff's office for said violation, and said citation shall
be filed with the 6th judicial district court, magistrate's division, Caribou
County, Idaho, and said person shall be prosecuted upon said charge, and shall
be fined in accordance with the provisions of this subsection (D) plus any
court costs required to be imposed by the court.
      4.   The imposition of fines or citations for violation of this section
shall not preclude the city from exercising any other penal or civil remedy
that it may have as against the violator, including, but not limited to, the
termination of water service for violation. (Ord. 2013-1, 6-19-2013)
2-2-23: SUSPENSION OF RULES:
No employee of the city is authorized to suspend or alter any of the policies,
rules, and regulations cited herein without specific approval or direction of
the city council, except in cases of emergency involving loss of life or
property or which would place the water system operation in jeopardy. (Ord.
2013-1, 6-19-2013)
2-2-24: EASEMENT:
Each applicant and user gives and grants to the city an easement and right of
way on and across his property for the installation and maintenance of water
mains and the necessary valves, equipment, and meters in connection therewith.
(Ord. 2013-1, 6-19-2013)
2-2-25: ADOPTION OF REGIONAL QUALITY PLAN:
The elected officials representing the city do hereby agree to participate
fully in the water quality planning process and have hereby agreed, in advance
to implement the city's part of the mutually adopted water quality plan, which
is:
   (A)   To update for the protection of water quality and to meet the Idaho
comprehensive planning act requirements:
      1.   The Grace comprehensive land use plan.
   (B)   To construct, operate and maintain sewage treatment facilities
proposed in step 1 facilities study as they are approved and funded by the
state of Idaho and the environmental protection agency. (Ord. 2013-1, 6-19-
2013)
2-2-26: PENALTIES:
Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed six
(6) months or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each separate occurrence or
failure to comply with this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become liable
to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the city by reason of
such violation. (Ord. 2013-1, 6-19-2013)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER SYSTEM REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
2-3A-1: Short Title
2-3A-2: Purpose; General Provisions
2-3A-3: Abbreviations; Definitions
2-3A-4: To Whom Article Applicable
2-3A-5: Required Use Of Sewers
2-3A-6: Use Of The Public Sewers
2-3A-7: Injury To Sewerage System Unlawful
2-3A-8: Building Sewers And Service Connections
2-3A-9: Industrial Users
2-3A-10: Powers And Authority Of City Authorized Representative
2-3A-11: Administration And Inspection
2-3A-12: Rejections Or Disapprovals
2-3A-13: Backfilling
2-3A-14: Sewer Line Extensions
2-3A-15: Basis For Sewer Charges
2-3A-16: Sewer User Charges And Sewer Connection Fees
2-3A-17: Industrial User Charges
2-3A-18: Industrial Cost Recovery
2-3A-19: Special Sewer User Charge For Outside The Corporate Limits
2-3A-20: Monthly User Charges; When Due And Payable
2-3A-21: Sewerage System Fund
2-3A-22: Unavailability Of Public Sewer
2-3A-23: Penalties
2-3A-1: SHORT TITLE:
The following specific provisions relating to the regulating and administering
of the sewerage system of the city are hereby adopted and shall be known as the
SEWER SYSTEM GENERAL PROVISIONS. (Ord. 2015-5, 11-4-2015)
2-3A-2: PURPOSE; GENERAL PROVISIONS:
This article sets forth uniform requirements for users of the publicly owned
treatment works for the city of Grace and enables the city to comply with all
applicable state and federal laws, including the clean water act (33 United
States Code section 1251 et seq.) and the general pretreatment regulations
(title 40 of the code of federal regulations part 403). The objectives of this
article are:
   (A)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will interfere with its operation;
   (B)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will pass through the publicly owned treatment works,
inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or otherwise be incompatible with
the publicly owned treatment works;
   (C)   To protect both publicly owned treatment works personnel who may be
affected by wastewater and sludge in the course of their employment and the
general public;
   (D)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludge
from the publicly owned treatment works; and
   (E)   To enable the city to comply with its national pollutant discharge
elimination system permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements, and
any other federal or state laws to which the publicly owned treatment works is
subject.
This article shall apply to all users of the publicly owned treatment works.
This article authorizes the issuance of individual wastewater discharge
permits; provides for monitoring, compliance, and enforcement activities;
establishes administrative review procedures; requires user reporting;
It is hereby determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to and for
the protection of the health, safety and welfare of the public and inhabitants
of the city, and for the purpose of controlling the use and connection to and
for providing an equitable distribution of the costs and expenses of
maintenance, operation, upkeep, and repair of the entire sewerage system which
includes the sewer collection system and sewage disposal facilities of said
city, to charge and collect service charges or fees upon all lots, lands,
property and premises served or benefited by the sewerage system of the city,
which system and facilities consist generally of all pipelines, conduits, catch
basins, manholes, clean outs, sewer mains, intercepting sewer, outfall sewers,
lift stations, pumps, structures, mechanical equipment and facilities for the
treatment and disposal of sewerage or sewage byproducts; to provide for
industry cost recovery from all industrial users and to provide for the
control, use and administration of the installation of private sewage disposal
systems where a public sanitary sewer is not available. (Ord. 2015-5, 11-4-
2015)
2-3A-3: ABBREVIATIONS; DEFINITIONS:
   (A)   Abbreviations: The following abbreviations, when used in this article,
shall have the designated meanings:
BOD: Biochemical oxygen demand
BMP: Best management practice
BMR: Baseline monitoring report
CFR: Code of federal regulations
COD: Chemical oxygen demand
EPA: U.S. environmental protection agency
gpd: Gallons per day
mg/l: Milligrams per liter
NPDES: National pollutant discharge elimination system
POTW: Publicly owned treatment works
RCRA: Resource conservation and recovery act
SIU: Significant industrial user
SNC: Significant noncompliance
TSS: Total suspended solids
USC: United States Code
   (B)   Definitions: Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the
meaning of terms used in this chapter shall be as follows:
    ACT: Use definition for other ordinances.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five (5) days at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (5') outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the point of
connection with the public sewer or other place of disposal.
   CITY: Refers to the city of Grace, Caribou County, Idaho, or its authorized
or designated agent, representative, or deputy thereto.
   CITY COUNCIL: The governing body of the city of Grace, Idaho.
   COLLECTION SYSTEM: The system of public sewers to be operated by the city
designed for the collection of sanitary sewage.
   COMBINED SEWER: A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   COMMERCIAL USER: Any premises used for commercial or business purposes which
is not an "industrial user" as defined in this section.
   DOMESTIC WASTE: Any wastewater emanating from dwellings or from domestic
activities which are performed outside the home in lieu of a home activity
directly by or for private citizens.
   EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT (ERU): A unit of wastewater which incurs the
same costs for operation and maintenance as the average volume of domestic
wastes discharged from a single-family residence in the treatment works service
area. In the city, one ERU shall be equivalent to four hundred five (405)
gallons per day of wastewater with domestic strength. The volume attributed to
an ERU where a user discharges wastes of strength significantly different from
average domestic waste strength shall be adjusted appropriately to account for
the difference in the costs of treating such wastes according to the rate
schedule in section
2-3B-2 of this chapter.
   FLOW (Q): The volume of sewage being discharged into the sewage system.
   GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL USER: Any nongovernmental user of publicly owned treatment works
identified in the "Standard Industrial Classification Manual", 1972, office of
management and budget, as amended and supplemented under the following
divisions:
Division A: Agriculture, forestry and fishing
Division B: Mining
Division D: Manufacturing
Division E: Transportation, communications, electric, gas and sanitary services
         Division I: Services
An industrial user is also defined as follows:
      1.   A nongovernmental nonresidential user which discharges more than the
equivalent of twenty five thousand (25,000) gallons per day of sanitary waste
and which is identified in the "Standard Industrial Classification Manual"
under divisions A, B, D, E and I. A significant industrial user (SIU) is
defined at 40 CFR 403.3(v)(1)(i-ii).
      2.   A user which discharges any wastewater containing toxic pollutants
or which has any other adverse effect on the treatment works; or
      3.   A commercial user of an individual system.
A user in the divisions listed may be excluded if it is determined that it will
introduce primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   MAY: "May" is permissive.
   MULTIPLE BUILDING DEVELOPMENT: Includes the various types of developments
that would have common or joint ownership areas such as condominiums,
townhouses, mobile home parks or courts, shopping centers, etc.
   NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE: All activities, goods and services which are
necessary to maintain the proper capacity and performance of the treatment
works for which such works were designed and constructed. The term "operation
and maintenance" shall include "replacement" as defined herein.
   OWNER: A person owning real estate which is, or proposes to be, connected to
the sewage system.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution, with a pH value of 7 being neutral.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particles greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   PUBLIC TREATMENT WORKS: A treatment works owned and operated by a public
authority.
   REPLACEMENT: Acquisition and installation of equipment, accessories or
appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the treatment
works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed.
   SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not admitted.
   SERVICE AREA: All the area served by the treatment works and for which there
is one uniform user charge system.
   SERVICE CONNECTION: The point at which the building sewer connects to the
public sewer.
   SEWAGE OR WASTEWATER: A combination of the water carried wastes from
residences, business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments,
together with such ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT OR WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY: Any devices and
system used in the storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of municipal
sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature to implement section 201 of the
act.
   SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SEWER USER: Any individual, firm, company, association, society or
corporation or group who has connected to the sewerage system.
   SEWERAGE SYSTEM: All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and
disposing of sewage. This definition includes "treatment works" and "treatment
system" as equivalent terms for sewerage system.
   SHALL: "Shall" is mandatory.
   SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes for more than five (5)
times the average twenty four (24) hour concentration or flows during normal
operation.
   STORM DRAIN (Sometimes Termed STORM SEWER): A sewer which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted water such as cooling water.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids, organic or inorganic, that either float on the
surface of, or are in suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which
are removable by laboratory filtering.
   USER: Every person using any part of the public treatment works of the city.
   USER CHARGE: The periodic charges levied on all users of the public
treatment works, and shall, at a minimum, cover each user's proportionate share
of the cost of operation and maintenance.
   WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently. (Ord. 2016-03, 8-17-2016)
2-3A-4: TO WHOM ARTICLE APPLICABLE:
The provisions of this article shall apply to all property within the corporate
limits of the city, and any special users outside of the corporate limits of
the city, including impact areas and all property owned or occupied by the
United States Of America, Caribou County, and the state of Idaho. (Ord. 2015-5,
11-4-2015)
2-3A-5: REQUIRED USE OF SEWERS:
The owner or occupant of any house, building or property used for residential,
commercial, industrial, governmental or recreational use, or other purpose,
situated within the city which is abutting on or having a permanent right of
access to any street, alley or right of way in which there is located a public
sewer of said city is hereby required to cease using any other method of
disposing of sewage, waste or polluted water, and at his expense to connect
such building directly with the public sewer in accordance with the provisions
of this article, within fifteen (15) days after date of official notice from
the city to do so.
Maintenance of the private portion of sewer lines, from the structure to the
nearest city maintained line, shall be the responsibility of the property
owner.
The developer of a new subdivision shall, at his expense, construct the
necessary extensions of the public sewer system to provide public sewer
facilities for each lot in his subdivision.
It shall be unlawful for any person to place or deposit in any unsanitary
matter on public or private property within the city, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of said city, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other
objectionable waste.
Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain
any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facilities intended or
used for the disposal of sewage. (Ord. 2015-5, 11-4-2015)
2-3A-6: USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS:
The use of the public sewers of the city shall be in accordance with the
following regulations:
   (A)   General Prohibitions: No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass-through
or interference. These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW
whether or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any
other national, state, or local pretreatment standards or requirements;
   (B)   National Categorical Pretreatment Standards: Users must comply with
the categorical pretreatment standards found at 40 CFR chapter I, subchapter N,
parts 405 - 471;
   (C)   State Pretreatment Standards: Users must comply with all state
requirements and limitations on discharges;
   (D)   Specific Prohibitions: No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW the following pollutants, substances, or wastewater:
      1.   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than one hundred forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F) (60°C) using the test
methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21;
      2.   Wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or more than 9.5, or otherwise
causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment;
      3.   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference;
      4.   Pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.),
released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause interference
with the POTW;
      5.   Wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case
wastewater which causes the temperature at the introduction into the treatment
plant to exceed one hundred four degrees Fahrenheit (104°F) (40°C);
      6.   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass-through;
      7.   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      8.   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points designated
by the superintendent, if any;
      9.   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids, or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance or repair;
      10.   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant's
effluent, thereby violating the city's NPDES permit;
      11.   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      12.   Stormwater, surface water, groundwater, artesian well water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water, and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by the superintendent;
      13.   Sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      14.   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
superintendent in an individual wastewater discharge permit;
      15.   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources, the
treatment plant's effluent to fail toxicity test;
      16.   Detergents, surface active agents, or other substances which might
cause excessive foaming in the POTW;
      17.   Fats, oils, or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations greater than one hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/l);
   (E)   Discharges To Sanitary Sewer: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged from any connection any stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted
industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer;
   (F)   Allowed Discharge Locations: Stormwater and all other unpolluted
drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as are specifically designated as
storm sewers or to a natural outlet approved by the city. Industrial cooling
water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of the city,
to a storm sewer or natural outlet;
   (G)   Discharges To Public Sewers: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public
sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including, but not limited
to, cyanides in excess of two milligrams per liter (2 mg/l) as CN in the wastes
as discharged to the public sewer;
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works; and
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow of sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders;
   (H)   Prohibited Discharge Substances: No person shall discharge or cause to
be discharged the following described substances, materials, waters or wastes
if it appears likely in the opinion of the city that such wastes can harm
either the sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment, having an adverse
effect on the receiving stream or can otherwise endanger life, limb, or public
property to constitute a nuisance. In forming its opinion as to the
acceptability of these wastes, the city will give consideration to such factors
as the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the
sewers, materials on construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors;
   (I)   Harmful Discharges: If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are
proposed to be discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the
substances or possess the characteristics enumerated in this chapter, and which
in the judgment of the city, may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage
works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a
hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the city may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      4.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of
section
2-3A-16 of this article.
If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the design
and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the review and
approval of the city and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes,
ordinances and laws;
   (J)   Interceptors: Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided
when, in the opinion of the city, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes,
sand or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the city and shall be located readily and
easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. These interceptors shall be
adequately maintained and are subject to periodic inspection by the city;
   (K)   Preliminary Treatment Facilities: Where preliminary treatment or flow
equalizing facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at
his expense;
   (L)   Manhole To Be Installed: When required by the city, the owner of any
property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install
a suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the city. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense, and shall
be maintained by him as so to be safe and accessible at all times;
   (M)   Techniques: All measurements, sampling, test and analysis must be in
accordance with and shall be performed in accordance with the techniques
prescribed in 40 CFR part 136 and amendments thereto;
   (N)   Special Agreement: No statement contained in this article shall be
construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city
and any industrial user concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength
or character may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment
therefor, by the industrial concern, so long as any such special agreement does
not supersede, undermine or contravene with applicable federal, state or local
laws and notice is given to the POTW;
   (O)   Violations: Any property owner or sewer user violating the provisions
of this section shall upon notice by the city immediately install such
preliminary treatment through separators, traps and/or chemical, physical or
biochemical processes as will make and assure that the sewage contributed from
such property or premises will meet the requirements of this article;
   (P)   Specific Local Limits:
      1.   The superintendent is authorized to establish local limits pursuant
to 40 CFR 403.5(c).
      2.   The superintendent may develop best management practices (BMPs), by
ordinance or in individual wastewater discharge permits or general permits, to
implement local limits.
      3.   The city reserves the right to establish, by ordinance or in
individual wastewater discharge permits or in general permits, more stringent
standards or requirements on discharges to the POTW consistent with the purpose
of this article;
   (Q)   Dilution: No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in
any way attempt to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for
adequate treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless
expressly authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement. The
superintendent may impose mass limitations on users who are using dilution to
meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in other cases when
the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate. (Ord. 2015-5, 11-4-2015)
2-3A-7: INJURY TO SEWERAGE SYSTEM UNLAWFUL:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the sewerage works. (Ord. 2015-5, 11-4-2015)
2-3A-8: BUILDING SEWERS AND SERVICE CONNECTIONS:
All materials and workmanship in the installation of building sewers and
service connections shall conform to the following regulations:
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the city. The permit is not to be
issued until all sewer connection charges and fees have been paid in full;
   (B)   There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits: 1) a general
permit for residential and commercial sewer service, and 2) industrial user
permits for sewer service to establishments producing industrial wastes:
      1.   General permits shall be applied for by the owner or his agent on a
form provided by the city clerk. The permit application shall be supplemented
by any plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent in the
judgment of the city at the time the application is filed. Also, the owner or
his agent shall pay to the city, at the time the application is filed, a hookup
fee and permit and inspection fee, which shall be established by resolution of
the city council; and
      2.   Industrial user permits shall be applied for by the industrial
user's owner or his agent by letter to the city council accompanied by an
executed copy of the industrial user agreement together with any plans,
specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the
city. An industrial user shall be identified by a city agent and in accordance
with state and federal law. Industrial user permits shall be approved by the
city council based on recommendation by the engineer for the city. Approval
shall be contingent upon the availability of excess capacity in the sewage
treatment plant, the provisions of this chapter and any other considerations
the city council deems appropriate. The amount of the permit, inspection fee
and hookup fee for an industrial wastes sewer service will vary with each
permit and shall be established by the city at the time of the application;
   (C)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer and service connection shall be borne by the owner. The
owner shall indemnify and hold harmless the city from any loss or damage that
may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building
sewer and the marking of the service connection for same to the public sewer;
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer and service connection shall
be provided for every building; except where one building stands at the rear of
another on an interior lot and no separate sewer is available or can be
constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or
driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the
rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer;
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and being tested as required by the city,
to meet all requirements of this article;
   (F)   The materials of construction of the building sewer and service
connections, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe,
jointing, testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the
requirements of the building and plumbing codes as have been or may be adopted
by the city, or according to specifications prescribed by the city. In the
absence of code provisions, the materials and procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and WPCF "Manual Of Practice" no. 9
shall apply;
   (G)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer;
   (H)   The service connection to the public sewer shall conform to the
requirements of the building and plumbing codes or other rules and regulations
adopted by the city or the procedures set forth in appropriate specifications
of the ASTM and WPCF "Manual Of Practice" no. 9;
   (I)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the city when
the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer;
   (J)   All excavation for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city; and
   (K)   The connection of the building sewer to the public sewer shall be made
by a plumber holding a validated state of Idaho plumbing license. (Ord. 2015-5,
11-4-2015)
2-3A-9: INDUSTRIAL USERS:
All industrial users of the sewerage system shall comply with any applicable
requirements of this section. There shall be two (2) classes of industrial
users: a) major contributing industry; and b) minor contributing industry. They
are defined as follows:
   (A)   A "major contributing industry" is one that:
      1.   Will contribute greater than ten percent (10%) of the design
hydraulic flow of the treatment works;
      2.   Will contribute greater than ten percent (10%) of the design
pollutant loading of the treatment works;
      3.   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under section
2-3A-6 of this article; or
      4.   Has significant impact, either singly or in combination with other
contributing industries, on the sewerage system or in the quality of its
effluent;
   (B)   A "minor contributing industry" shall be all industries not included
in the "major contributing industry" classification as defined herein.
All major contributing industries wastes shall be monitored by the city or
industry on a regular basis at intervals not less than monthly, and more
frequently as the characteristics of the specific industrial discharge may
dictate. Minor contributing industries shall be monitored by the city or
industry as the characteristics of the specific industrial discharge may
dictate as determined by the city.
All major contributing industries shall submit to the city on June 1 and
December 1, a statement in writing regarding specific actions taken to achieve
full compliance with the requirements of this article.
Each contributing industry shall report any substantial (exceeding 10 percent,
plus or minus) change in flow or characteristics of wastewater being discharged
into the sewerage system. The report shall include quantity and quality of
effluent and duration and frequency of discharge. (Ord. 2015-5, 11-4-2015)
2-3A-10: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF CITY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE:
The city through its authorized representative, bearing proper credentials and
identification, shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with
the provisions of this article.
The city through its authorized representative, shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewerage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved. (Ord. 2015-5, 11-4-2015)
2-3A-11: ADMINISTRATION AND INSPECTION:
   (A)   Administration: Except as otherwise provided herein, the
superintendent or city designee, shall administer, implement, and enforce the
provisions of this article. Any powers granted to or duties imposed upon the
superintendent may be delegated by the superintendent to a duly authorized city
employee.
      1.   The superintendent shall have the right to enter the premises of any
user to determine whether the user is complying with all requirements of this
article and any individual wastewater discharge permit or general permit or
order issued hereunder. Users shall allow the superintendent ready access to
all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records
examination and copying, and the performance of any additional duties.
      2.   The superintendent shall have the right to set up on the user's
property, or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling and/or metering of the user's operations.
      3.   The superintendent may require the user to install monitoring
equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall
be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user
at its own expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality
shall be calibrated daily to ensure their accuracy.
      4.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
user at the written or verbal request of the superintendent and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the user.
      5.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the superintendent access to the
user's premises shall be a violation of this article.
      6.   If the superintendent has been refused access to a building,
structure, or property, or any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate
probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this article, or
that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection
and sampling program of the city designed to verify compliance with this
article or any permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall
public health, safety and welfare of the community, the superintendent may seek
issuance of a search warrant from the 6th district court.
      7.   The superintendent shall have the authority to provide to the
public, any and all information and data on a user obtained from reports,
surveys, wastewater discharge permit applications, individual wastewater
discharge permits, general permits, and monitoring programs, and from the
superintendent's inspection and sampling activities.
      8.   The superintendent shall publish in the Caribou County Sun or state
recognized newspaper of general circulation that provides meaningful public
notice within the jurisdictions served by the POTW, a list of the users which,
at any time during the previous twelve (12) months, were in significant
noncompliance with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements. The term
significant noncompliance shall be applicable to all significant industrial
users (or any other industrial user that violates subsections (A)8c, (A)8d or
(A)8g of this section) and shall mean:
         a.   "Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits", defined
herein as those in which sixty six percent (66%) or more of all the
measurements taken for the same pollutant parameter taken during a six (6)
month period exceed (by any magnitude) a numeric pretreatment standard or
requirement, including instantaneous limits;
         b.   "Technical review criteria (TRC) violations", defined herein as
those in which thirty three percent (33%) or more of wastewater measurements
taken for each pollutant parameter during a six (6) month period equals or
exceeds the product of the numeric pretreatment standard or requirement
including instantaneous limits, multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for
BOD, TSS, fats, oils and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
         c.   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement
that the superintendent determines has caused, alone or in combination with
other discharges, interference or pass-through, including endangering the
health of POTW personnel or the general public;
         d.   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent
endangerment to the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the
superintendent's exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a
discharge;
         e.   Failure to meet, within ninety (90) days of the scheduled date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in an individual wastewater discharge
permit or a general permit or enforcement order for starting construction,
completing construction, or attaining final compliance;
         f.   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
         g.   Any other violation(s), which may include a violation of best
management practices, which the superintendent determines will adversely affect
the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program.
      9.   Periodic compliance reports may be required of user by the
superintendent to indicate the nature, concentration of pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by pretreatment standards and the measured or
estimated average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period. In cases
where the pretreatment standard requires compliance with a best management
practice (BMP) or pollution prevention alternative, the user must submit
documentation required by the superintendent or the pretreatment standard
necessary to determine the compliance status of the user. Such reports must be
reviewed, certified and signed by user or his/her agent.
      10.   The city shall have the authority to demand payment of fines, fees,
penalties, assessments and monies by a certain date, ten (10) days after
finalization of formal notice has been given. The city shall have the authority
to issue administrative penalties.
      11.   When the superintendent or designee finds that a user has violated,
or continues to violate, any provision of this article, an individual
wastewater discharge permit, or a general permit or order issued hereunder, or
any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the superintendent may serve
upon that user a written notice of violation. Within ten (10) days of the
receipt of such notice, an explanation of the violation and a plan for the
satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to include specific required
actions, shall be submitted by the user to the superintendent. Submission of
such a plan in no way relieves the user of liability for any violations
occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation. Nothing in this
section shall limit the authority of the superintendent to take any action,
including emergency actions or any other enforcement action, without first
issuing a notice of violation.
      12.   The superintendent may enter into consent orders, assurances of
compliance, or other similar documents establishing an agreement with any user
responsible for noncompliance. Such documents shall include specific action to
be taken by the user to correct the noncompliance within a time period
specified by the document. Such documents shall have the same force and effect
as the administrative orders and shall be judicially enforceable.
      13.   The superintendent may order a user which has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this article, an individual wastewater
discharge permit, or a general permit or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, to appear before the superintendent and
show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. Notice
shall be served on the user specifying the time and place for the meeting, the
proposed enforcement action, the reasons for such action, and a request that
the user show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken.
The notice of the meeting shall be served personally or by registered or
certified mail (return receipt requested) at least ten (10) days prior to the
hearing. Such notice may be served on any authorized representative of the
user. A show cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite for,
taking any other action against the user.
      14.   When the superintendent finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this article, an individual wastewater
discharge permit, or a general permit or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the superintendent may issue an order to
the user responsible for the discharge directing that the user come into
compliance within a specified time. If the user does not come into compliance
within the time provided, sewer service may be discontinued unless adequate
treatment facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances are installed and
properly operated. Compliance orders also may contain other requirements to
address the noncompliance, including additional self-monitoring.
   (B)   Inspection And Sampling:
      1.   No connection of any kind to a public sewer line shall be made and
no sewage permitted to flow through such connection except pursuant to
inspection and of approval by the city.
      2.   The superintendent may require samples and test results from samples
within the possession or control of user to be provided to the city. (Ord.
2015-5, 11-4-2015)
2-3A-12: REJECTIONS OR DISAPPROVALS:
The city may reject any material or workmanship for cause, and upon such order,
rejected material shall be removed and replaced with approved material.
Disapproved workmanship shall cause the removal and replacement of all
materials involved, including appurtenances, excavation, backfilling and other
work items. (Ord. 2015-5, 11-4-2015)
2-3A-13: BACKFILLING:
Backfilling of building sewers and service connections within the limits of
public rights of way or easements shall conform to any specifications
promulgated by the city, for sewer installation, and shall be subject to
inspection by and approval of the city. (Ord. 2015-5, 11-4-2015)
2-3A-14: SEWER LINE EXTENSIONS:
All proposed extensions of the municipal sewerage system to serve undeveloped
areas within the existing corporate limits, newly annexed areas or areas
outside the corporate limits shall comply with the overall master plan for the
city's municipal sewerage system. Costs for all extensions which lie outside
the boundary limits of the property for which the extension is requested shall
also be the responsibility of the owner or his agent. The city may, if it has
uncommitted funds in its sewer construction account, participate in a portion
of the cost of any oversized sewer lines. When it is necessary to install
oversized lines as part of an extension, the cost of all oversized lines will
normally be the responsibility of the owner or his agent.
Unless a special permit is granted by the city, all municipal sewerage system
extensions into newly developing areas shall be installed prior to the
construction of any new streets.
All design and construction of any extensions to the municipal sewerage system
shall comply with the specifications for sewerage system extensions as adopted
by the city.
The plans for all extensions to the sewerage system shall be prepared and
signed by a registered professional engineer as per the licensing requirements
of the Idaho Code. Three (3) copies of the said plans shall be filed with the
city. Two (2) copies of the plans shall be filed with the Idaho department of
health and welfare for their review and approval as required by the Idaho Code.
In approving a plan for extension to the municipal sewerage system, the city
reserves the right to stipulate other requirements such as a special permit
fee, rights of way limits, sequence of construction, time limits for having
existing service disrupted, the filing of a performance bond and other similar
measures as may be required to protect the public. No work shall commence on
any such extension of the municipal sewerage system until the extension project
has been approved by the city.
After the construction of any municipal sewerage system extensions, it shall be
the obligation of the owner, or his agent, to have a registered professional
engineer certify to the city and to the Idaho department of health and welfare
that the said system extensions were installed in accordance with the approved
plans and specifications on file with the respective agencies.
If it is necessary for the city to permit a sewer service connection and/or
sewer service line at any time after the extension has been approved by the
city, the owner or his agent, shall be required to pay the sewer hookup fee as
well as the standard permit and inspection fees as may be established by the
city for such purposes. (Ord. 2015-5, 11-4-2015)
2-3A-15: BASIS FOR SEWER CHARGES:
All property in the city to which a public sewer is available, but it is not
used by the owner or occupier of said parcel of land, is still subject to user
charges under the provisions of this article. (Ord. 2015-5, 11-4-2015)
2-3A-16: SEWER USER CHARGES AND SEWER CONNECTION FEES:
Sewer user charges and sewer connection fees and charges shall be established
by resolution of the city, and all users shall be required to pay said fees.
(Ord. 2015-5, 11-4-2015)
2-3A-17: INDUSTRIAL USER CHARGES:
All industrial user charges shall be established by separate agreement between
each separate contributing industry and the city council. All charges so
established shall be in proportion to the benefits derived by the user from the
sewerage system and shall be in accordance with pertinent federal regulations
as are defined herein as the act. The charges so established shall generate
sufficient revenue to pay the industrial user portion of the bonded
indebtedness, operation and maintenance of the sewerage system reserve fund as
required to pay for future capital improvements to the sewage treatment plant,
and industrial cost recovery payments as outlined in section
2-3A-18 of this article, all as required by the act. The charges shall be based
on the amount of flow (Q), the biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), the suspended
solids (SS), and any other pertinent components of the wastes that the
industrial user is contributing to the system. All contributing industrial user
charges shall be reviewed annually and revised as necessary to ensure that each
contributing industrial user pays its allocable share. If the discharge of a
contributing industrial user changes significantly greater than ten percent
(10%) plus or minus (by strength, volume, delivery flow rate or other pertinent
component characteristics) such industrial user's charge shall be adjusted
accordingly to assure that the user continues to pay its allocable share.
Any SIU within the city impact area must conduct its own self- monitoring at
its own expense, report, and in all other aspects be in compliance and conform
with 40 CFR 403.12. (Ord. 2015-5, 11-4-2015)
2-3A-18: INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY:
All industrial users shall be required to pay that portion of the federal
assistance grant under PL 92-500 allocable to the treatment of waste from such
users.
The system for industrial cost recovery shall be implemented and maintained
according to the following requirements:
   (A)   Each year during the industrial cost recovery period, each industrial
user of the treatment works shall pay its share of the total federal grant
amount divided by the recovery period.
   (B)   The industrial cost recovery period shall be equal to thirty (30)
years or the useful life of the treatment works, whichever is less.
   (C)   Payments shall be made by industrial users no less often than
annually. The first payment by an industrial user shall be made not later than
one year after such user begins use of the treatment works.
   (D)   An industrial user's share shall be based on all factors which
significantly influence the cost of the treatment works, such as strength,
volume, and flow rate characteristics. As a minimum, an industry's share shall
be based on its flow versus treatment works capacity except in unusual cases.
   (E)   An industrial user's share shall be adjusted when there is a
substantial change in the strength, volume or flow rate characteristics of the
user's wastes, or if there is an expansion or upgrading of the treatment works.
   (F)   An industrial user's share shall not include any portion of the
federal grant amount allocable to unused or unreserved capacity.
   (G)   An industrial user's share shall include any firm commitment to the
city of increased use by such user.
   (H)   An industrial user's share shall not include an interest component.
This requirement applies only to those features of wastewater treatment and
transportation facilities which have been constructed with federal assistance
administered by the U.S. environmental protection agency under PL 92-500. (Ord.
2015-5, 11-4-2015)
2-3A-19: SPECIAL SEWER USER CHARGE FOR OUTSIDE THE CORPORATE LIMITS:
The city may permit the use of the sewerage works by individual properties that
are partially or entirely outside the corporate limits of the city. Each
request for such service must be approved by the city council and all
regulations of this article must be complied with by such special sewer user.
The sewer user will be considered a special user as long as the property being
served remains outside the corporate limits of the city. In addition to all
other charges and fees as are required to be paid by any sewer user, including
industrial users, the special users may be charged a supplemental monthly user
charge that will be to reimburse the city for any other costs to the city that
are attributable to administering, operating and/or maintaining the said
special sewer user service. (Ord. 2015-5, 11-4-2015)
2-3A-20: MONTHLY USER CHARGES; WHEN DUE AND PAYABLE:
All rates and charges for sewer service shall be due and payable by the
recipient thereof or owner of the property to which the same is supplied within
ten (10) days after the first day of each month, and if not paid within twenty
(20) days after the first day of each month, water services to the premises
shall be disconnected.
Any person or persons who contest any charge as being excessive or complain of
being charged for services not rendered or seek to protest the proposed
termination of water services as being unjustified shall have the right to
request in writing an informal hearing, the procedure of which shall be the
same as is set forth in section
2-2-12 of this title. The city may also enforce the payment of any unpaid fees
by any means lawful under the laws of the state of Idaho.
If water service is disconnected, the person or persons desiring resumption of
water service shall pay a reconnection fee as prescribed by resolution of the
city council, together with all arrearages due and owing the city, before
service shall be resumed. (Ord. 2015-5, 11-4-2015)
2-3A-21: SEWERAGE SYSTEM FUND:
All fees and charges received and collected under authority of this chapter
shall be deposited and credited to a special fund to be designated as the
sewerage system fund. The accounts of said fund shall show all receipts and
expenditures for the maintenance, operation, upkeep and repair of the sewerage
works and any payments into sinking funds as may be established for the purpose
of:
   (A)   Paying principal of and interest on the general obligation sewer bonds
of the city which shall from time to time be outstanding;
   (B)   Industrial cost recovery funds for payment of EPA;
   (C)   Sewerage capital improvement fund for industrial cost recovery
payments that are to be used exclusively for future expansion, upgrading or
reconstruction on the sewerage system eligible for EPA assistance; and
   (D)   Other special funds as may be established by the city council.
As provided by law, when budgeted and appropriated, the funds and credits to
the account of the sewerage system fund shall be available for the payment of
the requirements for the maintenance, operation, repairs and upkeep of the
sewerage works of the city and, to the extent legally available, for payment
into a sinking fund established for the payment of the principal of and
interest on the general obligation sewer bonds of the city which shall from
time to time be outstanding. (Ord. 2015-5, 11-4-2015)
2-3A-22: UNAVAILABILITY OF PUBLIC SEWER:
Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of this
article, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewer disposal
system complying with the provisions of this article and in accordance with the
following special provisions:
   (A)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system the owner shall first obtain a written permit from the city. The
application for said permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city,
which the applicant shall supplement by plans, specifications and other
information as may be deemed necessary by the city. A permit and inspection fee
shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed as may be
prescribed by resolutions of the city.
   (B)   A permit for private sewage disposal system shall not be effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the city. The city
shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction and, in any
event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the city when the work is
ready for final inspection and before any underground works are covered. The
inspection shall be made by the city within seventy two (72) hours after
receipt of notice from applicant, Saturdays, Sundays and holidays being
excluded in calculating the elapsed time.
   (C)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all of the rules and regulations and recommendations
of the Idaho department of health and welfare and/or the central district
health department. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge
to any natural outlet. Nitrate reducing systems are required within city limits
and may be required within the city impact area as determined on a case by case
basis by the city.
   (D)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to property served by
a private sewage disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to the
public sewer in compliance with this article and any septic tank, cesspool or
similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with
suitable material.
   (E)   The owners shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facility in a sanitary manner at all times and at no expense to the city.
   (F)   Septic tank pumpings shall not be deposited in any manhole, cleanout
or sewer opening. No septic tank pumpings shall be allowed in the city except
as authorized, in advance, by the city council.
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the department of
health and welfare of the state of Idaho. (Ord. 2015-5, 11-4-2015)
2-3A-23: PENALTIES:
   (A)   Pursuant to 40 CFR 403.8(f)(2)(vi)(A) the city shall be able to seek
injunctive relief for noncompliance by industrial users with pretreatment
standards and requirements. The city shall also have authority to seek or
assess civil or criminal penalties in at least the amount of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) a day for each violation by industrial users of
pretreatment standards and requirements and/or imprisonment in the county jail
for a period not to exceed six (6) months or by both such fine and
imprisonment. Each day and/or incidence of noncompliance shall constitute
grounds for separate charges. For the purpose of pretreatment, the city adopts
and hereby incorporates by reference, the civil and criminal penalties under 40
CFR 403.8(f)(2)(vi). Delinquent payment or failure to pay penalties or fees,
may result in the city pursuing incarceration in lieu of the fines and fees.
   (B)   The city shall have the authority to issue warnings and invoke
administrative sanctions as deemed proper by the superintendent or agent for
the city.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall become liable
to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by city by reason of
such violation. (Ord. 2015-5, 11-4-2015)
ARTICLE B. RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
2-3B-1: Definitions
2-3B-2: Sewer User Charge
2-3B-3: Review And Revision Of Rates
2-3B-4: Responsibility, Payment, Delinquencies And Penalties
2-3B-1: DEFINITIONS:
See section
2-3A-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 2016-03, 8-17-2016)
2-3B-2: SEWER USER CHARGE:
   (A)   User charges shall be levied on all users of the public treatment
works which shall cover the cost of operation and maintenance, debt service,
taxes and other administrative costs of such treatment works. The user charge
system shall distribute these costs in proportion to each user's contribution
to the wastewater loading of the treatment works.
   (B)   There shall be established classes of users such that all members of a
class discharge approximately the same volume and strength of wastewater per
residence, facility, seat or other appropriate unit.
   (C)   The flat charge per appropriate unit shall be established in
proportion to the volume and strength of wastes discharged from that unit such
that each user pays his proportionate share of the treatment costs.
   (D)   Any change in the number of units on the premises of a user shall be
reported by that user to the city.
   (E)   Should any user believe that he has been incorrectly assigned to a
particular user class or incorrectly assigned a number of ERUs that user may
apply for review of his user charge as provided in section
2-3B-4 of this article.
   (F)   Should the city determine that a user is incorrectly assigned to a
user class or incorrectly assigned a number of ERUs it shall reassign a more
appropriate user class or number of ERUs to that user and shall notify that
user of such reassignment.
   (G)   Records of all assigned rates and any assigned wastewater volumes and
strengths to user and user classes as well as the wastewater characteristics
forming the basis of the ERU shall be kept on file with the city clerk and
shall be open for public service.
   (H)   The sewer user charges are hereby established for the following user
classes at the rate of seven dollars ($7.00):
User Class With Units ERU Rate Per
                          Month
User Class With Units                                             ERU  Rate Per
                                                                       Month
Apartment (see Multiple living unit)                                   
Bank                                                              2.00 $16.00
Bar                                                               3.50 28.00
Barbershop, per chair (minimum 1)                                 0.50 4.00
Beauty salon, per operator station (minimum 1)                    0.50 4.00
Bowling alley, per lane (minimum 1)                               0.20 1.60
Cafe, per customer seating capacity (minimum to be 2 equivalent   0.10 0.80
connections)
Car dealer                                                        2.00 16.00
Car wash (to be computed on an individual basis)                       
Church                                                            2.00 16.00
Club, private                                                     2.00 16.00
Commercial (to be computed on individual basis)                        
Condominium (see Multiple living unit)                                 
Dentist, per practitioner                                         1.50 12.00
Department store                                                  2.00 16.00
Doctor, per practitioner                                          1.00 8.00
Drugstore                                                         1.50 12.00
Dry cleaners                                                      3.00 24.00
Duplex (see Multiple living unit)                                      
Fourplex (see Multiple living unit)                                    
Garage (without car wash facilities)                              2.00 16.00
Grocery store, for each 1,500 square feet of gross floor space or 1.00 8.00
fraction thereof
Hospital, per bed                                                 0.15 1.20
Industry (see major or minor contributing industry)                    
Laundries:                                                             
 Self-service up to and including 10 machines                    5.00 40.00
 Each washing machine in excess of 10                            0.25 2.00
Lodge or private club                                             2.00 16.00
Major contributing industry (to be computed on an individual           
basis)
Minor contributing industry (to be computed on an individual           
basis)
Mobile home court or park, per space                              1.00 8.00
Motel, hotel or rooming house, etc., without cooking facilities:       
 First unit                                                      1.00 8.00
 Each additional unit                                            0.50 4.00
Multiple living unit:                                                  
 Studio or 1 bedroom                                             0.75 6.00
 2 or more bedrooms                                              1.00 8.00
Office building, for each 2,500 square feet of gross floor space  1.00 8.00
or fraction thereof
Photo development lab                                             2.00 16.00
Railroad depot                                                    2.00 16.00
Restaurant, per customer seating capacity                         0.10 0.80
Retail store for each 3,000 square feet of gross floor space or   1.00 8.00
fraction thereof
Schools, per each 50 students in average daily attendance         1.00 8.00
Service station, full service:                                    4.00 32.00
 Gas and restroom only                                           2.00 16.00
 With car wash (to be computed on an individual basis)                
Single-family residence                                           1.00 8.00
Swimming pool:                                                         
 Public (to be computed on an individual basis)                       
 Private, for each 500 square feet of pool water surface area or 0.25 2.00
  fraction thereof
Tavern                                                            3.50 28.00
Theater                                                           2.00 16.00
Townhouse                                                         1.00 8.00
Trailer court or park, first unit:                                1.00 8.00
 Each additional space, long term tenant type                    1.00 8.00
 Each additional space, short term tenant type                   0.50 4.00
Triplex (see Multiple living unit)                                     
Variety store, for each 3,000 square feet of gross floor space or 1.00 8.00
fraction thereof
 
   (I)   Any user which cannot be classified by virtue of the volume and/or
strength of his wastewater in any of the above user classes shall be considered
a special user. If the strength of such wastes is not significantly different
from that of normal household wastes, such user shall be placed in the open
class and shall be assigned the appropriate wastewater volume. If the
wastewater strength is significantly different from that of normal household
waste, a special charge based on both volume and strength shall be assigned to
that user by the city.
   (J)   The sewer user charge for all occupied property shall begin sixty (60)
days after the sewer service becomes available or the day that connection is
made to the public sewer, whichever occurs first. The sewer user charge for all
unoccupied property shall begin within thirty (30) days after the property is
ready for occupancy or on the first day of occupancy, whichever occurs first.
All unoccupied property which is ready for occupancy at the time the sewer
service becomes available shall be treated as occupied property. If the dates
upon which the user charge is commenced or altered does not fall on the first
day of a billing period, the rates shall be prorated.
   (K)   A single user having more than one classification of use shall be
charged the sum of charges for those classifications. (Ord. 191, 4-20-1982)
2-3B-3: REVIEW AND REVISION OF RATES:
   (A)   The sewer user charges established in section
2-3B-2 of this article shall, as a minimum, be reviewed annually and revised
periodically to reflect actual costs of operation, maintenance, replacement and
financing of the treatment works and to maintain the equitability of the user
charges with respect to proportional distribution of the costs of operation and
maintenance in proportion to each user's contribution to the total wastewater
loading of the treatment works.
   (B)   Sewer user charges may hereafter be established by resolution of the
city council according to the standards set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 191,
4-20-1982)
2-3B-4: RESPONSIBILITY, PAYMENT, DELINQUENCIES AND PENALTIES 1 :
   (A)   The person who owns the premises served by the sewerage system shall
be responsible for payment of the sewer user charge for that property
notwithstanding the fact that the property may be occupied by a tenant or other
occupant who may be required by the owner to pay said charges.
   (B)   The users of the sewerage system shall be billed on a monthly basis
for services rendered in accordance with the rate schedule as set forth in
section
2-3B-2 of this article.
   (C)   The date of billing shall be the first day of the month for which the
sewer user charge is calculated as provided in section
2-3B-2 of this article.
   (D)   Sewer charges shall be due and payable to the city clerk no later than
ten (10) days after the date of billing.
   (E)   Sewer user charges levied in accordance with this chapter shall be a
debt due to the city and a lien upon the property. If this debt is not paid
within twenty (20) days after it shall be due and payable, it shall be deemed
delinquent and may be recovered by civil action in the name of the city against
the property owner, the person or both.
   (F)   In the event of failure to pay sewer charges after they have become
delinquent, the city shall have the right to disconnect water service and
remove or close sewer connections and enter upon the property for accomplishing
such purposes. The expense of such discontinuance, removal or closing, as well
as the expense of restoring service shall be a debt due to the city and lien
upon the property and may be recovered by civil action in the name of the city
against the property owner, the person or both.
   (G)   Water and sewer service shall not be restored until all charges, and
the expense of removal, closing and restoration shall have been paid.
   (H)   Change of ownership or occupancy of premises found delinquent shall
not be cause for reducing or eliminating these penalties.
   (I)   1. Any person who contests any charge as being excessive or complains
of being charged for services not rendered, or seeks to protest a proposed
termination of water or sewer services as being unjustified, shall have the
right to request in writing an informal hearing before the mayor or his
designee at any time within fifteen (15) days after the first day of the month
when the billing becomes due. The mayor or his designee shall, upon receipt of
the request for hearing, immediately schedule an informal hearing to be held at
the city hall, at which time the person protesting shall be given the
opportunity to present evidence in support of his position. The mayor or his
designee shall take evidence from the city clerk or his designee as to the
reasonableness, fairness and validity of the charges and shall render his
decision within twenty four (24) hours after closing the hearing and shall
notify the complainant of his decision.
      2.   If the person so protesting feels aggrieved by the decision of the
Mayor or his designee, he may appeal that decision to the City Council so long
as said appeal is filed, in writing, with the City Clerk within fifteen (15)
days after the decision is rendered by the Mayor or his designee. After an
appeal has been filed the City Council shall notify the complainant of the time
and place that it shall consider the appeal, and the complainant shall have the
right to be present at the appeal. The Council shall give full consideration to
the evidence presented by the complainant and by the City and shall render its
decision after discussion of the same and shall notify the complainant of its
decision and of any amount due and owing by the complainant.
      3.   If the decision rendered by the Mayor or his designee, or by the
City Council, if appeal has been taken to that body, is adverse to the
complainant, he shall pay the charges or fees owing within five (5) days after
the decision has been rendered or water and sewer services to his premises
shall be terminated. No water or sewer service shall be terminated during the
course of the hearing or appeal procedure described in this Section.
      4.   Once water or sewer service is disconnected, the person or persons
desiring resumption of water services shall pay a reconnection fee as
prescribed by resolution of the City Council, together with all arrearages due
and owing the City, before services shall be resumed.
      5.   Where any written request for hearing is made it shall, where
necessary, show the actual or estimated average flow and/or strength of waste
water of the user in comparison with the values upon which the charge is based,
including how the measurements or estimates were made.
   (J)   Bills for sewer user charges shall be mailed by the City Clerk to the
address specified in the application for permit to make sewer connection,
unless or until a different owner or user of the property is reported to the
City Clerk and a new address provided to the City Clerk in writing.
   (K)   The City clerk shall deposit all funds received in the Sewer Fund and
said revenue shall be used as set forth in Article A of this Chapter. (Ord.
191, 4-20-82)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 2-2-4-1 of this title.
CHAPTER 4
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
2-4-1: Compliance With Standard Specifications
2-4-2: Preliminary Requirements
2-4-3: Cost of Specifications
2-4-4: Street and Sidewalk Widths
2-4-5: Excavations; Warning Signs
2-4-1: COMPLIANCE WITH STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS:
All construction, repair, maintenance and improvement of streets, roadways,
alleys, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, driveways, valley gutters, water system
lines and appurtenances, storm sewers, sewers, trenching, parking, fire
hydrants and appurtenances thereto within the City shall be constructed in
accordance with the standard specifications and drawings, three (3) copies of
which shall be kept on file in the office of the City Clerk. The City Council
shall adopt and may amend said standard specifications and drawings by
resolution. (Ord. 179, 2-10-81)
2-4-2: PRELIMINARY REQUIREMENTS:
Any person desiring to construct, repair or maintain said improvements shall
first submit preliminary engineering reports and drawings to the City Council
for approval. All construction, engineering and work thereafter shall be done
according to said preliminary engineering report and drawings as approved by
the City Council and according to the standard specifications and drawings on
file with the City. All costs of preliminary engineering reports and drawings
and construction shall be borne by the person constructing or making said
improvements. (Ord. 179, 2-10-81)
2-4-3: COST OF SPECIFICATIONS:
The City Council shall establish a cost of said standard specifications and
drawings by resolution, and any person may thereafter purchase a copy of said
standard specifications and drawings upon paying the City Clerk-Treasurer the
cost as designated by the City Council. (Ord. 179, 2-10-81)
2-4-4: STREET AND SIDEWALK WIDTHS 1 :
The minimum width requirements for all streets and sidewalks dedicated to the
public hereafter constructed are as follows:
 
Type of Street    Right-of-Way Width Sidewalk Width
Arterial          80 feet            6 feet
Main Residential  60 feet            4 feet
Minor Residential 60 feet            4 feet
 
A "right of way" is defined as that distance measured in feet from property
line to property line. The width of sidewalks shall be measured in feet, at
right angles to and from the property line. (Ord. 179, 2-10-81)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Chapter 1 of this Title.
2-4-5: EXCAVATIONS; WARNING SIGNS:
All excavation trenching, backfill material, bedding material, and warning
signs required at construction shall comply with standard specifications and
drawings on file in the office of the City Clerk. Warning signs shall be
required for all construction, reconstruction, and other like activities on or
upon a public street, alley, right of way or easement. (Ord. 179, 2-10-81)
CHAPTER 5
CATV
SECTION:
2-5-1: Franchise Granted
2-5-2: Excavations
2-5-3: City Held Harmless
2-5-4: Rules, Regulations, Terms and Conditions
2-5-5: City Rights to Regulate
2-5-6: Temporary Wire Changes
2-5-7: Trim Trees
2-5-8: Alteration of Public Ways
2-5-9: Police Powers
2-5-10: Basic Service Rate
2-5-11: Television Receivers
2-5-12: Business Office
2-5-13: Federal Communications Commission Standards
2-5-14: Installation of Lines and Equipment
2-5-15: Failure to Comply
2-5-16: Removal of Equipment
2-5-17: General Provisions
2-5-18: Grantee Bound by Provisions
2-5-19: Liability of Grantee
2-5-1: FRANCHISE GRANTED:
There is hereby granted to T.V. Cable of Grace, Inc., hereinafter called the
"Grantee", and to the Grantee's successors, lessees and assigns for the full
term of fifteen (15) years from the date hereof, unless sooner terminated as
provided herein, the nonexclusive right, authority, power and franchise to
establish, construct, acquire, maintain and operate a community antenna and
closed-circuit electronic service within the City of Grace, Idaho, hereinafter
called the "City"; to render, furnish and sell community antenna and closed
circuit electronic service from such system to the inhabitants of the City and
its environs; and to use and occupy the streets and other public places within
the corporate limits of the City as the same now exist, or may hereafter exist,
for its community antenna and closed circuit electronic system, including the
right to enter and construct, erect, locate, relocate, repair and rebuild, in,
on, under, along, over and across the streets, alleys, avenues, parkways,
lanes, bridges and other public places of the City, all towers, poles, cables,
amplifiers, conduits and other facilities owned, leased or otherwise used by
the Grantee for the furnishing of community antenna and closed circuit
electronics service with the City and environs thereof during the continuance
of the franchise already granted. Grantee is to use poles already erected
belonging to telephone or electric companies and will not erect new poles
without permission of the City, and will not use underground cables without
express consent of the City. If the utility or entity having control of such
poles shall cause its transmission lines to be placed underground, then the
Grantee shall also cause its transmission lines to be placed underground. It is
further understood that said community antenna and closed circuit electronic
service may, but shall not be required to provide civil defense and weather
warnings and systems therefore, music, educational, entertainment and other
services and programs, wheresoever the same may originate, locally or
otherwise, providing the same are legally obtained. Provided, however, that
none of the terms hereof shall ever be construed as granting to the Grantee the
right and privilege of hooking onto or using in any manner the electric light
poles and/or equipment of the City, it being understood that any right and
privilege to do this shall be covered by a separate agreement and/or ordinance
setting forth the terms of such usage between Grantee and the City. This
franchise may not be assigned, transferred, sublet or in any way extended to
any other individual or corporation without express written consent of the
City. Such assignment without the consent of the City shall void and cancel
this agreement in its entirety upon election of the City to so treat this
agreement. (Ord. 189, 12-15-81)
2-5-2: EXCAVATIONS:
Any pavements, sidewalks or curbing taken up, or any and all excavations made
by the Grantee shall be done under the supervision and direction of the
governing body of the City under permits issued for work by the proper
officials of the City in accordance with applicable ordinances of the City, and
shall be done in such manner as to give the least inconvenience to the
inhabitants of the City and the public generally, and all such pavements,
sidewalks, curbing and excavations shall be replaced and repaired in as good
condition as before, by and at the expense of the Grantee, which shall at all
times make and keep full and complete plats, maps and records, showing the
exact location of its facilities located within the public ways of the City.
Grantee shall not place poles or other fixtures where the same will interfere
with any gas, electric or telephone fixtures, water hydrants or mains, or sewer
services and all such poles and other fixtures placed in the streets or
underground shall be placed at the outer edge of the sidewalk and inside the
curb line and those placed in alleys shall be placed close to the line of the
lot abutting on said alley, and then in such a manner as not to interfere with
the usual travel on said streets, alleys and public ways. (Ord. 189, 12-15-81)
2-5-3: CITY HELD HARMLESS:
The Grantee shall at all times protect and hold the City harmless from all
claims, actions, suits, liability, loss, expense or damages of every kind and
description, including investigation costs, court costs and reasonable
attorney's fees, which may accrue to or be suffered or claims by any person or
persons arising out of the negligence of the Grantee in the ownership,
construction, repair, replacement, maintenance and operation of said cable
television system and by reason of any license, copyright, property right or
patent of any article or system used in the construction or use of said system,
provided the City gives the Grantee prompt notice of any such claims, actions
and suits, without limitation, in writing. The Grantee shall maintain in full
force and effect during the life of any franchise, with a company authorized to
do business in the State of Idaho, public liability, automobile liability, and
property damage insurance, each for an amount of at least three hundred
thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for any one person and three hundred thousand
dollars ($300,000.00) for any one accident and three hundred thousand dollars
($300,000.00) for property damage for any one accident, from the time of
commencement of construction of the system and during the operation thereof.
The City may require that any and all investigation of claims made by any
person against the City arising out of any use or misuse of privileges granted
to the Grantee hereunder shall be made by, or at the expense of the grantee or
its insurer. The Grantee may bring its obligations to carry any insurance
required hereby within the coverage of any so-called blanket policy or policies
of insurance now or hereafter carried, by appropriate amendment, endorsement or
otherwise, provided, however, the interests of the City shall be as fully
protected thereby as if the Grantee had obtained individual policies of
insurance. The Grantee shall provide proof of said insurance to the City Clerk
prior to any construction of the Grantee's system. (Ord. 189, 12-15-81)
2-5-4: RULES, REGULATIONS, TERMS AND CONDITIONS:
The Grantee shall have the authority to promulgate such rules, regulations,
terms and conditions of its business as shall be reasonably necessary to enable
the Grantee to exercise its rights and perform its services under this
franchise and to assure an uninterrupted service to each and all of its
customers. The Grantee shall have the right and power to fix, charge, collect
and receive reasonable rates for community antenna and closed circuit
electronic service furnished within the corporate limits of the City. The
Grantee shall maintain on file with the City Clerk a schedule setting forth all
rates and charges to be made to subscribers for basic service, including
connection and service charges. Notice of changes in rates and charges shall be
filed with the City Clerk at least thirty (30) days in advance of the effective
date thereof. (Ord. 189, 12-15-81)
2-5-5: CITY RIGHTS TO REGULATE:
The City reserves the right of reasonable regulation of the erection,
construction or installation, whether above or underground of any facilities by
the Grantee and to reasonably designate where such facilities are to be placed
within the streets and other public ways and places. (Ord. 189, 12-15-81)
2-5-6: TEMPORARY WIRE CHANGES:
The Grantee shall, on request of any person holding a building moving permit
issued by City, temporarily remove, raise or lower its wires to permit the
moving of buildings. The expense of temporary removal, raising or lowering of
wires shall be paid by the person requesting the same, and the Grantee shall
have the authority to require such payment in advance. The Grantee shall be
given not less than forty eight (48) hours advance notice to arrange for such
temporary wire changes. (Ord. 189, 12-15-81)
2-5-7: TRIM TREES:
The Grantee shall have the authority to trim trees upon and overhanging
streets, alleys, sidewalks and public places of the City so as to prevent the
branches of such trees from coming into contact with the wires and cables of
the Grantee, all trimming to be done under the supervision and direction and
with approval of the City and at the expense and liability of the Grantee.
(Ord. 189, 12-15-81)
2-5-8: ALTERATION OF PUBLIC WAYS:
In the event that at any time during the period of this franchise the City
shall lawfully elect to alter or change the grade of any street, alley or other
public way, the Grantee, upon reasonable notice by the City, shall remove,
relay and relocate its poles, wires, cables, underground conduits, manholes and
other fixtures at its own expense.
The Grantee shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily
disconnect, relocate in the same street or other public place, or remove from
the street or other public place, any property of the Grantee when lawfully
required by the City by reason of traffic conditions, public safety, street
vacation, freeway and street construction, change or establishment of street
grade, installation of sewers, gas or water pipes or any other type of
structures or improvements by the City; but, the Grantee shall in all cases
have the right of abandonment of its property, subject to City ordinances.
(Ord. 189, 12-15-81)
2-5-9: POLICE POWERS:
The Grantee shall at all times during the life of this franchise be subject to
all lawful exercise of the police power by the City, and to such reasonable
regulations as the City shall hereafter by resolution or ordinance provide.
(Ord. 189, 12-15-81)
2-5-10: BASIC SERVICE RATE:
In consideration of the rights and privileges herein granted, in lieu of all
occupation and license taxes, the Grantee shall on or before the last day of
July and the last day of January in each year in which this franchise is
effective, pay the City a sum equal to three percent (3%) of the gross receipts
for basic service within the then existing corporate limits of the City on the
consumption for the preceding six (6) month period ending on the last day of
June and December, respectively. Said rate shall be reviewed by the City every
five (5) years from date of this agreement and increased or decreased as the
City deems fit. The Grantee shall provide an annual summary report showing
gross annual basic subscriber revenues received during the preceding year.
(Ord. 189, 12-15-81)
2-5-11: TELEVISION RECEIVERS:
Neither the Grantee nor its employees, nor its successors or assigns shall
engage in the business of selling or distributing television receivers, nor
engage in the business of maintaining or repairing television receivers or
rendering any services other than those permitted by this Chapter. (Ord. 189,
12-15-81)
2-5-12: BUSINESS OFFICE:
The Grantee shall maintain a local business office or agent which subscribers
may telephone during regular business hours without incurring added message or
toll charges, so that complaints regarding cable television operations may be
promptly reported to the Grantee. (Ord. 189, 12-15-81)
2-5-13: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION STANDARDS:
The Grantee shall operate and maintain its cable system in full compliance with
the standards set forth by the Federal Communications Commission or any other
duly authorized agency of the United States of America. Grantee's plant and
equipment, including any towers, structures, poles, wire, underground cable and
appurtenances shall be installed in accordance with good engineering practices,
and shall be located, erected, constructed, reconstructed, replaced, removed,
repaired, maintained and operated so as not to endanger or interfere with the
lives of persons or to interfere with the improvements that the City may deem
proper to make, or to unnecessarily hinder pedestrian or vehicular traffic to
public ways, places and structures or which the City deems to subject it to
possible liability to third parties. All installations shall be of a permanent
nature, durable and maintained in a safe, suitable and substantial condition,
in good order of repair by the Grantee.
Any opening or obstruction in the streets or other public way made by the
Grantee in the course of the construction, operation or removal of
installations shall be guarded and protected at all times by the placement of
adequate barriers, fences or boarding, the bounds of which during periods of
dusk and darkness shall be clearly designated by warning lights.
The Grantee shall have no obligation to construct or extend the system nor to
provide, repair, replace, maintain or operate the cable T.V. service, when so
prevented by any cause beyond Grantee's control, including, without limitation,
acts of God, fire, flood, earthquake, hurricane, unavoidable casualty,
extraordinary delays in transportation, strikes, lockouts, picketing, boycotts,
embargos, government orders or other requirements, acts of civil or military
authorities, governmental restrictions, regulations or controls, enemy or
hostile governmental action, civil commotion, energy shortages, acts or
omissions of carriers, or activities or other emergency conditions until the
said activity or emergency condition has subsided. (Ord. 189, 12-15-81)
2-5-14: INSTALLATION OF LINES AND EQUIPMENT:
   (A)   Regardless of any other provision in this ordinance, the Grantee, as a
condition of this grant of franchise, and at no additional expense to the
residents of the City, shall cause its transmission lines and accessory
equipment to be placed so that all existing residential dwellings and
structures can be connected to its system should the occupant of said dwelling
or structures so desire.
   (B)   The Grantee is hereby authorized to extend the system within the
franchise area to the extent that such extension is or may become technically
and economically feasible.
   (C)   Whenever the Grantee shall have received written requests for service
from at least fifteen (15) subscribers within four hundred (400) cable meters
(1300 cable feet) of its aerial trunk cable, or from at least twenty five (25)
subscribers within 400 cable meters (1300 cable feet) of its underground trunk
cable, it shall extend its system to such subscribers solely for the usual
connection and service fees for all subscribers, provided that such extension
is technically and economically feasible. The four hundred (400) meters shall
be measured in extension length of Grantee's cable required for service located
within the public way or easement and shall not include length of necessary
drop to the subscriber's home or premises.
   (D)   No person in the Grantee's service area shall be arbitrarily refused
service; but in recognition of the capital costs involved in unusual
circumstances, including, without limitation, instances when the distance from
distribution cable to connection of service to subscribers is more than forty
five (45) meters (150 cable feet) or when a subscriber density exists less than
the density specified hereinabove, service may be made available on the basis
of costs of material, labor and easements, in order to prevent inequitable
burdens on cable subscribers in more densely populated areas. (Ord. 189, 12-15-
81)
2-5-15: FAILURE TO COMPLY:
For the purpose of compelling compliance with this franchise, and to secure
efficiency of public service at reasonable rates, and the maintenance of the
Grantee's system in a good condition during the full term of this grant of
franchise, it is provided that failure of Grantee, or its successors or
assigns, to comply with any of the provisions of this grant of franchise, or
default in any of its obligations hereunder, except for causes beyond the
reasonable control of the Grantee, and shall fail within thirty (30) days after
written notice from the City to commence, and within a reasonable time,
complete the correction of such default or noncompliance, the City shall have
the right to revoke and declare forfeited this franchise and all rights of
Grantee hereunder. In the event Grantee shall be adjudged bankrupt or placed in
receivership, the City may declare the rights herein granted forfeited and
terminated. (Ord. 189, 12-15-81)
2-5-16: REMOVAL OF EQUIPMENT:
Upon expiration of the franchise, if the Grantee shall not have acquired an
extension renewal thereof and accepted the same, it may have, and it is hereby
granted, the right to enter upon the streets or other property of the City, for
the purposes of removing therefrom any or all of its property or otherwise. In
so removing said property, the Grantee shall refill, at its expense, any
excavation that it shall make and shall leave said streets in as good condition
as that prevailing prior to the Grantee's removal of its property. Prior to
removal, the Grantee shall post with the City a bond or other security deemed
adequate by the City in an amount determined by the City to be sufficient to
cover the costs of any repair of any streets or City property which bond or
other security shall be refunded to the Grantee upon satisfactory completion of
said repairs. (Ord. 189, 12-15-81)
2-5-17: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
When not otherwise prescribed herein, all matters herein required to be filed
with the City shall be filed with the City Clerk.
The Grantee shall assume the cost of publication of this franchise ordinance
when such publication is required by law. A bill for publication costs shall be
presented to the Grantee by the City Clerk.
In case of any emergency or disaster, the Grantee shall, upon request of the
City make available its facilities to the City for emergency use during the
emergency or disaster period. (Ord. 189, 12-15-81)
2-5-18: GRANTEE BOUND BY PROVISIONS:
All provisions of this Chapter shall be binding upon the Grantee and all
successors, lessors and assigns of Grantee, whether expressly stated herein or
not, and all rights, authorities, powers, grants and privileges secured by this
Chapter to the Grantee shall be held to inure to the benefit of the Grantee,
and all successors, lessees and assigns of the Grantee. (Ord. 189, 12-15-81)
2-5-19: LIABILITY OF GRANTEE:
The Grantee shall be liable to the Grantor for all costs incurred by the
Grantor in the review and preparation of this Chapter and any franchise
agreement and said sum shall be due and payable to Grantor within thirty (30)
days after the Grantor submits its billing to Grantee. (Ord. 189, 12-15-81)
TITLE 3
ZONING
CHAPTER 1
USE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Use Districts Established
3-1-2: Official Zoning Maps And The Comprehensive Plan
3-1-3: Regulations For The R-1 (Single-Family Residential) Zone
3-1-4: Regulations For The R-2 (Multiple-Family Residential) Zone
3-1-5: Regulations For The C (Commercial) Zone
3-1-6: Regulations For The I (Industrial) Zone
3-1-7: Regulations For The A (Agricultural) Zone
3-1-1: USE DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
   (A)   For the purpose of promoting pride of ownership, health, safety,
morals and general welfare within its area of jurisdiction, the City of Grace
and City Impact Area is hereby divided into the following use districts:
R-1 Single-family residential
R-2 Multiple-family residential
C   Commercial
I   Industrial
A   Agricultural
A-1 Parcels with 1 acre or more (43,560 sq. ft. or more)
A-2 Parcels with 1/2 acre to .99 acre (21,780 sq. ft. to 43,560 sq. ft.)
A-3 Parcels with less than 1/2 acre (21,779 sq. ft. and less)
 
   (Ord. 207, 3-17-1987; amd. Ord. 2018-4, 11-7-2018)
   (B)   The boundaries of said use districts shall be determined and defined
by the adoption of a zoning map on which are shown the boundaries of use
districts so adopted for each portion of the City of Grace, and the City Impact
Area, said map is adopted and incorporated as part of this title. (Ord. 2018-4,
11-7-2018)
   (C)   Land or premises shall be used, unless otherwise adopted in this
title, only in conformity with the regulations herein set forth for the use
districts in which such land or premises are located.
   (D)   No building or structure shall be erected or structurally altered or
used, unless otherwise provided in this title, except in conformity with the
regulations herein set forth for the use districts in which such building or
structure is located. (Ord. 207, 3-17-1987)
   (E)   For the purpose of ensuring orderly development and to provide
adequate access for firefighting equipment and other services to all buildings,
no residence or commercial building shall be erected or moved onto any lot,
tract or parcel of land in any use district adopted under the provisions of
this title unless said lot, tract or parcel of land has twenty feet (20') of
frontage on a public right-of-way and has reasonably efficient access thereto
for vehicular traffic and has been legally subdivided; and provided further
that a setting permit may be issued for construction of a residence on a
private easement where, in the opinion of the City staff, the following
conditions have been reasonably met:
      1.   Minimum easement width of twenty feet (20').
      2.   Maximum easement length of four hundred feet (400').
      3.   Minimum turnaround radius of forty feet (40').
      4.   Maximum grade of ten percent (10%).
      5.   The easement must serve land which otherwise would have no access to
a public road.
   (F)   No livestock shall be permitted in any zone or use district within the
City limits except in the A (Agricultural) Zone and use district. However,
small animals such as hens or rabbits may be allowed in R-1 and R-2 Zones as
long as the resident applies for and is granted a small animal permit. No more
than a total of five (5) animals per residence shall be allowed. The small
animal permit fee shall be set by resolution. A permit for the keeping of small
animals is required and shall be issued to residents of the City if they comply
with the following regulations and conditions:
      1.   Consent Required: Permission of seventy five percent (75%) of
neighbors within a one hundred foot (100') radius of the place where the
animals are to be kept is obtained and written confirmation of that permission
is presented to the City Council.
      2.   Review By Council: The City Council shall review each small animal
permit and either approve or reject on each application's merits.
      3.   Annual Review: The City Council may conduct an annual review of the
small animal permits to monitor the number and kinds of small animals that are
kept within the City limits and according to the permit application. The City
reserves the right to revoke any small animal permit granted in cases where
animals become a nuisance, have escaped or are kept in an unclean or unsanitary
condition.
No roosters shall be allowed within City limits. Citizens who own more than one
acre of land in a zone dedicated as R-2 Zone, may apply for a conditional use
permit to allow for the keeping of a limited number of livestock as is set
forth hereinafter. If livestock is located on property where such use is
allowed by prior ordinance on the date of passage hereof, the same shall
constitute a nonconforming use and may be continued subject to the provisions
of subsection
3-2-1(E) of this title. (Ord. 2018-4, 11-7-2018)
3-1-2: OFFICIAL ZONING MAPS AND THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
   (A)   The boundaries of the use districts shall be established and clearly
indicated upon the zoning map adopted as part of this title.
   (B)   All amendments of the official zoning map shall follow the procedure
set forth in section
3-3-1 of this title.
   (C)   Areas are to be classified according to the established use districts
and such zoning shall give due consideration as to conformity with an adopted
comprehensive plan and its stated goals and objectives where these exist. (Ord.
207, 3-17-1987)
3-1-3: REGULATIONS FOR THE R-1 (SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL) ZONE:
The purpose of the R-1 Single-Family Residential Zone is to preserve
residential neighborhoods, to prevent overcrowding of the land and to encourage
the development of low density areas which are best suited for residential
purposes. (Ord. 207, 3-17-1987)
   (A)   Uses Allowed:
Accessory uses as regulated in subsection (F) of this section.
Churches.
Home gardening and other horticultural uses not operated as a commercial
enterprise.
"Home occupations" as defined in section
3-5-5 of this title.
One sign not to exceed four (4) square feet in area pertaining to the lease or
sale of buildings or premises where the sign is located. This provision shall
also apply to political signs during campaign periods. Signs for home
occupations shall be limited to two (2) square feet in area, shall be unlighted
and attached flush to the building. Schools shall be allowed an animated sign
not to exceed eight feet (8') in height by eight feet (8') in width and
illuminated only during the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M.
Schools.
Single-family dwellings.
Temporary buildings as uses necessary for construction purposes for a period
not to exceed one year. (Ord. 2018-4, 11-7-2018)
   (B)   Conditional Uses Permitted: The Planning Commission may, after notice
and public hearing as prescribed in section
3-3-2 of this title, permit the following uses where such uses are deemed
essential or desirable to the public convenience or welfare. The commission
shall have the authority to impose such conditions and safeguards as it deems
necessary to protect the best interests of the surrounding property or
neighborhood from damage, hazard, nuisance or other detriment.
Buildings for governmental or public utility functions.
Clinics of the healing arts in residential style when adjacent to hospitals.
Hospitals.
Nonprofit community clubhouse.
Parks and playgrounds.
Rest and convalescent home. (Ord. 207, 3-17-1987)
   (C)   Height Regulations: Any building or structure or portion thereof
hereafter erected shall not exceed thirty six feet (36') in height.
   (D)   Setback Requirements:
      1.   Front Yard/Lot: No building or structure shall be erected nearer
than twenty feet (20') from the right-of-way line of the street; provided, when
lots comprising fifty percent (50%) or more of the frontage between two (2)
intersecting streets are already developed with buildings having front yard/lot
with a variation of not more than twenty feet (20') in depth, the average of
such front yard/lot shall establish the minimum front yard/lot depth for the
entire frontage. In no case shall a front yard/lot of more than thirty five
feet (35') in depth be required.
      2.   Side Yard/Lot: No building shall be erected closer than five feet
(5') to any side property line; except corner lots shall maintain a twenty foot
(20') side yard/lot adjacent to the street which intersects the street upon
which the building fronts for a distance of forty feet (40') either direction
of the corner. Side yard on corner lots shall then be required a minimum of
five feet (5').
      3.   Rear Yard/Lot: There shall be a rear yard/lot having a depth of not
less than ten feet (10').
      4.   Houses: Set back twenty feet (20') from the property line. Porches
and/or decks a maximum of ten feet (10') from the property line and a maximum
of ten feet (10') from right-of- way on property line.
   (E)   Area Requirements:
      1.   The minimum lot area for each residential structure shall be nine
thousand (9,000) square feet and a lot width at the established building line
of not less than seventy five feet (75').
      2.   All setback requirements will be strictly required as listed.
   (F)   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses are permitted if constructed either at
the same time or subsequent to the primary building located on the property.
Such uses shall be limited to thirty six feet (36') in height, shall not exceed
the height of the primary building, and shall not encroach upon the front or
side yard/lot. (Ord. 2018-4, 11-7-2018)
   (G)   Off Street Parking Requirements:
      1.   For each single-family residence, two (2) spaces as defined in
section
3-5-5 of this title, sufficient in size for a garage or carport.
      2.   For other uses in the R-1 Zone refer to subsection
3-2-1(G) of this title. (Ord. 207, 3-17-1987)
3-1-4: REGULATIONS FOR THE R-2 (MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL) ZONE:
The purposes of the R-2 (Multiple-Family Residential) Zone is to provide for
medium to high density residential development. This type of zoning pattern is
intended to create transition areas and buffer zones between commercial areas
and low density residential development. It is also intended to permit higher
density activities adjacent to more intensive community use areas.
   (A)   Uses Allowed:
Those uses allowed in the R-1 District.
Accessory uses as regulated in subsection
3-1-3(F) of this chapter.
Boarding and rooming house.
Club and lodge of a service and fraternal character when not operated for
profit.
Convalescent home; nursing home.
Home for ambulatory aged; rest home; elderly housing.
Hospital.
Multiple-family dwellings limited to not more than six (6) units.
Nursery school.
One sign not to exceed thirty two (32) square feet in area pertaining to the
lease or sale of buildings or premises where the sign is located. This
provision shall also apply to political signs during campaign periods. Signs
for home occupations shall be unlighted and attached flush to the building.
Up to two (2) signs of not more than thirty two (32) square feet each,
identifying the structure or activity on the immediate land parcel. Such signs
are to be an integral part of the design and use of the land parcel, shall be
indirectly lighted, nonrevolving and nonanimated. (Ord. 207, 3-17-1987)
   (B)   Conditional Uses Permitted: The Planning Commission may, after proper
notice and public hearing as prescribed in section
3-3-2 of this title, permit the following uses where such uses are deemed
essential or desirable to the public convenience or welfare. The commission
shall have the authority to impose such conditions and safeguards as it deems
necessary to protect the best interests of the surrounding property or
neighborhood from damage, hazard, nuisance or other detriment.
Those uses requiring conditional use permits and as regulated in the R-1
(Residential) District.
Buildings for governmental activity and public utility structures.
Certain livestock as further defined in section
3-1-7 of this chapter may be allowed on R-2 City parcels as long as the parcel
exceeds one acre in size and the livestock does not pose a potential nuisance
to the neighbors. The number of livestock allowable per residence is two (2)
animal units per acre.
Mobile home parks.
Mobile home subdivisions.
Motels.
Multiple-family dwelling in excess of six (6) units.
Office of a medical, professional or administrative character.
   (C)   Height Regulations: Any building or structure or portion thereof
hereafter erected shall not exceed thirty six feet (36') in height, unless
approved by conditional use permit.
   (D)   Setback Requirements:
      1.   Front Yard/Lot: No building or structure shall be erected nearer
than twenty feet (20') from the right-of-way line of the street; provided, when
lots comprising fifty percent (50%) or more of the frontage between two (2)
intersecting streets are already developed with buildings having front yard/lot
with a variation of not more than fifteen feet (15') in depth, the average of
such front yard/lot shall establish the minimum front yard/lot depth for the
entire frontage. In no case shall a front yard/lot of more than thirty feet
(30') in depth be required.
      2.   Side Yard/Lot: No building shall be erected closer than five feet
(5') to any side property line; except corner lots shall maintain a twenty foot
(20') side yard/lot adjacent to the street which intersects the street upon
which the building fronts for a distance of forty feet (40') either direction
of the corner. Side yard on corner lots shall then be required a minimum of
five feet (5') adjacent to the street which intersects the street upon which
the building fronts.
      3.   Rear Yard/Lot: There shall be a rear yard/lot having a depth of not
less than ten feet (10').
      4.   Houses: Set back twenty feet (20') from the property line. Porches
and/or decks a maximum of ten feet (10') from the property line and a maximum
of ten feet (10') from the right- of-way on property line.
   (E)   Area Requirements:
      1.   The minimum lot area for single-family and two-family dwellings:
Seven thousand (7,000) square feet; except corner lots shall contain at least
eight thousand (8,000) square feet.
      2.   The minimum lot area for each dwelling unit above that required for
two-family dwellings shall be one thousand (1,000) square feet of land area for
each additional unit.
      3.   All setback requirements will be strictly required as listed.
   (F)   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses are permitted if constructed either at
the same time or subsequent to the primary building located on the property.
Such uses shall be limited to thirty six feet (36') in height, shall not exceed
the height of the primary building, and shall not encroach upon the front or
side yard/lot. (Ord. 2018-4, 11-7-2018)
   (G)   Off Street Parking Requirements:
      1.   For up to four (4) residential units on a single lot, two (2) spaces
for each unit as defined in section
3-5-5 of this title, sufficient in size for a garage or carport.
      2.   For other uses and additional residential units in the R-2 Zone,
refer to subsection
3-2-1(G) of this title. (Ord. 207, 3-17-1987)
3-1-5: REGULATIONS FOR THE C (COMMERCIAL) ZONE:
The purpose of the C (Commercial) Zone is to establish distinct zones regulated
to fulfill general shopping center needs and travel or highway related service
requirements in the community. (Ord. 207, 3-17-1987)
   (A)   Uses Allowed:
Those uses allowed in R-1 and R-2 Districts and as regulated therein.
Accessory uses to uses allowed.
Auction establishment.
Automobile and truck repair shop.
Automobile sales lot, surfaced; automobile sale and service.
Automobile service station.
Boarding and rooming houses.
Bottling and distribution plant.
Bowling alley, dance hall or similar commercial establishments for public
gatherings or recreational use.
Church.
Clinics.
Club or lodge.
Commercial and private off street parking lot for passenger automobiles.
Contractor's shop within a building and including outside incidental storage
adequately screened by view obscuring fences from surrounding properties.
Drive-in theater.
Government or public utility facilities of a nonindustrial character.
Hospital.
Hotels and motels.
Mortuaries.
Multiple-family dwelling.
Nursery school, school for students of art, dancing, dramatics, music,
business, or secretarial work.
Radio, television and FM broadcasting stations including aerials when made an
integral part of a principal building.
Recreational vehicle park.
Retail stores and retail or personal service shops.
Sale of heavy building materials and machinery and farm machinery.
School.
Sheet metal, roofing or sign painting shop.
Signs including outdoor advertising. Signs of a questionable nature shall be
considered by conditional use permit methods upon instigation by the Planning
Commission and as prescribed in section
3-3-2 of this title.
Storage warehouse of a nonindustrial nature and not used for the storage of
grain or other agricultural products.
Tavern or lounges.
Theater, indoor.
Trailer sales and rental. (Ord. 207, 3-17-1987; amd. Ord. 2018-4, 11-7-2018)
   (B)   Conditional Uses Permitted: The Planning Commission may, after proper
notice and public hearing, as prescribed in section
3-3-2 of this title, permit the following uses where such uses are deemed
essential or desirable to the public convenience or welfare. The commission
shall have the authority to impose such conditions and safeguards as it deems
necessary to protect the best interests of the surrounding property or
neighborhood from damage, hazard, nuisance, or other detriment.
Those other uses requiring conditional use permits as regulated in the R-1 and
R-2 Districts. (Ord. 207, 3-17-1987)
   (C)   Height Regulations: Any building or structure or portion thereof
hereafter erected shall not exceed thirty six feet (36') in height unless
approved by conditional use permit. (Ord. 2018-4, 11-7-2018)
   (D)   Setback Requirements: No front or side yard/lot shall be required
except that when a building or group of buildings abuts upon a Residential
District, a yard/lot shall be provided on the side of the lot abutting the
Residential District, having a width of not less than ten feet (10').
There shall be a rear yard/lot with a depth of not less than fifteen feet (15')
when abutting upon a Residential Zone. The rear yard/lot may be used for off
street parking and loading.
Residential uses within this zone shall have the same setback and side yard/lot
requirements as set forth in the R-2 Zone. (Ord. 2015-4, 8-5-2015)
   (E)   Area Requirements: There shall be no minimum lot sizes except that
residential uses shall have the same area requirements as set forth in the R-
2 Zone. (Ord. 207, 3-17-1987)
   (F)   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses are permitted if constructed either at
the same time or subsequent to the main building. Such uses shall be limited to
thirty six feet (36') in height and shall not encroach upon required setback
areas. (Ord. 2018-4, 11-7-2018)
   (G)   Off Street Parking Requirements:
      1.   For up to four (4) residential units on a single lot, two (2) spaces
for each unit as defined in section
3-5-5 of this title, sufficient in size for a garage or carport;
      2.   For other uses and additional residential units in the C
(Commercial) Zone, refer to subsection
3-2-1(G) of this title. (Ord. 207, 3-17-1987)
3-1-6: REGULATIONS FOR THE I (INDUSTRIAL) ZONE:
The I District is established to encourage and provide for suitable areas in
which industrial uses may locate, substantially free from residential or retail
commercial activities. (Ord. 207, 3-17-1987)
   (A)   Uses Allowed:
Those uses allowed and conditional uses permitted in the C (Commercial) Zone,
except no residential uses shall be permitted in the I Zone.
Boarding kennel.
Broadcasting tower for radio or television.
Bulk storage of corrosive acid or alkali, creosote, fertilizer and combustible
materials.
Coal and wood yard/lots.
Concrete plant.
Contracting, equipment, maintenance for operating equipment of public agencies
or public utilities or materials and equipment of a similar nature including
lumber, coal, sand and gravel yard/lots.
Creameries.
Flour mills.
Food processing.
Grain elevator and bulk storage, such as for potatoes, hay and other similar
uses.
Ice plants.
Laundry and dry cleaning of an industrial character.
Lumber yard/lots, wholesale.
Manufacturing, assembling, fabricating, processing, packing, repairing, or
storage uses, which have not been declared a nuisance by statute, resolution,
or in any court of competent jurisdiction, and provided these uses shall not
cause:
      1.   Unreasonable dust, smoke, gas, fumes, noise, vibrations, or odor
beyond the boundaries of the site upon which such use is conducted;
      2.   Hazard of fire, explosion, or other physical damage to any adjacent
building or plant growth.
Pipe yard/lots.
Railroad yard/lots.
Rock crushing, commercial excavation of building or construction materials.
Sawmill.
Sewerage treatment plant and similar facilities.
Wholesaling, warehousing, storage and distribution. (Ord. 207, 3-17-1987; amd.
Ord. 2012-294, 2-1-2012; Ord. 2015-4, 8-5-2015)
   (B)   Conditional Uses Permitted: The Planning Commission may, after proper
notice and public hearing as prescribed in section
3-3-2 of this title, permit the following uses where such uses are deemed
essential or desirable to the public convenience or welfare. The commission
shall have the authority to impose such conditions and safeguards as it deems
necessary to protect the best interests of the surrounding property or
neighborhood from damage, hazard, nuisance or other detriment.
Heavy manufacturing and with heavy industrial uses.
Junk yard/lot and auto wrecking yard/lot.
Poultry and egg industries.
Tannery. (Ord. 2015-4, 8-5-2015)
   (C)   Height Regulations: Any building or structure or portion thereof
hereafter erected shall not exceed forty five feet (45') in height, unless
permitted to exceed this height by a conditional use permit. (Ord. 2018-4, 11-
7-2018)
   (D)   Setback Requirements:
      1.   Front Yard/Lot: The front yard/lot setback shall be a minimum of
twenty feet (20') when a lot abuts, touches or adjoins, or is across the street
from a Residential District, otherwise no front yard/lot setback is required.
      2.   Side Yard/Lot: The side yard/lot shall be a minimum of twenty feet
(20') when a lot abuts, touches or adjoins a Residential District, otherwise,
no side yard/lot setback is required.
      3.   Rear Yard/Lot: The rear yard/lot shall be a minimum of twenty feet
(20') when a lot abuts, touches, or adjoins a Residential District, otherwise
no rear yard/lot setback is required. (Ord. 2015-4, 8-5-2015)
   (E)   Area Requirements: There shall be no minimum lot size.
   (F)   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses are permitted.
   (G)   Off Street Parking Requirements: Refer to subsection
3-2-1(G) of this title. (Ord. 207, 3-17-1987)
3-1-7: REGULATIONS FOR THE A (AGRICULTURAL) ZONE:
The purpose of the A (Agricultural) Zone is to set aside land to properly guide
growth of the fringe areas of the community deemed to be important for
preservation at rural standards.
   (A)   Uses Allowed:
Accessory uses as regulated in subsection
3-1-3(F) of this chapter.
Agriculture, to include agricultural buildings.
Golf course.
"Home occupations", as defined in section
3-5-5 of this title.
Single-family dwelling as regulated in the R-1 (Residential).
   (B)   Uses Not Allowed:
Commercial livestock operations or CAFOs.
   (C)   A Zone Specifications:
      1.   A-1 Parcels:
         a.   A-1 parcels with one acre or more (43,560 square feet or more)
along with residential structures located thereon and as listed in R-1
(Residential) and/or R-2 (Residential), shall be allowed; homes, garages,
sheds, outbuildings, personal shops with land use for crops, livestock as
delineated below, small animals as specified below, and poultry for personal
use.
            (1)   Livestock shall be limited to not more than two (2) animal
units (au) per acre, and waste handling can properly be maintained.
   A. Livestock is to be defined for this section as equine (horse), bovine
(cattle), porcine (swine), ovine (sheep), caprine (goats) and other animals as
determined by City Council pursuant to a conditional use permit. However;
livestock or small animals which are being raised as part of a documented FFA
or 4-H program may be allowed so long as the participant notifies the City at
least one month in advance of obtaining said livestock and receives approval
therefore. Once the participation has finished relative to that animal, this
exception shall no longer be applicable. Porcine, shall only be allowed in A-
1 zoned areas so long as they meet the mandates as set forth and are approved
by the City Council. Any swine on the property shall be kept clean and at least
fifty feet (50') from property boundary to avoid nuisance odor.
   B. Small animals to be defined as poultry, rabbits and others as determined
by City Council and shall be confined to the property in a number not to exceed
five (5). No roosters shall be allowed in the City of Grace.
   C. Dogs and cats will be allowed as per existing City ordinance.
      2.   A-2 Parcels:
         a.   A-2 parcels with one-half (1/2) acre to .99 acre (21,780 square
feet to 43,560 square feet) along with residential structures located thereon
and as listed in R-1 (Residential) and/or R-2 (Residential), shall be allowed;
homes, garages, sheds, outbuildings, personal shops with land use for crops,
livestock as delineated below, small animals as specified below, and poultry
for personal use.
            (1)   Livestock shall be limited to not more than two (2) animal
units (au) per acre, and waste handling can properly be maintained.
   A. Livestock is to be defined as equine (horse), bovine (cattle), ovine
(sheep), caprine (goats) and other animals as determined by City Council
pursuant to a conditional use permit. However; livestock, including porcine
(swine) or small animals which are being raised as part of a documented FFA or
4-H program may be allowed so long as the participant notifies the City at
least one month in advance of obtaining said livestock and receives approval
therefore. Once the participation has finished relative to that animal, this
exception shall no longer be applicable. Any swine on the property shall be
kept clean and at least fifty feet (50') from property boundary to avoid
nuisance odor.
   B. Small animals to be defined as poultry, rabbits and others as determined
by City Council and shall be confined to the property in a number not to exceed
five (5). No roosters shall be allowed in the City of Grace.
   C. Dogs and cats will be allowed as per existing City ordinance.
      3.   A-3 Parcels:
         a.   A-3 parcels with less than one-half (1/2) acre (21,779 square
feet and less) along with residential structures located thereon and as listed
in R-1 (Residential) and/or R-2 (Residential) shall be allowed; homes, garages,
sheds, outbuildings personal shops with land use for crops, one au of
livestock, small animals and poultry for personal use.
            (1)   Livestock shall be limited to not more than one animal unit
(au) per acre, and waste handling can properly be maintained.
   A. Livestock is to be defined as equine (horse), bovine (cattle), ovine
(sheep), caprine (goats) and other animals as determined by City Council
pursuant to a conditional use permit. However; livestock, including porcine
(swine) or small animals which are being raised as part of a documented FFA or
4-H program may be allowed so long as the participant notifies the City at
least one month in advance of obtaining said livestock and receives approval
therefore. Once the participation has finished relative to that animal, this
exception shall no longer be applicable. Any swine on the property shall be
kept clean and at least fifty feet (50') from property boundary to avoid
nuisance odor.
   B. Small animals to be defined as poultry, rabbits and others as determined
by City Council and shall be confined to the property in a number not to exceed
five (5). No roosters shall be allowed in the City of Grace.
   C. Dogs and cats will be allowed as per existing City ordinance.
   (D)   Conditional Uses Permitted: The Planning Commission may, after proper
notice and public hearing as prescribed in section
3-3-2 of this title, permit the following uses where such uses are deemed
essential or desirable to the public convenience or welfare. The commission
shall have the authority to impose such conditions and safeguards as it deems
necessary to protect the best interests of the surrounding property or
neighborhood from damage, hazard, nuisance or other detriment.
Additional livestock animal units or small animals may be granted so long as it
does not pose a potential nuisance to neighbors and upon a request being made
via a conditional use permit.
Broadcasting tower for radio, television or cell phone.
Commercial kennel, animal hospital.
Commercial livestock operations as defined in section
3-5-5 of this title.
Private amusement park, ballpark, racetrack, or similar uses.
Public building, school, hospital or church.
Public utility installation.
Recreational vehicle parks.
   (E)   Height Regulations: Any building or structure or portion thereof
hereafter erected shall not exceed thirty six feet (36') in height unless a
greater height is approved by conditional use permit.
   (F)   Setback Requirements:
      1.   Front Yard/Lot: No building or structure shall be erected closer
than twenty feet (20') from right-of-way line of the street.
      2.   Side Yard/Lot: Adjacent to the street which intersects the street
upon which the building fronts, setback shall run twenty feet (20') along each
street, upon which the building fronts for a distance of forty feet (40')
either direction of the corner. Side yard on corner lots shall then be required
a minimum of five feet (5').
      3.   Rear Yard/Lot: There shall be a rear yard/lot having a depth of not
less than ten feet (10').
      4.   Yard/Lot Setbacks: R-1 (Residential) and R-2 (Residential) house to
be set back twenty feet (20') from property line. Porch or deck a maximum of
ten feet (10') from property line. Ten feet (10') maximum from the right-of-way
of the property line. (Ord. 2018-4, 11-7-2018)
   (G)   Area Requirements: The minimum lot area shall be one acre.
   (H)   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses are permitted. (Ord. 207, 3-17-1987;
amd. Ord. 2018-4, 11-7-2018)
   (I)   Off Street Parking Requirements:
      1.   For each single-family residence, two (2) spaces as defined in
section
3-5-5 of this title, sufficient in size for a garage or carport.
      2.   For other uses in the Agricultural Zone, refer to subsection
3-2-1(G) of this title. (Ord. 2018-4, 11-7-2018)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Supplementary Use District Regulations
3-2-2: Storage/Cargo Containers
3-2-1: SUPPLEMENTARY USE DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Intent: The following provisions shall be subject to the general
regulations of this title and to the special provisions and exceptions in this
and the following sections so as to secure the intent of this title. In all
cases of administration and enforcement of this title for which no other
specific provision is made in this section and other provisions herein, the
Planning Commission shall provide for the same by order, resolution or the
adoption of a rule, regulation or bylaw, which provisions shall be in accord
with and consistent with the objectives and standards of this title. Uses not
specified within use districts are prohibited unless determined by the Planning
Commission or its authorized representative to be similar in nature to those
specified.
   (B)   Interpretation Of District Boundaries: Whenever any uncertainty exists
as for the boundary of any district shown on any zoning map, the following
rules shall apply:
      1.   Where any such boundary line is indicated as following a street,
alley or public way, it shall be construed as following the centerline thereof.
      2.   Where a boundary line is indicated as approximately following a lot
line, such lot line shall be construed to be such boundary line.
      3.   Where a boundary line divides a lot or crosses unsubdivided
property, the location of such boundary shall be indicated upon the zoning map.
   (C)   Lots Of Record: Any single lot or parcel of land, which was of record
and a legal lot at the time of adoption of chapters 1 through 5 of this title,
but does not meet the requirements of the district in which it is located for
minimum lot width and area, may be utilized if all other requirements of this
title are met. (Ord. 207, 3-17-1987)
   (D)   Yard/Lot And Setback Requirement Exceptions: Certain structures within
and projections into required yard/lot areas are permitted, as herein
specified, and shall not be considered to be obstructions or included in the
calculation of coverage unless otherwise specified:
      1.   Exterior stairs of open design are permitted, provided that no such
stair shall project into a required front no more than ten feet (10') and/or
side yard/lot more than three feet (3') and into any rear yard/lot more than
six feet (6').
      2.   Fences, walls, and hedges are permitted in any required yard/lot or
along the edge of any yard/lot to a height of six feet (6'), provided that no
fence, wall, or hedge along the sides or front edge of any front yard/lot shall
be over three feet (3') in height. On a corner lot in any Residential District,
nothing shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow in any such
manner as to materially impede vision between a height of three feet (3') and
ten feet (10') above the centerline grades of intersecting streets bounded by
the property lines of such corner lots on a line joining points along said
property lines for forty feet (40'). Prior to the installation and construction
of a fence or wall along a property line, the owner shall first obtain and
submit to the City staff, together with the owner's application for setting
permit, a document signed by the adjoining property owners agreeing to the
property line. If there are existing survey markers, they may be used by the
property owner. If there are not any existing survey markers the property must
be surveyed by a professional land surveyor licensed to practice in the State
of Idaho, and the surveyor shall cause said property to be staked and marked in
accordance with Idaho law prior to any fence or wall construction. (Ord. 2018-
4, 11-7-2018)
   (E)   Nonconforming Uses:
      1.   Any use lawfully occupying a building or land at the effective date
of this title, or of subsequent amendments thereto, which does not conform to
the regulations for the district in which it is located shall be deemed to be a
nonconforming use and may be continued. Maintenance and minor repairs necessary
to keep a nonconforming use in sound condition during such continuance shall be
permitted.
      2.   A nonconforming building may be enlarged or extended only if
thereafter the entire building is devoted to a conforming use.
      3.   No building partially occupied by a nonconforming use shall be
altered in such a way to permit the enlargement or expansion of the space
occupied by such nonconforming use.
      4.   No nonconforming use may be enlarged or extended in such a way as to
occupy any required open space, or any land beyond the boundaries of the lot on
which it existed at the effective date of this title, nor may any such
nonconforming use displace any conforming use in the same building or on the
same parcel.
      5.   Any nonconforming building destroyed by fire or other calamity to an
extent of fifty percent (50%) or more of the appraised value may not be
restored unless such restoration shall make the building a conforming building
and any intended use shall be a conforming use; provided, however, that nothing
in this title shall be construed to prevent the restoration and the resumption
of former lawful use of any building that is damaged or partially destroyed by
fire, or other calamity, to the extent of less than fifty percent (50%),
provided that such restoration is started within one calendar year and
diligently prosecuted to completion.
      6.   Whenever a nonconforming use of land or building has been
discontinued for a period of one year, or whenever this is evidence of a clear
intent to abandon a nonconforming use, such use shall not thereafter be
reestablished, and the uses of the premises, thereafter shall be in conformity
with the regulations of the use district.
   (F)   Reserved.
   (G)   Off Street Parking and Loading Requirements:
      1.   When the intensity or use of any building, structure or premises is
increased through the addition of dwelling units, gross floor area, seating
capacity or other units of measurement specified as requiring parking
facilities as required herein shall be provided for such increase in intensity
of use.
      2.   Whenever the existing use of a building or structure shall hereafter
be changed to a new use, parking or loading facilities shall be provided as
required for such a new use.
      3.   Access to parking spaces as required herein for commercial and
industrial uses shall be not less than twelve feet (12') side and not more than
forty feet (40') wide at the curb line.
      4.   No lawfully existing building shall be deemed to be a nonconforming
building solely because of the lack of any such required spaces; provided, that
space being used for off street parking or loading in connection with any such
building at the time of the effective date hereof shall not be further reduced
in area or capacity.
      5.   When the calculation of the required number of spaces called for
herein results in a fractional number, fractions equal to or greater than one-
half (1/2) shall be adjusted to the next higher whole number of spaces.
      6.   Parking space requirements for a use not specifically mentioned
shall be the same as for a use specified which has similar traffic generating
characteristics.
      7.   Except as required for dwellings and motels, off street parking
facilities for several buildings, structures or uses, or for mixed uses, may be
provided collectively, provided that the total number of spaces so located
together shall not be less than the sum of the separate requirements for each
of the buildings or uses.
      8.   Every open off street parking area having more than four (4) parking
spaces shall be hard surfaced, including access driveways. (Ord. 207, 3-17-
1987)
      9.   Lighting used to illuminate off street parking areas shall be
directed away from residential properties, and such parking areas shall be
effectively screened on any side adjoining property in a residential zone by a
wall, fence, or hedge to a height of six feet (6') except for the front yard/
lot setback area of the adjoining residential property, in which case the
maximum height shall be three feet (3').
      10.   Required parking spaces for dwellings shall be upon the same
premises as the dwelling, and no parking space shall be located in any required
front or side yard/lot. (Ord. 2015-4, 8-5-2015)
      11.   Parking spaces as hereinafter set forth shall be provided for all
uses allowed and conditional uses permitted in any zone, provided that a
greater number of spaces may be required in any case where a conditional use
permit is involved.
         a.   For each dwelling unit - two (2) spaces as defined herein,
sufficient for a garage or carport.
         b.   For each dwelling unit in a multiple-family dwelling of four (4)
units or less - two (2) spaces as defined herein, sufficient for a garage or
carport, provided, however, that for each dwelling unit in a multiple-family
dwelling of five (5) units or more, two (2) spaces as defined herein,
sufficient for a garage or carport shall be provided for each of the first four
(4) units, and one and one-half (11/2) spaces shall be provided for each
additional unit thereafter.
         c.   For each guest bedroom in a hotel, motel, club, lodging house,
fraternity or sorority house - one parking space, plus one parking space for
each three (3) beds in a dormitory in the above.
         d.   For each four (4) beds in a convalescent, nursing, or rest home,
sanatorium or home for the care of children or the aged - one parking space;
plus one parking space for each doctor assigned full time to the staff, plus
two (2) parking spaces for each three (3) other employees.
         e.   For a hospital - one parking space for each one thousand (1,000)
square feet of net floor area plus one parking space for each four (4) regular
employees.
         f.   For a church, auditorium, theater, or sports arena - one parking
space for each five (5) seats in the principal assembly room or area.
         g.   For floor space used by the public or by members in a social
hall, dance hall, night club, pool hall, restaurant, or other similar
enterprise or establishment - a number of parking spaces equal to twenty
percent (20%) of the capacity in persons. For the purposes of this section,
capacity in persons shall mean the gross floor area divided by fifteen (15)
square feet.
         h.   For a bowling alley - two (2) parking spaces for each alley.
         i.   For a drive-in theater - a reservoir space at the entrance
containing one parking space for each ten (10) vehicles accommodated within.
         j.   Business offices, not otherwise specified - one parking space for
each two hundred fifty (250) square feet of net floor area.
         k.   Medical or dental office or clinic - one parking space for each
two hundred fifty (250) square feet of net floor area. (Ord. 207, 3-17-1987)
         l.   Mortuary - six (6) parking spaces. (Ord. 2018-4, 11-7-2018)
         m.   Retail stores, banks and shops other than as specified below -
one parking space for each two hundred (200) square feet of net floor area in
excess of two thousand (2,000) square feet; and for drive-in banks - three (3)
additional parking spaces for each teller window.
         n.   Retail sales establishments handling only durable goods or bulky
merchandise such as machinery, furniture or vehicles, personal service and
repair shops, wholesale stores - one parking space for each six hundred (600)
square feet of net floor area in excess of two thousand (2,000) square feet.
         o.   For manufacturing establishments - one parking space for each
employee, based on the greatest number of employees at any one time.
         p.   For every building hereafter erected containing more than fifteen
thousand (15,000) square feet in area and which is designed to be occupied by
any use requiring regular receipt or dispatch of merchandise by truck, there
shall be provided and maintained with adequate design to provide safe and
efficient means of access and maneuvering, one loading space not less than
thirty feet (30') in length and ten feet (10') in width exclusive of access
platforms and maneuvering areas.
   (H)   Mobile Home And Recreational Vehicles Location: Provisions pertaining
to mobile homes and recreational vehicles shall not apply to the storage of
recreational vehicles or campers on the site of a permanent residence. Mobile
homes may be located on construction sites for a period not to exceed one year
when the Council finds that the location of the same is necessary to secure the
construction site. The City may direct that mobile homes be located on
properties owned by the City and dedicated for use as a facility for purposes
of security. (Ord. 207, 3-17-1987)
3-2-2: STORAGE/CARGO CONTAINERS:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the use of storage
containers on R1 (residential), R2 (residential), Commercial, Agricultural,
Industrial Zones which regulations are adopted to protect the public health,
safety, and welfare, and promote positive aesthetics in the City of Grace,
Idaho.
      1.   For purposes of this chapter, storage containers defined as cargo
containers, railroad cars, truck vans, convert mobile homes, travel trailer,
recreational vehicles, bus bodies, vehicles and/or similar prefabricated items
and structures originally built for purposes other than storage of goods and
materials are not accessory storage buildings.
   (B)   Storage on residential use properties: Only accessory storage
buildings defined shall be permitted as accessory storage containers on
property in any residential zone of the City, or on any property within the
city the primary use of which is residential. Cargo containers, railroad cars,
truck vans, converted mobile homes, travel trailers, recreational vehicles, bus
bodies, vehicles, and similar prefabricated items and structures originally
build for purposes other than the storage of goods and materials are not
permitted to be used as accessory storage buildings on property zoned R1
(residential), R2 (residential) or on property the primary use of which is
residential.
       1.   Notwithstanding the provisions set forth in subsection B of this
section, the temporary placement of transport containers, portable site storage
containers in residentially zoned properties, or on properties the primary use
of which are R1 (residential), R2 (residential) are not permitted.
      2.   Pods for moving household goods in residential zoned properties, or
on properties the primary use of which are residential, for the limited purpose
of loading and unloading household contents. Shall not be permitted to exceed
thirty (30) days with renewable permit not to exceed a sixty (60) day maximum.
         a.   Pods are identified as a rented portable unit without wheels or a
hitch.
      3.   Notwithstanding the provisions set forth in subsection B of this
section licensed and bonded contractors may use cargo containers for the
temporary location of an office, equipment, and/or materials storage structure
during construction which is taking place on the property where the cargo
container is located, if the use of the cargo container is authorized pursuant
to a setting permit. R1 (residential) and R2 (residential see Subsection B
storage containers and /or storage building must be identified with setting
permit to be used during construction. Setting permit will be required.
   (C)   Cargo containers-permitted locations: The placement of a cargo
container as an accessory storage use is only allowed in the following zoning
districts:
      Commercial Zones
      Industrial Zones
      A-1 Agricultural Zones (With conditional use permit)
      A-2 Agricultural Zones (With conditional use permit)
      A-3 Agricultural Zones (With conditional use permit)
      1.   The placement of cargo containers is not allowed on any property
which is primarily used for residential purposes, regardless of the zoning
designation.
   (D)   Setting permit required-Development standards: A setting permit is
required prior to placement of a cargo container, ensuring effective anchoring/
foundation according to the then most current edition of the City Ordinances.
The application shall show the proposed cargo container is accessory to the
permitted use of the property and meets the placement criteria for the zone.
All other set back requirements must be met for cargo containers of smaller
sizes.
      1.   Cargo containers shall meet the setback requirements of the
underlying zone.
      2.   Cargo containers shall not be stacked above the height of a single
container device, except for placement within the Industrial Zone.
      3.   Cargo containers shall not be used for advertising purposes and
shall be kept clean of all alpha-numeric signage and writing, painted and
maintained.
      4.   Highly flammable or otherwise hazardous items shall not be stored
within cargo containers.
      5.   Cargo containers shall be in an approved designated area and on the
same property as the principal use and be included in the calculation of
overall lot coverage.
      6.   Cargo containers shall not occupy required off-street parking,
loading or landscaping areas.
   (E)   Current Violations-Time To Comply: All owners of property within the
City shall have one hundred twenty (120) days from the effective date of this
chapter to bring the properties, which currently contain accessory storage
buildings that are in violation of the terms of this ordinance, into full
compliance with the provisions of this ordinance.
   (F)   Conflicts: In the event any conflict exists between the provisions of
this chapter and other currently existing provision of the of the City of Grace
Ordinances, the terms and provisions of this chapter shall take precedence and
to the extent of any such conflict, the terms and conditions of any existing
provisions of the City of Grace or other ordinances of the City shall be and
hereby are amended insofar as necessary to conform to the provisions of this
chapter.
   (G)   Violations-Penalties: Violation of this chapter shall be enforced
pursuant to the procedures and penalties set forth in Grace City Ordinance as
the same exists now or may be hereafter amended. Each day of non-compliance
with this Chapter shall constitute a separate and new offense. (Ord. 2020-2, 8-
5-2020)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
SECTION:
3-3-1: Amendment and Reclassification
3-3-2: Conditional Use Permit Procedure
3-3-3: Variance Procedure
3-3-4: Filing Fees
3-3-1: AMENDMENT AND RECLASSIFICATION:
   (A)   Initiation of Proceedings and Fee:
      1.   This Title may be amended whenever the Council deems that amendment
is required for public convenience or necessity, or for general welfare. Any
amendment shall be enacted pursuant to this Section, and for purposes of this
Section, includes any measure to change district boundaries, establish or
disestablish districts, to change district regulations, to add, repeal or amend
any other provisions of this Section or the whole of this Title.
      2.   An amendment to the text of this Title or to the official Zoning Map
may be initiated by a resolution of intention by the Planning Commission or the
City Council or by an application of one or more of the owners of property
affected by the proposed amendment.
      3.   Applications from a property owner shall be filed with the Planning
Commission on forms prescribed by the Planning Commission, or if not forms,
then in accordance with this Chapter, accompanied by such data and information
necessary to assure the fullest presentation of facts. Applications shall
contain the following information:
         a.   Name, address and phone number of applicant.
         b.   Proposed amending ordinance, approved as to form by the Council.
         c.   Present land use.
         d.   Present zoning district.
         e.   Proposed use.
         f.   Proposed zoning district.
         g.   A vicinity map at a scale approved by the Commission showing
property lines; thoroughfares, existing and proposed zoning and such other
items as the Commission may require.
         h.   A list of all property owners and their mailing addresses who are
within three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of the land being
considered.
         i.   A statement on how the proposed amendment relates to the
Comprehensive Plan, availability of public facilities and compatibility with
the surrounding areas.
      4.   No application from an owner of property for the same general
purpose concerning the same property which has been denied by the City shall be
received or processed by the secretary of the Commission within twelve (12)
months of such denial except by unanimous action of the Planning Commission,
unless there is an amendment to the Comprehensive Plan which applies to the
property in question.
      5.   A filing fee as prescribed by the City Council shall be paid at the
time of the filing by the owner or owner's representative but no fee will be
required in the case of proceedings instituted by either the Council or the
Planning Commission.
   (B)   Transmittal to Commission: Zoning districts shall be amended in the
following manner:
      1.   Requests for an amendment to the Zoning Ordinance shall be submitted
to the Commission which shall evaluate the request to determine the extent and
nature of the amendment requested;
      2.   If the request is in accordance with the adopted Comprehensive Plan,
the Commission may recommend and the Council may adopt or reject the ordinance
amendment under the notice and hearing procedures as herein provided;
      3.   If the request is not in accordance with the adopted comprehensive
plan, the request shall be submitted to the planning and zoning commission or,
in its absence, the council, which shall recommend and the council may adopt or
reject an amendment to the comprehensive plan under the notice and hearing
procedures provided in section 67-6509, Idaho Code. After the comprehensive
plan has been amended, the zoning ordinance may then be amended as hereinafter
provided for. The hearing on the comprehensive plan and the proposed change to
the zoning ordinance may be held concurrently.
   (C)   Commission Public Hearing: The commission shall hold a public hearing
and make recommendations on proposed zoning amendments. Zoning amendments may
consist of text or map revisions.
      1.   Zoning Ordinance Text Amendment: The commission, prior to
recommending a zoning ordinance text amendment to the council shall conduct at
least one public hearing in which interested persons shall have an opportunity
to be heard. At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of time
and place and a summary of the amendment shall be published in the official
newspaper or paper of general circulation within the jurisdiction. Following
the commission's hearing, if the commission makes a material change from what
was presented at the public hearing, further notice and hearing shall be
provided before the commission forwards the amendment with its recommendation
to the council.
      2.   Zoning Ordinance Map Amendment: The commission, prior to
recommending a zoning ordinance map amendment that is in accordance with the
comprehensive plan to the council shall conduct at least one public hearing in
which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard. At least
fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of time and place and a summary
of the amendment shall be published in the official newspaper or paper of
general circulation within the jurisdiction. Additional notice of hearing shall
be provided by certified mail to property owners by the applicant and residents
within the land being considered; three hundred feet (300') of the external
boundaries of the land being considered; and any additional area that may be
impacted by the proposed change as determined by the commission. When notice is
required to two hundred (200) or more property owners or residents, in lieu of
the mail notification three (3) notices in the official newspaper or paper of
general circulation is sufficient; provided that, the third notice appears ten
(10) days prior to the public hearing. Following the commission's hearing, if
the commission makes a material change from what was presented at the public
hearing, further notice and hearing shall be provided before the commission
forwards the amendment with its recommendation to the council.
   (D)   Recommendation By Commission: When sixty (60) days from the receipt of
the proposed amendment, the commission shall transmit its recommendation to the
council. The commission may recommend that the amendment be granted as
requested, or it may recommend that the amendment be denied. The commission
shall ensure that any favorable recommendations for amendments are in
accordance with the comprehensive plan and established goals and objectives.
(Ord. 207, 3-17-1987)
   (E)   Action By Council: The council prior to adopting, revising or
rejecting the amendment to the zoning ordinance as recommended by the
commission may conduct at least one public hearing using the same notice and
hearing procedures as the commission. If the recommendations of the commission
are adopted, no public hearing before the council shall be necessary. If the
commission's recommendations will be materially revised by the council, the
council may return the same to the commission for further consideration and
hearing, or the council shall conduct at least one public hearing before making
said revisions. (Ord. 2012-294, 2-1-2012)
3-3-2: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT PROCEDURE:
   (A)   Contents Of Application For Conditional Use: An application for
conditional use permit shall be filed with the clerk by at least one owner or
lessee of property for which such conditional use is proposed. At a minimum,
the application shall contain the following information:
      1.   Name, address and phone number of applicant.
      2.   Legal description of property (with street address if possible).
      3.   Description of existing use.
      4.   Zoning district.
      5.   Description of proposed conditional use.
      6.   A plan of the proposed site for the conditional use showing the
location of all buildings, parking and loading area, traffic access and traffic
circulation, open spaces, landscaping, refuse and service areas, utilities,
signs, yards and such other information as the commission may require to
determine if the proposed conditional use meets the intent and requirements of
this title.
      7.   A narrative statement evaluating the effects on adjoining property;
the effect of such elements as noise, glare, odor, fumes and vibration on
adjoining property; a discussion of the general compatibility with adjacent and
other properties in the district; and the relationship of the proposed use to
the comprehensive plan.
      8.   Name and addresses of all property owners and residents within three
hundred feet (300') of the exterior boundaries of the land being considered.
   (B)   General Standards Applicable To All Conditional Uses: The commission
shall review the particular facts and circumstances of each proposed
conditional use in terms of the following standards and shall find adequate
evidence showing that such use at the proposed location:
      1.   Will, in fact, constitute a conditional use as established in this
title for the zoning district involved; in that it is not already defined as a
permitted use in chapter 1 of this title;
      2.   Will be harmonious with and in accordance with the general
objectives or with any specific objective of the comprehensive plan or the
zoning ordinance;
      3.   Will be designed, constructed, operated and maintained to be
harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended
character of the general vicinity and that such use will not change the
essential character of the same area;
      4.   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future
neighboring uses;
      5.   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and
services such as highways, streets, police and fire protections, drainage
structures, refuse disposal, water and sewer and schools; or that the persons
or agencies responsible for the establishment of the proposed use shall be able
to provide adequately any such services;
      6.   Will not create excessive additional requirements at public cost for
public facilities and services and will not be detrimental to the economic
welfare of the community;
      7.   Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment
and conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any persons, property
or the general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic, noise,
smoke, fumes, glare or odors;
      8.   Will have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be so
designed as not to create an interference with traffic on surrounding public
thoroughfares;
      9.   Will not result in the destruction, loss or damage of a natural,
scenic or historic feature of major importance.
   (C)   Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards: In granting any conditional
use, the commission may prescribe appropriate conditions, bonds and safeguards
in conformity with this title. Violations of such conditions, bonds or
safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which the conditional use is
granted, shall be deemed a violation of this title.
   (D)   Procedures For Hearing And Notice: Prior to granting a conditional use
permit, at least one public hearing in which interested persons shall have an
opportunity to be heard shall be held before the commission. At least fifteen
(15) days prior to the hearing, notice of the time and place and a summary of
the proposal shall be published in the official newspaper or paper of general
circulation within the jurisdiction. Notice may also be made available to other
newspapers, radio or television stations serving the jurisdiction for use as a
public service announcement. Notice of the hearing shall also be provided by
ordinary mail to property owners and residents within the land being
considered; three hundred feet (300') beyond the external boundaries of the
land being considered, and any additional area that may be substantially
impacted by the proposed conditional use as determined by the commission. When
notice is required to two hundred (200) or more property owners or residents,
in lieu of the mailing notification, two (2) notices in the newspaper or paper
of general circulation is sufficient; provided, the second notice appears ten
(10) days prior to the public hearing.
   (E)   Action By The Commission: Within thirty (30) days after the public
hearing, the commission shall recommend to the council approval, conditional
approval, or disapproval of the application for conditional use permit as
presented. If the application is recommended to be approved or approved with
modifications the commission shall direct the administrator to transmit its
recommendations to the council listing the specific conditions specified by the
commission for approval.
Upon granting of a conditional use permit, conditions may be attached to a
conditional use permit including, but not limited to, those:
      1.   Minimizing adverse impact on other developments.
      2.   Controlling the sequence and timing of development.
      3.   Controlling the duration of development.
      4.   Assuring that development is maintained properly.
      5.   Designating the exact location and nature of development.
      6.   Requiring the provisions for on site or off site public facilities
or services.
      7.   Requiring more restrictive standards than those generally required
in this title.
Prior to granting a conditional use permit, the commission may request studies
from the planning staff or public agencies concerning social, economic, fiscal
and environmental effects of the proposed conditional use. A conditional use
permit shall not be considered as establishing a binding precedent to grant
other conditional use permits. A conditional use permit is not transferable
from one parcel of land to another.
The commission shall ensure that any favorable recommendations for conditional
use permits are in accordance with the comprehensive plan and established goals
and objectives.
   (F)   Action By Council: Within thirty (30) days after receiving the
recommendations of the commission, the council shall either approve,
conditionally approve or disapprove the application as presented. If the
application is approved or approved with modifications the council shall direct
the administrator to issue a conditional use permit listing the specific
conditions specified by the council for approval.
Upon granting or denying an application the council shall specify in writing:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial;
      3.   Findings of fact and conclusion of law explaining the criteria and
standards considered relevant, stating the facts relied upon, and explaining
the justification for the decision based on the criteria, standards, and facts.
      4.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit.
   (G)   Notification To Applicant: Within ten (10) days after a decision has
been rendered, the clerk shall provide the applicant with written notice of the
action on the request. (Ord. 207, 3-17-1987)
3-3-3: VARIANCE PROCEDURE:
   (A)   Consideration: The following provisions shall apply in considering
variances:
      1.   The planning commission shall consider variances to the terms of
this title which will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to
special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this title will
result in unnecessary hardship and under such conditions that the spirit of
this title shall be observed and substantial justice done. A variance shall not
be considered a right or special privilege, but may be granted to an applicant
only upon showing of undue hardship because of characteristics of the site and
that the variance is not in conflict with the public interest. In acting upon
such variance the planning commission shall make a full investigation and shall
only recommend granting a variance upon finding that the following are true:
         a.   That the granting of the variance will not be in conflict with
the spirit and intent of the comprehensive general plan for the city, and will
not effect a change in zoning.
         b.   That there are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or
conditions, applicable to the property involved, or the intended use thereof,
which do not apply generally to the property or class of use in the district,
so that a denial of the relief sought will result in:
            (1)   Undue loss in value of the property;
            (2)   Inability to preserve the property rights of the owner;
            (3)   The preservation of reasonable enjoyment of any property
right of the owner.
         c.   The granting of such relief will not be materially detrimental to
the public health, safety or welfare, or injurious to the property or
improvements of other property owners, or the quiet enjoyment of such property
or improvement.
      2.   An application for a variance may be initiated by one or more
property owners. Such application shall be filed with the planning commission
on forms prescribed by the planning commission accompanied by such data and
information necessary to assure the fullest presentation of facts and should
include:
         a.   Name, address and phone number of applicant(s);
         b.   Legal description of property (and street address where
possible);
         c.   Description of nature of variance requested;
         d.   A narrative statement demonstrating that the requested variance
conforms to the standards set forth in subsection (A)1 of this section;
         e.   Names and addresses of all property owners and residents within
three hundred feet (300') of the exterior boundaries of the land being
considered.
      3.   A filing fee shall be paid at the time of the filing by the owner or
owner's representative. (Ord. 207, 3-17-1987)
      4.   The planning commission shall hold at least one public hearing on
each variance request following the same hearing and notice procedures as set
forth in subsection
3-3-2(D) of this chapter except that notice of the public hearing need not be
published in the official newspaper of the city. (Ord. 2012-294, 2-1-2012)
   (B)   Action By Commission: Within thirty (30) days after the public hearing
for a variance request, the commission shall transmit its recommendations for
approval or disapproval to the council.
   (C)   Action By Council: Within thirty (30) days after receiving the
recommendations of the commission, the council shall approve, disapprove or
approve with conditions, the application for variance and shall give notice to
the applicant within ten (10) days after the decision has been rendered, in
accordance with the provisions set forth in subsections
3-3-2(F) and (G) of this chapter. (Ord. 207, 3-17-1987)
3-3-4: FILING FEES:
All applications for amendment, reclassification, conditional use, or
variances, shall be accompanied by a filing fee as prescribed by the city
council, and the applicant shall reimburse the city for all costs incurred in
publication and/or mailing. (Ord. 207, 3-17-1987)
CHAPTER 4
SETTING PERMIT
SECTION:
3-4-1: Setting Permit Required
3-4-2: Application For Setting Permits
3-4-3: Review And Approval Or Disapproval Of Application
3-4-4: Sewage Disposal Facilities And Water Supply Required
3-4-5: Expiration Of Setting Permit
3-4-1: SETTING PERMIT REQUIRED:
Any person or persons desiring to cause or permit the construction, major
rebuilding, location or replacement of any dwelling house or mobile home or
other building, or undertake construction in use of property shall, prior to
beginning said construction, rebuilding, or replacement or use of property,
obtain a setting permit to conduct said construction, major rebuilding or
replacement or use of property from the city staff. Exceptions to the
requirement for setting permits may be established by resolution of the city
council. (Ord. 2015-4, 8-5-2015)
3-4-2: APPLICATION FOR SETTING PERMITS:
   (A)   Said person or persons desiring to proceed with construction of a
structure as mentioned above shall make written application under oath to the
council.
   (B)   Such application shall be prepared in writing and shall contain:
      1.   The name, address and phone number of the applicant and of all other
owners of an interest in said property.
      2.   A concise and factual description of the applicant's interest in
said property.
      3.   Legal description of said real property.
      4.   Existing use.
      5.   Proposed use.
      6.   Use district.
      7.   Plan, drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions and the shape of
the lot to be built upon, the exact size and location of existing buildings on
the lot, if any; the location and dimensions of the proposed buildings or
alterations.
      8.   Building heights.
      9.   Distance of building or structure from roads.
      10.   Number of off street parking spaces or loading berths.
      11.   Number of dwelling units.
      12.   Written approval by the health authority of proposed sewer and
water facilities.
      13.   Estimated cost of improvements. (Ord. 207, 3-17-1987)
      14.   Such other matters as the city staff may require. (Ord. 2015-4, 8-
5-2015)
   (C)   Such application shall be made by the filing of the same with the
clerk at the office of said clerk in the city hall, Grace, Idaho. (Ord. 207, 3-
17-1987)
   (D)   A filing fee pursuant to a schedule as established by resolution of
the council shall be paid at the time of filing by the person or persons
submitting the application for setting permit. (Ord. 2015-4, 8-5-2015)
3-4-3: REVIEW AND APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL OF APPLICATION:
Upon receipt of such an application the city staff shall endorse the filing
date thereon and shall assign a number to said application, which number shall
be endorsed thereon, and the city staff shall further file and index said
application in some reasonable time, but not more than ten (10) days after the
filing date of said application with the city staff, the city staff shall
approve or disapprove said application or applications. (Ord. 2015-4, 8-5-2015)
   (A)   If public hearing is required prior to approval or disapproval, then
said time period shall be extended by the number of days required for legal
notice. (Ord. 207, 3-17-1987)
   (B)   The city staff shall either approve or disapprove said application for
setting permit within thirty five (35) days after receipt thereof. If public
hearing is required prior to approval or disapproval, then said time period
shall be extended by the number of days required for legal notice.
   (C)   Upon approval of any such building application the city staff shall
prepare and transmit a setting permit to the applicant or applicants. Such
permit shall be on such a form as may be approved or prescribed by the council
and shall contain: 1) a number, 2) a statement identifying the application
concerned and incorporating said application into said permit by reference, 3)
a statement indicating the fact of time of approval of said application by the
city staff, 4) the actual date of issuance of said permit, and 5) the fact that
said permit shall expire and may be revoked if work has not substantially begun
within one year.
   (D)   The city staff shall sign said permit and file a duplicate original of
said permit with the application.
   (E)   If an application for setting permit is denied by the city staff, the
city staff shall forthwith prepare and mail to the applicant, the notice of
denial of application, specifying in concise language the reasons for denial.
Said notice of denial of application shall be on a form approved or prescribed
by the council and shall contain: 1) a number which shall be the same as the
relevant application number, 2) the fact and time of denial by the city staff,
3) the statement identifying the application concerned and incorporating said
application into said notice by reference, 4) the actual date of issuance of
said notice, and 5) what action the applicant may take to obtain a permit. In
addition said notice shall be signed by said city staff. A duplicate original
of said notice shall be filed by said city staff with the application
concerned, with the date of filing endorsed on said notice.
   (F)   A copy of any setting permit issued by the city staff shall be
submitted to the office of the county assessor of Caribou County. (Ord. 2015-4,
8-5-2015)
3-4-4: SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES AND WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED:
No setting permit shall be issued to any person or persons until that person or
persons has obtained a permit and approval from the department of health and
welfare of the state of Idaho or its subdivisions for the installation of
sewage disposal facilities and water supply when applicable. (Ord. 2015-4, 8-5-
2015)
3-4-5: EXPIRATION OF SETTING PERMIT:
All setting permits shall expire one year after issuance unless substantial
work has been completed. (Ord. 2015-4, 8-5-2015)
CHAPTER 5
ENFORCEMENT; VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY; DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Enforcement
3-5-2: Severability
3-5-3: Conflict With Other Laws
3-5-4: Violation And Penalty
3-5-5: Definitions
3-5-6: Substantial Completion
3-5-1: ENFORCEMENT:
An enforcing officer shall be appointed by the Mayor and City Council and such
officer shall be responsible for the enforcement of the provisions of this
title. (Ord. 207, 3-17-1987)
3-5-2: SEVERABILITY:
If any provisions of this title or the application thereof to any persons or
circumstances are held invalid, the remainder of this title or the application
or provisions to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 207, 3-17-1987)
3-5-3: CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS:
It is not intended by this title to impair or interfere with other regulations
of State or local law, or with private restrictions on the use of land,
improvements, and structures. Where this title imposes greater restrictions
than that imposed by other law or private restrictions, this title shall
prevail. This title repeals any portions of an ordinance or regulation of the
City in conflict herewith and specifically repeals ordinance 160 as amended.
(Ord. 207, 3-17-1987)
3-5-4: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this title shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be deemed guilty
of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during which
any violation of any of the provisions of this title is committed, continued or
permitted. (Ord. 207, 3-17-1987)
   (B)   Upon conviction of any violation of any of the provisions of this
title, such person shall be punished by a fine of not more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00), or by imprisonment for not more than six (6) months or
both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 2012-294, 2-1-2012)
3-5-5: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, certain terms are defined as set forth. All
words in the present tense include the future tense; the plural includes the
singular, and all words in the singular include the plural unless the natural
construction of the sentence indicates otherwise. The word "shall" is
mandatory.
ACCESSORY BUILDING: A building which is subordinate to, and incidental to the
principal building on the same lot, but does not include any building
containing a "dwelling unit" as hereinafter defined.
ACCESSORY USE: A use incidental and subordinate to the principal use of the
premises.
AGRICULTURE: Tilling of soil, horticulture, raising crops, livestock, dairying,
including all uses customarily accessory and incidental thereto; but excluding
slaughterhouses, commercial feedlots.
AIRPORT: Any area of land or water which is used or intended for use by
aircraft and including the necessary appurtenant structures or facilities
located thereon.
ANIMAL HOSPITAL: Any building or portion thereof designed or used for the care
or treatment of cats, dogs or other animals.
ANIMAL UNIT: Animal unit refers to a measure of numbers of livestock equivalent
to a mature animal. It is used to calculate the amount of pasture space and
animal feed. As set by resolution.
ANIMALS FOR FAMILY FOOD PRODUCTION: Animals generally and commonly used in the
City of Grace for human consumption (including cattle, sheep, poultry, rabbits,
and fish) that are raised with the intent to supply food for those who raise
them.
APARTMENT: A room or suite of rooms in a multiple-family structure which is
arranged, designed or used as a single housekeeping unit and has a kitchen and
sanitary facilities permanently installed.
AUTOMOBILE SALE LOT: Premises on which new and used passenger automobiles,
trailers, mobile homes or trucks in operating condition are displayed in the
open for sale or trade, and where no repair or service work is done.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: Premises used primarily for the retail sale and
delivery to the vehicle of motor vehicle fuel and of lubricating oils, tires
and incidental vehicular accessories, and providing vehicular lubrication and
related services, including minor motor vehicle repairs.
AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD: Any use of premises, excluding fully enclosed
buildings, on which two (2) or more motor vehicles not in operating condition
are standing more than thirty (30) days, or on which used motor vehicles, or
parts thereof, are dismantled or stored.
BLOCK: The space along one side of a street between the two (2) nearest
intersecting streets, or between an intersecting street and a right-of-way,
waterway or other similar barrier, whichever is lesser.
BOARDING HOUSE: A building other than a hotel or restaurant where meals are
provided for compensation to three (3) or more persons, but not more than
twelve (12) persons who are not members of the householder's family.
BUILDING: Any structure with substantial walls and roof securely affixed to the
land and entirely separated on all sides from any other structure by space or
by walls in which there are no communicating doors, windows or openings, which
is designed or intended for the shelter, enclosure or protection of persons,
animals, chattels or property of any kind.
BUILDING, DETACHED: A building surrounded by open space on the same lot.
BUILDING, NONCONFORMING: Any building which does not conform to the
requirements of this title.
BUILDINGS, GOVERNMENT: A building owned or used by the Federal, State, County,
or City government, or any political subdivision, agency or instrumentality
thereof.
BUSINESS OR COMMERCE: The purchase, sale, exchange or other transaction
involving the handling or disposition of any article, substance or commodity
for profit or livelihood, or the ownership or management of office buildings,
offices, recreation or amusement enterprises or the maintenance and use of
offices or professions and trades rendering services.
CITY: The City of Grace, Idaho.
CITY CLERK: The City Clerk of the City.
COMMERCIAL LIVESTOCK OPERATION: In the Agricultural Zone, any lot or portion
thereof where livestock are maintained, harbored, possessed, boarded, bred or
cared for either in return for compensation, kept for sale or trade, or wherein
animal byproducts are sold or traded. This does not allow concentrated animal
feeding operations (CAFO) as set forth in 67-6529C Idaho Code.
COMMISSION: The Planning-Zoning Commission of the City. The Planning Commission
is declared to also be the Zoning Commission of the City.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The comprehensive plan for the City officially adopted by
the Council as such.
CONDITIONAL USE: A use or occupancy of a structure, or use of land, permitted
only upon issuance of a conditional use permit and subject to the limitations
and conditions specified therein.
COUNCIL: The City Council of the City.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazard.
DOMESTIC ANIMALS: Dogs, cats, guinea pigs, hamsters or other small animals
commonly kept for companionship purposes and as common within the City of
Grace.
DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment other than an automobile service
station, which is designed to accommodate the motor vehicles of patrons in such
a manner as to permit the occupants of such vehicles, while remaining therein,
to make purchase or receive services.
DWELLING: A building, or portion thereof, containing one or more dwelling
units. The term dwelling does not include any trailer, motel, hotel, guest
house or boarding house as defined herein.
DWELLING, HIGH RISE MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A multiple-family building or portion
thereof, containing five (5) or more stories and which may include off-street
parking facilities, and having at least one passenger elevator to serve the
dwelling units.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A multiple-family building, or portion thereof,
containing three (3) or more dwelling units.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building designed for use and occupancy by no more
than one family. Single-family dwellings may include manufactured homes, so
long as they are constructed according to HUD/FHA construction and safety
standards, are transportable in one or more sections, which in the traveling
mode shall be eight body feet or more in width, and forty body feet or more in
length (8' x 40'), built on a permanent chassis, and designed to be used as a
dwelling. In order to qualify for the status of "single-family dwelling", a
manufactured home must meet the following minimum standards:
   (A)   Mass produced in a factory.
   (B)   Designed and constructed for transportation to a site for installation
and use when connected to required utilities, and be permanently connected to
City utilities.
   (C)   Built on a permanent chassis.
   (D)   Designed for long-term residential use by a family, containing a
kitchen, bath, and sleeping facilities.
   (E)   Be at least twenty feet (20') wide at the narrowest point, with a
minimum of five hundred (500) square feet per section. The total square footage
minimum shall equal one thousand (1,000) square feet.
   (F)   Shall be certified as meeting the Construction and Safety Standards of
the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   (G)   Have nonmetallic, wood shake or asphalt shingle roof with a minimum
pitch of 2:12 (2" of rise to 12" of run).
   (H)   Have eaves of a minimum of six inches (6") or an eaves and gutter
combination with a minimum of six inches (6") attached to the entire perimeter
of the roof.
   (I)   Have on site home style siding, including metal horizontal metal lap
siding, simulated wood siding, or wood siding.
   (J)   Be placed upon and permanently affixed to a permanent cement
foundation of the type which would be poured and constructed for a home built
on site with running gear and towing hitch removed. No metal skirting shall be
allowed. No gaps or openings shall appear between the bottom of the
manufactured home and the permanent foundation. Said permanent foundation shall
be constructed in accordance with section 44-2205(2), Idaho Code, System B, and
in accordance with section 44-2205(3), Idaho Code. The owner or installer of a
manufactured home shall also comply with all other provisions of chapter 22,
title 44, Idaho Code, where applicable.
   (K)   Be taxed as real property.
Modular homes, which are constructed according to standards contained in the
Uniform Building Code and of closed construction, which are entirely or
substantially assembled at a place other than the building site shall also be
included within the definition of "single- family dwelling", so long as they
meet, at a minimum, the Uniform Building Code standards, and all related fire,
electrical, plumbing, and safety codes, and so long as they also meet the
minimum specifications as required for manufactured homes set forth herein.
Mobile homes, manufactured homes or modular homes not meeting these minimum
standards shall not be allowed in any zone except those specifically permitting
mobile homes as permitted use.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A detached building designed for and occupied exclusively
by two (2) families living independently of each other.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms designed for, or used as a residence for not
more than one family, including all necessary household employees of such
family, and constituting a separate and independent housekeeping unit, with a
single kitchen permanently installed. The term does not imply or include such
types of occupancy as a lodging or boarding house, club, sorority, fraternity
or hotel.
FLOOR AREA, GROSS: The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors
including the exterior walls of a building or portion thereof.
FLOOR AREA, NET: That portion of the gross floor area of the building occupied
by the listed use or uses and shall include hallways, storage and packing
space, dressing or restrooms and laboratory or work rooms, provided however,
that floor space within the building reserved for parking or loading of
vehicles, and basement space used only for building maintenance and utilities
shall be excluded.
HABITABLE FLOOR: Any floor usable for living purposes, which includes working,
sleeping, eating, cooking or recreation, or a combination thereof. A floor used
only for storage purposes is not a "habitable floor".
HEIGHT, BUILDING: The vertical distance from the grade to the highest point of
the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof or the average
height of the height gable of pitch or hip roof.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any gainful occupation engaged in by an occupant of a dwelling
unit including handicrafts, dressmaking, millinery, laundering, preserving,
office of a clergyman, teaching of music, dancing and other instruction when
limited to attendance of one pupil at a time and other like occupancies which
meet all of the following conditions:
   (A)   The use is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling
for dwelling purposes.
   (B)   The use is conducted entirely within a dwelling and is carried on by
the inhabitants thereof.
   (C)   No article shall be sold or offered for sale on the premises, except
as is produced by the occupants on the premises, and no mechanical or
electrical equipment shall be installed or maintained other than such is
customarily incidental to domestic use.
   (D)   The use does not change the character of the dwelling or adversely
affect the uses permitted in the residential district.
   (E)   The use creates no additional traffic and requires no additional
parking space.
   (F)   No persons are employed other than those necessary for domestic
purposes.
   (G)   Not more than one-fourth (1/4) of the gross area of one floor of the
said dwelling is used for such use.
   (H)   The entrance to the space devoted to such use is from within the
building and no internal or external alterations or construction features not
customary in dwellings are involved.
JUNKYARD: An outdoor space where junk, waste, discarded or salvaged materials
are stored or handled, including automobile wrecking yards, and yards for used
building materials and places or yards for storage of salvaged building and
structural steel materials and equipment; excluding yards or establishments for
the sale, purchase or storage of used cars or machinery in operable condition,
and the processing of used, discarded or salvaged materials as part of a
permitted manufacturing operation on the same premises.
KENNEL, COMMERCIAL: Any lot or premises or portion thereof, on which three (3)
or more dogs, cats and other household domestic animals are maintained,
harbored, possessed, boarded, bred or cared for in return for compensation or
kept for sale.
LIVESTOCK: Animals kept outside the home in enclosures such as pens, barns, or
corrals. The term includes cattle, llamas, mules, swine, sheep, goats, rabbits,
poultry, domestic birds, and any other grazing or foraging animal except those
defined as pets.
LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACE, OFF STREET: An open off street area of land other
than a street or public way, the principal use of which is for the standing,
loading and unloading of motor vehicles, tractors and trailers, to avoid undue
interference with public streets and alleys.
LOT: A unit of land described by metes and bounds or a part of a recorded
subdivision so recorded for transfer of ownership.
LOT, CORNER: A lot which is bounded on two (2) or more sides by street lines;
where the angle of intersection does not exceed one hundred thirty five degrees
(135°).
LOT COVERAGE: The area of a lot occupied by the principal building or buildings
and accessory buildings.
LOT LINE: The boundary property line encompassing a lot. The front lot line is
the boundary line which abuts a public street. For a corner lot, the owner may
select either street line as the front lot line. The rear lot line is the lot
line or most nearly parallel to and most remote from the front property line.
All other lot lines are side lot lines. An interior lot line is a side line in
common with another lot.
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between side lot lines measured at right
angles to the depth at a point midway between the front and rear lot lines.
MOBILE HOME: A detached single-family dwelling unit with all the following
characteristics:
   (A)   Designed for long term occupancy and containing sleeping
accommodations, a flush toilet, a tub or shower bath and kitchen facilities
with plumbing and electrical connections for attachments to outside systems.
   (B)   Designed to be transported after fabrication on its own wheels or on
flatbed or other trailers or detachable wheels.
   (C)   Arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling
complete, including major appliances and furniture, and ready for occupancy
except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location of
foundation supports, connection to facilities and the like.
MOBILE HOME PARK: Any area, tract, plot or site of land, whereupon two (2) or
more mobile homes are placed, located and maintained for dwelling purposes on a
permanent or semipermanent basis and for which a fee, rental or contract for
payment of such use is collected by or collectible to the person holding the
land.
MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: A subdivision of land, as defined by the ordinance of
the City for the exclusive placement of mobile homes for single-family
residential dwelling provided each mobile home shall have a minimum size of six
hundred (600) square feet and provided that all mobile homes placed upon said
lots shall be placed upon a masonry foundation and the tongue, undercarriage
and wheels shall be removed from said mobile home upon placement.
MOTEL: A building, or group of buildings on the same premises whether detached
or in connected rows, containing sleeping or dwelling units independently
accessible from the outside, with garage space or parking space located on the
premises and designed for, or occupied by travelers. The term includes, but is
not limited to, any buildings or building groups designated as auto courts,
motor lodges, tourist courts or by any other title or sign intended to identify
them as providing lodging to motorists.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on
or after the effective date of this title.
NONCONFORMING USE: Any use lawfully occupying a building, structure or land at
the effective date of this title, or of subsequent amendments thereto, which
does not conform to the regulations for the district in which it is located.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the City; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a hazard
to, or having a detrimental effect or interrupting the quiet enjoyment of the
property of another person or to the community.
NURSERY SCHOOL: An institution providing care, with or without instruction, for
more than five (5) children of preschool age.
NURSING HOME, CONVALESCENT HOME: A building housing any facility, however
named, whether operated for profit or not, the purpose of which is to provide
skilled nursing care and related medical services for two (2) or more
individuals suffering from illness, disease, injury, deformity or requiring
care because of old age.
PARKING LOT: An open, graded and surfaced area, other than a street or public
way, to be used for the storage for limited periods of time, of operable
passenger automobiles and commercial vehicles, and available to the public
whether for compensation, free or as an accommodation to clients or customers.
PARKING SPACE: Usable space within a public or private parking area or
building, not less than one hundred eighty (180) square feet (9 feet by 20
feet), exclusive of access drives, aisles or ramps for the storage of one
passenger automobile or commercial vehicle.
PETS: Pets are animals commonly used for companionship in the City of Grace
that may be kept indoors, though pets may also be kept outdoors. Pets are dogs,
cats or small pets kept indoors that are allowed in R-1 (Residential), R-2
(Residential), Commercial.
POULTRY: Domestic fowl, such as chickens, turkeys, ducks, and geese. Poultry is
kept for the primary purpose of production of eggs for supply of food for those
who raise them.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: A tract of land as more fully defined by City
ordinance.
REST HOME, ELDERLY HOUSING: Where medical care is not administered.
RESTAURANT: Any land, building or part thereof, other than a boarding house,
where meals are provided for compensation, including, among others, such uses
as cafe, cafeteria, coffee shop, lunchroom, tearoom and dining room.
SETBACK AREA: The space on a yard/lot required to be left open and unoccupied
by buildings or structures, either by the front, side or rear yard/lot
requirements of this title, or by delineation on a recorded subdivision map. If
the building or structure to be located on property has steps, window wells or
other protrusions which extend from the foundation or bottom of the structure
into a side yard/lot, the measurement for setbacks within side yards/lots shall
be from the face of the protrusion extending farthest into said side yard/lot.
SIGN: Any structure or natural object, such as tree, rock, bush and the ground
itself, or part thereof or device attached thereto or painted or represented
thereon, which shall be used to attract attention to any object, product,
place, activity, person, institution, organization or business, or which shall
display or include any letter, word, model, banner, flag, pennant, insignia,
device or representation used as, or which is in the nature of announcement,
direction or advertisement. For the purpose of this definition, the word "sign"
does not include the flag, pennant or insignia of any nation, state, city or
other political unit, or any political, educational, charitable, philanthropic,
civic, professional, religious, or like campaign, drive, movement or event.
SMALL ANIMALS: An animal commonly kept as a pet in family household in the U.S.
including but not limited to poultry, domestic hens/birds (excluding roosters),
ducks, as determined by the City Council.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: The first placement of permanent construction of a
structure (other than a mobile home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings or any work beyond the stage of excavation. Permanent construction
does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling, nor
does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it
include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the
erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not as part of the main structure.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the upper surface of any
floor and the upper surface of the floor next above, except that the topmost
story shall be that portion of a building included between the upper surface of
the topmost floor and the ceiling or roof above. If the finished floor level
directly above a basement or cellar is more than six feet (6') above grade,
such basement or cellar shall be considered a story.
STREET: A public right-of-way which provides vehicular and pedestrian access to
adjacent properties, acceptance or grant of which has been officially approved
by the Council. The term "street" includes also the terms highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane, place and
other such terms.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, except fences not exceeding three
feet (3') in height, which requires permanent location on the ground or is
attached to something having location on the ground.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure either:
   (A)   Before the improvement or repair is started, or
   (B)   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred. For the purposes of this definition, "substantial improvement"
is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor,
or other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that
alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
TAVERN OR LOUNGE: A building where alcoholic beverages are sold for consumption
on the premises, not including restaurants where the principal business is
serving food.
TRAILER: Any vehicle designed to be towed or transported by another vehicle.
The term "trailer" includes a mobile home. (See definition of mobile home.)
TRAILER PARK: A mobile home park. (See definition of mobile home park.)
VARIANCE: A modification of the requirements of the ordinance 1  as to lot
size, lot coverage, width, depth, front yard, side yard, setbacks, parking
space, height or buildings, or other ordinance provisions affecting the size or
shape of a structure or the placement of the structure upon lots, or the size
of lots.
YARD: An open space on the same lot with a principal building or group of
buildings, which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its lowest level upward,
except as otherwise permitted in this title, and which extends along a lot line
and at right angles thereto to a depth or width specified in the yard
regulations for the district in which the lot is located.
YARD, FRONT: The yard extending across the full width of the lot adjacent to
the front street line.
YARD, REAR: The yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying
between the rear line of the lot and the nearest line of the principal
building.
YARD, SIDE: The yard lying between the nearest wall of the principal building,
accessory building and side lot line, and extending from the front yard or the
front lot line to the rear yard.
ZONING COMMISSION: The Planning Commission.
ZONING MAP: The map incorporated into this title designating the use district
zones. (Ord. 207, 3-17-1987; amd. Ord. 225, 4-13-1993; Ord. 2012-294, 2-1-2012;
Ord. 2015-4, 8-5-2015; Ord. 2018-4, 11-7-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. Zoning ordinance, this title.
3-5-6: SUBSTANTIAL COMPLETION:
   (A)   Substantial Completion: All construction or improvement projects shall
be substantially completed within one (1) year from the issuance of the permit.
Furthermore, no permit will be extended beyond three (3) years. If a project is
not substantially completed after three (3) years, the penalties found herein
shall be applicable.
   (B)   Substantial completion is defined as the point in the project where
the construction listed and set forth in the setting permit is in compliance
with the Zoning Ordinance and the roof of the structure, walls, together with
exterior finish (i.e., of exterior finish: brick, vinyl siding or metal siding,
stucco, and other approved exterior finishes). Barrier wraps are not allowed as
waterproof exterior finish. Windows, steps, and doors have been fully
constructed and installed, all setbacks, lot coverage, and off-street parking
requirements have been met. The height and layout of fences and landscape
project established, and all temporary construction buildings have been removed
and is fit to be used for its intended purpose and an occupancy permit, if
required, is granted. Furthermore, an inspection may be done so that it can be
determined whether substantial completion has been met and the inspector
determines that substantial compliance with the building has been met.
   (C)   Penalties: If there is not substantial completion of a project as set
forth herein, the issued permit may be invalidated and/or not renewed per Grace
City Ordinance
3-4-5. Furthermore, noncompliance with this code constitutes a separate offense
which is punishable by a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day. (Ord.
2022-1, 3-16-2022)
CHAPTER 6
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
SECTION:
3-6-1: Plan Adopted
3-6-1: PLAN ADOPTED:
The City Council does hereby adopt, by this Resolution, its portion of the
Caribou County Comprehensive Plan, and further, specifies the plan to be the
following:
   (A)   All goals and objectives directly affecting the City;
   (B)   The County's Optimum Land Use Map which will be used by the City to
define the area of City impact; and
   (C)   The Grace City Map, which will be utilized by the City to guide its
own zoning ordinance.
All the supporting information that led to Grace's Comprehensive Plan is hereby
declared the best available at this time, but the supporting information shall
not be considered as the plan. (Res. 26, 5-20-77)
TITLE 4
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Findings of Fact
4-1-2: Statement of Purpose
4-1-3: Methods of Reducing Flood Losses
4-1-4: Definitions
4-1-5: General Provisions
4-1-6: Administration
4-1-6-1: Establishment of Development Permit
4-1-6-2: Designation of the City
4-1-6-3: Duties and Responsibilities of City
4-1-6-4: Variance Procedure
4-1-7: Provisions for Flood Hazard Protection
4-1-7-1: General Standards
4-1-7-2: Specific Standards
4-1-1: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the City are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in areas of special flood hazards which increase flood heights and velocities,
and when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas. Uses that are
inadequately floodproofed, elevated or otherwise protected from flood damage
also contribute to the flood loss. (Ord. 174, 11-4-80)
4-1-2: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this Chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditures of public money and costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
   (G)   To insure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an
area of special flood hazard; and,
   (H)   To insure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions. (Ord. 174, 11-4-80)
4-1-3: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this Chapter includes methods and
provisions for:
   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety
and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Requiring the uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities, which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Controlling the alteration of natural flood plains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood
waters;
   (D)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, and other development which
may increase flood damage; and,
   (E)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas. (Ord. 174, 11-4-80)
4-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this Chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this Chapter its most reasonable application.
APPEAL: A request for a review of the City's interpretation of any provision of
this Chapter or a request for a variance.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO or AH Zone on the Flood Insurance
Rate Map (FIRM). The base flood depths range from one foot (1') to three feet
(3'); a clearly defined channel does not exist; the path of the flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate; and, velocity flow may be evident.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the flood plain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equalled or
exceeded in any given year.
DEVELOPMENT: Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazard.
EXISTING MOBILE HOME PARK or MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous
parcels) of land divided into two (2) or more mobile home lots for rent or sale
for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lot on which the
mobile home is to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of
utilities, either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads, and the
construction of streets) is completed before the effective date hereof.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MOBILE HOME PARK or MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the mobile homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, either final site grading or pouring of concrete
pads, or the construction of streets).
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP: The official map on which the Federal Insurance
Administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards and the
risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the Federal Insurance
Administration that includes flood profiles, the Flood Boundary-Floodway Map,
and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
FLOOD or FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   (A)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
   (B)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff surface waters from any
source.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot (1').
HABITABLE FLOOR: Any floor usable for living purposes, which includes working,
sleeping, eating, cooking or recreation, or a combination thereof. A floor used
only for storage purposes is not a "habitable floor".
MOBILE HOME: A structure that is transportable in one or more sections, built
on a permanent chassis, and designed to be used with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities. It does not include
recreational vehicles or travel trailers.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on
or after the effective date hereof.
NEW MOBILE HOME PARK or MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous
parcels) of land divided into two (2) or more mobile home lots for rent or sale
for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lot (including, at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads, and the construction of streets) is completed on or
after the effective date hereof.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: The first placement of permanent construction of a
structure (other than a mobile home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings or any work beyond the stage of excavation. Permanent construction
does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling, nor
does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it
include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the
erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not as part of the main structure. For a structure (other
than a mobile home) without a basement or poured footings, the "start of
construction" includes the first permanent framing or assembly of the structure
or any part thereof on its piling or foundation. For mobile homes not within a
mobile home park or mobile home subdivision, "start of construction" means the
affixing of the mobile home to its permanent site. For mobile home parks or
mobile home subdivisions, "start of construction" is the date on which the
construction of facilities for servicing the site on which the mobile home is
to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the construction of streets, either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads, and installation of
utilities) is completed.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building or mobile home that is principally
above ground.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of a structure either:
   (A)   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
   (B)   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred. For the purposes of this definition, "substantial improvement"
is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not the alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure.
The term does not, however, include either:
   (A)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
State or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
   (B)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief from the requirements of this Chapter which permits
construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this Chapter.
(Ord. 174, 11-4-80)
4-1-5: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Lands to Which This Chapter Applies: This Chapter shall apply to all
areas of special flood hazards within the jurisdiction of the City.
   (B)   Basis for Establishing the Areas of Special Flood Hazard: The areas of
special flood hazard identified by the Federal Insurance Administration in its
Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM), No. H 01, dated April 18, 1975, and any
revision thereto are adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this
Chapter.
   (C)   Compliance: No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed,
located, extended, converted or altered without full compliance with the terms
of this Chapter and other applicable regulations.
   (D)   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions: This Chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions. However, where this Chapter and another ordinance, easement,
covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (E)   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this Chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and,
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
State statutes.
   (F)   Warning and Disclaimer of Liability: The degree of flood protection
required by this Chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may be increased by man-made or
natural causes. This Chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of
special flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages. This Chapter shall not create liability on the part
of the City, any officer or employee thereof, or the Federal Insurance
Administration, for any flood damages that result from reliance on this Chapter
or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder. (Ord. 174, 11-4-80)
4-1-6: ADMINISTRATION:
4-1-6-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A development permit shall be obtained before construction or development
begins within any area of special flood hazard established in Section
4-1-5(B). The permit shall be for all structures including mobile homes, as set
forth in the "Definitions", and for all other development including fill and
other activities, also as set forth in the "Definitions". Application for a
development permit shall be made on forms furnished by the City and may
include, but not be limited to: plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the
nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the area in question; existing
or proposed structures, fill, storage or materials, drainage facilities; and
the location of the foregoing. Specifically, the following information is
required:
   (A)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all structures;
   (B)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any structure has
been floodproofed;
   (C)   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect that
the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet the
floodproofing criteria in Section
4-1-7-2(B) hereof; and
   (D)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered or
relocated as a result of proposed development. (Ord. 174, 11-4-80)
4-1-6-2: DESIGNATION OF THE CITY:
The City of Grace is hereby appointed to administer and implement this Chapter
by granting or denying development permit applications in accordance with its
provisions. (Ord. 174, 11-4-80)
4-1-6-3: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF CITY:
Duties of the City shall include but not be limited to:
   (A)   Permit Review: Review all development permits to determine if proposed
development adversely affects the flood carrying capacity of the area of
special flood hazard. For the purposes of this Chapter, "adversely affects"
means damage to adjacent properties because of rises in flood stages attributed
to physical changes of the channel and the adjacent overbank areas.
      1.   If it is determined that there is no adverse effect, then the permit
shall be granted consistent with provisions of this Chapter without further
consideration of these effects.
      2.   If it is determined that there is an adverse effect, then flood
damage mitigation measures shall be made a condition of the permit.
   (B)   Use of Other Base Flood Data: When base flood elevation data has not
been provided in accordance with Section
4-1-5(B) hereof, the City shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base
flood elevation data available from a Federal, State or other source, in order
to administer Sections
4-1-7-1(B)1 and (B)2.
   (C)   Information to be Obtained and Maintained:
      1.   Obtain and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) of the lowest habitable floor (including basement) of all new or
substantially improved structures, and whether or not the structure contains a
basement.
      2.   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed structures:
         a.   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level; and
         b.   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in Section
4-1-6-3(A) hereof.
      3.   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this Chapter.
   (D)   Alteration of Watercourses:
      1.   Notify adjacent communities and the State coordinating agency prior
to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the Federal Insurance Administration.
      2.   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood- carrying capacity is not
diminished.
   (E)   Interpretation of FHBM Boundaries: Make interpretations where needed,
as to exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards
(for example, where there appears to be conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions). (Ord. 174, 11-4-80)
4-1-6-4: VARIANCE PROCEDURE:
   (A)   Appeal Board:
      1.   The City shall hear and decide appeals and requests for variances
from the requirements of this Chapter.
      2.   The City shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged there is
an error in any requirement, decision or determination made in the enforcement
or administration of this Chapter.
      3.   Those aggrieved by the decision of the City, or any taxpayer, may
appeal such decision to the appropriate court, as provided by law.
      4.   In passing upon such applications, the City shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified in other
sections of this Chapter and:
         a.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other land to the
injury of others;
         b.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         c.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         d.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         e.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         f.   The availability of alternative locations, for the proposed use,
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
         g.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         h.   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan
and flood plain management program for that area;
         i.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         j.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and,
         k.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
      5.   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less
in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures
constructed below the base flood level, providing items A4a through A4i of this
subsection have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the
one-half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required for issuing the
variance increases.
      6.   Upon consideration of the factors of Section 4-1-6-4A4 and the
purposes of this Chapter, the City may attach such conditions to the granting
of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this Chapter.
      7.   The City shall maintain the records of all appeal actions and report
any variances to the Federal Insurance Administration upon request.
   (B)   Conditions for Variances:
      1.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this Section.
      2.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      3.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      4.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and,
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
as identified in Section 4-1-6-4A4 hereof, or conflict with existing local laws
or ordinances.
      5.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation. (Ord. 174, 11-4-80)
4-1-7: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD PROTECTION:
4-1-7-1: GENERAL STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazards the following standards are required:
   (A)   Anchoring:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
      2.   All mobile homes shall be anchored to resist flotation, collapse or
lateral movement by providing over-the-top and frame ties to ground anchors.
Specific requirements shall be that:
         a.   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four (4) corners of
the mobile home, with two (2) additional ties per side at intermediate
locations, with mobile homes less than fifty feet (50') long requiring one
additional tie per side;
         b.   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five (5)
additional ties per side at intermediate points, with mobile homes less than
fifty feet (50') long requiring four (4) additional ties per side;
         c.   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a
force of four thousand eight hundred (4,800) pounds; and
         d.   Any additions to the mobile home be similarly anchored.
      3.   An alternative method of anchoring may involve a system designed to
withstand a wind force of ninety (90) miles per hour or greater. Certification
must be provided to the city showing that this standard has been met.
   (B)   Construction Materials And Methods:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      2.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (C)   Utilities:
      1.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
      2.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into floodwaters; and
      3.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (D)   Subdivision Proposals:
      1.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
      2.   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
      3.   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage.
      4.   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision
proposals and other proposed development which contain at least fifty (50) lots
or five (5) acres (whichever is less). (Ord. 174, 11-4-1980)
   (E)   Review Of Zoning Permits: Where elevation data is not available,
applications for zoning permits shall be reviewed to assure that proposed
construction will be reasonably safe from flooding. The test of reasonableness
is a local judgment and includes use of historical data, high water marks,
photographs of past flooding, etc., where available. (Ord. 174, 11-4-1980; amd.
Ord. 2012-294, 2-1-2012)
4-1-7-2: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has been
provided as set forth in subsection
4-1-5(B) or
4-1-6-3(C)2 of this chapter, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above base flood elevation.
   (B)   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the level
of the base flood elevation; or together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall:
      1.   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
      2.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
      3.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect that
the standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such certifications shall be
provided to the official as set forth in subsection
4-1-6-3(C)2 of this chapter.
   (C)   Mobile Homes; Encroachments: Any proposed development shall be
analyzed to determine effects on the flood-carrying capacity of the areas of
special flood hazard, as set forth in Section
4-1-6-3(A) of this Chapter. (Ord. 174, 11-4-80)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Manufactured And Mobile Homes Setup Inspection Fee
4-2-1: MANUFACTURED AND MOBILE HOMES SETUP INSPECTION FEE:
   (A)   Persons or entities wishing to locate a manufactured home or mobile
home within the city limits of Grace, Idaho, shall make application therefor,
and pay an inspection setup fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) to the city
prior to locating the same.
   (B)   Applicant shall confer with the inspector prior to commencing location
of the home within the city to determine the inspection schedule required by
the inspector and the procedure for inspections.
   (C)   The fee for manufactured home and mobile home setup inspections may be
amended from time to time by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 278, 6-18-
2008)
CHAPTER 3
SUBDIVISION CODE
SECTION:
4-3-1: Subdivision Ordinance Title
4-3-2: Statement Of Purpose And Authority
4-3-3: Administration
4-3-4: Definitions
4-3-5: General Provisions
4-3-6: Procedures
4-3-7: Plat Maps
4-3-8: Subdivision Design And Location
4-3-9: Mitigation, Fees, Review
4-3-10: Changes, Alterations Or Deletions
4-3-11: Bonds, Compliance Agreements, And Penalties
4-3-12: Open Space Subdivisions
4-3-1: SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE TITLE:
These regulations shall officially be known and cited as the "Subdivision
Ordinance of the City of Grace, Idaho." (Ord. 2020-5, 9-16-2020; amd. Ord.
2022-3, 7-6-2022)
4-3-2: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY:
   (A)   These provisions are adopted to provide for the orderly division and
development of land within the city. Their primary function shall be to provide
a process to review development proposals to assure that public and shared
private facilities are designed and constructed to serve the households and
businesses that will depend upon them and that such development properly
integrates with the existing community in ways that minimize public costs while
protecting the quality of the natural and developed environment. This
subdivision ordinance is a tool that serves the purpose of implementing
comprehensive plan policies in conjunction with related land use and
development ordinances. It is intended to assure provision of adequate and
efficient streets, water supply, sewerage, drainage, parks, pedestrian
pathways, and public facilities by applying proper standards and allowing
public participation during review. The title seeks to have the community bear
no more than its fair share of any cost of providing services by requiring the
applicant to install improvements, pay fees, furnish land, or undertake
proportionate mitigation measures to provide a fair share of capital facilities
needs generated by the development. The subdivision ordinance also seeks to
encourage the wise use and management of natural resources to preserve the
stability and desirability of the community and the value of the land. The
subdivision process strives to assure provision of open space through the
efficient design and layout of land and shared facilities, maintaining the
intensity of development as directed by the city's comprehensive plan in
conjunction with the zoning ordinance.
   (B)   This title is adopted pursuant to the authority delegated to the City
of Grace pursuant to Article 12, Section 2 of the Idaho Constitution; Chapter
65, Title 67, Idaho Code (Local Land Use Planning Act) and Chapter 13, Title
50, Idaho Code (Plats and Vacations). (Ord. 2020-5, 9-16-2020; amd. Ord. 2022-
3, 7-6-2022)
4-3-3: ADMINISTRATION:
   (A)   The provisions of this title shall be administered in pursuit of
orderly growth and development and shall supplement and implement provisions of
the comprehensive plan and capital improvements plan. By virtue of this title,
the city council, planning and zoning commission and administrative staff of
the City of Grace are vested with the authority to review, approve, approve
with conditions, or disapprove applications for subdivision of land in
accordance with the process and standards established hereby. No land
development activity that constitutes subdivision or installation of
subdivision improvements pursuant to the requirements of this title nor the
filing of a subdivision plat in the office of the county recorder shall be
undertaken without first obtaining the permits or approvals required by this
title and other applicable laws.
   (B)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title
shall be held to be minimum requirements. Sound engineering practices may
require alternative designs to assure the integrity of public or shared private
improvements. More stringent engineering requirements may be imposed if
necessary, to protect the public health, safety, and welfare. Where any
provision of these requirements imposes restrictions different from those
imposed by any other ordinance, rule, regulation, or other provision of law,
the provision which is more restrictive or imposes the standards most likely to
protect the public health, safety and general welfare shall control. (Ord.
2020-5, 9-16-2020; amd. Ord. 2022-3, 7-6-2022)
4-3-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this title, the following terms, phrases, and words will
have the meanings given in this title or as defined in Idaho statute. When not
inconsistent with the context, words in the plural number include the singular
number, and words in the singular number include the plural number. The word
"shall" be mandatory, not merely directory, unless the express language of the
ordinance provides otherwise. Except as expressly defined herein, words used in
this title shall be given their ordinary meaning consistent with common usage
and context.
             A right-of-way designed to serve as secondary access to the side or rear of
ALLEY:       those properties whose principal frontage is on some other street. Alleys may
             be found on the plats of land within the city as well as on the city's maps.
BLOCK:       A group of contiguous lots within fixed boundaries established by a subdivision
             plat.
CITY:        The City of Grace.
COUNTY:      Caribou County.
             The final drawing of the subdivision and dedication prepared for filing for
FINAL PLAT:  record with the county recorder and containing all elements, requirements and
             approvals set forth in Idaho Code and this title.
LOT:         A designated parcel of land established by a subdivision plat pursuant to
             Chapter 13, Title 50, Idaho Code.
             The division of a platted lot or a parcel of land into four or fewer contiguous
MINOR        lots that comply with minimum standards of the zoning ordinance in all
SUBDIVISION: respects, that have access onto an existing public right-of-way or an approved
             shared driveway that serves no more than the four proposed lots and complies
             with applicable fire codes.
OFF-SITE:    Not located on the property that is the subject of a development application
             nor on a contiguous portion of a street or right-of-way.
ON-SITE:     Located on the land in question or located on land that is immediately
             contiguous to the land in question.
             Land, essentially free of structures, set aside, dedicated, designated, or
OPEN SPACE:  reserved for the public or for the shared use and enjoyment of owners and
             occupants of land adjoining or neighboring such open space.
PARCEL:      Contiguous land in the ownership of one person or entity and constituting a
             separate tract of land.
             A reproducible or permanent drawing of a subdivision and dedications and
PLAT:        easements, prepared for filing and recording with the county recorder in
             accordance with the provisions of Chapter 13, Title 50, Idaho Code.
             A plat amendment is a minor change in the lot arrangement or routing of rights-
             of-way or easements in a previously recorded subdivision plat. It may result in
PLAT         the consolidation of lots but does not result in the creation of any additional
AMENDMENT:   lots or parcels, or the addition of land to the subdivision. Plat amendments
             are instituted by the recording of an amended plat following the process
             provided in this title.
PRIVATE      A road or shared drive which is not a dedicated and accepted public right-of-
STREET:      way for public use, and is not maintained by the City of Grace, Caribou County,
             or Idaho Transportation Department.
             Any change in an existing subdivision that adds land to the subdivision or
RE-PLAT:     creates a new road or parcel within an existing subdivision. The procedures for
             a re-plat are the same as for and original subdivision.
             A public right-of-way which provides vehicular and pedestrian access to
STREET:      adjacent properties, that dedication of which has been officially accepted by
             the local highway jurisdiction. The term "street" also includes the terms
             highway, parkway, road, avenue, land, place and other such terms.
             The division of any parcel of land in single ownership into two or more lots,
SUBDIVISION: parcels, tracts or sites for the purpose of sale, lease, transfer or
             development, excepting therefrom a bona fide division of land for agricultural
             purposes.
SUBDIVISION  Both written narrative and the maps, plans or plats that together fully
PLAN:        describe a proposed subdivision as required by this title.
             The process provided by state law (see I.C. § 50-1306A) and this title for the
VACATION:    elimination of a recorded subdivision plat. (Ord. 2020-5, 9-16-2020; amd. Ord.
             2022-3, 7-6-2022)
 
4-3-5: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of each applicant for subdivision
approval to submit a subdivision plan that demonstrates compliance with the
requirements of this title, state platting law and such other site-specific
conditions as might be applied in the course of plan review. The city council
may approve the proposal as submitted, condition approval on revised
submittals, or deny approval based upon the inadequacy of submitted materials
or design. In particular, the applicant shall be obligated to demonstrate the
following in order to obtain subdivision plan approval:
      1.   A proposed street and road system, consistent with elements of the
Comprehensive Plan and Transportation Plan of the City of Grace, and/or Caribou
County in order to continue circulation called for in such plans and to provide
connectivity with adjoining lands, whether presently developed or not.
      2.   The subdivision proposed will be served by a public water system
that has sufficient capacity to meet the needs of the developed subdivision and
to maintain continuity of any such water system. If water is to be provided by
individual wells, applicant must demonstrate that readily available water
resources exist to meet the future needs of those who seek to build within the
development created. Sufficient water delivery must be provided to provide for
fire suppression in accordance with applicable provisions of the fire code.
      3.   The proposed subdivision will be served by a wastewater collection
and treatment system that complies with environmental standards established by
law. Any use of a public wastewater system shall carry with it an obligation to
continue the system to the extent of the applicant's ownership in order to
sustain continuity of the wastewater system for other landowners. A proposed
subdivision in the impact area that is not served by city water and sewer that
intends to employ on-site wastewater disposal must demonstrate by scientific
evidence that each lot will qualify for on-site disposal approval as required
by state law. Onsite wastewater disposal will only be considered outside of the
city boundary where connection to a public wastewater system is not feasible
and is subject to the discretion of the city public works superintendent.
      4.   Open space requirements established by ordinance must be satisfied.
      5.   Surface water/storm water handling requirements must be met in order
to protect neighboring lands and bodies of water while minimizing the public
costs of storm water management.
      6.   Sidewalks, pathways, and other facilities for pedestrian circulation
within a project and connecting to neighboring lands must be provided.
      7.   Bicycle routes or paths that allow cyclists to travel safely within
the proposed subdivision and upon neighboring rights-of-way must be provided.
      8.   Design and installation of street lighting to illuminate each street
or roadway intersection and other locations in accordance with lighting
standards adopted by city council resolution or ordinance.
      9.   Design and installation of street signs identifying the names of
streets and roads in accordance with standards adopted by city council
resolutions.
      10.   All streets shall be completely installed and have curb and gutter
installed prior to any lots being sold. Streets shall align and conform with
the existing layout of City streets.
      11.   Developers are required to have any and all lots surveyed and
marked with survey pins.
      12.   Design and installation of traffic control devices in accordance
with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD).
      13.   Demonstrated compliance with all site-specific requirements
established as a condition of city council review.
      14.   Demonstrated compliance with zoning ordinance provisions respecting
lot area, topographic and dimensional requirements for lots created by the
subdivision.
      15.   The applicant must enter into a development agreement, a
construction improvement agreement, and/or a warranty agreement as applicable,
or as required by the administrator, to assure compliance with all requirements
of this title that development improvements are designed and installed as
required by law.
      16.   Applicant shall be responsible for any and all costs relative to
above requirements.
   (B)   No subdivision plat shall be recorded, nor shall any divided lots be
sold, unless the subdivision approval required by this chapter has been
obtained and the plans have been approved by the administrator. The planned
improvements must be installed, or sufficient surety must be provided to
guarantee completion of improvements before occupancy of any dwelling or
business on any lot in a proposed subdivision.
   (C)   Failure to comply with any provisions of the development approval
process shall constitute a violation of this chapter subject to the penalties
and consequences established herein. The City reserves the right to make claims
against the bond procured by developer/Applicant in order to redress violations
of this chapter. Nothing in this provision shall be construed as mandatory
action to be taken by the City.
   (D)   Every division of land into two or more lots, tracts, parcels, sites
or divisions, regardless of lot size, whether immediate or future, for the
purpose of sale, lease, transfer or development within the city shall not
proceed except in compliance with this title.
   (E)   The provisions of this title shall not apply to the following:
      1.   The transfer of land between two adjacent property owners, which
does not result in the creation of any additional building site, does not
negatively impact rights-of-way or easements, and does not result in
nonconforming lots or increase the degree of nonconformity of existing lots.
      2.   Any division of land made by testamentary provision or the laws of
descent so long as the results is not more than two (2) developed lots. Parcels
of land so created must comply with lot size, frontage, and other standards
established by ordinances of the city and other applicable laws to be eligible
for a building permit or to qualify for establishment of an authorized land
use. Improvements meeting the standards pursuant to this title shall be
installed as a condition of obtaining building permits or initiating
construction on parcels created by any such court decree.
      3.   Any acquisition or division of land by a public agency.
   (F)   Any person who proposes a subdivision shall submit to the city a
completed application for a subdivision plan approval on a form provided by the
city. Along with the application the applicant shall submit three (3) copies of
the subdivision plan. Details and specifications for the plan submittal shall
conform to the standards described in this title and Idaho law.
   (G)   Each application shall be accompanied by a fee in accordance with the
fee schedule established by resolution of the city council. Such fees shall be
in an amount to compensate for expenses incurred by the city in conducting a
thorough review of each subdivision proposal from beginning to completion of
construction and acceptance of improvements. Fees may be charged in increments
to coincide with review progress. (Ord. 2020-5, 9-16-2020; amd. Ord. 2022-3, 7-
6-2022)
4-3-6: PROCEDURES:
The applicant shall be responsible for submitting plans that comply with the
standards established herein and follow the procedures established hereby. The
following materials shall be submitted to begin the subdivision review process:
   (A)   Subdivision Plan Standards. Every subdivision plan shall consist of
one or more maps, the horizontal scale of which shall not be less than fifty
feet to one inch or more than one hundred feet to one inch. These maps,
together with written data, shall fully and clearly disclose the following
information:
      1.   The proposed name of the subdivision.
      2.   A legal description of the land contained within the subdivision
prepared by a licensed land surveyor.
      3.   The names, mailing addresses and electronic contact information for
all persons, firms and corporations holding interests in said land and proof of
ownership (preliminary opinion of title) and consent from any lienholder of
record granting authorization to subdivide the property.
      4.   The name, a mailing address and telephone number of the engineer,
surveyor or other persons that prepared the subdivision plan, each within his/
her proper realm of professional responsibility.
      5.   The location of the boundary lines of the proposed subdivision in
relation to section, quarter section, and quarter-quarter section lines and any
political boundaries of the city which are part of the legal description of the
property.
      6.   The boundaries and dimensions of all blocks and lots within the
proposed subdivision together with the numbers proposed to be assigned to each
lot and block.
      7.   A data table showing the number of lots, the approximate lot area
for each lot within the proposal site, and the total acreage of the entire
proposal area.
      8.   A statement of proposed methods for provision of irrigation/domestic
water supplies and for wastewater disposal, including a brief narrative
describing the methods of providing such services and explaining its
suitability.
      9.   A sketch map of the general vicinity in which the land proposed for
subdivision lies depicting streets and roads in the vicinity of the proposal,
streams, or bodies of water within five hundred feet of the exterior
boundaries.
      10.   Any existing or proposed easements and right-of-way dedications.
      11.   All proposed streets and pedestrian ways, showing width, curbs,
swales, sidewalks, and proposed street names.
      12.   All adjacent streets including drainage facilities, curb locations
and existing pedestrian ways.
      13.   Show location of existing buildings and setbacks from proposed lot
lines and proposed streets.
      14.   Show the location, dimensions, and area of all parcels of land to
be set aside for parks, open space, or other public use or for the use of
property owners in the proposed subdivision.
      15.   Depict development phases, or stages, if the project will be done
in parts; and
      16.   Preliminary system plans for each proposed subdivision that should
include:
      17.   A proposed utility infrastructure plan, including sewer layout
plan, water line locations, and approximate centerline grades;
         (a)   General grading plan showing ultimate surface water flow
patterns and generally depicting areas where surface elevations would be
altered by two feet or more.
         (b)   Pedestrian circulation plans; and
         (c)   Traffic studies, if required by the public works superintendent.
   (B)   Hearing Before Planning and Zoning Commission. Once the application
has been reviewed by the city staff and the staff has determined that the
application is complete and that sufficient information regarding the proposal
can be provided for the planning and zoning commission, the matter will be
placed on the planning and zoning commission agenda for public hearing when the
commission agenda can allow the matter to be heard properly. Every effort
should be made to schedule such initial public hearing within no more than one
hundred twenty days from the date when the application is determined to be
complete.
   (C)   Comment from Public Agencies Providing Services. Upon the acceptance
of a proposed subdivision plan for processing, the city shall provide one copy
of the completed application, a vicinity map on eight and one-half by eleven
inch paper to be provided by the applicant to each of the following agencies
and provide the agency an opportunity to comment:
      1.   Health district.
      2.   Fire district that would be providing fire protection to the
subdivision.
      3.   Water purveyor for the proposed subdivision.
      4.   School district in which the subdivision is located.
      5.   U.S. Postal Service.
      6.   Law enforcement agency for the jurisdiction.
      7.   Highway agency providing service; and
      8.   Other public agencies or public service providers.
   (D)   Notice of Public Hearing. At least fifteen days prior to the date of a
public hearing, notice of the time and place and a summary of the proposal,
including any proposed exceptions, shall be published in the official newspaper
of the City of Grace. Additional notice shall be provided by mail to property
owners of record within three hundred feet of the external boundaries of the
land being planned for subdivision and any additional land that may be
substantially impacted by the proposed subdivision as determined by the
planning and zoning commission, city council or city staff. When notice is
required to two hundred or more property owners or purchasers of record,
extraordinary notice may be given as provided by state law. Notice will also be
posted by the city on the property in accordance with posting standards
concerning land use matters. The applicant shall be responsible for all costs
of publication and mailing of notices and posting on the property.
   (E)   Planning and Zoning Commission (or City Council) Public Hearing. At,
or prior to, the public hearing, the city staff will provide a report for the
planning and zoning commission providing information about materials received
into the record from interested parties and public agencies. The public hearing
shall follow the procedural resolution adopted by the city council, subject to
such variation as might be appropriate in light of circumstances.
   (F)   Planning and Zoning Commission Recommendation. After the planning and
zoning commission has reviewed the subdivision plan at the public hearing, the
commission shall forward a recommendation to the city council. The commission
shall recommend approval, approval with conditions, or disapproval of the
subdivision as soon as it has had time to thoughtfully contemplate the
materials presented to it for decision. The city staff shall notify the
applicant, in writing, of the recommendation of the commission and any
recommended conditions or changes requested and shall advise the applicant that
the subdivision will be scheduled for consideration by the city council only
after a written request has been filed by the applicant.
   (G)   City Council Decision. Upon receipt of a written request that the
subdivision be placed on the city council agenda, the administrator shall
present the subdivision request before the city council for scheduling. The
city council, upon receipt of the recommendation from the planning and zoning
commission, and after opportunity to review the file and minutes from the
public hearing, may act upon the request based upon the compiled record or may
schedule a subsequent public hearing if it deems such hearing to be necessary.
Procedures for any such hearing shall comply with the city's hearing procedures
resolution. The city council may approve, approve with conditions, or
disapprove the subdivision. City staff will notify the applicant in writing of
the decision of the city council.
   (H)   Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ). (Ord. 2020-5, 9-16-2020;
amd. Ord. 2022-3, 7-6-2022)
4-3-7: PLAT MAPS:
   (A)   Plat amendments shall be governed as follows:
      1.   Plat amendments should be submitted in substantially the same form
as a final plat.
      2.   The amendment plat shall be clearly identified as such.
      3.   The amendment plat shall show the dimensions and acreage of all
parcels that have been modified. New parcels may not be created by amendment.
      4.   The amendment plat shall include a key. That key shall show all
changes made as an overlay over the final plat originally recorded.
      5.   The certificate of consent must be signed by all owners of record
affected by the amendment.
      6.   Plat amendments are reviewed by the administrator rather than the
commission before being presented to the city council. The certificates of
approval should be for the administrator and the council.
   (B)   Vacation of a plat shall be subject to the following:
      1.   Vacation of any plat, or any portion of a plat, may be proposed,
following the procedure provided here and in I.C. § 50-1306A.
      2.   A petition for vacation and the required fee shall be filed with the
administrator, who shall place consideration of that petition on the agenda of
the next regular commission meeting at which time will permit its proper
review.
      3.   The commission shall review the proposed vacation and recommend that
the vacation either be accepted or denied by the council.
      4.   The administrator shall notify the council and the petitioner of the
commission's recommendation within ten business days, and unless the petitioner
withdraws the petition, place a hearing on the proposed plat vacation on the
agenda of the next regular council meeting for which the notice requirements
can be met, and at which time will permit its proper review.
      5.   Notice of the hearing shall be provided as outlined in Section
herein, and I.C. § 50-1306A.
      6.   The council shall conduct a hearing on the proposed plat vacation.
No petition shall be reviewed if the petitioner or a representative is not
present.
      7.   The council shall accept or reject the petition for vacation, with
acceptance based on findings that:
         (a)   The vacation will not eliminate safe road access to any lot or
parcel that is in separate ownership and was formerly included in or is
adjacent to the plat.
         (b)   The vacation will not eliminate easements or rights-of-way used
for utilities serving any lot or parcel that is in separate ownership and was
formerly included in, or is adjacent to the plat; and
         (c)   All owners of record of property or property interests within
the plat proposed to be vacated have consented, in writing, to the vacation.
         (d)   If the petitioner or a representative has petitioned a partial
vacation of a subdivision, the petitioner will prepare a new plat drawing on
archival Mylar of the amended subdivision, clearly noting those portions or
parts of the subdivision vacated. This revised plat drawing must be recorded
immediately in the office of the Caribou County Clerk after being signed by the
city council.
         (e)   The administrator shall notify the petitioner and interested
parties of the council's decision within ten business days.
   (C)   No subdivision shall be approved that creates lots that do not comply
with the underlying zoning or land use requirements established by city
ordinances, and Comprehensive Plan, with the exception of lots platted as
common areas or public space, or lots that are otherwise not to be established
for private use and development.
   (D)   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant of every subdivision
to install at own expense and have prepared by a registered engineer, a
complete set of construction plans, including profiles, cross-sections,
specifications and supporting data, for all required streets, street lights,
utilities and other facilities. Such construction plans shall be based on the
approved subdivision and shall be prepared in conjunction with the final plat.
All construction plans shall be prepared in accordance with the public
agencies' standards or specifications, and shall be installed in conformance
with the following conditions and specifications:
      1.   Survey monuments shall be set in accordance with Idaho Code and all
street monuments shall be installed in monument boxes approved by the city.
      2.   Water line construction shall be governed by the standards of the
water purveyor and shall include a separate water meter to each lot. Public
water supply shall be provided in conformance with the standards adopted by the
city council and the Idaho Department of Health and Welfare.
      3.   Sewer line construction shall be governed by the standards
established by the city and approved by the city council. Any sewerage system
shall be provided in conformance with the Idaho State Public Works Standards,
plans adopted by the city, state law and sewer policies and procedures approved
by the city council.
      4.   Adequate provision for fire protection shall be made in accordance
with the International Fire Code.
      5.   Pedestrian ways, pathways, streetlights, streets, curbs, and storm
water drainage systems shall be constructed in accordance with the design
standards and policies adopted by the city council. Electric, natural gas, and
communication utility lines shall be installed underground.
      6.   Subdivisions may be phased, to be developed in portions periodically
according to a proposed schedule, so long as each phase contains all of the
necessary improvements to function as a subdivision without the completion of
any of the other phases. The applicant shall indicate plans for phasing at the
time of application. The plans shall show proposed phasing boundaries, proposed
interim or temporary solutions to sanitary sewer systems and to the handling of
traffic on local streets within the subdivision and shall be accompanied by a
narrative description of assurance of completion of permanent system
improvements. A phasing plan shall coordinate required infrastructure systems,
dedications, off-site improvements, open space/parks, landscaping, private
utilities, or other elements of a subdivision. The plan may indicate times of
triggering mechanisms for improvements.
   (E)   Every final plat required by this title shall be prepared in
accordance with Chapter 13, Title 50, Idaho Code as it now exists or is
subsequently amended.
   (F)   The original and three (3) copies of the final plat shall be submitted
to the city, for review by the city's reviewing engineer and/or county surveyor
to determine that the plat meets all of the requirements of Idaho Code, this
title and the subdivision plan approval, including any conditions imposed by
the city council, and that all required on-site and off-site public
improvements have been completed and are ready for acceptance by the city or
have been suitably guaranteed. Prior to submittal to the city, the final plat
shall be submitted to the county for approval of the subdivision name and
street names.
   (G)   Failure to file the final plat application within one year after
action by the city council shall cause all approvals of said subdivision plan
to be null and void, unless an extension of one year has been applied for by
the applicant and approved by the city council. An applicant may apply for and
receive additional extensions for good cause if actual work has been commenced
and is continuing on the installation of the improvements.
   (H)   When staff review of the final plat is completed and all required
terms and conditions are satisfied, staff may forward the plat to the city
council for approval. The administrator shall thereafter place the request for
plat approval on the next available city council agenda. The city council shall
review the subdivision and plat and, upon finding that all of the requirements
have been satisfied, shall authorize the mayor or chairman and the city clerk
to sign the plat. The city's reviewing engineer's signature shall be the final
approval assigned to the plat.
   (I)   After the plat receives the signatures required in this Section, the
administrator may authorize recordation of the final plat with the county
recorder and ensure that the city obtains a reproducible copy of the recorded
plat.
   (J)   No building permits will be issued for lots depicted on the final plat
until the final plat has been recorded, the reproducible copy of the recorded
plat has been received and the interior monuments have been set in accordance
with Idaho Code. (Ord. 2020-5, 9-16-2020; amd. Ord. 2022-3, 7-6-2022)
4-3-8: SUBDIVISION DESIGN AND LOCATION:
   (A)   The purpose of subdivision design and application of improvement
standards is to create a functional and attractive development that is
consistent with the community's vision, goals, and policies found within the
comprehensive plan and design goals set forth in this chapter or other land use
ordinances. Design standards are intended to provide direction and ensure that
subdivision improvements will be compatible with the city's public utility and
transportation systems. An express grant of discretion to vary from these
standards is empowered to the city council or city public works superintendent
on the basis of sound engineering judgment. To promote this purpose,
subdivisions shall conform to the following general guidance standards.
   (B)   General requirements are those that apply to all subdivisions proposed
within the city's jurisdiction. In addition to the requirements established in
these regulations, all subdivisions shall comply with the following:
      1.   All applicable statutory provisions including Chapter 13, Title 50,
Idaho Code.
      2.   This title and adopted construction standards.
      3.   Any rules administered or applied by the Idaho Department of
Environmental Quality, Eastern Idaho Public Health District 7, and/or
appropriate state agencies.
      4.   The rules and regulations of the local highway jurisdiction and the
Idaho Transportation Department, if the subdivision or any lot contained
therein abuts a state highway; and
      5.   The construction and design standards and regulations adopted by the
city council.
   (C)   All surveys for subdivisions within the limits of the city's
jurisdiction shall be based upon the appropriate horizontal control network for
the City of Grace. The survey shall contain or be accompanied by the
information supplied by survey control agency in Caribou County.
   (D)   Per I.C. § 50-1307, the proposed name of a subdivision shall not
duplicate, or closely approximate the name of any other subdivision in the
county. Subdivision naming shall be reviewed and approved by the administrator.
   (E)   Street addresses shall be assigned in accordance with the addressing
system in effect within the jurisdiction. Addresses will be assigned prior to
issuance of any building permit on any lot.
   (F)   Names for new streets may be proposed by the applicant and must be
approved as part of subdivision approval. Street names shall not duplicate
existing street names unless the proposed street is a continuation of or is in
alignment with an existing street. Street names shall be reviewed and approved
by the city prior to being entered into the emergency service 911 system.
Street names shall be easily pronounced, not to be confused with similar words.
   (G)   Streets shall be designed to comply with city standards as approved by
the city council and on file with the city's public works superintendent, and
the current editions of the Idaho "Standards For Public Works Construction"
(prepared by the Idaho Public Works Association), and American Association of
State Highway Transportation Officials (AASHTO) "Geometric Guidelines." Street
signage, striping and traffic control shall be designed to comply with the
latest version and exceptions of the "Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices" (MUTCD) as adopted per Idaho Code and city standards, as approved and
on file with the city's public works superintendent. Streets or highways under
the jurisdiction of other agencies shall be designed to the current standards
of those agencies.
   (H)   Street and rights-of-way design requirements. Rules for streets and
lots shall be as follows:
      1.   The minimum width for any street shall be fifty-two feet sixty feet
(60'), except by special use permit for purely local drives.
      2.   All streets and other public spaces and easements shall conform in
effect to the official transportation plan, both as to location and as to width
or size.
      3.   When adjoining undeveloped property, a half street may be dedicated.
      4.   The minimum width of any alley, wherever provided, shall be fifteen
feet. Where alleys are not provided, easements may be required along lot lines
of or across lots where necessary for the extension of water mains, sewers, and
similar purposes.
      5.   No block shall be longer than one thousand feet between street
lines. Requiring a sixty foot (60') right of way.
      6.   The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make provision
for the direct continuation of the principal existing streets in adjoining
subdivisions (or their proper projection where adjoining property is not
subdivided) insofar as they may be necessary for public requirements. In
general, such streets shall be a width at least as great as the existing
streets. The street and alley arrangement must also be such as to provide
opportunity for access and use by adjoining property owners. Wherever a street
is stub ended so that it will not end open into another street, No cul-de-sac
shall be allowed.
      7.   At important intersections and at all acute corners, the property
corner shall be rounded or cut off.
      8.   All curb corners shall have radii of not less than twelve feet and
at important corners not less than twenty-four feet.
      9.   Grades of streets shall be the lowest feasible and no grade shall be
in excess of five percent on through traffic streets nor in excess of ten
percent on any other street.
      10.   Whenever streets or alleys are paved or surfaced, such paving or
surfacing shall be of a type and strength suitable for the volume and character
of traffic to be expected.
      11.   All improvements shall conform to the best engineering standards.
Due consideration shall be given throughout to the appearance of the
subdivisions and the various features thereof within its own boundaries and
also in its environment in the city.
      12.   Other rights-of-way and street sections may be adopted by the city
for special circumstances to meet overall transportation needs.
   (I)   Rights-of-way or easements for pedestrian walkways shall be required
where necessary, to provide convenient pedestrian circulation throughout
subdivisions to major roadways, schools, parks, shopping areas, or other
pedestrian attractions.
   (J)   Utility, sidewalk, and drainage easements shall be provided along all
rights-of-way. The easements will vary between ten feet and twenty feet
depending upon the street design and available rights-of-way.
   (K)   Storm drainage shall be designed to accommodate onsite the design
storm event and provide for the first half-inch of runoff. The treatment
methodology shall comply with the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality's
best management practices.
   (L)   Sanitary sewer and water design shall be in conformance with the
city's water and wastewater master plans and construction standards. Utility
designs shall additionally conform to local standards as set forth by plans and
ordinances of the city, and rules enforced by the Idaho Department of
Environmental Quality, the Southeastern Idaho Public Health District 6, and
other appropriate agencies.
   (M)   Utilities shall be installed and extended to carry service beyond the
proposed development through extensions to property lines and by providing
appropriate line size, depth, and location. When utility extensions are
required to provide service to and along the perimeter of developments, main or
service laterals to adjoining properties are to be provided per the city's
direction Idaho Public Standard Works (latest edition).
   (N)   Dry utilities (electrical, cable, gas, etc.) shall be located within
the right-of-way or easements per city standard construction details. Dry
utilities shall be coordinated to minimize the use of available rights-of-way
or easements and shall be installed to accommodate future roadway expansions.
   (O)   Residential Lot Access. Every lot shall have sufficient access to
accommodate emergency vehicles. If driveway access locations are indicated
within the subdivision plans, they shall comply with driveways and curb cut
standards in this code.
   (P)   Residential Lot Frontage. All residential lots shall abut a publicly
dedicated street, or an approved private street.
   (Q)   Commercial Subdivision Design:
      1.   Limited Access to Arterial and Collector Streets. Access points
shall be shown on the subdivision plan and become part of the recommendation by
the planning and zoning commission and the decision of the city council.
      2.   Commercial/Industrial Lots. Lots within a commercial/industrial
subdivision are not required to front on a public street but must have access
provided through an easement or other dedicated arrangement. Review and
approval of commercial/industrial subdivisions should consider the types of
uses envisioned and shall focus on infrastructure provisions, circulation
design, potential traffic impacts and mitigation, access provisions, and any
other issues identified by staff through pre-application review that pertain to
the proposed subdivision.
      3.   Commercial Standards. The applicant shall show that the streets and
block patterns proposed are suitable for the uses anticipated and compatible
with other potential or existing uses in the vicinity. Residential uses
adjacent to commercial subdivisions shall be protected from potential nuisances
(noise, odor, light, etc.) through the use of buffers, landscaping, setbacks,
or open space. (Ord. 2020-5, 9-16-2020; amd. Ord. 2022-3, 7-6-2022)
4-3-9: MITIGATION, FEES, REVIEW:
   (A)   The city may, as a condition of approval of a subdivision, require
mitigation of the effects of development on the ability of the city and/or
other political subdivisions to deliver public services without compromising
quality or imposing substantial additional costs to current residents.
Developer shall be responsible for any and all costs associated with the
development, including the costs of mitigation as set forth herein. As a
complement thereto, the city may obligate the applicant to pay development
impact fees which will be used by the city to mitigate such impacts. Any such
development impact fees shall comply with Chapter 82, Title 67, Idaho Code
(Idaho Development Impact Fee Act).
   (B)   The city council may, by resolution, adopt fees to recover the costs
of professional services, administrative staff time and additional expenses
necessitated by review, processing and inspection associated with subdivision
application.
   (C)   Upon approval by the city council, subsequent review and approval of
the final construction plans by the city's reviewing engineer which
substantially conform to the subdivision and improvements plans approved by the
city council, the applicant may proceed with construction of the subdivision.
No construction of any kind shall take place on the site prior to those
approvals. (Ord. 2020-5, 9-16-2020; amd. Ord. 2022-3, 7-6-2022)
4-3-10: CHANGES, ALTERATIONS OR DELETIONS:
   (A)   Prior to approval of the plan, any alterations of the plan must be
approved by the city's reviewing engineer. After approval of the subdivision
plan and before submission of a final subdivision plat, the city's reviewing
engineer may, in writing, approve minor changes of the plan. If the amendment
is major or involves a substantial change in the conditions of approval, the
same procedures for a public hearing for subdivision plan approval must be
followed to address the requested amendment.
      1.   Minor changes have minimal impact on either the scale or scope of
the project or on the immediate neighborhood. Minor changes shall not include a
decrease in open space or an increase in lots. Minor changes may be approved by
the administrator; however, the administrator may refer any proposed changes to
the commission for review.
      2.   Major changes may impact the scope or scale of the project or
immediate neighborhood. Such changes may include increasing the number of lots,
rearranging five or more lots, relocation of parking facilities, buildings,
etc. The administrator shall schedule the revised plat for an additional public
hearing with the commission to review, approve, or deny based on compliance
with the relevant standards.
      3.   Any time an applicant proposes changes, submittal of all modified
necessary plats and supporting documents may be required. (Ord. 2020-5, 9-16-
2020; amd. Ord. 2022-3, 7-6-2022)
4-3-11: BONDS, COMPLIANCE AGREEMENTS, AND PENALTIES:
   (A)   Before recordation, the applicant shall install required improvements
and repair any existing streets and other public facilities disturbed or
damaged in the development of the subdivision, and execute and file with the
city council an agreement between himself and the city, specifying the period
within which required improvements and repairs shall be completed. The
agreement shall also contain a provision that the applicant shall be
responsible for the successful operation and all repair to the improvements for
a two-year period following their installation. The agreement shall be
accompanied by a surety bond, cash deposit, certified check, irrevocable letter
of credit, or other form of security approved by the city's legal counsel, in
the amount of one hundred fifty percent of the estimated cost of construction
for the remaining improvements to be completed. In the event that the applicant
does not timely complete the improvements, the city may proceed against the
guarantee. If the cost of completion of the improvements exceeds the amount of
the guarantee the city may recover the full cost and expenses thereof from the
applicant. Failure to comply with improvements, deadlines or provisions of this
chapter may result in a claim against the bond. For a phased subdivision, the
required bonding shall be for the phase which is being developed.
   (B)   The two-year warranty shall be accompanied by a bond or some other
security acceptable to the city in an amount equal to twenty-five percent (25%)
of cost of the total improvements.
   (C)   No building permit will be issued for the construction of any building
or structure located on a lot or plat subdivided or sold in violation of the
provisions of these regulations or state platting statutes, nor shall the city
have any obligation to issue any certificates of occupancy or to provide
utility services to any parcel created or established in violation of these
provisions. Furthermore, a claim against the bond may be made in order to
redress violations.
   (D)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed an
infraction, punishable by a civil penalty not to exceed three hundred dollars
per violation; with each day such violation continues constituting a separate
offense. The city shall have recourse to such civil remedies in law and equity
as may be necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of these
regulations, including the denial of permits to construct or establish a land
use when subdivision requirements have not been met. (Ord. 2020-5, 9-16-2020;
amd. Ord. 2022-3, 7-6-2022)
4-3-12: OPEN SPACE SUBDIVISIONS:
   (A)   Open space subdivisions shall be defined and governed as follows:
      1.   Moderate to steep slopes, particularly those adjoining water courses
and ponds, where disturbance and resulting soil erosion and sedimentation could
be detrimental to water quality.
      2.   Agricultural lands (including important farmland, lands historically
used for irrigated and non-irrigated row crops, pasture and grazing lands,
windbreak plantings or orchards).
      3.   Healthy woodlands (particularly those performing important
ecological functions, such as soil stabilization and protection of streams,
wetlands, and wildlife habitats).
      4.   Hedgerows, groups of trees, large individual trees standing alone.
      5.   Visually prominent topographic features such as knolls, hilltops and
ridges, and scenic view sheds as seen from public roads, particularly those
with historic features.
      6.   Aquifer recharge areas.
      7.   Areas with highly permeable (excessively drained) soils.
      8.   Significant wildlife habitat areas.
      9.   Sites or structures identified as having historic, archeological, or
cultural features.
      10.   Existing trails connecting the tract to other locations around the
city.
   (C)   Minimum Open Space. Although the resource lands listed as primary or
secondary conservation areas may comprise more than the required area of open
space, no applicant shall be required to designate more than twelve percent of
open space required; however, other standards of this title or other statutes
may further limit the development of the remaining land.
   (D)   Open Space-Ownership, Use, Protection and Long Term Maintenance.
Applicants shall demonstrate compliance with the open space land ownership and
maintenance standards of this title.
   (E)   Ownership. Open space may be owned and managed individually, jointly
by an association, corporation or trust, a municipality, a recognized land
trust or conservancy, or in combination of any of the above.
      1.   Condominium Association. Common facilities may be controlled through
the use of condominium agreements. Such agreements shall be in accordance with
relevant Idaho state law. All open space and common facilities shall be held as
common elements.
      2.   Homeowner Association. Common facilities may be held in common
ownership by a homeowner association, subject to all of the provisions for
homeowner association set forth in state regulations and statutes. In addition,
the following regulations shall be met:
         (a)   The applicant shall provide the city a description of the
organization of the proposed association, including its bylaws, and all
documents governing ownership, maintenance, and use restrictions for common
facilities.
         (b)   The proposed association shall be established by the owner or
applicant and shall be operating (with financial subsidization by the owner or
applicant, if necessary) before the sale of any dwelling units in the project.
   (F)   Four-Step Site Planning Procedures for Open Space Subdivisions.
Four-Step Process. Each sketch plan shall follow a four-step design process
described below. When the preliminary plat is submitted, applicants shall be
prepared to demonstrate to the commission that these four design steps were
followed by their site designers in determining the layout of their proposed
roads, house lots, and open space lands. Applicants shall be prepared to submit
four separate sketches overlay maps indicating the findings of each step of the
design process, with respect to the features identified herein, if so,
requested by the administrator.
      1.   Step One-Designing the Open Space. During the first step, all
potential conservation areas (both primary and secondary as described above)
are identified. Consider site characteristics of the parcel being subdivided as
well as the surrounding land. Open space subdivision design should be
considered from a broad perspective that balances visual impacts, impacts to
agriculture, impacts to environmentally sensitive areas and impact to adjacent
property owners to achieve the best possible relationship between development
and open space areas.
         (a)   The minimum acreage of required open space land shall be
submitted as part of the subdivision plan in accordance with this title. Open
space land shall include all primary conservation areas up to the required
minimum open space. Any remaining required open space land consists of
secondary conservation areas-those parts of the remaining buildable lands with
the highest resource significance.
         (b)   Proposed open space land shall be designated as a base map and
complying with applicable sections of this title dealing with resource
conservation and open space delineation standards. If the application proposes
a zone change, the city's preferred land use map in the comprehensive plan
shall also be referenced and considered. Primary conservation areas shall be
delineated comprising floodplains, wetlands, and slopes over thirty-three
percent (33%).
         (c)   In delineating secondary conservation areas, the applicant shall
prioritize the natural and cultural resources on the tract in terms of their
suitability for inclusion in the proposed open space, in consultation with the
commission and in accordance with this title.
         (d)   On the basis of those priorities and practical considerations
given to the project's configuration, its relation to resource areas on
adjoining and neighboring properties, and the applicant's subdivision
objectives, secondary conservation areas shall be delineated to meet at least
the minimum area requirements for open space land and in a manner clearly
indicating their boundaries as well as the types of resources included within
them.
         (e)   Provide open space that is not divided into numerous small
parcels located in various parts of the application. To the greatest extent
practicable, this land shall be designed as a single block with logical,
straightforward boundaries. Long thin strips of conservation land shall be
avoided, unless the conservation feature is linear or unless such configuration
is necessary to connect with other streams or trails. The open space shall
generally abut existing or potential open space land on adjacent parcels (such
as existing conservation easements, public parks, or public lands). Such
subdivision open space shall be designed as part of larger contiguous and
integrated open space systems.
         (f)   As these standards are implemented, the protected open spaces in
each new subdivision should eventually adjoin each other, ultimately forming an
interconnected network of primary and secondary conservation areas across the
community. Connectivity between adjoining subdivisions is required. Maintaining
historically existing public access to public lands or water resources is also
required.
      2.   Step Two-Location of House Sites. During the second step, potential
house sites are tentatively located. Because the proposed location of houses
within each lot represents a significant decision, subdivision applicants shall
identify tentative house sites on the preliminary plan and proposed house sites
on the detailed final plan. The majority of home sites should abut undivided
open space in order to provide direct views and access. Safe and convenient
access to the open space from all lots not adjoining the open space shall be
provided (except in the case of farmland, or other resource areas vulnerable to
trampling damage or human disturbance).
         (a)   Potential house sites shall be located along the street network,
at least twenty-five percent (25%) of which should be single-loaded, meaning
that application shall occur on one side only along those segments.
         (b)   Unless otherwise specified in this title, dwelling units shall
be set back at least one hundred feet (100 ft.) from primary conservation areas
and at least ten feet (10 ft.) from secondary conservation areas. Setbacks from
conservation areas take into consideration the potential negative impacts of
residential application on such areas as well as the potential positive
benefits of such locations to provide attractive views and visual settings for
the residences.
         (c)   If development must be located in open fields or pastures
because of greater constraints in all other parts of the site, dwellings should
be sited on the least productive agricultural soils, or in locations that will
facilitate the continued agricultural use of the open space, or in locations
that can be visually buffered from existing public roads, such as planting a
screen consisting of indigenous native trees, shrubs, and wildflowers. Create
sufficient buffer areas to minimize conflicts between residential and
agricultural uses.
         (d)   Minimize impacts on large woodlands especially those containing
a significant wildlife habitat, or those not degraded by invasive weeds. Also,
development of areas with native vegetation of any size on highly erodible
soils with slopes greater than ten percent should be avoided.
         (e)   Establish buffer zones and leave scenic views and vistas
unblocked or uninterrupted, particularly along public ways and scenic corridors
of rural roads with historic buildings.
         (f)   Avoid siting new construction on prominent hilltops or ridges,
by taking advantage of lower topographic features.
      3.   Step Three-Layout of Streets and Squares. The third step consists of
aligning proposed streets to provide vehicular access to each house in the most
reasonable and economical way. When lots and access streets are laid out, they
shall be located in a way that avoids or minimizes adverse impacts to open
space areas and adjacent lands. To the greatest extent practicable, wetland
crossings shall be minimized.
         (a)   Identify the tentative locations of the more formal open space
elements such as greens, commons, squares, and parks.
         (b)   Create a connected street network consistent with other street
design standards in this title.
         (c)   Provide active recreational areas including an interconnected
pedestrian circulation system in suitable locations that offer safe convenient
access to residents and adequate screening from nearby house lots.
         (d)   Show schematic locations and types of storm water management,
sanitary sewer, and water supply systems.
         (e)   Streets shall be designed to:
            (1)   Parallel and preserve existing tree lines, hedgerows, stone
walls and watercourses.
            (2)   Minimize alteration of natural, cultural, or historic
features.
            (3)   Minimize the acreage devoted to streets.
            (4)   Calm traffic speeds.
            (5)   Promote pedestrian movement.
            (6)   Secure the view to prominent natural vistas.
            (7)   Be aligned so that the "terminal vista" is of civic buildings
or open space land, either manmade (greens, commons, squares, parks) or natural
(such as, but not limited to, meadows, large specimen trees and woodlands).
            (8)   Minimize crossing of primary conservation areas.
         (f)   All streets, with the exception of loop streets and loop lanes,
shall terminate at other streets within the project, and at least two streets
shall provide connections to existing or proposed through-streets or collectors
outside the project, wherever practicable and as required by this title.
         (g)   Loop lanes shall be designed with a central median running their
entire length, bounded on each side by a one-way lane not less than fourteen
feet in paved width. The median shall be at least thirty feet wide and shall be
planted with shade trees along both sides at intervals not less than twenty-
five feet.
      4.   Step Four-Lot Lines. The fourth step is simply to draw in the lot
lines and, where applicable, the building envelopes.
      5.   Other Design Considerations. The configuration of open space land
shall comply with the following standards:
         (a)   Except for civic and recreational spaces, such as squares and
playing fields, open space land shall be free of all structures, excluding,
however, historic buildings, stone walls, and structures related to open space
land uses. The city may grant approval of structures and improvements required
for storm drainage, sewage treatment, and water supply within the open space
land, provided that such facilities are not detrimental to the open space.
Acreage for such uses shall not be credited towards minimum open space unless
the land is appropriate for passive recreational use.
         (b)   Except for formal greens, commons, squares, parks, playing
fields, and trail corridors, open space land should not have a length-to-width
ratio of less than 4:1, or be less than seventy-five feet in width.
         (c)   Open space land shall adjoin the largest practicable number of
lots within the application. Non-adjoining lots shall be provided with safe and
convenient pedestrian access to open space land.
         (d)   Open space land designated for active recreational uses shall
not negatively impact adjacent dwelling units, parking, driveways, and roads.
         (e)   Open space land shall be interconnected wherever possible to
provide a continuous network of such lands within and adjoining the city.
         (f)   Open space land shall provide buffers to adjoining parks,
preserves, or other protected lands.
         (g)   Except in those cases where part of the open space is located on
private house lots or agricultural use, open space land shall provide for
pedestrian pathways for use by the residents of the subdivision. Consideration
shall be given to providing for public access on such trails if they are linked
to other publicly accessible pathway systems within the county. Provisions
should be made for access to the open space land, as required for land
management and emergency purposes.
         (h)   Open space land shall be undivided by public or private streets,
except where necessary for proper traffic circulation.
         (i)   Open space land shall be suitably maintained either by retaining
existing natural cover and wooded areas, continuing agricultural use and/or
according to a landscaping plan to protect and enhance open space resources.
(Ord. 2020-5, 9-16-2020; amd. Ord. 2022-3, 7-6-2022)
TITLE 5
FIRE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Department Established
5-1-2: Duties
5-1-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby created and established a Fire Department within the City, to
be known as the Grace Fire Department. (Ord. 181, 2-10-81)
5-1-2: DUTIES:
The Fire Department shall:
   (A)   Prevent and extinguish all fires within the City limits.
   (B)   Make necessary inspections of buildings and structures within the City
limits as prescribed by the City Council.
   (C)   Conduct all necessary fire drills and meetings as are necessary to
properly train personnel of the Department in efficient fire fighting.
   (D)   Make recommendations to the City Council for needed supplies and
equipment and all other matters for preventing or fighting fires and in
establishing fire zones within the City. (Ord. 181, 2-10-81)
CHAPTER 2
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Discharge Prohibited
5-2-2: Penalty
5-2-1: DISCHARGE PROHIBITED:
The discharge, firing, use or possession within the limits of the City of all
firecrackers, rockets, torpedoes, Roman candles or other fireworks or
substances designed and intended for pyrotechnic display, all pistols, canes,
cannons, other appliances using plane cartridges or caps containing chlorate or
potash mixture, or other explosives is hereby expressly prohibited. (Ord. 86,
6-4-40)
5-2-2: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate this Chapter or any part thereof shall be punished
by a fine of not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for any one offense,
together with costs, and in default of the payment of such fine and costs, be
confined in the City jail at the rate of one day for each one dollar fifty
cents ($1.50) of the fine so imposed, and while so confined may be required to
perform hard labor upon the streets or elsewhere for the benefit of the City.
(Ord. 86, 6-4-40)
TITLE 6
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
CROSS CONNECTIONS, WATER SUPPLY
SECTION:
6-1-1: Purpose and Scope
6-1-2: Definitions
6-1-3: Cross Connections
6-1-4: Use of Backflow Prevention Devices
6-1-5: Cross Connection, Inspection
6-1-6: Installation Permits
6-1-7: Additional Remedies
6-1-8: Civilization
6-1-9: Misdemeanor
6-1-10: Liability
6-1-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to protect the public health of water consumers
in the City by the control of actual and/or potential cross connections. (Ord.
173, 9-16-80)
6-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
BACKFLOW: The flow other than the intended direction of flow, of any foreign
liquids, gases or substances into the distribution system of the City water
supply.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device to counteract back pressure or prevent
back siphonage.
CITY: The City of Grace and its designated representatives.
CONTAMINATION: The entry into or presence in a City water supply of any
substance which may be deleterious to health and/or quality of the water.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical arrangement whereby the City water supply is
connected, directly or indirectly, with any other water supply system, sewer,
drain, conduit, pool, storage reservoir, plumbing fixture, or other device
which contains or may contain contaminated water, sewerage, or other waste or
liquids of unknown or unsafe quality which may be capable of imparting
contamination to the City water supply as a result of backflow. (Ord. 173, 9-
16-80)
6-1-3: CROSS CONNECTIONS:
No water service connection to any premises shall be installed or continued in
the City unless the water supply is protected by backflow prevention devices as
may be required by this Chapter, Idaho Code, and all standards, rules and
regulations of the State of Idaho, the Idaho Department of Health and Welfare,
and any other Federal, State, County or City authority or agency thereof. The
installation or maintenance of a cross connection which will endanger the water
quality of the potable water supply of the City shall be unlawful and is
prohibited. Any such cross connection now existing or hereafter installed is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance and the same shall be abated. The
control or elimination of cross connections shall be in accordance with this
Chapter, Idaho Code, and all standards, rules and regulations of the State of
Idaho, the Idaho Department of Health and Welfare, and any other Federal,
State, County or City authority or agency thereof, together with the latest
addition of appropriate manuals of standard practice pertaining to cross
connection control enacted by the City and any applicable County, State and
Federal authorities and agencies. The City shall have the authority to
establish requirements more stringent than State regulations if it deems that
the conditions so dictate. (Ord. 173, 9-16-80)
6-1-4: USE OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
   (A)   Backflow prevention devices shall be installed in connection with
water service connections or within any premises where, in the judgment of the
City, the nature and extent of the activities, or the materials stored on the
premises, would present an immediate and dangerous hazard to health and/or be
deleterious to the quality of the water should a cross connection occur, even
though such cross connection does not exist at the time the backflow prevention
devices shall be installed under circumstances including but not limited to the
following:
      1.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless the quality of the
auxiliary supply is in compliance with Idaho Code, and all standards, rules and
regulations of the State of Idaho, the Idaho Department of Health and Welfare,
and any other Federal, State, County or City authority or agency thereof and is
acceptable to the City.
      2.   Premises having internal cross connections that are not correctable,
or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impracticable to ascertain
whether or not cross connections exist.
      3.   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to insure that cross connections do not exist.
      4.   Premises having a repeated history of cross connections being
established or re-established.
      5.   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as to
permit entry into the City water supply, or where a cross connection could
reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of process
waters and cooling waters.
      6.   Premises where materials of a toxic or hazardous nature are handled
in such a way that if back siphonage should occur, a serious health hazard
might result.
      7.   The following types of facilities will fall into one of the above
categories where a backflow prevention device is required to protect the City
water supply. A backflow prevention device shall be installed at these
facilities unless the City and applicable State, County and Federal authorities
and agencies determine that no hazard exists:
         a.   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics.
         b.   Laboratories, including school laboratories.
         c.   Metal plating industries.
         d.   Sewage treatment plants.
         e.   Food or beverage processing plants.
         f.   Chemical plants using a water process.
         g.   Petroleum processing or storage plants.
         h.   Car washes.
         i.   Dry cleaners.
      8.   Other premises as specified by the City, where backflow prevention
devices are required to protect the City water supply.
   (B)   The type of protective device required shall depend on the degree of
hazard which exists.
      1.   An air-gap separation or a reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device shall be installed where the City water supply may be
contaminated with sewage, industrial waste of a toxic nature, or other
contaminant which could cause a health or system hazard.
      2.   In the case of a substance which may be objectionable but not
hazardous to health, a double check valve assembly, air gap separation, or a
reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device shall be installed.
   (C)   Backflow prevention devices required by this Chapter shall be
installed at the meter, at the property line of the premises when meters are
not used, or at a location designated accessible for maintenance and testing,
and furthermore, where no part of the device will be submerged.
   (D)   Any protective device required by this Chapter shall be a model
approved by the City or applicable State, County and Federal authorities and
agencies. These devices shall be furnished and installed by and at the expense
of the customer under the supervision and approval of the City.
   (E)   Backflow prevention devices installed pursuant to this Chapter shall
be inspected and tested annually, or more often if necessary, by a certified
tester at the expense of the customer.
   (F)   Inspections, tests, repairs and replacement of defective devices shall
be accomplished in accordance with and pursuant to this Chapter, the Idaho Code
and any agency having jurisdiction, by a certified tester at the expense of the
customer.
   (G)   No underground sprinkling device will be installed without adequate
backflow prevention devices at the point from which the water for irrigation is
taken from the City water supply.
   (H)   Failure of the customer to cooperate in the installation, maintenance,
testing or inspection of backflow prevention devices required by this Chapter,
Idaho Code, and all standards, rules and regulations of the State of Idaho, the
Idaho Department of Health and Welfare, and any other Federal, State, County or
City authority or agency thereof shall be grounds for the termination of water
service to the premises, or, in the alternative, the installation of an air-gap
separation at the customer's expense. (Ord. 173, 9-16-80)
6-1-5: CROSS CONNECTION, INSPECTION:
   (A)   No water shall be delivered to any structure hereafter built within
the City or within areas served by City water until the same shall have been
inspected by the City for possible cross connections and been approved as being
free of the same.
   (B)   Any construction for industrial or other purposes which is classified
as hazardous facilities pursuant to Section
6-1-4(A)6 of this Chapter, where it is reasonable to anticipate cross
connections, or as determined by the City, shall be protected by the
installation of one or more backflow prevention devices at the point of service
from the City water supply or any other location designated by the City, and
applicable County, State and Federal authorities and agencies.
   (C)   Inspections shall be made periodically of all structures, or
improvements of any nature now receiving water through the City's system, for
the purpose of ascertaining whether cross connections exist. Such inspections
shall be made by the City or applicable County, State and Federal authorities
and agencies. (Ord. 173, 9-16-80)
6-1-6: INSTALLATION PERMITS:
If cross-connection control device(s) are found to be necessary, the owner of
the property served must apply to the City for a specific installation permit.
(Ord. 173, 9-16-80)
6-1-7: ADDITIONAL REMEDIES:
In the event an improper cross connection is not corrected within the time
limits set by the City or in the event the City is refused access to any
property for the purpose of determining whether or not cross connections exist,
the City may cease delivery of water to the property until the deficiency is
corrected to the City's satisfaction. In addition, the City may, without
waiving any terms of this Chapter, but shall not be required to, effect the
necessary repairs or installations at the expense of the property owner and
refuse delivery of water to the property until the cost thereof shall have been
paid. Violations of this Chapter are hereby declared to be a nuisance, and the
City, after notice to the customer or property owner to remove or correct the
violation, may prevent, remove and abate the same at the expense of the party
creating or maintaining the same, in which event the City may levy a special
assessment as provided in Idaho Code section 50-1008 on the land or premises
whereon the nuisance is situated to defray the cost or to reimburse the City
for the cost of abating the same. (Ord. 173, 9-16-80)
6-1-8: CIVILIZATION:
In addition to, or in lieu of, the foregoing, the City may bring any
appropriate civil action, including abatement, injunction, and/or damages in
which event the City shall be entitled to all costs including attorney's fees
in the prosecution of such action. (Ord. 173, 9-16-80)
6-1-9: MISDEMEANOR:
In addition to the foregoing, any person violating the provisions of this
Chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be subject to the penalties as provided by law. (Ord. 173, 9-16-80)
6-1-10: LIABILITY:
This Chapter shall not be construed to hold the City responsible for any damage
to persons or property by reason of the inspection or testing herein, or the
failure to inspect or test or by reason of approval of any cross connections.
(Ord. 173, 9-16-80)
CHAPTER 2
REFUSE AND GARBAGE COLLECTION
SECTION:
6-2-1: Title
6-2-2: Definitions
6-2-3: Garbage and Refuse Collection
6-2-4: Vehicle Requirements
6-2-5: Container Specifications and Placement
6-2-6: Regulations for Deposits (Rep. by Ord. 227, 9-21-93)
6-2-7: Sanitary Service Fees
6-2-8: Contract for Garbage Collection
6-2-9: Burning Garbage; Littering; Defacing Containers; and Unauthorized
Deposits of Garbage Prohibited
6-2-10: Penalty
6-2-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known and may be cited as the MUNICIPAL REFUSE AND
GARBAGE COLLECTION SERVICE ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF GRACE, IDAHO. (Ord. 163,
11-16-76)
6-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
GARBAGE: All putrescible wastes, except sewage and body wastes, and also
excluding recognizable industrial by-products.
REFUSE and TRASH: Shall include all waste materials with the exception of
sewage or body wastes. (Ord. 163, 11-16-76)
6-2-3: GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION:
All garbage in the City shall be collected by the City, or its duly authorized
agent or contractor, as often as is necessary to maintain and preserve
sanitation of the community. Temporary failure to make such collection due to
circumstances beyond the control of the City shall not relieve the occupant or
the owner of the premises from the payment of sanitary service fees as
hereinafter established. All occupants or owners of property within the limits
of the City shall be responsible for payment of the sanitary service fees as
set by the City Council and as hereinafter established. (Ord. 163, 11-16-76)
6-2-4: VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS:
No person shall be permitted to transport garbage over public thoroughfares in
anything other than watertight containers. The City shall furnish vehicles and
containers or require the purchase of containers designed for the collection
and hauling of garbage and refuse and other waste products within the City.
(Ord. 227, 9-21-93)
6-2-5: CONTAINER SPECIFICATIONS AND PLACEMENT:
   (A)   All garbage, refuse, and rubbish shall be placed in those containers
as are provided by the City or as may be required to be purchased by the City.
All containers shall be kept covered, and for purposes of collection, shall be
placed at or near the street line, with the exception of commercial
establishments which shall place their refuse or garbage containers near the
alley line. Metal garbage cans, oil drums, wash tubs and similar containers
shall not be used for garbage, refuse, or rubbish collection, and the same
shall not be collected by the City if stored in such containers. Only
authorized containers of the City shall be used. Objects too large to be
contained by an authorized container shall not be included in the definition of
"garbage", "refuse", or "rubbish", and shall not be collected. All ashes shall
be cool and free from any fire, live coals, other substances which might ignite
or otherwise cause the container to be damaged. No broken concrete, rocks,
plaster, discarded building materials, or trees or tree limbs shall be included
within the definition of "garbage", "refuse" or "rubbish", and the same shall
not be deposited in garbage containers authorized by the City. All debris
resulting from the construction, reconstruction or repairs of a premises
located within the City shall not be placed with other garbage or refuse for
collection but shall be disposed of directly by the person or persons owning,
occupying or leasing the premises in a sanitary landfill authorized for said
purposes. (Ord. 227, 9-21-93)
6-2-6: REGULATIONS FOR DEPOSITS:
(Rep. by Ord. 227, 9-21-1993)
6-2-7: SANITARY SERVICE FEES:
   (A)   Fees for sanitary service shall be such as may be set from time to
time by resolution of the city council and all occupants and owners of property
located within the city shall be responsible for payment of the same.
   (B)   All charges for the removal of garbage shall be collected by the city
clerk-treasurer. Said charges for the removal of garbage shall be collected
upon a monthly basis and the clerk-treasurer shall send monthly billings to all
occupants and owners within the city for the payment of the same.
   (C)   The proceeds from collection of fees and charges herein provided for
shall be placed in the water, sewer and garbage fund, and the contractor, if
any, shall be paid from said fund. (Ord. 163, 11-16-1976; amd. Ord. 182, 2-10-
1981)
6-2-8: CONTRACT FOR GARBAGE COLLECTION:
Collection of garbage and refuse may be provided by the sanitation department
or a contract for the collection and disposal of garbage and refuse may be let
to the lowest and best responsible bidder after proper advertising in the
official newspaper for such times as the city council may direct. (Ord. 163,
11-16-1976)
6-2-9: BURNING GARBAGE; LITTERING; DEFACING CONTAINERS; AND UNAUTHORIZED
DEPOSITS OF GARBAGE PROHIBITED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn "garbage", refuse, or
trash as defined in this chapter, or to burn dead animals or parts thereof,
tires or rubber materials or products, junk motor vehicles or any materials
resulting from a salvage operation, plastics, asphalt or composition roofing or
any other asphalted material or products, tar, tarpaper, waste, or heavy
petroleum products or paints, lumber or timbers treated with preservatives,
including railroad ties, trade waste (commercial, industrial or construction
waste), insulated wire, pathogenic waste, or hazardous waste within the city
limits, or to allow the same to be spilled, strewn or scattered on the streets
of the city or upon public or private property, or placed in garbage
containers. Garbage, refuse, trash or other debris of a nature that is
forbidden to be burned or placed in garbage containers, shall be transported
and deposited by the owner or occupant of the premises on which the same is
located in a sanitary landfill authorized by the state or county for said
purposes. This section shall not apply to the burning of weeds, grass or brush
which originate on the property on which it is burned. (Ord. 269, 5-1-2007)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, damage, or destroy any
authorized garbage container of the city.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit any garbage, refuse,
rubbish, trash or other debris in any garbage container which has been issued
to a third person, or purchased by said third person, and each person shall
deposit his garbage, refuse, rubbish, trash or other debris only in those
containers which have been issued to that person or purchased by that person.
If any person violates this particular provision as to unlawful deposit of
garbage or other debris he shall be subject to a fine payable to the city clerk
in the sum of fifteen dollars ($15.00), upon written notification by the city
clerk to said person of said unlawful deposit of garbage or other debris in an
unauthorized container. If said person fails to pay the fifteen dollar ($15.00)
fine to the city within ten (10) days after mailing of said notification, then
the city shall cause a citation to be issued for violation of this provision,
and said person shall be punished in accordance with section
6-2-10 of this chapter and shall pay the fines and be subject to the penalties
as provided therein, and in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 227, 9-21-1993)
6-2-10: PENALTY:
A violation of any provision of this chapter by any person shall constitute a
misdemeanor and be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 163, 11-16-1976)
CHAPTER 3
JUNK STORAGE
SECTION:
6-3-1: Declaration Of Nuisance
6-3-2: Exceptions
6-3-3: Abatement Of Nuisance
6-3-4: Abatement By City
6-3-5: Violation An Infraction
6-3-1: DECLARATION OF NUISANCE:
The accumulation and storage of unused, stripped, wrecked, dismantled,
inoperative, unregistered, unlicensed vehicles, recreational vehicles, all-
terrain vehicles, as the same are defined in chapter 1, title 49, Idaho Code,
snowmobiles, as defined in chapter 71, title 67, Idaho Code, or snowmobiles
which do not have affixed thereto current identification numbers as required by
state law, or parts of any of said vehicles, and any other vehicles, machinery,
implements, and/or equipment and personal property of any kind which is no
longer safely usable for the purposes for which it was manufactured, or the
accumulation of materials to include lumber, junk, trash, refuse, debris or any
abandoned, discarded, unused or inoperable items such as furniture, stoves,
refrigerators, freezers, bottles, cans or other containers, on private or
public property, is hereby found to create a condition tending to reduce the
value of private property, to promote blight and deterioration in community
neighborhoods, to invite plundering, to create fire hazards, to constitute an
attractive nuisance creating a hazard to health and safety of minors, to create
a harborage for rodents, animals and insects, and to be potentially injurious
to the health, safety and general welfare of the residents of the city; and is
therefore, except as expressly hereinafter permitted, declared to be unlawful
and to constitute a public nuisance which may be abated in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 280, 6-18-2008)
6-3-2: EXCEPTIONS:
The following are exempt from compliance with this chapter:
   (A)   Commercial Exception: The organized outdoor storage of items, except
vehicles, recreational vehicles, all-terrain vehicles, or snowmobiles, as
described in section
6-3-1 of this chapter in commercial, agricultural, or industrial zones within
the city that are legitimately for sale or used in conjunction with a
commercial or agricultural enterprise, the storage of which does not create
fire hazards, hazards to the health and safety of persons and residents, or
create a harborage for rodents, animals and insects or are deemed potentially
injurious to the health, safety and general welfare of the residents of the
city. The storage of vehicles, recreational vehicles, all-terrain vehicles, and
snowmobiles in violation of section
6-3-1 of this chapter shall not be permitted pursuant to this subsection.
Property which is "legitimately for sale" is personal property actively offered
for sale through methods of informing or soliciting buyers of goods, including,
but not limited to, use of signs, handbills, newspaper advertisements, and
direct personal contacts.
   (B)   Enclosed Storage/Privacy Fence: The storage of items in completely
enclosed buildings authorized to be used for such storage purposes, or
placement of the same behind a well maintained privacy fence which obscures and
limits the visibility of items on property from adjoining properties, highways,
or city streets, that also meets applicable building codes and the zoning
ordinance of the city if the same does not create fire hazards, hazards to the
health and safety of persons, or create a harborage for rodents, animals and
insects, or which may be deemed potentially injurious to the health, safety and
general welfare of the residents of the city. Any such item stored behind a
privacy fence or within enclosed buildings shall not create odors offensive to
neighboring property owners, or constitute a hazardous material or substance as
defined by federal or state law. A privacy fence shall be six feet (6') in
height, where permitted by applicable zoning laws, constructed of building
materials designed and manufactured for the purpose of privacy fencing, or
construction as approved by the planning and zoning commission and the city
council as part of the construction permit approval process. All fencing
materials shall be architecturally compatible with the neighborhood in which
they are erected. The following materials are generally acceptable:
      1.   Chainlink with sightproof inserts;
      2.   Wood (fabricated primarily as a fencing material);
      3.   Masonry, brick or cinder block;
      4.   Vinyl.
   (C)   Temporary Permits: A resident involved in the temporary construction,
cleanup, or restoration of their property which will result, or has resulted,
in the property being found in noncompliance with this chapter and which does
not constitute a hazard to the health, safety and general welfare of the
residents of the city, may apply for a ninety (90) day permit exempting that
person from the provisions of this chapter. A person desiring a temporary
permit shall make application for the same with the city describing the project
and the items to be stored upon the property during the project and shall have
attached thereto signature releases of those property owners within one hundred
fifty feet (150') of the applicant's property lines agreeing to the project.
Upon an application being submitted which is satisfactory to the city, the city
may issue a permit for the same, which permit shall not be renewable except at
the discretion of the city and upon good cause shown therefor. An applicant
shall pay the sum of five dollars ($5.00) to the city for a permit. (Ord. 272,
9-18-2007)
6-3-3: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE:
The owner, tenant, occupant of any lot or parcel of property within the
corporate limits of the city, upon which such storage or accumulation is made,
and also the owner, and/or lessee of the property being stored shall jointly
and severally abate said nuisance by the prompt removal and storage of said
property into completely enclosed buildings authorized to be used for such
storage purposes, or behind a well maintained sightproof privacy fence in
accordance with subsection 6-3-2B of this chapter so that the same is not
visible from any street or other public or private property within the
corporate limits of the city, or shall remove said items to a location outside
said corporate limits. (Ord. 272, 9-18-2007)
6-3-4: ABATEMENT BY CITY:
Nuisances which remain unabated after notice may, at the option of the city, be
removed, abated or destroyed by the city or its agents, after the following
steps have been taken:
   (A)   If after ten (10) calendar days from the date a written notice is
personally delivered to the property owner, or mailed by ordinary mail to the
property owner's address as shown in current official Caribou County assessor
records, no abatement of the nuisance has occurred, the mayor or his designee
shall provide a second ten (10) day notice to be delivered to the property
owner by certified mail or personal service, which shall indicate the
following:
      1.   That if the property owner fails to abate the nuisance, the city
shall take steps to abate the same;
      2.   That the property owner may contract with the city to abate the
nuisance and pay costs of the same;
      3.   That if the city abates the nuisance all costs and expenses of
abatement shall be billed and assessed against the property owner and if unpaid
shall become collectable as a special assessment with property taxes;
      4.   That the property owner has a right to appear before the city
council to show cause as to why he should not be forced to abate or pay for
abatement of the nuisance; furthermore, that if the property owner desires such
a hearing, a request for hearing, in writing, shall be given to the city clerk
at the city hall prior to expiration of the ten (10) day notice, and that
abatement by the city will proceed if the property owner has not exercised this
option to request a hearing.
      5.   If said certified notice is returned as undeliverable, or is
unclaimed by the property owner, nothing shall preclude the city from
exercising its abatement option as specified herein.
   (B)   When the ten (10) day notice has expired without a request for
hearing, the mayor or his designee is authorized to remove, abate or destroy
the nuisance. The mayor or his designee is authorized to utilize city personnel
to abate the nuisance or to contract for an outside party to abate the
nuisance.
   (C)   If the city abates any nuisance under the provisions of this chapter,
a statement of charges billed to the property owner shall be mailed or
personally delivered to the property owner.
   (D)   If payment is not received from the property owner within thirty (30)
days, the amount billed shall, in accordance with state law, be assessed as a
special assessment collectable against the subject property as other state,
county and municipal taxes.
   (E)   If the property owner requests a hearing to show cause before the city
council, the hearing shall, if feasible, be placed on the agenda of the next
regularly scheduled city council meeting. The decision of the city council
shall be final. A ten (10) day period shall be given the property owner after
the council's decision so that the property owner shall have additional
opportunity to abate the nuisance or to pursue other legal remedies or
defenses.
   (F)   If items are removed by action of the city, said items, except
vehicles as described in section
6-3-1 of this chapter, shall be disposed of at the county landfill or other
appropriate place of disposal. Vehicles as described in section
6-3-1 of this chapter shall be disposed of in accordance with sections 49-1809
through 49-1816, Idaho Code. No purchaser of a vehicle sold by the city, or any
person redeeming said vehicle, shall cause said vehicle to be relocated within
the corporate limits of the city. (Ord. 272, 9-18-2007)
6-3-5: VIOLATION AN INFRACTION:
Any person, business, agency, or corporation who violates the provisions of
this chapter by creating or maintaining or allowing to be created or maintained
any "nuisance" as defined herein shall be guilty of an infraction and upon a
plea of guilty thereto, or after having been found guilty of a violation of
this chapter, shall be punished by a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00). Any
person, business, agency, or corporation who pleads guilty to or is found
guilty of a violation of the provisions of this chapter, who previously has
been found guilty of or has pled guilty to a violation of this chapter, within
ten (10) years, is guilty of an infraction, and shall be punished by a fine of
three hundred dollars ($300.00). Any person who pleads guilty to or is found
guilty of a violation of the provisions of this chapter who has previously been
found guilty of or has pled guilty to two (2) or more violations of the
provisions of this chapter within ten (10) years shall be guilty of an
infraction and shall be punished by a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00).
Each day that such violation shall continue shall be deemed to be a separate
offense. A citation for an infraction violation of this chapter may be issued
concurrently with, or in addition to, any other procedures as may be pursued by
the city as set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 282, 11-19-2008)
CHAPTER 4
WEEDS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Nuisance Declared
6-4-2: Height Limitations
6-4-3: Notice To Abate
6-4-4: Abatement
6-4-5: Collection Of Funds
6-4-6: Violation; Penalty
6-4-1: NUISANCE DECLARED:
Any noxious weed, as the same is defined in title 22, chapter 24, Idaho Code,
and which the director of the department of agriculture, state of Idaho, has
determined to be a noxious weed pursuant to the provisions of said code, found
growing upon any lot or tract of land in the city is declared to be a nuisance,
and the same shall immediately be eradicated and eliminated by the owner,
occupant, or person in control of the premises. (Ord. 256, 5-7-2002)
6-4-2: HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
It is unlawful for any owner, occupant, or other person or entity occupying or
controlling property within the city to permit weeds, grass, plants, other than
garden produce and trees, bushes, flowers, or other ornamental plants, to grow
to a height exceeding twelve inches (12") on any lot or tract of land in the
city. This section shall not apply to maintained agricultural products grown in
an approved agricultural zone within the city. (Ord. 269, 5-1-2007)
6-4-3: NOTICE TO ABATE:
The city may cause notice to be served by regular mail or by personal service
on the owner or occupant of any property within the city on which weeds or
plants are permitted to grow in violation of the provisions of this chapter
which notice shall require the owner or occupant to abate said nuisance by the
removal of the weeds or plants within ten (10) days from the date of the
mailing of said notice. (Ord. 256, 5-7-2002)
6-4-4: ABATEMENT:
If the person or entity served with said notice fails to abate the nuisance
within ten (10) days from the date of mailing of the notice, the city may
proceed to abate the nuisance. The city clerk shall maintain an account of
expense of the abatement, and such expense shall be paid by the owner or
occupant to the city within thirty (30) days after mailing of notice from the
city to the owner or occupant of the expenses and the amount due and owing the
city. (Ord. 256, 5-7-2002)
6-4-5: COLLECTION OF FUNDS:
If the owner or occupant of the property should fail to pay the amount owing
the city within thirty (30) days of mailing of notice by the city, said sum
shall be declared delinquent and shall be certified to the tax collector of the
county by the city clerk not later than August 1, and the tax collector shall
place the same upon the tax roll and collect it in the same manner and subject
to the same penalties as other city taxes. All money received by the city shall
be held by the city treasurer to reimburse the city for money expended for such
abatement. In addition thereto, the city may take such other actions as may be
permitted by law to collect any amount due and owing it for such abatement.
(Ord. 256, 5-7-2002)
6-4-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any owner, occupant, or other person in control of a premises who allows a
nuisance on his premises in violation of any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed three
hundred dollars ($300.00) or confinement in the county jail for a period not to
exceed six (6) months or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 256, 5-7-
2002)
TITLE 7
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSE REGULATIONS
(Rep. by Ord. 238, 5-2-1995)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR BY THE DRINK REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Idaho Liquor and Beer Laws Adopted
7-2-2: License Required; Fee
7-2-3: Application for License; State License Required
7-2-4: Issuance of License; License Nontransferable
7-2-5: License Restrictions
7-2-6: Revocation of License
7-2-7: Penalty
7-2-1: IDAHO LIQUOR AND BEER LAWS ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of governing the licensing, sale and
use of alcoholic beverages within the City, the laws of Idaho, being
particularly title 23, as presently in effect or as may hereafter be amended by
the Legislature, and as contained in that certain Volume V, Idaho Liquor and
Beer Laws, revised through the acts of the 1969 Legislature, published by
authority of the Department of Law Enforcement, Liquor Law Division, as the
same may be revised by the Legislature or by the governing body of the City;
and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated as an ordinance of the City as
fully as though set forth at length herein.
Three (3) copies of the Idaho Liquor and Beer Laws, together with all
amendments thereto, all duly certified by the City Clerk, shall be kept on file
in the office of the City Clerk for use and examination of and by the public.
(Ord. 155, 5-18-71)
7-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
It will be lawful to sell liquor by the drink within the City, providing a
license shall first be obtained from the City, as provided in this Chapter, and
the rules, regulations and provisions concerning the licensing and operation of
a place of business are complied with as provided by this Chapter and State
law.
The license fee required for the handling of liquor by the drink shall be the
sum of $       per calendar year, or portion thereof. (Ord. 114, 5-51)
7-2-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; STATE LICENSE REQUIRED:
Before any such establishment for the sale of liquor by the drink is permitted
to operate, an application must be made for such license and filed with the
City Clerk on an application form provided by the City. Such application will
provide the following information and be accompanied by the designated items:
   (A)   Name of applicant;
   (B)   Location of the proposed business;
   (C)   At the time the application is made, the applicant will also present a
copy of the application for a State license, as well as the license issued by
the State for the sale of liquor by the drink at retail.
No City license will be issued without first obtaining a license issued by the
State.
All applications shall be referred by the Clerk to the Chief of Police who
shall endorse thereon his approval or disapproval thereof before the same is
presented to the City Council for final approval. The Clerk will receive
license fees at the time of filing of the application, and upon approval of the
application by the City Council, license will be mailed to the operator. (Ord.
114, 5-51)
7-2-4: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE:
Such license shall be issued only upon the payment of the proper license fee.
The license shall not be transferable, and if the licensee named therein shall
cease to personally supervise, conduct and operate the said business in said
license mentioned, said license shall thereby terminate and no fee paid, or any
part thereof, for such license shall be refunded even though the licensee may
fail to operate for the period named therein or for any portion of that period.
(Ord. 114, 5-51)
7-2-5: LICENSE RESTRICTIONS:
   (A)   Sale Only on Licensed Premises: It shall be unlawful for any licensee
to sell, give away, dispense, vend or deliver any liquor in any fashion or by
any means or device, except upon the licensed premises.
   (B)   Gambling Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any licensee to permit,
conduct, play, carry on, open or cause to be opened, any gaming in or upon the
licensed premises or in or upon any premises directly connected by a door,
hallway or other means of access from the licensed premises; provided, however,
that the City may authorize any form of gaming upon the premises or premises
adjacent thereto, permitted by and licensed under the laws of the State. (Ord.
114, 5-51)
7-2-6: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
If any licensee or employee of a liquor by the drink establishment violates any
of the provisions of this Chapter or State law, the Mayor and Council are
hereby authorized and empowered to revoke the license issued to said licensee;
provided, however, that in the event it is brought to the attention of the
Mayor and Council that such violation has taken place, before revoking such
license the Mayor and Council shall cause notice to be served upon such
licensee, setting forth in general terms the violations claimed to exist. Such
notice shall provide a time for hearing thereon by the Mayor and Council, and
the date of hearing shall be not less than ten (10) days nor more than twenty
(20) days from the date of service of said notice. Following said hearing, the
Mayor and Council, upon finding that the provisions of this Chapter or State
law have been violated by such licensee, shall revoke such license and no
refund of any unused portion of the license fee shall be made to the licensee.
Any revocation by the Commissioner of Law Enforcement of the State license
shall be automatic revocation of the City license. (Ord. 114, 5-51)
7-2-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished in accordance with
Title 1, Chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 237, 1-17-95)
CHAPTER 3
BEER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Idaho Liquor And Beer Laws Adopted
7-3-2: Definition
7-3-3: License Required; Term
7-3-4: Application For License; Fees
7-3-5: Licensing Restriction
7-3-6: Sales Allowed On Certain Days
7-3-7: General Prohibitions
7-3-8: Sale To Minors, Certain Persons Prohibited
7-3-9: Penalty
7-3-1: IDAHO LIQUOR AND BEER LAWS ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of governing the licensing, sale and
use of alcoholic beverages within the city, the laws of Idaho, being
particularly title 23, as presently in effect or as may hereafter be amended by
the legislature, and as contained in that certain volume V, Idaho liquor and
beer laws, published by authority of the department of law enforcement, liquor
law division, as the same may be revised by the legislature or by the governing
body of the city; and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated as an
ordinance of the city as fully as though set forth at length herein.
Three (3) copies of the Idaho liquor and beer laws, together with all
amendments thereto, all duly certified by the city clerk, shall be kept on file
in the office of the city clerk for use and examination of and by the public.
(Ord. 155, 5-18-1971)
7-3-2: DEFINITION:
As used in this chapter, the word "beer" means any beverage obtained by the
alcoholic fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt and/or
other ingredients in drinkable water. (Ord. 98, 12-2-1947)
7-3-3: LICENSE REQUIRED; TERM:
It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to sell or offer for sale
any beer in the city without first obtaining a license so to do. All such
licenses issued under this chapter shall expire on December 31 of the year in
which they were issued. (Ord. 98, 12-2-1947)
7-3-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEES:
Before any person shall sell beer at retail in the city, he shall first apply
for and obtain a license so to do, which application shall be filed with the
city clerk. Unless good cause shall appear for the denial, a license shall be
issued in the form and manner of the issuance of other licenses of the city.
At the time of filing application for a license under the provisions of this
chapter, the applicant shall also pay to the clerk a license fee of fifty
dollars ($50.00) where the retailer sells only bottled or canned beer, none of
which is consumed on the premises where sold. Where the applicant sells beer
for consumption on the premises, either draft beer and bottled or canned beer,
or draft beer only, the applicant shall pay the sum of two hundred dollars
($200.00) per year. (Ord. 237, 1-17-1995)
7-3-5: LICENSING RESTRICTION:
Any person may be permitted to sell or offer for sale at retail beer containing
not more than four percent (4%) alcohol by weight unless such person has been
convicted for the violation of any law or ordinance of the city regulating,
governing or prohibiting the sale of alcoholic beverages or intoxicating
liquor. (Ord. 98, 12-2-1947)
7-3-6: SALES ALLOWED ON CERTAIN DAYS:
Sale of liquor by the drink upon a licensed premises located within the city on
Sundays, Memorial Day and Thanksgiving Day is approved. (Ord. 270, 6-5-2007)
7-3-7: GENERAL PROHIBITIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to sell, distribute, possess, or consume any
alcoholic beverages, including, but not limited to, liquor, beer, and wine, in
or on any place open to the general public, except premises licensed to
distribute alcohol, or upon any school property, city street, or property owned
by the city of Grace, Idaho. This section shall not prohibit the lawful
transportation of alcoholic beverages on streets or highways as otherwise
permitted by law. (Ord. 270, 6-5-2007)
7-3-8: SALE TO MINORS, CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to sell or give away any
beer to: (Ord. 98, 12-2-1947; amd. Ord. 270, 6-5-2007)
   (A)   Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years. (Ord. 237, 1-17-
1995; amd. Ord. 270, 6-5-2007)
   (B)   A person who is in a state of intoxication. (Ord. 98, 12-2-1947; amd.
Ord. 270, 6-5-2007)
7-3-9: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of subsection
7-3-8(B) of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine in any sum not exceeding
one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense, and his license may be revoked.
(Ord. 98, 12-2-47; amd. Ord. 270, 6-5-2007)
CHAPTER 4
WINE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Findings
7-4-2: License Required; Fee; Term
7-4-1: FINDINGS:
The retail sale of wine within incorporated cities located within Caribou
County, Idaho, is permitted according to the provisions of chapter 13, title
23, Idaho Code, upon the adoption of a resolution authorizing the same by the
mayor and city council of the incorporated city and the filing of said
resolution with the Director of Law Enforcement, State of Idaho. (Res. 69, 9-1-
1987)
7-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE; TERM:
Every person or entity desiring to sell wine at retail for consumption off the
licensed premises shall obtain a license from the City and shall pay an annual
license fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) to the City. All licenses issued
shall expire at one o'clock (1:00) A.M. on January 1 of the year following the
date of issuance of the license. Applications for and renewal of such licenses
shall be on forms prescribed and furnished by the City. (Res. 69, 9-1-1987)
TITLE 8
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
8-1-1: Idaho Penal Code Adopted
8-1-2: Discharge of Weapons
8-1-1: IDAHO PENAL CODE ADOPTED:
The City hereby adopts the Idaho Penal Code "Crimes and Punishments" laws as
set forth in title 18 of the Idaho Code. Said title 18 of the Idaho Code is
incorporated herein by reference as if set forth at length in this Section.
(Ord. 157, 12-7-71)
8-1-2: DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person not a peace officer in the
performance of his duty to discharge any gun, revolver, pistol or other firearm
within the corporate limits of the City, except in the necessary defense of his
person or property. (Ord. 2, 11-9-16)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or discharge devices or
weapons commonly known as air guns, sling shots or flippers within the City
limits. (Ord. 185, 1981)
CHAPTER 2
MINORS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Curfew
8-2-1: CURFEW:
It is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor for any boy or girl under eighteen
(18) years of age to visit any public place or be on the streets, alleys or
public grounds within the City between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. on any night of the week except Friday and
Saturday nights for which the hours shall be one thirty o'clock (1:30) A.M. and
five o'clock (5:00) A.M., unless such minor shall be accompanied by a parent or
guardian, or have written permission from such parent or guardian, so as to be
abroad at such time; providing, that any written permission shall be for the
specific date and any blanket permission shall be considered as no permission.
(Ord. 156, 7-20-65; amd. Ord. 177, 2-10-81)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMALS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Running At Large, Herding
8-3-2: Confinement Of Animals
8-3-3: Disposition Of Unclaimed Animals
8-3-4: Proceeds From Sale Of Animals
8-3-5: Breaking Open Animal Enclosure
8-3-6: Vicious Animals
8-3-1: RUNNING AT LARGE, HERDING:
No animal or livestock shall be permitted at large in the Municipality at any
time during the year, and it is unlawful for anyone to herd or drive any animal
through the streets of the City without having said animal under control by
means of a rope, strap or other device by which it may be led, unless such
animal is being driven in harness or hauled. No person shall drive any herds of
animals through the streets of the City unless the same are hauled in trucks.
(Ord. 183, 2-10-1981)
8-3-2: CONFINEMENT OF ANIMALS:
If any animal is found running at large or is being driven through the streets
of the City, contrary to the provisions of this Chapter, said animal shall be
confined in some place designated by the City, and said animal shall not be
released until the owner or persons entitled to the possession thereof shall
pay to the City a fee as may be prescribed from time to time by resolution of
the City Council, together with any and all other costs incurred in the taking,
keeping or impounding of said animal or animals. (Ord. 183, 2-10-1981)
8-3-3: DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED ANIMALS:
If the owner or person entitled to take possession of said animals does not pay
the charges assessed for the impounding of said animals and remove the same
within five (5) days after said impoundment, it shall be lawful for the City to
sell at public auction said animals, provided the City has given at least five
(5) days' notice of the time and place of said sale, by posting the same in
three (3) public places in the City; and a copy of said notice shall also be
served upon the owner or possessor of said animals, if known, at least five (5)
days before the sale. (Ord. 183, 2-10-1981)
8-3-4: PROCEEDS FROM SALE OF ANIMALS:
In case any animal shall be sold pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter,
the proceeds from said sale shall be turned over to the City Clerk-Treasurer.
The City Clerk-Treasurer shall, after deducting all fees and charges assessed
in the keeping and sale of said animal, pay the balance of said purchase price
to the owner thereof, if such owner be known. If no claim is made of said
monies by some person lawfully entitled to receive the same within three (3)
months after such sale, such monies so received shall become the property of
the City. (Ord. 183, 2-10-1981)
8-3-5: BREAKING OPEN ANIMAL ENCLOSURE:
No person shall break, open or in any manner directly aid or assist the
breaking or opening of any pen or enclosure with the intent of releasing any
animal confined therein pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter, nor in any
way shall attempt to gain the release of animals lawfully in the custody of the
City pursuant to this Chapter, nor in any way shall interfere or hinder any
representative of the City from enforcing this Chapter. (Ord. 183, 2-10-1981)
8-3-6: VICIOUS ANIMALS:
   (A)   Vicious Animal Defined; Exception:
      1.   Any animal which, when unprovoked, in a taunting or terrorizing
manner approaches any person in an apparent attitude of attack upon the
streets, sidewalks, any public grounds or places, or private property not owned
or possessed by the owner of the animal; or
      2.   Any animal with a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to
unprovoked attack, to cause injury, or to otherwise endanger the safety of
human beings or domestic animals; or
      3.   Any animal which bites, inflicts injury, assaults, or otherwise
attacks a human being or domestic animal without provocation; or
      4.   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of
fighting, or any animal trained for fighting; or
      5.   Any dog which has been trained as an attack dog, except dogs used by
law enforcement agencies.
Notwithstanding the above definitions of a vicious animal, an animal is not
necessarily vicious merely because injury or damage is sustained by a person
over the age of eighteen (18) who, at the time such injury or damage was
sustained, was committing a wilful trespass or other tort upon the premises
occupied by the owner of the animal, or was teasing, tormenting, abusing, or
assaulting the animal, or was committing or attempting to commit a crime. An
animal is not to be considered vicious if the animal was protecting or
defending a human being within the immediate vicinity of the animal from a
unjustified attack or assault.
   (B)   License Required; Fee: A vicious animal shall be required to be
licensed in the same manner that dogs are required to be licensed within the
City. However, the fee for licensing a vicious animal shall be four (4) times
the normal fee for the licensing of a dog not considered to be vicious within
the City limits. Said license fee shall be paid on an annual basis to the City
Clerk-Treasurer in accordance with the ordinance controlling the licensing of
dogs 1 .
   (C)   Control, Prohibition And Disposal Of Vicious Animals:
      1.   No owner or custodian shall keep a vicious animal within the City
limits unless such animal is kept within an absolutely secure enclosure. A
secure enclosure shall have a roof, a six foot (6') chainlink fence, poles
embedded in concrete footings extending one foot (1') belowground and a
concrete floor or foundation with the chainlink embedded three inches (3") into
the concrete.
      2.   Any person harboring, keeping or owning a vicious animal shall
register the animal with the City Clerk-Treasurer.
      3.   Except an animal as described in subsection (C)4 of this Section,
any person harboring, keeping or owning a vicious animal may keep the animal
upon posting with the City Clerk- Treasurer a liability insurance policy
specifying not less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) liability
for damages caused by the vicious animal and further endorsing the City as
party to be notified in the event of cancellation. Said policy shall require
the insurer to provide the City Clerk-Treasurer thirty (30) days' written
notice prior to cancellation of said policy.
      4.   Any owner or custodian, whose animal has been reported to have
bitten or attacked a human being or other domestic animal, without provocation,
shall be required to release his animal to the Animal Control Officer or the
Caribou County Sheriff's office for impoundment, disposal, and extermination.
      5.   Any time a vicious animal leaves the owner's or custodian's
property, the owner or custodian of said animal shall cause said animal to be
restrained with a chain and muzzle.
   (D)   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the
provisions of this Section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be fined in an amount not exceeding three hundred
dollars ($300.00) or be imprisoned for a period not exceeding one hundred
eighty (180) days or be both so fined and imprisoned. Each day such violation
is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be punishable as such hereunder. (Ord. 248, 7-7-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. See Chapter 4 of this Title.
CHAPTER 4
DOGS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Definitions
8-4-2: At Risk And Dangerous Dogs
8-4-3: License Required
8-4-4: Application For License; Fees; Tag; Record
8-4-5: Impounding And Killing Of Unlicensed Dogs
8-4-6: Kennel Licenses
8-4-7: Rabies
8-4-8: Cruelty Prohibited
8-4-9: Barking And Running At Large Prohibited
8-4-10: Duty Of Animal Control Officer
8-4-11: Penalty
8-4-12: Amounts To Be Changed By Resolution
8-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
DOG:            As used in this Chapter shall mean and include either male or
                female.
                As used in this Chapter shall be construed to mean and include
OWNER:          any person, association or corporation owning, harboring or
                keeping or in charge of a dog or dogs within the City limits.
                As used in this Chapter shall mean and include any dog not
UNLICENSED DOG: bearing a license for the current year. (Ord. 2023-1, 1-18-
                2023)
 
8-4-2: AT RISK OR DANGEROUS DOGS:
   (A)   A person commits the crime of maintaining an at risk or a dangerous
dog if the person owns, possesses, or harbors the same.
   (B)   Anyone who owns, possesses, or harbors an at risk or a dangerous dog
is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   If a person found guilty of violating the above, may be ordered to pay
the victim restitution related to medical expenses, property damage, and
associated costs.   
   (D)   At risk dog means any dog that without justified provocation bites a
person without causing a serious injury.
   (E)   Dangerous dog means any dog that without justified provocation has
inflicted serious injury or has been previously found to be at risk and
thereafter bites or physically attacks a person without justified provocation.
   (F)   Justified provocation means common knowledge the dog was protecting or
defending a person within the immediate vicinity of the dog from an assault or
attack. The person was committing a crime or offense upon the property of the
owner or custodian of the dog. The person was at the time or had, in the past,
willfully tormented, abused, or assaulted the dog. The dog was responding to
pain or injury or protecting its offspring. The dog was working as a predator
control dog on the property of or under the control of its owner or keeper. The
dog was a service animal trained and certified to do work for a person with a
disability.
   (G)   If a dog is found to be dangerous, it shall be confined to a secure,
locked enclosure from which it cannot escape and unauthorized persons are
prevented from accidental injury and the owner has total control. The enclosure
shall be posted with signs stating beware of dog. Ownership may not be allowed
to be transferred until final disposition is complete.
   (H)   In the event a dog is designated at risk and does not subsequently act
in a manner consistent with the definition of a dangerous dog, and the owner
and keeper of the dog has complied with all the provisions of this act, for a
period of two (2) years, the restrictions imposed shall be waived and the dog
shall no longer be classified as at risk.
   (I)   During the pendency of a case to have a dog found dangerous or at
risk, animal control responsible for the control of such dogs shall be
authorized to take the dog into custody and place the dog in a suitable place
at a customary reasonable expense to the owner pending final disposition of the
charge against the owner.
   (J)   Any dog that physically attacks, wounds, bites or otherwise injures
any person who is not trespassing, when such dog is not physically provoked or
otherwise justified, subjects either its owner or keeper to civil liability for
the injuries and associated costs.
   (K)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this Section shall be deemed guilty of an infraction and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined in an amount not exceeding three hundred dollars
($300.00). Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder. (Ord.
2023-1, 1-18-2023)
8-4-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any dog within the
City without paying a license fee therefor as hereinafter provided. Visitors to
the City are exempted if possessing a current license and tag issued by another
licensing authority. (Ord. 2023-1, 1-18-2023)
8-4-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEES; TAG; RECORD:
The owner or person keeping, harboring, or having in charge any dog within the
City shall, before January 31 of each year or within thirty (30) days of moving
into the City, make application to the City clerk for a license.
   (A)   Fee in the amount of fifteen dollars ($15.00) for each dog.
   (B)   The clerk shall issue a tag to be securely attached to the collar. If
a tag is lost, a duplicate will be provided for a fee of one dollar ($1.00).
   (C)   The Clerk will keep a record of all above transactions. (Ord. 2023-1,
1-18-2023)
8-4-5: IMPOUNDING AND KILLING OF UNLICENSED DOGS:
All dogs running at large as herein provided are declared to be a public
nuisance, and it is the duty of all policemen or the Animal Control Officer or
other designated agent of the City to take up and impound any dog running at
large as in this Chapter required. Every dog so seized shall be retained in the
pound for the space of seventy two (72) hours. At any time during said period
of seventy two (72) hours, the owner or keeper of said dog may redeem the same
by procuring a license as in this Chapter provided, and pay in addition a fee
to the said Animal Control Officer of one hundred dollars ($100.00) which shall
be paid into the Treasury by the Animal Control Officer. At the expiration of
seventy two (72) hours after impounding any dog, the Animal Control Officer is
authorized to sell any such dog to any person not the owner or keeper thereof
for the best price obtainable, and the sum received shall be paid by him into
the Treasury. In case any such dog not be redeemed or sold as herein provided,
the Animal Control Officer shall kill said dog, in any humane and lawful manner
and dispose of the carcass in any lawful manner. Said dog must not have
evidence of a chip to qualify. (Ord. 2023-1, 1-18-2023)
8-4-6: KENNEL LICENSES:
It shall be unlawful to keep, board, harbor or possess upon the premises of any
one household more than two (2) dogs.
   (A)   Fees shall be levied in the amount of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for
three (3) dogs and ten dollars ($10.00) for each dog over three (3).
   (B)   Application for any kennel license must be accompanied by the written
consent of at least seventy-five percent (75%) of all households within one
hundred feet (100') of the property lines of proposed kennel.
   (C)   Animal control shall have the right to conduct an audit at any time to
confirm numbers of dogs.
   (D)   All kennel licenses must be renewed annually by January 31.
   (E)   Puppies in kennels will require license at three (3) months of age.
(Ord. 2023-1, 1-18-2023)
8-4-7: RABIES:
The Animal Control Officer, policeman or other designated agent of the City
shall have the authority to order the owner of any dog showing symptoms of
rabies or of any dog which has bitten any person, so as to cause an abrasion of
the skin, to subject such dog to the City pound for quarantine for a period not
to exceed fifteen (15) days, and if such dog shall be determined free of
rabies, the same shall be returned to the owner upon payment of one-half (1/2)
of the regular fee for keeping dogs impounded. No other fee shall be charged.
If such fee is not paid, the dog will be subject to disposal as provided
hereinafter. Provided, however, that in lieu of submitting such dog to the City
pound, the owner may at his expense, immediately admit such to a veterinarian
for examination and furnish a report of the said examination to the Clerk
within twenty four (24) hours thereafter.
Any dog afflicted with rabies shall be disposed of immediately, either by the
owner or by the Animal Control Officer. (Ord. 2023-1, 1-18-2023)
8-4-8: CRUELTY PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to maltreat or torture any dog or, having
the right or authority to kill any dog, to kill such dog in an inhumane manner.
(Ord. 2023-1, 1-18-2023)
8-4-9: BARKING AND RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor within the
limits of the City any dog which by barking, howling or yelping disturbs the
quiet of any neighborhood or person.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper of a dog to allow said
dog to be on any public street, alley, sidewalk or any public way or public
place within the City unless said dog is on a leash in control by the owner or
is confined to a vehicle; provided, however, the Mayor may, upon application of
any person, authorize dog shows, exhibitions and dog training courses within
the City and allowing the dogs participating therein to be controlled only by
competent attendants.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper of a dog to allow said
dog to run upon any property in the City without the consent of the owner or
tenant in possession of said property. (Ord. 2023-1, 1-18-2023)
8-4-10: DUTY OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
It shall be the duty of all policemen and the Animal Control Officer or other
designated agent of the City to seize and impound any dog found to be running
at large in violation of this Chapter. The owner of every licensed dog so
seized shall be notified by Animal Control of the seizure within forty eight
(48) hours thereafter. Notice shall be deemed sufficient when it identifies the
dog by license number, states the date and place of seizure. Every licensed dog
so seized shall be retained in the pound for the space of three (3) days after
notice is mailed to the owner of the dog. At any time while said dog is
impounded, the owner or keeper of said dog may redeem the same by paying a fine
which shall be paid into the Treasury by the City Clerk. At the expiration of
three (3) days after notice shall have been mailed to the owner of said dog as
herein set forth, the Animal Control Officer is authorized to dispose of such
licensed dog as in this Chapter provided for unlicensed dogs. (Ord. 2023-1, 1-
18-2023)
8-4-11: PENALTY:
Any person violating this Chapter shall be given notice of said violation by
the City making personal service of said notice of violation upon the owner or
keeper of said dog, or if said owner or keeper of said dog cannot be found,
then by mailing notice of said violation to the last known address of said
owner or keeper by first class mail, postage prepaid, which notice shall be
deemed given upon being deposited in the United States mail. Within five (5)
days thereafter, the owner or keeper of said dog shall pay a fine to the City
Clerk at 108 East Center Street, Grace, Idaho, of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
upon the first violation, and two hundred dollars ($200.00) upon the second and
all subsequent violations within a one year period. If said dog has been
impounded, pursuant to Section
8-4-5, or has not been licensed in accordance with Section
8-4-3, of the City Code, the owner or keeper of said dog shall also pay the
impound fee or license fee as set by the City Council.
If a person fails to pay said fines and fees to the City Clerk within the time
period set forth in this Section, then said person shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor for violations of this Chapter 4, Title 8, of the City Code, and
shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of this Section, providing
for fines, plus any court costs which are required to be paid by the court. The
Animal Control Officer or any officer shall have the power to enforce the
provisions of this Chapter. The Animal Control Officer's powers are strictly
limited to the capture of dogs and impounding of the same and the giving of
notice of violation or issuance of citations for violations of this Chapter.
(Ord. 2023-1, 1-18-2023)
8-4-12: AMOUNTS TO BE CHANGED BY RESOLUTION:
The City shall have the ability to alter the fines fees and penalties of this
chapter by resolution. (Ord. 2023-1, 1-18-2023)
CHAPTER 5
CATS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Definitions
8-5-2: License Required
8-5-3: License And License Fees
8-5-4: Tag Attached To Collar; Fee For Duplicate
8-5-5: Record Of License
8-5-6: Impounding And Killing Of Unlicensed Cats
8-5-7: Rabies
8-5-8: Cruelty Prohibited
8-5-9: Public Nuisance
8-5-10: Interference Unlawful
8-5-11: Abandoning Of Cats
8-5-12: Enforcement And Penalty
8-5-13: Fines And Fees
8-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
CAT: As used in this Chapter shall mean and include either male or female.
OWNER: As used in this Chapter shall be construed to mean and include any
person, association, or corporation owning, harboring or keeping or in charge
of a cat or cats within the City limits.
UNLICENSED CAT: As used in this Chapter shall mean and include any cat not
bearing a license for the current year. (Ord. 240, 1-2-1996)
8-5-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor any cat within the
corporate limits of the City without paying a license fee therefor and
hereinafter provided. (Ord. 240, 1-2-1996)
8-5-3: LICENSE AND LICENSE FEES:
The owner or person keeping, harboring, or having in charge any cat within the
corporate limits of the City shall, before January 1 of each year make
application to the City Clerk and pay a license fee in the sum of ten dollars
($10.00) for each male cat, fifteen dollars ($15.00) for a license on each
female cat, and the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) for each spayed female cat,
providing that the owner thereof shall present to and file with the City Clerk
at the time of securing said license, a certificate of a licensed veterinarian
that said cat is a spayed female cat. Upon payment of said fee it shall be the
duty of the Clerk to issue a license to said person bearing the same number as
the number to be worn on the collar of the cat as hereinafter provided. The
said license shall give the date of issue, the date of expiration, the amount
paid, the name and address of the person to whom issued and the name and sex of
the cat. The City Clerk shall furnish with each license a metal cat tag which
shall be stamped with a number to correspond with the number of the license and
the year for which issued. In case a cat is brought within the corporate limits
of the City within the license year designated, the owner or person having such
a cat in charge shall pay the same amount as herein specified and said Clerk
shall thereupon issue a license as in other cases. It shall be unlawful for
anyone to make a false statement in said application for said license.
Provided, however, that the provisions of this Section shall not apply to any
person visiting in the City for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days and
owning or possessing a cat currently licensed and bearing the license issued by
another licensing authority. (Ord. 240, 1-2-1996)
8-5-4: TAG ATTACHED TO COLLAR; FEE FOR DUPLICATE:
The metal tag as described herein above shall be attached to the collar of the
cat, which the owner or person in charge of the cat shall provide and which
shall be placed and kept upon the neck of the cat so licensed. If the metal tag
be lost, a duplicate tag shall be obtained by making application to the Clerk
who shall issue such duplicate tag upon payment by the applicant of a fee of
one dollar ($1.00). (Ord. 240, 1-2-1996)
8-5-5: RECORD OF LICENSE:
The City Clerk shall keep a suitable record of licenses issued under the
provisions of this Chapter and shall record all of the facts required to be
stated in the license. (Ord. 240, 1-2-1996)
8-5-6: IMPOUNDING AND KILLING OF UNLICENSED CATS:
All cats as provided in Section
8-5-9 are declared to be a public nuisance, and it is the duty of all policemen
or the Animal Control Officer or other designated agent of the City to take up
and impound any cat declared to be a public nuisance as in this Chapter
required. Every cat so seized shall be retained in the pound for the space of
seventy two (72) hours. The owner of every licensed cat so seized shall be
notified by the City of the seizure within forty eight (48) hours thereafter.
Notice shall be deemed sufficient when it identifies the cat by license number,
states the date and place of seizure, and is placed in a sealed envelope,
addressed to the owner of the cat at his residence as it appears on the
application for the current license, and is deposited in the United States mail
with postage prepaid. At any time during said period of seventy two (72) hours,
the owner or keeper of said cat may redeem the same by procuring a license as
in this Chapter provided, and pay in addition a fee to the said Animal Control
Officer of twenty five dollars ($25.00) which shall be paid into the Treasury
by the Animal Control Officer. At the expiration of seventy two (72) hours
after impounding any cat, the Animal Control Officer is authorized to sell any
such cat to any person not the owner or keeper thereof for the best price
obtainable and the sum received shall be paid by him to the Treasury. In case
any such cat be not redeemed or sold as herein provided, the Animal Control
Officer shall kill said cat, in any humane and lawful manner and dispose of the
carcass in any lawful manner. (Ord. 240, 1-2-1996)
8-5-7: RABIES:
The Animal Control Officer, policeman or other designated agent of the City
shall have the authority to order the owner of any cat showing symptoms of
rabies or of any cat which has bitten any person, so as to cause an abrasion of
the skin, to subject such cat to the Animal Control Officer for quarantine for
a period not to exceed fifteen (15) days, and if such cat shall be determined
free of rabies the same shall be returned to the owner upon payment of one-half
(1/2) of the regular fee for keeping cats impounded. No other fee shall be
charged. If such fee is not paid the cat will be subject to disposal as
provided hereinafter.
Provided, however, that in lieu of submitting such cat to the Animal Control
Officer, the owner may at his expense, immediately admit such to a veterinarian
for examination and furnish a report of the said examination to the Clerk
within twenty four (24) hours thereafter.
Any cat afflicted with rabies shall be disposed of immediately, either by the
owner or by the Animal Control Officer. (Ord. 240, 1-2-1996)
8-5-8: CRUELTY PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to maltreat or torture any cat, or, having
the right or authority to kill any cat, to kill such cat in an inhumane manner.
(Ord. 240, 1-2-1996)
8-5-9: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Any cat found to be in violation of subsection (A) of this Section shall be
considered to be a public nuisance.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor within the
corporate limits of the City any cat which causes destruction to property or
disturbs the peace and quiet of any neighborhood or person.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper of a cat to allow said
cat to run upon any property in the City without the consent of the owner or
tenant in possession of said property. Citizens living within the corporate
limits of the City may trap any cat running upon their property. Entrapment
must be accomplished by use of a live trap to be provided by the City. Traps
may not be baited in any manner which would tend to lure said cat(s) upon the
property of a citizen not legally the owner, person keeping, harboring or
having charge of said cat.
   (C)   Upon catching a cat in an approved trap provided by the City, said cat
shall be transferred to the City Animal Control Officer as soon as possible.
The City Animal Control Officer shall at that time follow the guidelines
therefor as herein provided. (Ord. 240, 1-2-1996)
8-5-10: INTERFERENCE UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, molest or interfere with any
person who is engaged in seizing any cat, killing the same or removing the
carcass under the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 240, 1-2-1996)
8-5-11: ABANDONING OF CATS:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to bring cats into the corporate limits of the
City and abandon them so as to cause them to be considered a nuisance to the
City. (Ord. 240, 1-2-1996)
8-5-12: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY:
The Animal Control Officer or any police officer of the Caribou County
Sheriff's office, or City police officer, shall have the power to enforce the
provisions of this Chapter and to issue citations to any person guilty of
violating any provisions of this Chapter. The Animal Control Officer's powers
are strictly limited to the issuance of citations for violation of this Chapter
and the impounding of animals. Any person violating any provision of this
Chapter shall be given notice of said violation by the City, making personal
service of said notice of violation upon the owner or keeper of said cat, or if
said owner or keeper of said cat cannot be found, then by mailing notice of
said violation to the last known address of said owner or keeper by first class
mail, postage prepaid, which notice shall be deemed given upon being deposited
in the United States mail. Within five (5) days thereafter, the owner or keeper
of said cat shall pay a fine to the City Clerk at 108 East Center Street,
Grace, Idaho, of twenty five dollars ($25.00) upon the first violation and
fifty dollars ($50.00) upon the second, and all subsequent violations within a
one year period. If said cat has been impounded, pursuant to this Code, or has
not been licensed in accordance with this Code, the owner or keeper of said cat
shall also pay the impound fee or license fee as prescribed by the City
Council.
If a person fails to pay said fines and fees to the City Clerk within the time
period set forth in this Section, then said person shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor for violations of this Chapter, and shall be punished in accordance
with the provisions of this Section, providing for fines, plus any court costs
which are required to be paid by the court. (Ord. 240, 1-2-1996)
8-5-13: FINES AND FEES:
Fines and fees contained herein may be changed as deemed necessary, by
resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 240, 1-2-1996)
TITLE 9
TRAFFIC AND MOTOR VEHICLES
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Idaho Motor Vehicle Laws Adopted
9-1-2: Speed Limit Established
9-1-3: School Zone Speed Limit
9-1-4: Regulations At Or Near Fires
9-1-1: IDAHO MOTOR VEHICLE LAWS ADOPTED:
The city hereby adopts the Idaho motor vehicle laws as set forth in title 49 of
the Idaho Code. Said title 49 of the Idaho Code is incorporated as if set forth
at length herein. (Ord. 152, 2-11-1971)
9-1-2: SPEED LIMIT ESTABLISHED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive an automobile or motor vehicle
over and upon the streets or alleys of the city at a speed of more than twenty
five (25) miles per hour. (Ord. 184, 2-10-1981)
Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be subject to penalty as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 113, 10-3-1950)
9-1-3: SCHOOL ZONE SPEED LIMIT:
   (A)   The city of Grace, Idaho, finds that it is necessary to establish a
school speed zone on Main Street - State Highway 34 where schools are located
to promote student, motorist, and pedestrian safety.
   (B)   There is hereby created a school zone on Main Street - State Highway
34 within the city limits of Grace, Idaho. The school zone shall extend from
the south side of the right of way line of Monte Vista Drive within said city,
to the south side of Second South Street, also in said city, where said streets
intersect Main Street - State Highway 34.
   (C)   The maximum speed of all motor vehicles operated upon Main Street -
State Highway 34 within said school zone during the hours and days that said
zone is in effect shall be twenty (20) miles per hour. During the times and
periods that said school zone is not in effect, the speed limit for Main Street
- State Highway 34 shall be thirty five (35) miles per hour within the area
designated above. (Ord. 265, 6-7-2005)
   (D)   Said school zone shall be in effect when the amber lights on the
traffic control "school zone" signs are flashing. (Ord. 276, 4-16-2008)
   (E)   The state of Idaho shall cause appropriate school zone and speed limit
signs to be erected at the points designated on Main Street - State Highway 34.
(Ord. 265, 6-7-2005)
9-1-4: REGULATIONS AT OR NEAR FIRES:
   (A)   Obstructing Streets Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for drivers to
obstruct the streets leading to or near any fire so as to retard the operation
of the city firefighting equipment, and for this purpose no driver shall drive
his automobile upon or near the center of the street near or at said fire, and
shall not park near any fire so as to hinder the firemen thereat. Upon the
sounding of any siren on any firefighting equipment, on any street where said
equipment is being driven, drivers of all motor vehicles on said streets shall
immediately drive to the curb and remain there until said equipment has passed.
   (B)   Driving Over Fire Hose Prohibited: No driver shall run over any fire
hose or other equipment of said fire department. (Ord. 149, 5-6-1969; amd. Ord.
265, 6-7-2005)
CHAPTER 2
STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING
SECTION:
9-2-1: Applicability Of Regulations
9-2-2: Manner Of Parking
9-2-3: Parking Prohibited In Specific Places
9-2-4: Parking Restricted During Snowfall
9-2-5: Restrictions On Parking
9-2-1: APPLICABILITY OF REGULATIONS:
This chapter shall apply to all motor vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles and other
kinds of self-propelled vehicles operated upon the streets or alleys or within
the limits of the city. (Ord. 149, 5-6-1969)
9-2-2: MANNER OF PARKING:
Except as otherwise provided in this section, every vehicle stopped or parked
upon a roadway or its adjacent curb shall be so stopped or parked with the
right hand wheels of such vehicle parallel to and within eighteen inches (18")
of the right hand curb. Where there are no curbs adjacent to said street, then
said vehicle shall be parked parallel to said street except as otherwise
provided for herein, on the right hand side of the street in a manner that will
leave the street free for the regular flow of traffic. The city council shall
be authorized to allow other types of parking in any areas where the council
feels it would be to the best interests of the citizens of the city, and at
such times and in such places the city council shall have signs posted
directing the type of parking regulations to be observed on the streets
excepted hereto. (Ord. 149, 5-6-1969)
9-2-3: PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIC PLACES:
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the directions of a
police officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
   (A)   On a sidewalk;
   (B)   In front of a public or private driveway;
   (C)   Within an intersection;
   (D)   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant;
   (E)   On a crosswalk;
   (F)   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection;
   (G)   Within thirty feet (30') of a stop sign or traffic control signal
located at the side of a roadway; (Ord. 149, 5-6-1969)
   (H)   (Rep. by Ord. 259, 1-21-2003)
   (I)   Within twenty feet (20') of a driveway entrance to any fire station,
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within
seventy five feet (75') of said entrance when properly signposted;
   (J)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (K)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
   (L)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon any street in the
city;
   (M)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping; (Ord. 149, 5-6-
1969)
   (N)   Any vehicle in excess of one ton in weight on Main Street between
First North Street and Second South Street within the city, with the exception
of temporary vehicles loading or unloading merchandise for delivery to
commercial businesses. (Ord. 184, 2-10-1981)
9-2-4: PARKING RESTRICTED DURING SNOWFALL:
In order to facilitate the removal of snow from public streets of the city, no
parking of any vehicle will be permitted on any public street within the city
from November 1 of each year to March 1 of the following year, during the hours
of four o'clock (4:00) A.M. to eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. of the same day. Any
person violating the provisions of this section shall pay a fine to the City
Clerk in the amounts as set forth in subsection
2-1-5(E) of this Code, and if said person fails to pay said fines within the
required time period to the City Clerk, said person shall be issued a
misdemeanor citation and punished in accordance with subsection
2-1-5(E) of this Code. (Ord. 279, 6-18-2008)
9-2-5: RESTRICTIONS ON PARKING:
   (A)   Nonmotorized Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any person to park
nonmotorized vehicles, including, but not limited to: boats, campers, camp
trailers, trailers or other such vehicles on any City street unless said
vehicle is currently registered and parked adjacent to the owner's real
property. Any person who is not also an adjacent real property owner, shall not
park any nonmotorized vehicle near any property or lot without first obtaining
a permit from the City. Said permit shall be valid for only ten (10) days.
(Ord. 2016-04, 8-17-2016)
   (B)   Motor Vehicles: It is unlawful to park any motor vehicle with two (2)
or more rear axles in any Residential Zone as depicted upon the zoning map of
the City of Grace, Idaho, other than for the purpose of loading and unloading
freight or other merchandise for delivery to commercial businesses or for the
relocation of persons and their belongings to and from residences, except that
such motor vehicles may be parked upon City streets within said zone if written
consent is obtained from all property owners owning property within three
hundred feet (300') of the spot on the street on which said vehicle is to be
located, subject to the prohibitions or restrictions as set forth in other
sections of this Code. Furthermore, any owner or operator of a motor vehicle
who desires to leave said motor vehicle running while parked on any City
street, or upon any private property within any Residential or Commercial Zone,
must also obtain the written consent from all property owners owning property
within three hundred feet (300') of the boundary lines of the premises upon
which said vehicle would be parked, or within three hundred feet (300') of the
location of the vehicle when parked upon a City street. Application for a
parking permit shall be made to the City Clerk, and said application must be
accompanied by the signatures of the property owners located within the area
described above, agreeing to the parking of said vehicle at that location or
the operation of said vehicle at that location. Said permit shall be
nontransferable and shall expire on December 31 of the year in which it is
issued. (Ord. 259, 1-21-2003)
   (C)   Recreational Vehicles (RVs):
      1.   Temporary or intermittent use of recreational vehicles (RVs) shall
use the following standards: The RV shall have a current registration and shall
be in operational condition so it can be operated in a safe and lawful manner
upon the roads and highways in the State of Idaho as set forth in the Motor
Vehicle Laws of the State of Idaho, title 49, Idaho Code. An RV shall not be
set on blocks with the tires or running gear removed. Sheep or cattle camp
trailers which are not required to be licensed shall be allowed.
      2.   No decks or additions shall be attached to an RV, nor shall an RV be
skirted.
      3.   An RV shall not be used as a dwelling except as provided in this
section. The owner of an RV must have a primary residence other than the RV. If
the parcel on which the RV is located otherwise undeveloped, there shall be no
mail service to the parcel.
      4.   A RV must be hooked into the City water system and the sewage
disposal system which meets the requirements of the City of Grace and the
Health District, at an approved RV park facility, or facility approved by the
City of Grace. Totally self-contained RV used for temporary lodging under this
subsection (C) shall be properly maintained and empty holding tanks at an
approved location, no gray water or black water shall be allowed to discharge
on the ground or the streets. At no time shall an RV be used for permanent
lodging unless otherwise specified in this subsection (C).
      5.   An RV may be used as a dwelling for the owners of the parcel on
which the RV is located during construction of dwelling on that parcel. In such
cases, the provisions of this section regarding the owner's primary residence
and mail service shall not apply. Upon completion of the residence or
expiration of the setting permit for the residence, the use of the RV shall
revert to temporary or intermittent use as provided in this section.
      6.   An RV shall not be used as a rental.
      7.   Permits issued by the City of Grace for temporary use of RVs for
lodging in a Residential Zone shall not exceed ten (10) days and cannot be
reissued for concurrent lodging unless otherwise specified in this subsection
(C). (Ord. 2018-5, 11-7-2018)
CHAPTER 3
SNOWMOBILE, TERRAIN VEHICLE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Purpose
9-3-2: Definitions
9-3-3: Driver's License Required
9-3-4: Obedience to Traffic Laws Required
9-3-5: Speed Limit
9-3-6: Duty to Drive to the Right
9-3-7: Regulations at Intersections
9-3-8: Operation on Sidewalks Prohibited
9-3-9: Lights Required
9-3-10: Hours Operation Prohibited
9-3-11: Operation on Certain Streets Prohibited
9-3-12: Number of Passengers Restricted
9-3-13: Operation on Private Property; Consent of Owner Required
9-3-14: Towing Other Items Prohibited
9-3-15: Penalty
9-3-1: PURPOSE:
In order to assist users of vehicles commonly described as snowmobiles and all
terrain vehicles to transport snowmobiles from places of storage to locations
for recreation or other purposes not located upon public streets, alleyways or
other public thoroughfares located within the City limits, the following
restrictions, regulations and penalties as provided in this Chapter will be
enforced by the law enforcement agencies of the City. (Ord. 153, 2-16-71)
9-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them herein:
PUBLIC STREET: A street, alleyway or other public thoroughfare which is
maintained for winter use.
SIDEWALK: Those sidewalks used for public use which are maintained for use in
the winter time. The term does not include sidewalks not cleaned and maintained
for winter use during periods of time when snow is on the ground. (Ord. 153, 2-
16-71)
9-3-3: DRIVER'S LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall be allowed to operate a snowmobile or other terrain vehicle
along a maintained public street, alley or thoroughfare located within the City
unless he has been issued a valid Idaho State operator's license in accordance
with the Idaho Statutes for the purpose of operating a motor vehicle upon a
public highway, and said operator will be required to have said driver's
license in his possession while operating said snowmobile on the public
thoroughfare. (Ord. 153, 2-16-71)
9-3-4: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC LAWS REQUIRED:
In addition to the regulations contained herein, the operators of all
snowmobiles will be required to obey all laws of the Idaho Motor Vehicle
Statutes. (Ord. 153, 2-16-71)
9-3-5: SPEED LIMIT:
No snowmobile or snow machine may be operated upon any City street or
thoroughfare within the City limits at a rate of speed in excess of fifteen
(15) miles per hour. (Ord. 153, 2-16-71)
9-3-6: DUTY TO DRIVE TO THE RIGHT:
Any operation of a snowmobile or other terrain vehicle on the public streets or
thoroughfares of the City shall be restricted exclusively to the extreme right-
hand side of said roadway while operating said snowmobile or other terrain
vehicle as closely to the right-hand side of the street as possible, and the
operation of a snow machine directly in the lane of traffic as utilized by
wheeled vehicles is prohibited. It is further prohibited to operate snowmobiles
or other terrain vehicles on public streets in any manner than single file
along the extreme right-hand side of the road. (Ord. 153, 2-16-71)
9-3-7: REGULATIONS AT INTERSECTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for the operator of any snowmobile or other terrain
vehicle to cross any public street except when in the most direct route across
the street, this being direct and straight across the street.
Operators of snowmobiles or other terrain vehicles on public streets in the
city shall bring said snowmobile or other terrain vehicle to a full and
complete stop at every intersection where two (2) or more streets cross,
regardless of the type of traffic control displayed at the various
intersections, or in the absence of said traffic control sign or symbol. (Ord.
153, 2-16-1971)
9-3-8: OPERATION ON SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile or other terrain
vehicle on any public sidewalk or walkway maintained for winter use for
pedestrian traffic except for the use of all-terrain vehicles to remove snow.
(Ord. 279, 6-18-2008)
9-3-9: LIGHTS REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to operate a snowmobile or other terrain vehicle on the
streets of the city regardless of the time of day or night or prevailing
weather conditions, unless the rear illuminary or taillight and the head light
or lamp are lit. (Ord. 153, 2-16-1971)
9-3-10: HOURS OPERATION PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to operate a snowmobile or other terrain vehicle within
the city limits between ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on
the public streets, and the use of a snowmobile or other terrain vehicle shall
further be prohibited during any of these hours when the operation of said
snowmobile or other terrain vehicle would cause a public nuisance. (Ord. 153,
2-16-1971)
9-3-11: OPERATION ON CERTAIN STREETS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for the operator of any snowmobile, snow machine or all-
terrain vehicle to operate said machine or vehicle for any purpose on any of
the following streets: on Main Street between Second North and Second South,
except when crossing said street in accordance with Idaho state statutes at
defined intersections. (Ord. 279, 6-18-2008)
9-3-12: NUMBER OF PASSENGERS RESTRICTED:
Operators of any snowmobile or other terrain vehicle shall not carry or
otherwise transport more than one person on said machine while said vehicle is
being operated on the public streets of the city irrespective of the size or
age of the passengers. (Ord. 153, 2-16-1971)
9-3-13: OPERATION ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; CONSENT OF OWNER REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to operate any snowmobile or other terrain vehicle upon
any privately owned real estate in the city limits without the express and
specific consent of the legal occupant of said property. (Ord. 153, 2-16-1971)
9-3-14: TOWING OTHER ITEMS PROHIBITED:
Operators of snowmobiles and other terrain vehicles shall not pull, tow or push
any other type of conveyance or item of equipment such as sleds, sleighs,
toboggans, trailers, skids or skis while operating snowmobiles or other terrain
vehicles on public streets in the city. (Ord. 153, 2-16-1971)
9-3-15: PENALTY:
All violators of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
subject to a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) and/or
imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed thirty (30) days. (Ord. 153, 2-
16-1971)
APPENDIX A
Special Ordinances
Ord. No. Subject Date
Ord. No. Subject                                                     Date
7        Electric light company Franchise                            2-16
9        Annual appropriation                                        8-1-16
12       Election, water system bond issue                           9-22-16
13       Sidewalk improvement district #1                            10-4-16
14       Sidewalk improvement district #1 established                9-22-16
15       Election, electric light system bond issue                  12-9-16
16       Election, water system bond issue                           12-12-16
17       Water bond issue election (amendment)                       3-27-17
18       Sidewalk improvement district #2                            4-23-17
19       Election, water system bond issue                           5-1-17
21       Sidewalk improvement district #2                            6-12-17
22       Vacate street, regulate width                               6-12-17
24       Water system bond issue, election results                   1917
25       Water system bond sale to highest bidder                    9-7-17
26       Street improvement district #1                              9-11-17
27       Street improvement district #1 established                  10-2-17
28       Election, water system bond issue                           11-3-17
29       Bond issue, outstanding indebtedness of Village             5-8-18
30       Bond issue, outstanding indebtedness of Village             5-28-18
31       Sale of bonds to highest bidder, Village indebtedness       7-1-18
32       Street improvement district #2                              7-3-18
33       Annual appropriation                                        7-8-18
34       Sidewalk improvement district #2, confirm process in        8-6-18
         establishing
35       Street improvement district #2                              8-7-18
36       Street improvement district #1 established                  9-19-18
37       Street improvement district #1, assessment                  10-18
38       Street improvement district #3                              10-8-18
39       Street improvement district #3 established                  10-18
40       Bonding for Village indebtedness                            1918
41       Bond sale, Village indebtedness                             1918
48       Election, electric light system bond issue                  1919
49       Annual appropriation                                        7-21-19
50       Bond sale, electric light system                            8-2-19
51       Levy ad valorem taxes                                       9-13-19
53       Street improvement district #2                              5-25-20
54       Street improvement district #3                              5-25-20
58       Levy ad valorem taxes                                       9-13-21
59       Levy ad valorem taxes                                       9-7-22
60       Levy ad valorem taxes                                       8-30-20
61       Bond issue, Village indebtedness                            1-5-23
63       Levy ad valorem taxes                                       9-4-23
64       Levy ad valorem taxes                                       9-8-24
65       Levy ad valorem taxes                                       9-10-25
66       Levy ad valorem taxes                                       7-20-26
68       Levy ad valorem taxes                                       6-5-28
69       Levy ad valorem taxes                                       8-6-29
71       Election, sale of electric system                           8-13-29
73       Utah Power and Light Company franchise                      9-21-29
75       Levy ad valorem taxes                                       6-3-30
76       Levy ad valorem taxes                                       6-2-31
79       Levy ad valorem taxes                                       8-7-34
80       Levy ad valorem taxes                                       8-6-35
81       Levy ad valorem taxes                                       9-7-37
82       Levy ad valorem taxes                                       9-1-38
83       Levy ad valorem taxes                                       9-6-39
85       Sale of Municipal coupon refunding bonds                    1940
87       Levy ad valorem taxes                                       9-3-40
88       Annual appropriation                                        9-4-41
89       Levy ad valorem taxes                                       9-4-41
89       Levy ad valorem taxes                                       8-10-42
93       Tax levy                                                    9-3-46
95       Vacate alley                                                12-3-47
96       Tax levy                                                    9-2-47
101      Annul, vacate portion of North First Street                 8-18-48
102      Tax levy                                                    8-18-48
105      Annual appropriation                                        7-49
106      Tax levy                                                    9-19-49
111      Annual appropriation                                        7-5-50
112      Annual appropriation                                        1950
116      Annual appropriation                                        8-20-51
117      Tax levy                                                    9-4-52
118      Annual appropriation                                        6-52
122      Annexation                                                  6-3-53
123      Annual appropriation                                        6-53
125      Sidewalk improvement district #50                           6-1-54
126      Tax levy                                                    9-1-54
130      Tax levy                                                    9-6-55
131      Idaho Natural Gas Company franchise                         1955
133      Tax levy                                                    1956
136      Election, water and sewer revenue bond issue                10-21-58
137      Water and sewer revenue bond issue                          5-5-59
138      Water and sewer bonds, accept bids                          6-16-59
141      Tax levy                                                    9-6-60
142      Tax levy                                                    8-1-61
142      Tax levy                                                    9-4-62
143      Tax levy                                                    9-3-63
144      Tax levy                                                    8-4-64
148      Tax levy                                                    9-8-66
151      Intent to sell real estate                                  5-20-69
162      Sale of real estate                                         4-27-76
165      Contract, law enforcement by County                         3-14-77
---      Electric light, heat and power franchise                    9-18-79
172      Vacate portions of certain streets                          9-16-80
177      Repeal of certain ordinances                                2-10-81
188      Exclude certain territory from City                         8-18-81
193      Appropriations 1982-83                                      9-14-82
194      Appropriations 1983-84                                      9-6-83
197      Appropriations 1984-85                                      9-3-84
198      Electric light, heat, and power franchise                   12-18-84
199      Conveyance of City airport property                         8-6-85
200      Appropriations 1985-86                                      9-3-85
201      Thirty year extension to Intermountain Gas Company          11-5-85
         franchise
204      Zoning map amendment                                        7-1-86
205      Appropriations 1986-87                                      8-19-86
208      Appropriation 1987-88                                       8-18-87
209      Special bond election                                       6-21-88
210      Amending special bond election                              7-5-88
211      Appropriation 1988-89                                       8-30-88
212      Authorizing issuance of water bond                          4-11-89
213      Exchange of property                                        4-4-89
214      Sale of surplus property                                    8-8-89
215      Amending Ordinance No. 211                                  8-15-89
216      Appropriation 1989-90                                       9-5-89
218      Zoning map amendment                                        1-2-90
219      Sale of surplus property                                    10-30-89
219      Sale of surplus property                                    1-2-90
220      Appropriation 1990-91                                       9-4-90
221      Naming Caribou County Sun as official newspaper             8-20-91
222      Appropriation 1991-92                                       9-3-91
223      Appropriation 1992-93                                       9-1-92
226      Appropriation 1993-94                                       9-7-93
228      Exchange of City property                                   2-1-94
230      Appropriation 1994-1995                                     9-7-1994
231      Depositories of Municipal funds designated                  11-15-1994
239      Appropriation 1995-1996                                     8-15-1995
241      Annexation                                                  3-19-1996
242      Appropriation 1996-1997                                     8-20-1996
243      Sale of certain property                                    4-29-1997
244      Appropriation 1997-1998                                     9-2-1997
245      Proclaiming general City election                           9-2-1997
246      Abandoning a portion of Third Street South                  10-21-1997
249      Appropriation 1998-1999                                     9-1-1998
250      Vacating a portion of Center Street between Main Street and 10-6-1998
         First East Street
251      Appropriation 1999-2000                                     8-17-1999
252      Appropriation 2000-2001                                     8-15-2000
254      Appropriation 2001-2002                                     9-4-2001
258      Appropriation 2002-2003                                     8-20-2002
261      Appropriation 2003-2004                                     8-19-2003
263      Vacating portions of certain roads and rights of way within 7-6-2004
         Turner Subdivision
264      Appropriation 2004-2005                                     8-17-2004
266      Appropriation 2005-2006                                     8-16-2005
267      Appropriation 2006-2007                                     8-15-2006
268      Amending ordinance 267                                      11-7-2006
271      Appropriation 2007-2008                                     8-21-2007
277      Amending ordinance 271                                      5-7-2008
281      Appropriation 2008-2009                                     9-3-2008
283      Depositories of City funds designated                       11-19-2008
286      Amending ordinance 281                                      7-1-2009
287      Appropriation 2009-2010                                     9-2-2009
288      Special election, water bond issuance                       9-16-2009
289      Amending ordinance 287                                      6-16-2010
290      Authorizing issuance of water bond                          7-21-2010
291      Appropriation 2010-2011                                     9-2-2010
292      Appropriation 2011-2012                                     8-17-2011
293      Amending ordinance 291                                      9-21-2011
2012-295 Appropriation 2012-2013                                     8-15-2012
2014-2   Appropriation 2014-2015                                     8-20-2014
2014-3   Granting electric utility franchise                         11-19-2014
2015-2   Appropriation 2015-2016                                     8-5-2015
2016-1   Granting extension to gas franchise                         1-6-2016
2016-2   Appropriation 2016-2017                                     8-3-2016
2017-1   Appropriation 2017-2018                                     8-16-2017
2018-1   Amending ordinance 2017-1                                   5-16-2018
2018-3   Appropriation 2018-2019                                     8-15-2018
2019-1   Annexation                                                  8-7-2019
2019-2   Appropriation 2019-2020                                     8-21-2019
2020-1   Appropriation 2019-2020                                     2-5-2020
2020-4   Appropriation 2020-2021                                     8-19-2020
2021-1   Issuing Revenue Bonds                                       3-17-2021
2021-2   Appropriation 2021                                          8-18-2021
2022-2   Annual appropriations 2021                                  4-6-2022
2022-4   Annual appropriation 2022                                   8-17-2022
                                                                    
 
APPENDIX B
Special Resolutions
Res. No. or  Year PasseSubject Date
Res. No. or  Year PasseSubject                                     Date
1915                     Purchase lot, build jail                    1915
1916                     Annual appropriation                        9-20-16
1918                     Publish estimate of expenditures of Village 1918
1929                     Assessment of charges against local         11-5-29
                         improvements
1938                     Water well equipment, request for           1938
1947                     State Highway improvement                   11-4-47
1950                     Annual appropriation                        1950
1951                     Annual appropriation                        1951
1952                     Annual appropriation                        1952
1954                     Sidewalk, curb and gutter improvement       4-6-54
1954                     Improvement district #50, assessment        7-6-54
1956                     Annual appropriation                        1956
1959                     Annual appropriation                        1959
1961                     Annual appropriation                        1961
1962                     Annual appropriation                        1962
1964                     Annual appropriation                        1964
1965                     Annual appropriation                        1965
1966                     Annual appropriation                        1966
#1                       Status of corporate Village changed to      8-29-67
                         corporate City
1969                     Annual appropriation                        9-2-69
1970                     Annual appropriation                        9-1-70
1971                     Annual appropriation                        3-2-71
1971                     Annual appropriation                        9-7-71
1972                     Annual appropriation                        8-31-72
#3                       Low-rent housing lease application          10-24-72
#4                       Annual appropriation                        3-27-73
#7                       General City election, proclamation         9-4-73
#8                       Annual appropriation                        3-5-74
#9                       City culinary water extension outside City  5-21-74
                         limits prohibited
#10                      Recommend passage of Zoning Ordinance       1-14-75
#11                      Recommend passage of Subdivision Ordinance  1-14-75
#12                      Annual appropriation                        1-28-75
#13                      Grace Citizen Paper designated official     3-11-75
                         newspaper for the year 1975
1975                     Regional water quality planning agreement   8-12-75
#16                      General City election, proclamation         9-16-75
#17                      Application for block grant for water and   11-11-75
                         sewer system
#18                      Annual appropriation                        2-17-76
#19                      Railroad encroachment lease agreement       2-17-76
#22                      Application for block grant for water       10-5-76
                         system improvement
#23                      Annual appropriation                        2-1-77
#24                      Contract, law enforcement by County         3-1-77
#25                      Improvement district #50, waive further     4-19-77
                         assessments and liens
#27                      Annual appropriation                        8-16-77
#28                      Sewage treatment works, intent to construct 8-16-77
#29                      General City election, proclamation         9-6-77
#32                      Contract for law enforcement by Caribou     3-28-78
                         County
#33                      City Representative(s) to acquire Federal   7-18-78
                         surplus property
#34                      Closure of dedicated streets                7-11-78
#35                      Budget; appropriation                       8-15-78
#36                      Railroad encroachment, agreement            9-5-78
#38                      Engineering firm for sewer project          10-24-78
#39                      Grant process for wastewater treatment      2-27-79
                         works
#40                      Sewer user rates and fees, specific         3-31-79
#42                      Installation of railroad crossing signs     9-4-79
#43                      General City election, proclamation         9-4-79
#44                      Budget; appropriation                       8-2-79
#45                      Water rates and charges, specific           4-4-80
#46                      Water rates and charges, specific           4-4-80
#47                      Sewer rates and fees, specific              4-4-80
#48                      Budget expenditures                         8-19-80
#49                      Control and regulation of industrial waste  11-25-80
#50                      Endorsement of certificate of deposit,      11-25-80
                         purchase of money market certificate
#51                      Water system connection fees                5-5-81
#52                      Designation of Mayor to Sign Project C 16-  7-21-81
                         0240-01 documents
#53                      General City election, proclamation         8-4-81
#54                      Budget revenues, 1981–1982                8-18-81
#55                      Designation of Mayor to sign Project C 16-  1-5-82
                         0240-01 documents
#56                      Division of Highways Cooperative Agreement  4-20-82
#57                      Sewer user charges, specific                2-15-83
#58                      General City election, proclamation         9-6-83
#59                      Designation of Mayor to sign Project ICDBG  8-21-84
                         No. 84-IM-V-15 documents
                         Designation of Mayor to sign Mountain Bell
#60                      Permit Reference No. IS9854 documents;      5-21-85
                         installation and maintenance of telephone
                         cable of rights of way
                         Designation of Mayor to sign documents
#61                      relating to the water system improvements   7-2-85
                         project
#62                      General City election, proclamation         9-3-85
#63                      Water system, rates and use charges,        10-1-85
                         specific
#64                      Acquisition of Federal surplus property     11-19-85
                         Agreement LD. No. 24330 between Union
#65                      Pacific Railroad Company and City for       10-7-86
                         encroachment
#66                      Fee schedule for building permits           4-7-87
#67                      Water system rates, specific                4-21-87
#68                      General City election, proclamation         9-1-87
#70                      Equal opportunity in housing policy         1-19-88
#71                      Fee schedule for building permits           3-1-88
                         Designation of Mayor to sign documents
#72                      relating to making full application of a    4-5-88
                         community development block grant for water
                         improvement project
#73                      TV Cable franchise                          6-7-88
#74                      Transfer of TV Cable franchise to Premiere  6-7-88
                         Cable Two
#75                      Renewal of operations and maintenance       9-6-88
                         agreement for wastewater treatment plant
#76                      Citizen participation plan for Idaho Com    10-18-88
                         munity Development Block Grant program
#77                      Acquisition of Federal surplus property     12-6-88
#78                      Designation of Mayor to sign water          3-13-89
                         improvement project documents
#79                      Water rates, specific                       4-11-89
#80                      General City election, proclamation         9-5-89
#81                      Funds reappropriation, 1988–1989          9-19-89
#82                      Appointment of Board of Directors of        10-30-89
                         Industrial Development Corporation
#83                      Sewer user fees transfer to Water Fund      12-5-89
1990                     Proclamation of March 1990, as American Red 3-21-90
                         Cross month
#84                      Excessive force policy                      7-17-90
#85                      Designation of Mayor to sign Community      9-4-90
                         Development Block Grant Project documents
#86                      Declaration of November 10 as "Support the  1-15-91
                         Troops in the Middle East" day
#87                      Reconnection fee for all water system users 4-2-91
#88                      GEM community support                       4-2-91
#89                      Participation in Southeast Idaho Council Of 3-12-91
                         Governments revolving loan fund
#90                      General City election, proclamation         8-20-91
#91                      Railroad Company supplemental agreement for 1-21-92
                         extension of annual rental for encroachment
#92                      County emergency response commission        3-3-1992
#93                      Ad valorem tax levy                         7-7-1992
#94                      Funds reappropriation, 1991–1992          9-15-1992
#95                      Requirement to pay interest on monies       12-15-1992
                         borrowed
                         Authorization of mayor to sign documents
#96                      relating to wastewater facilities planning  5-18-1993
                         and construction grants
#97                      Registration of qualified electors          5-18-1993
#98                      Ad valorem tax levy                         8-10-1993
#99                      Water rates and use charges, specific       8-24-1993
#100                     General city election, proclamation         9-7-1993
                         Designation of mayor to sign community
#101                     development block grant sewer project       10-22-1993
                         documents
#102                     Impact of federal mandates                  11-2-1993
#103                     Fees for the collection of garbage          9-21-1993
#104                     Water rates and use charges, specific       2-1-1994
#105                     Fees for capping or disconnection from the  3-1-1994
                         sanitary sewer system and the water system
#106                     Ad valorem tax levy                         8-16-1994
#107                     Water rates and use charges, specific       11-15-1994
#108                     Repeal of ordinance 83 (sewer user fees     8-15-1995
                         transfer to water fund)
#109                     Ad valorem tax levy                         8-15-1995
#110                     General city election, proclamation         9-5-1995
#111                     Sewer user charges, specific                6-27-1996
#112                     One percent (1%) initiative                 10-14-1996
                         Designation of mayor to sign community
#113                     development block grant industrial park     3-18-1997
                         project documents
#114                     Fees for connection to the water and sewer  4-15-1997
                         systems
                         Authorization of mayor to sign documents
#115                     relating to enhancement funding used for    3-2-1999
                         railroad property project
#116                     Designation of depositories for city funds  5-18-1999
#117                     General city election, proclamation         8-17-1999
#118                     Transfer of cable television franchise      2-1-2000
#119                     Lease with option to purchase agreement     5-1-2001
#120                     GEM community support                       8-8-2001
#121                     General city election, proclamation         9-4-2001
#123                     GEM community support                       3-16-2004
#124                     Water system rates and use charges          9-7-2004
#125                     Authorizes the destruction of semipermanent 4-18-2006
                         and temporary records
#126                     Water system rates and use charges          5-16-2006
#127                     Water system use charges                    8-15-2006
#128                     Establishes connection fees and fee for     10-17-2006
                         enlargement of connections
#129                     Adopts a record retention schedule          12-19-2006
#130                     Garbage collection fees                     1-2-2007
#131                     Fair housing                                4-15-2007
#132                     Authorizes council person to sign documents 5-23-2007
                         relating to drinking water planning grants
#133                     Authorizes council person to sign documents 5-23-2007
                         relating to wastewater planning grants
#134                     Provisions relating to the development of a 8-7-2007
                         safe routes to school project
#135                     Establishes a new ERU fee and adjusts rate  8-21-2007
                         for residential users outside city limits
#136                     Authorizes mayor to sign documents relating 8-24-2007
                         to transportation improvements project
                         Adoption of the Caribou County all hazards
#137                     mitigation plan as the jurisdiction's       12-18-2007
                         multihazard mitigation plan
#138                     Authorize the destruction of semi-          4-2-2008
                         permanent and temporary records
                         Adoption of the national incident
                         management system (NIMS) and its incident
#139                     command system component as the official    6-8-2008
                         methodology for managing emergencies in the
                         city of Grace
#140                     Establish water, sewer and sanitary service 8-6-2008
                         fees (Rescinded-see Res. #141)
#141                     Establish water, sewer and sanitary service 8-20-2008
                         fees
#142                     Adopt amended personnel policy              10-15-2008
#143                     Repeal of requirement for city employees to 11-5-2008
                         live within the city limits
#144                     Authorization for mayor to sign documents   11-5-2008
                         relating to the Grace water project
#145                     Adopt amended comprehensive plan            11-5-2008
                         Support of the project identification
#146                     submittal for the construction of West      1-27-2009
                         Center Street to the local highway
                         technical assistance council
                         Authorizes the mayor to sign documents
#147                     relating to the purchase of a front end     2-20-2009
                         loader
#148                     Adopt amended personnel policy              3-18-2009
#149                     Adopt a substance abuse policy              3-18-2009
                         Authorize the city clerk- treasurer to pay
#150                     certain vendors prior to submitting the     4-15-2009
                         bills to the city council
#151                     Adopt an identity theft prevention program  5-6-2009
#152                     Adopt a safety policy manual                5-6-2009
#153                     Establish water and sewer fees              5-20-2009
#154                     Approve an agreement for bond counsel       7-15-2009
                         services
                         Recognize the economic and environmental
#155                     significance; both locally and nationally,  8-19-2009
                         of the proposed Blackfoot Bridge Mine
#156                     Canvass the returns and declare the results 11-3-2009
                         of special revenue bond election
#157                     Adopt a limited English proficiency plan    1-6-2010
#158                     Support of the U.S. air force and the F-35  2-3-2010
                         mission
#159                     Adopt amended personnel policy              2-3-2010
#160                     Adopt a fair housing resolution             4-7-2010
#161                     Adopt a section 504/ADA grievance procedure 11-3-2010
#162                     Adopt a policy regarding non-               11-3-2010
                         discrimination on the basis of disability
#163                     Adopt a policy for the provision of         11-3-2010
                         effective communication
#164                     Authorize the destruction of semi-          1-5-2011
                         permanent and temporary records
#165                     Establish water connection fees and zoning  10-5-2011
                         permit fees
#166                     Exempting certain equipment or structures   10-19-2011
                         from the zoning permit requirements
                                                                    
 
