CITY CODE
OF
HANSEN, IDAHO
Contains ordinances up to and including ordinance 218, passed December 10, 2018
Published by:
STERLING CODIFIERS
an
American Legal Publishing Company
One West Fourth Street  *  3rd Floor  *  Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This City Code of the City of Hansen, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance 218, passed December 10, 2018. Ordinances of the
City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this City Code to
the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
City office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the Code
has been amended, superseded or repealed.
Sterling Codifiers
Coeur d'Alene, Idaho
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Ordinances listed have been passed, but have not been incorporated in the
actual code. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning the ordinances listed.
ORDINANCE NO.  223
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF HANSEN, IDAHO; CHANGING THE ZONING CLASSIFICATION
OF REAL PROPERTY DESCRIBED HEREIN FROM COMMERCIAL TO R-2 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT;
AMENDING THE ZONING MAP OF THE CITY OF HANSEN TO REFLECT SAID CHANGE; PROVIDING
FOR A REPEALER CLAUSE; PROVIDING FOR A SEVERABILITY CLAUSE; AND PROVIDING FOR
AN EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS ORDINANCE UPON PASSAGE, APPROVAL AND PUBLICATION
ACCORDING TO LAW.
WHEREAS, the Hansen City Council, pursuant to public notice as required by law,
held a public hearing on January 11, 2021, on the proposed re-zone application
for real property more particularly described as HANSEN TAX NUMBERS, TAX #830,
EXC E 87' OF N 195',, EXC SE 135.71' & EXC W 130' IN, NW NW, (25-10-18), and
located at 133 Highway 30 West, Hansen, Idaho,  parcel no. RPH93310246120 as
required by Idaho Code Section 67-6511, made findings and determined that said
real property be rezoned from Commercial to R-2 Residential District and that
the Zoning District Map of the City of Hansen be amended to reflect said
change.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HANSEN,
IDAHO:
 
SECTION 1.  The Hansen City Council hereby finds and declares that the real
property more particularly described as HANSEN TAX NUMBERS, TAX #830, EXC E 87'
OF N 195', EXC SE 135.71' & EXC W 130' IN, NW NW, (25-10-18), and located at
133 Highway 30 West, Hansen, Idaho,  parcel no. RPH93310246120 (“Subject Real
Property”), be rezoned from Commercial to R-2 Residential District in
accordance with the Hansen zoning ordinance regulations, Title 10, Chapter 4B,
R-2 Residential District.
 
SECTION 2.  The City Council hereby finds and determines that the Subject Real
Property be removed from the Commercial zoning classification and included in
R-2 Residential District zoning classification pursuant to the Zoning Ordinance
of the City of Hansen. The City Council further finds and determines that said
zone change is in accordance with the Hansen Comprehensive Plan and relevant
City Codes.
 
SECTION 3.  The Zoning District Map of the City of Hansen, Idaho, is hereby
amended to reflect the foregoing change in zoning classification.
 
SECTION 4. Repealer Clause.  All Ordinances and Resolutions or parts thereof in
conflict herewith are hereby repealed and rescinded.
 
SECTION 5. Severability Clause.  If any section or portion of this ordinance is
for any reason held to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
ordinance.
 
SECTION 6.  Effective Date.  This Ordinance shall take effect and be in force
from and after its passage, approval, and publication as required by law.
   
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE HANSEN CITY COUNCIL and approved by the Mayor this
11th day of January, 2021.
 
_______________________________
                     Joseph Ratto, Mayor
ATTEST:
 
____________________________________
Krystal Ray, City Clerk
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
HANSEN CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the city council, this city code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official city code of Hansen. This city code
of ordinances shall be known and cited as the HANSEN CITY CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the city council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this city code by title in any legal documents. (2011 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2011 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the city code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this city code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this city code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the city code. (2011 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this city code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code books,
while in actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be
and remain the property of the city and shall be returned to the office of the
city clerk when directed so to do by order of the city council. (2011 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this city
code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this city code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
   A.   Tax levy ordinances;
   B.   Appropriation ordinances;
   C.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
   D.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations;
   E.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants;
   F.   Salary ordinances;
   G.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places;
   H.   Improvement ordinances;
   I.   Bond ordinances;
   J.   Ordinances relating to elections;
   K.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or
from the city; and
   L.   All special ordinances. (2011 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this city code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the city code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this city code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2011 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Currently Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this city code. (2011 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this city code, or any part hereof or any portion adopted by reference or
any codes or portions of codes adopted herein is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part hereof or any portion adopted
by reference or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein. The city council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (2011 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: General Rules Of Interpretation
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Acts By Agents
1-3-4: Prohibited Acts Include Causing And Permitting
1-3-5: Catchlines
1-3-1: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the Mayor and City Council may be fully carried
out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare. (2011 Code)
   C.   Grammatical Interpretation: The following grammatical rules shall
apply, unless it is apparent from the context that a different construction is
intended:
      1.   Gender: Each gender includes the masculine, feminine and neuter
genders.
      2.   Singular And Plural: The singular number includes the plural and the
plural includes the singular.
      3.   Tenses: Words used in the present tense include the past and future
tenses and vice versa, unless manifestly inapplicable. (1991 Code § 1.04.040)
   D.   Computation Of Time: Except when otherwise provided, the time within
which an act is required to be done shall be computed by excluding the first
day and including the last day, unless the last day is Sunday or a holiday, in
which case it shall also be excluded. (1991 Code § 1.04.070)
   E.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other City officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   F.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
   G.   May/Shall/Must: The word "may" is permissive; the words "shall" and
"must" are mandatory. (2011 Code)
   H.   Preceding And Following: Next before and next after, respectively.
(1991 Code § 1.04.010)
   I.   Interpretation Of Language: All words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
(1991 Code § 1.04.030)
   J.   Title Of Office: Use of the title of any officer, employee, department,
board or commission means that officer, employee, department, board or
commission of the City. (1991 Code § 1.04.020)
   K.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the City
has been changed in the content of this Code to "title", "chapter", "section"
and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the City's ordinances is not meant
to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2011 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, whenever used in this Code or the ordinances
of the City, shall be construed as defined in this section unless from the
context a different meaning is intended or unless a different meaning is
specifically defined and more particularly directed to the use of such words or
phrases:
ABATABLE NUISANCES: Enumerated nuisance conditions that may be abated by the
City in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, specifically including,
without limitation, the following nuisance conditions:
   A.   Nuisance materials leaked, drained, seeped, dripped, sprayed, or dumped
on to the ground on private property;
   B.   Nuisance weeds;
   C.   Graffiti; or
   D.   Snow or ice on a public sidewalk abutting or adjoining any privately
owned premises.
   E.   Personal property on any portion of a public sidewalk, except as
specifically allowed by law or by written permit issued by the City or other
governing authority.
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CITY OR TOWN: The City of Hansen, Idaho, or the area within the territorial
limits of the City, and such territory outside Hansen over which the City has
jurisdiction or control by virtue of any constitutional or statutory provision.
CODE: The City Code of the City of Hansen.
COUNCIL: The City Council of Hansen. "All its members" or "all Council members"
means the total number of Council members holding office.
COUNTY: The County of Twin Falls.
FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal year of the City shall commence on October 1 of each
year.
GENERAL NUISANCES: Nuisance conditions that may lead to criminal charges
without any prior attempt by the City to obtain abatement thereof,
specifically, including, without limitation, nuisance materials leaked,
drained, seeped, dripped, sprayed, or dumped on to the ground on public
property, or any other nuisance condition not enumerated in the definition of
"abatable nuisances".
GRAFFITI: Any inscription, work, figure, symbol, drawing, mark, or design that
is marked, etched, scratched, drawn, or painted on any real or personal
property or improvement, including, but not limited to, walls, fences, gates,
pavement, buildings, rocks, trees, bridges, streets, sidewalks, and/or signs,
whether such property is public, private, temporary, or permanent, without the
consent of the owner of such or the owner's authorized agent, and which
inscription, work, figure, symbol, drawing, mark, or design is visible from any
publicly accessible location.
HOUSEHOLD GOODS AND EQUIPMENT: All usually referred to as household goods and
articles used in housekeeping including, but not limited to, chairs, tables,
davenports, beds, refrigerators, stoves, washers, furnaces, appliances, grease,
oil, paint and their containers.
INFRACTION: A civil public offense, not constituting a crime, punishable by a
penalty not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) and for which no
incarceration may be imposed.
JUNK VEHICLE: Any vehicle, or parts thereof, which:
   A.   Cannot be safely operated under its own power;
   B.   Is missing any one of the following: foot brakes, hand brakes,
headlights, taillights, horn, muffler, rearview mirrors, windshield wipers, or
adequate fenders;
   C.   Has been declared salvage, or has been physically damaged to the extent
that the cost of parts and labor minus the salvage value would make it
uneconomical to repair or rebuild such vehicle; or
   D.   Is otherwise in a wrecked, partially dismantled, inoperative, or
dilapidated condition.
This definition shall not include junk vehicles lawfully stored or parked
pursuant to the operation of a lawfully conducted business, or commercial
enterprise.
LAW: Applicable Federal law, the Constitution and the Statutes of the State of
Idaho, the ordinances of the City, and, when appropriate, any and all rules and
regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MACHINERY: All articles of industrial, farm or domestic machinery or equipment,
any and all metal or wooden machinery, motors, equipment, tools or property.
MISCELLANEOUS PROPERTY: All other property including, but not limited to, old
rope, iron, brass, copper, tin, lead, rubber, rags, baggage, bottles, scrap,
toys, bicycles or boats.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense not defined as a felony or infraction under State law.
MONTH: A calendar month.
NUISANCE: Anything which unreasonably injures or offends the health or senses;
obstructs the free passage, comfortable enjoyment, or private property; or
creates an actual or potential safety, health, or fire hazard.
NUISANCE MATERIALS: Hazardous, noxious, dangerous, or offensive materials,
including, but not limited to, oil, gasoline, fuel, antifreeze, paint,
pesticides, or herbicides.
OATH: Means and includes an affirmation or declaration in all cases in which,
by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the
words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and
"affirmed".
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this Code.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, means and includes any part owner,
joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, tenant by the entirety, of the
whole or part of such building or land.
PERSON: Means and includes a natural person, joint venture, joint stock
company, partnership, association, club, company, corporation, business, trust,
organization, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of
any of them.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Means and includes money, goods, chattels, things in action
and evidences of debt.
PROPERTY: Means and includes real and personal property.
REAL PROPERTY: Means and includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
STATE: The State of Idaho.
STREET: Means and includes all streets, highways, avenues, lanes, alleys,
courts, places, squares, curbs, or other public ways in the City which have
been or may hereafter be dedicated and open to public use, or such other public
property so designated in any law of the State.
TENANT AND OCCUPANT: Applied to a building or land, mean and include any person
who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
WEEDS: Undesirable plant growth, whether living or dead, that is unkempt,
unsightly, deleterious and/or injurious to the public. This definition shall
not include cultivated grasses and pastures, though such vegetation may be
declared a nuisance where otherwise appropriate.
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall
be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things
to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his proper
mark.
YEAR: A calendar year. (Ord. 214, 4-30-2018)
1-3-3: ACTS BY AGENTS:
When an act is required by this Code or an ordinance, the same being such that
it may be done as well by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall
be construed to include all such acts performed by an authorized agent. (1991
Code § 1.04.050)
1-3-4: PROHIBITED ACTS INCLUDE CAUSING AND PERMITTING:
Whenever in this Code or the ordinances of the City, any act or omission is
made unlawful, it shall include causing, allowing, permitting, aiding,
abetting, suffering or concealing the fact of such act or omission. (1991 Code
§ 1.04.060)
1-3-5: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2011
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   Misdemeanor: Any person violating any of the provisions or failing to
comply with any of the mandatory requirements of this code or any ordinances of
the city is guilty of a misdemeanor. Except in cases where a different
punishment is prescribed by any ordinance of the city, any person convicted of
a misdemeanor under the ordinances of the city shall be punished by a fine not
exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by imprisonment not to exceed six
(6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. These punishments shall
comply with Idaho Code section 18-113, as amended. (1991 Code § 1.12.010; amd.
2011 Code)
   B.   Infraction: When the offense is designated as an infraction by any
section or provision of this code or by state law, it is punishable only by a
penalty not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) and no incarceration may be
imposed.
   C.   Federally Mandated Programs: When the city is participating in a
federally mandated program, wherein penalties or enforcement remedies are
required by the terms of participation in the program, the city may enforce
such requirements by ordinance, to include a criminal or civil monetary penalty
not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or imprisonment for criminal
offenses not to exceed six (6) months, or to include both a fine and
imprisonment for criminal offenses. (2011 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-302.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty Provisions:
      1.   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this
code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed or where any action
which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor unless otherwise provided. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains
unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in
this code.
      2.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code, and there shall
be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of
this chapter shall apply.
   B.   One Recovery For Same Offense: In all cases where the same offense is
made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this code,
the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced. (2011 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (2011
Code)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: City Council Meetings
1-5-2: Consent Calendar
1-5-3: Salaries
1-5-1: CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS:
   A.   Purpose: The rules or order of procedure contained in this section
shall govern deliberations and meetings of the city council. (1991 Code §
2.04.010)
   B.   Time And Place; Open To Public:
      1.   Regular meetings of the council shall be held on the second Monday
of each month.
      2.   All regular meetings shall convene promptly at seven o'clock (7:00)
P.M., at the city hall and all meetings, regular and special, shall be open to
the public except executive sessions authorized by the open meeting act 1 .
(Ord. 174, 3-10-2003)
   C.   Special Meetings:
      1.   Special meetings of the council may be held at the call of the mayor
by serving notice on each member of the council in writing stating the object
of the meeting as provided by Idaho Code section 50-604. One-half (1/2) plus
one of the members of the full council shall have the power to call special
meetings of the council by serving notice in writing to all members of the
council stating the objective of the meeting as provided by Idaho Code section
50-706. Notice of special meetings must be given to the general public as
provided by Idaho Code section 67-2343.
      2.   The city clerk shall record the proceedings of all special meetings
in the city council meeting records. (1991 Code § 2.04.030)
   D.   Presiding Officer: The presiding officer of the council shall be the
mayor, or in his absence, the president of the council. In the absence of both
the mayor and the president of the council, the clerk shall call the council to
order and call the roll. If there is a quorum present, the council shall elect,
by majority vote, a chairman to act until the arrival of the mayor or president
of the council. The presiding officer shall preserve strict order and decorum
at all regular and special meetings. (1991 Code § 2.04.040)
   E.   Roll Call: Before proceeding with the business of the council, the city
clerk or deputy city clerk shall call the roll of the members and the names of
those present shall be entered in the minutes. (1991 Code § 2.04.050)
   F.   Order Of Business:
      1.   The order of business shall be as follows:
         a.   Call to order (opening ceremonies, optional);
         b.   Roll call;
         c.   Approval of minutes of previous meeting;
         d.   Petitions, applications, appeals, communications, etc.;
         e.   Reports of boards and committees, department heads;
         f.   Public hearing;
         g.   Introduction and adoption of resolutions and ordinances;
         h.   Unfinished business;
         i.   New business;
         j.   Adjournment.
      2.   All questions of order shall be decided by the presiding officer of
the council with the right of appeal to the council by any member, which appeal
shall be decided by a majority of those present. (1991 Code § 2.04.060)
   G.   Attendance:
      1.   Council Members; Penalty For Failure To Appear: Every council
member, whose duty it is to report at regular and special meetings of the
council, who shall be in default thereof, may be fined not to exceed the sum of
one hundred dollars ($100.00), at the discretion of the council. A majority of
members present, even in the absence of a quorum, may compel the attendance of
absent members. (1991 Code § 2.04.070)
      2.   City Officers And Employees: The city clerk, city attorney, chief of
police and such other employees of the city shall, when requested, attend all
meetings of the council and shall remain in the council room for such length of
time as the council may direct. (1991 Code § 2.04.080)
   H.   Reports Submitted By Committees: The chairman of each respective
committee, or the council member acting in his place, shall submit or make all
reports to the council when so requested by the presiding officer or any member
of the council. (1991 Code § 2.04.090)
   I.   Procedures; Robert's Rules Of Order: The parliamentary procedure of
council meetings shall be governed by "Robert's Rules Of Order", newly revised,
a copy of which is on file in the city clerk's office. (1991 Code § 2.04.100)
   J.   Speaking More Than Twice; Permission Required: No member shall speak
more than twice on the same subject without permission of the presiding
officer. (1991 Code § 2.04.110)
   K.   Public Address; Permission Required: No person, not a member of the
council, shall be allowed to address the council while in session without
permission of the presiding officer. (1991 Code § 2.04.120)
   L.   Motions:
      1.   Order: Motions to lay any matter on the table shall be first in
order; and on all questions, the last amendment, the most distant day and the
largest sum shall be put first. (1991 Code § 2.04.130)
      2.   Reconsider: Motions to reconsider must be by a member who voted with
the prevailing side and at the same or next succeeding meeting of the council.
(1991 Code § 2.04.140)
      3.   Adjourn: A motion for adjournment shall always be in order. (1991
Code § 2.04.150)
   M.   Ordinances:
      1.   In Writing: All resolutions and ordinances shall be in writing.
(1991 Code § 2.04.160)
      2.   Procedure For Reading: Ordinances shall be read on three (3)
different days, two (2) readings of which may be by title only and one reading
shall be in full. No ordinance shall be adopted at the meeting at which it is
introduced unless one- half (1/2) plus one of the members of the full council
shall dispense with the rule and vote for immediate consideration of such
ordinance; such consent shall be by roll call and the vote thereon spread on
the minutes. The council may also dispense with the reading of the ordinance in
full if one-half (1/2) plus one of the members of the full council vote for
dispensation, such vote to be by roll call and the vote spread on the minutes.
(1991 Code § 2.04.170)
   N.   Voting:
      1.   Quorum: A quorum shall be a majority of the full council and
questions before the council meetings shall be decided by a majority of those
present and voting unless otherwise provided by law. (1991 Code § 2.04.180)
      2.   Mayor: The mayor shall have a vote at council meetings only when the
council is equally divided. (1991 Code § 2.04.190)
      3.   Recordation: Whenever it shall be required by one or more members,
the "yeas" and "nays" shall be recorded; and any member may call for a
recording of the "yeas" and "nays". The passage of an ordinance or resolution
to enter into a contract shall be by roll call of the council with the "yea" or
"nay" of each being recorded. (1991 Code § 2.04.200)
      4.   Power To Veto; Overruled: The mayor shall have the power to veto or
sign any ordinance passed by the council. The council may pass a vetoed
ordinance by a vote of one-half (1/2) plus one of the members of the full
council. Should the mayor neglect or refuse to sign an ordinance and return it
to the council at the next regular council meeting, the same shall become law
without his signature upon proper publication. (1991 Code § 2.04.210)
   O.   Rules; Amending Or Suspending: The rules of the council may be altered,
amended or temporarily suspended by a vote of one- half (1/2) plus one of the
members present. (1991 Code § 2.04.220)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 67-2341 et seq.
1-5-2: CONSENT CALENDAR:
   A.   Presentation Of Item Of Business: When the mayor determines that any
item of business requires action by the council, but is of a routine and
noncontroversial nature, he may cause such item to be presented at a regular
meeting of the council as part of a consent calendar.
   B.   Introduction To Approve: The consent calendar shall be introduced by a
motion "to approve the consent calendar", and shall be considered by the
council as a single item.
   C.   Debate Or Discussion Limited: There shall be no debate or discussion by
any member of the council regarding any item on the consent calendar, beyond
asking questions for simple clarification.
   D.   Objection To Inclusion: Upon objection by any member of the council to
inclusion of any item on the consent calendar, that item shall be removed from
the consent calendar forthwith. Such objection may be recorded at any time
prior to the taking of a vote on the motion to approve the consent calendar.
All such items shall be considered individually, in the order in which they
were objected to, immediately following consideration of the consent calendar.
   E.   Approval: Approval of the motion to approve the consent calendar shall
be fully equivalent to approval, adoption, or enactment of each motion,
resolution, ordinance, or other item of business thereon, exactly as if each
had been acted upon individually. Approval of the motion must be by roll call
vote.
   F.   Recording: The city clerk shall record in the council minutes each item
passed under the consent calendar individually and in full, or if possible,
separately. (Ord. 148, 7-11-1993)
1-5-3: SALARIES:
   A.   Mayor: For and in consideration of the services rendered by the mayor
of the city, the city shall pay to the mayor the sum of two hundred seventy
five dollars ($275.00) per month, effective January 1, 2012, as consideration
for the services referred to herein.
   B.   Council Members: For and in consideration of the services rendered to
the city by the city council, all members of the city council, not provided for
in subsection A of this section, shall receive the sum of one hundred sixty
five dollars ($165.00) per month, effective January 1, 2012, for and in
consideration of the services rendered by them to the city. (1991 Code §
2.08.010; amd. Ord. 152, 8-28-1995; Ord. 193, 8-8-2011)
   C.   Time Of Payment: The payment of the sums enumerated in subsections A
and B of this section shall be at such times and in such manner as the members
of the city council shall, in council assembled, decide. (1991 Code § 2.08.010)
CHAPTER 6
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: City Planning Administrator
1-6-2: Peace Officer Standards And Training
1-6-1: CITY PLANNING ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Appointment: There is created the position of city planning
administrator. The city planning administrator shall be appointed by the mayor
and the appointment confirmed by the council. (1991 Code § 2.12.010)
   B.   Duties: The city planning administrator, throughout this section
referred to as "administrator", shall administer the provisions of this
section, title 2, chapter 1, and title 10 of this code, and provide assistance
and guidance to the planning and zoning committee and the city council, and in
addition, shall have the following duties: (1991 Code § 2.12.020; amd. Ord.
132-A, 4-13-2015)
      1.   Advise interested persons of the zoning title provisions 1 .
      2.   Notify the news media regarding matters of public interest.
      3.   Aid and assist applicants in the preparation and expedition of
required applications.
      4.   Issue zoning permits, certificates of occupancy, notifications and
such similar administrative duties.
      5.   Investigate all violations of this section, title 2, chapter 1, and
title 10 of this code, and notify in writing the person responsible for such
violation, ordering the action necessary to correct such violation.
      6.   Whenever there is doubt as to the classification of a use not
specifically mentioned in title 10 of this code, the determination shall be
made by the administrator. Such determination shall be based upon a detailed
description of the proposed use and such other information as may be required.
The administrator shall make such investigations as are necessary to compare
the nature and characteristics of the proposed use with those of listed uses in
the various districts, and shall determine that the use is, in all essentials,
pertinent to the objectives of this section, title 2, chapter 1, and title 10
of this code, of the same character as a use listed as allowed or as a special
use permitted in one or such specified district or districts. No use added by
such administrative determination shall permit in any district a use which is a
special use permitted in such district or in any less restricted district, nor
shall the same permit a use which is an allowed use in a less restrictive
district. The determination of the administrator shall be final unless an
appeal is made as provided in this section, title 2, chapter 1, and title 10 of
this code. (1991 Code § 2.12.020)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this code.
1-6-2: PEACE OFFICER STANDARDS AND TRAINING:
   A.   Declaration Of Intent To Receive Aid: The city declares that it desires
to qualify to receive aid for police training from the law enforcement planning
commission under the provisions of Idaho Code section 19-5109. (1991 Code §
2.20.010)
   B.   Compliance With Advisory Council: Pursuant to Idaho Code section 19-
5110, the city, while receiving aid from the law enforcement planning
commission pursuant to said section, will adhere to the standards for
employment and training established by the Idaho peace officer standards and
training advisory council. (1991 Code § 2.20.020)
CHAPTER 7
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
SECTION:
1-7-1: Right Of The People
1-7-2: Petitions
1-7-3: Special Elections; Time Frame
1-7-1: RIGHT OF THE PEOPLE:
The people of the city shall have the right to enact ordinances through the
initiative process and to repeal ordinances through the referendum process,
according to the procedures set forth in this chapter. (1991 Code § 1.08.010)
1-7-2: PETITIONS:
   A.   Signatures Required: To enact an ordinance by initiative or to repeal
an ordinance by referendum, there shall be attached or appended to the petition
the signatures of the legal voters of the city equal to at least twenty percent
(20%) of the total number of electors who cast votes at the last general
election in the city. (1991 Code § 1.08.020; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   Filing: Referendum petitions with the requisite number of signatures
attached shall be filed with the city clerk not less than sixty (60) days
following the final adoption of the ordinance subject to referendum. (1991 Code
§ 1.08.030)
   C.   Requirements: Referendum and initiative petitions shall conform with
the requirements for signature, verification of valid petitions, printing of
petition and time limits, except as expressly modified to meet the purposes of
initiative and referendum, to be as nearly as practicable as provided in Idaho
Code sections 34-1701 through 34-1705. (1991 Code § 1.08.040)
1-7-3: SPECIAL ELECTIONS; TIME FRAME:
A special election for initiative or referendum shall be provided not more than
ninety (90) days following the certification of the petition; provided, that in
the event a municipal election will occur within ninety (90) days, the
initiative and referendum shall be submitted at the time of the municipal
election. (1991 Code § 1.08.050)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-1-1: Committee Created; Powers And Duties Generally
2-1-2: Bylaws
2-1-1: COMMITTEE CREATED; POWERS AND DUTIES GENERALLY:
   A.   Creation; Authority: There is created a planning and zoning committee,
which throughout this chapter, is referred to as the committee. The committee
shall be constituted and shall function according to the bylaws set forth in
section
2-1-2 of this chapter and shall have all the power or authority to consider
ordinances or to recommend adjustments to or repeal of any portion of this
chapter, section
1-6-1, or title 10 of this code.
   B.   General Powers And Duties: The committee shall provide guidance and
assistance to the city council, hold public hearings as required by law, and
shall grant and deny applications presented to the committee, and shall make
timely written recommendations to the council in all matters relating to this
chapter, section
1-6-1, and title 10 of this code, in which the council has final decision
making powers. (Ord. 132-A, 4-13-2015)
2-1-2: BYLAWS:
   A.   Purpose: There is created a planning and zoning committee for the city.
In fulfilling the powers and duties by law conferred upon the committee, the
committee shall, among other things, bear in mind the following considerations:
      1.   The protection of property rights and property values.
      2.   Public facilities.
      3.   The effect on the economy of the city.
      4.   Environmental considerations.
      5.   Effects on prime agricultural, forestry and mining lands.
      6.   Organized and planned urban development within the city.
      7.   The avoidance of undue concentration of population and overcrowding
of land.
      8.   Land development compatible with land characteristics.
      9.   The protection of life and property in areas subject to natural
hazards and disasters.
      10.   The protection of fish, wildlife and recreational resources.
      11.   The avoidance of water and air pollution.
   B.   Membership: The committee shall consist of members of the Hansen city
council and the mayor of the city of Hansen and two (2) additional members. The
two (2) additional members shall serve on the committee who shall reside within
the area of impact and shall be appointed to the committee by the Twin Falls
County committee. All members of the committee shall be able to vote on all
matters before the committee.
   C.   Terms:
      1.   Members shall serve in accordance with their terms as members of the
Hansen city council and as the mayor of the city of Hansen. The two (2)
additional members, as appointed by the Twin Falls County committee shall serve
a term of three (3) years beginning regularly in January, with a maximum of two
(2) consecutive terms, or six (6) years.
   D.   Organization And Meetings:
      1.   Upon organization, and thereafter at the first regular meeting of
the year, the committee shall elect, by a majority of the full membership, a
chairman and shall create and fill in a similar manner any other office that it
may deem necessary.
      2.   The committee may establish subcommittees, advisory committees or
neighborhood groups to advise and assist in carrying out the responsibilities
of the committee. The committee may appoint nonvoting ex officio advisors as
may be deemed necessary.
      3.   The chairman shall preside at all regular meetings of the committee
which may be scheduled as necessary. The time and place of all meetings shall
be posted at the Hansen City Hall and any other conspicuous place so as to give
adequate notice of the meeting. In no event shall meetings be scheduled without
at least three (3) weeks' notice to the public. All meetings and records shall
be open to the public and a record of all meetings, hearings and resolutions,
studies, findings, permits, recommendations, and actions shall be maintained by
the committee.
   E.   Special Meetings:
      1.   Special meetings of the committee may be held at such times and at
such places as agreed on by at least four (4) members at a regularly scheduled
public meeting. Written notice of all such special meetings, including the
time, date and purpose of such meetings shall be provided to all members of the
committee, including the alternate members; provided, that written notice of
such special meeting may be waived by members at the special meeting, duly
entered and registered in the minutes of such meeting.
      2.   No business may be conducted at any such special meeting upon any
application or request of any citizen except and unless notice of the request
and of the special meeting has been published as required by law.
   F.   Meetings Conducted In Orderly Fashion: All regular and special meetings
of the committee shall be conducted by the chairman in an orderly fashion.
   G.   Vacancies And Removals:
      1.   Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the expiration of
appointed terms shall be filled in the same manner as the original
appointments. A member appointed to fill an unexpired term shall serve the
remainder of the unexpired term and may be appointed to one additional full
term.
      2.   Members may be removed for cause only by a majority vote of the full
council.
   H.   Conflict Of Interest: A member of the committee shall not participate
in any proceedings or action when the member, his employer or his employee,
business partner or associate, his business, or any person related to him by
affinity or consanguinity within the second degree has an economic interest in
the procedure or action. Any action or potential interest in any proceedings
shall be disclosed at or before any meeting, duly entered and recorded in the
minutes, at which the action is being heard or considered.
   I.   Duties: Consistent with the purpose of the committee set forth in
subsection A of this section, the committee shall have the following duties,
together with such other duties as prescribed by law:
      1.   Initiate proposed amendments to this chapter, section
1-6-1, and title 10 of this code.
      2.   Review all proposed amendments to this chapter, section
1-6-1, and title 10 of this code.
      3.   Conduct a comprehensive planning process designed to prepare,
implement, and review and update a comprehensive plan as required by law.
      4.   Review all districts, subdistricts and overlay districts and make
recommendations to the council.
      5.   Grant special use permits as specified in title 10 of this code, and
under the conditions as therein specified with such additional safeguards as
will uphold the intent of this chapter, section
1-6-1, and title 10 of this code.
      6.   Hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error in any
order, requirement, decision, interpretation or determination made by the
administrator.
      7.   Authorize such variances from the terms of this chapter, section
1-6-1, and title 10 of this code, as will not be contrary to the public
interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of those
provisions will result in unnecessary hardship, and so that the spirit of this
chapter, section
1-6-1, and title 10 of this code is observed and substantial justice done.
   J.   Duties Of Alternate Member:
      1.   The alternate member to the committee shall attend all meetings of
the committee, including both regular and special meetings, and shall actively
participate in all discussions had on any matter before the committee. The
alternate member shall not vote on any matter except as provided in subsection
J2 of this section.
      2.   The committee alternate shall have full voting privileges whenever a
regular member is absent, unable to act due to a conflict of interest, and
whenever a vacancy occurs on the committee for any reason. The alternate member
shall so act, with full voting privileges, until the disability of the regular
committee member has been removed.
   K.   Public Hearings:
      1.   The chairman shall preside over and conduct all public hearings on
all matters presented to the committee. No public hearings shall be held except
and until notice has been provided to the public in conformance with the
statutes of the state made and provided in such case. At such public hearings,
the chairman shall present the matter for discussion and may, before the
hearing commences, impose a time limit upon each individual who desires to
comment.
      2.   At the close of all the public hearings, the committee shall discuss
and decide, as provided in subsection L of this section, the matter at issue
and shall commit its decision of recommendation to the council in writing and
the reasons therefor. If the application is denied, a roll call vote shall be
taken on all issues and recorded in the minutes.
   L.   Quorum:
      1.   A majority of membership shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business at any meeting of the committee. In constituting a
quorum, the alternate member shall not be counted unless the alternate member
is sitting with full privileges as provided in subsection J of this section.
      2.   In the event more than one regular member is absent or not sitting
due to a conflict of interest, said member shall not be counted for the
purposes of constituting a quorum.
      3.   Each member shall be entitled to one vote and the acts of a majority
of a quorum present at any regular or special meeting shall be the acts of the
committee.
   M.   Decisions Final: All decisions of the committee on issues not requiring
the passing of an ordinance shall be final if not appealed to the city council
within thirty (30) days.
   N.   Amendment Procedure: The bylaws set forth in this section may and shall
be amended in the same manner as provided in section
10-1-10 of this code. (Ord. 132-A, 4-13-2015)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Applications
3-1-2: Persons Subject To License
3-1-3: Forms
3-1-4: Signatures
3-1-5: Inspections Or Investigations
3-1-6: Term Of License
3-1-7: Building And Premises
3-1-8: Change Of Location
3-1-9: Nuisances
3-1-10: Posting Of License
3-1-11: Revocation Of License Or Permit; Hearing
3-1-12: Appeal Procedure
3-1-1: APPLICATIONS:
Applications for all licenses and permits required by this code shall be made
in writing to the city clerk or his designee, unless otherwise specifically
provided by law. Each application shall state the name of the applicant, the
permit or license desired, the location to be used, if any, the time covered
and the fee to be paid; and each application shall contain such additional
information as may be required by the issuing official. (2011 Code)
3-1-2: PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE:
Whenever in this code a license is required for the maintenance, operation or
conduct of any business or establishment or for doing business or engaging in
any activity or occupation, any person or corporation shall be subject to this
requirement if by himself or through an agent, employee or partner, he holds
himself forth as being engaged in the business or occupation; or solicits
patronage therefor, actively or passively; or performs or attempts to perform
any part of such business or occupation in the city. (2011 Code)
3-1-3: FORMS:
Forms for all licenses and permits, and applications therefor, shall be
prepared and kept on file by the city clerk or his designee. (2011 Code)
3-1-4: SIGNATURES:
Each license or permit issued shall bear the signature of the city clerk or his
designee in the absence of any provision to the contrary. (2011 Code)
3-1-5: INSPECTIONS OR INVESTIGATIONS:
Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit, where laws of the
city necessitate an inspection or investigation before the issuance of such
permit or license, the city clerk or his designee shall refer such application
to the proper officer for making such investigation within forty eight (48)
hours of the time of such receipt. The officer charged with the duty of making
the investigation or inspection shall make a report thereon, favorable or
otherwise, within ten (10) days after receiving the application or a copy
thereof. (2011 Code)
3-1-6: TERM OF LICENSE:
All annual licenses shall terminate on December 31, where no provision to the
contrary is made. (2011 Code)
3-1-7: BUILDING AND PREMISES:
No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business and no permit shall
be issued for any thing or act if the premises and building to be used for the
purpose do not fully comply with the requirements of the city. (2011 Code)
3-1-8: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
In the absence of any provision to the contrary, the location of any licensed
business or occupation or of any permitted act may be changed, provided ten
(10) days' notice thereof is given to the city clerk or his designee; and
further provided, that the building requirements of this code are complied
with. (2011 Code)
3-1-9: NUISANCES:
No business, licensed or not, shall be conducted or operated as to amount to a
nuisance in fact. (2011 Code)
3-1-10: POSTING OF LICENSE:
It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the city
to keep his license posted at all times in a prominent place on the premises
used for such business. (2011 Code)
3-1-11: REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT; HEARING:
   A.   City Authority: Any license or permit, for a limited time, may be
revoked by the city council during the life of such license or permit for the
violation by the licensee or permittee of any provision relating to the license
or permit, the subject of the license or permit, or the premises occupied; such
revocation may be in addition to any fine imposed. The city council shall be
authorized to summarily order the cessation of business, the closing of the
premises, and the suspension of any business license or permit for a period not
to exceed fifteen (15) days.
   B.   Hearing: Within ten (10) days after the city officials have so acted,
the mayor shall call a hearing for the purpose of determining whether or not
the license or permit should be revoked.
   C.   Notice Of Hearing: Notice of hearing for revocation of a license or
permit shall be given in writing setting forth specifically the grounds of the
complaint and the time and place of hearing. Such notice shall be sent to the
licensee or permittee by certified mail at his last known address or personally
served at least five (5) days prior to the date of the hearing.
   D.   Hearing Procedure: At the hearing, the licensee or permittee shall be
permitted counsel and shall have the right to submit evidence and cross examine
witnesses. The mayor shall preside over the city council who will render the
decision and recommendation.
   E.   Causes For Revocation: Business licenses and permits issued under the
ordinances of the city, unless otherwise provided, may be revoked by the city
council after notice and hearing as provided in subsections C and D of this
section for any of the following causes:
      1.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license or permit.
      2.   Any violation by the licensee or permittee of ordinance provisions
or state law relating to the license or permit, the subject matter of the
license or permit, or the premises occupied.
      3.   Conviction of the licensee or permittee of any felony or of a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.
      4.   Failure of the licensee or permittee to pay any fine or penalty
owing to the city.
      5.   Refusal to permit an inspection or investigation or any interference
with a duly authorized city officer or employee while in the performance of his
duties in making such inspections, as provided in this code. (2011 Code)
3-1-12: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Right To Appeal: Any applicant aggrieved by the refusal of the city
council to issue a license or permit or by the revocation of a license or
permit shall have the right to appeal the decision to the city council. Such
appeal shall be requested by submitting a written request to the mayor within
five (5) days of the action which is appealed.
   B.   Council Consideration: The city council shall consider the appeal at
its next regularly scheduled meeting, at which time the applicant shall be
entitled to present his appeal orally or in writing. The council shall act on
the appeal within seven (7) days of the hearing and shall either uphold the
prior action of the council or shall direct the issuance of a license or permit
which the council has denied or the reissuance of a license or permit which the
council had revoked. (2011 Code)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR BY THE DRINK
SECTION:
3-2-1: Purpose
3-2-2: Definitions
3-2-3: License Required
3-2-4: Application For License; Fee
3-2-5: Persons Not Eligible For License
3-2-6: License Fee; Term; Renewals
3-2-7: Contents Of License; Transferability
3-2-8: Dispensing Premises Regulations
3-2-9: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
3-2-10: Violation; Penalty
3-2-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter shall be deemed an exercise of the police power of the city for
the protection of the health, welfare and safety of the people of the city, and
all of its provisions shall be liberally construed for the attainment of that
purpose. (1991 Code § 5.04.010)
3-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
Except as otherwise provided by this chapter, all words and phrases shall be
given the same interpretation as is provided by Idaho Code section 23-902.
(1991 Code § 5.04.020)
3-2-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is lawful within the city to sell liquor by the drink as provided in Idaho
Code title 23, chapter 9, as amended; provided, that a license shall be first
obtained as provided in this chapter, and the rules and regulations and
provisions concerning the license and operation of a place of business for the
sale of liquor by the drink are adhered to as provided. (1991 Code § 5.04.030)
3-2-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE:
   A.   Filing Of Application; State License Required:
      1.   Before there shall be license for the sale of liquor by the drink
issued by the city council, application therefor by the proposed licensee must
be filed with the city clerk, which application shall be verified by the
affidavit of the person making the same before a person authorized to
administer oaths.
      2.   Such application shall provide the name of the applicant, the
location of the proposed business and such other information to show the
qualifications of the applicant for a license as provided in this chapter.
      3.   There shall be attached to and made a part of the application a true
copy of the application made for the state license, and also there shall be
filed the license issued by the state for the sale of liquor by the drink at
retail, and no license shall be issued until a license is first obtained by the
applicant for the premises from the state.
   B.   Fees:
      1.   Application Fee: Every application, except a renewal application for
the same premises, shall be accompanied by an application fee in the sum of
fifty dollars ($50.00), which fee shall be retained by the city for the
investigation and expense for the license and shall not be returned to
applicant.
      2.   License Fee: The applicant shall also pay to the city clerk the
license fee provided for in subsection 3-2-6A of this chapter at the time of
filing the application.
   C.   Date Of Issuance; License Number: In addition to the requirements
contained in this section, the application must show the date of issuance and
license number of a retail beer license issued for the premises by the city.
(1991 Code § 5.04.040)
3-2-5: PERSONS NOT ELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Persons Ineligible: No license shall be issued to:
      1.   An individual who is not a citizen of the United States or who has
not been a bona fide resident of the state of Idaho at least one month next
preceding the granting of such license; or to a partnership unless all members
thereof are citizens of the United States and have been residents of the state
of Idaho for at least one month; or to a corporation or association unless the
same is organized under the laws of the state or qualified to do business in
the state and unless the principal officers and members of the governing board
are citizens of the United States and residents of the state of Idaho for one
month.
      2.   Any person or any one of its members, officers or governing board
who has within three (3) years prior to the date of making application been
convicted of a violation of any law of the United States, the state of Idaho,
or any other state of the United States, or any city ordinance relating to the
importation, transportation, manufacture or sale of liquor, or any person who
has been convicted of any felony or has paid any fine or completed any sentence
or confinement for any felony within five (5) years prior to the date of making
application for license.
      3.   The following:
         a.   Any person whose license issued under this chapter or the laws of
the state has been revoked.
         b.   Any individual who is a member of a partnership or association
which has a license under this chapter or the laws of the state and whose
license has been revoked.
         c.   Any individual who was an officer, member of the governing board,
or one of the ten (10) principal stockholders of a corporation who was a
licensee under this chapter or the laws of the state and whose license has been
revoked.
         d.   A partnership or association, one of whose members was a licensee
under this chapter or the laws of the state and whose license was revoked.
         e.   A corporation, one of whose officers, members of the governing
board, or ten (10) principal stockholders was a licensee under the provisions
of this chapter or the laws of the state and whose license has been revoked.
         f.   An association or partnership, one of whose members was a member
of a partnership or association licensed under the provisions of this chapter
or the laws of the state and whose license has been revoked.
         g.   A partnership or association, one of whose members was an
officer, member of the governing board, or one of the ten (10) principal
stockholders of a corporation licensed under the provisions of this chapter or
the laws of the state and whose license has been revoked.
         h.   A corporation, one of whose officers, members of the governing
board, or ten (10) principal stockholders was a member of a partnership or
association licensed under the provisions of this chapter or the laws of the
state whose license was revoked.
         i.   A corporation, one whose officers, members of the governing
board, or ten (10) principal stockholders was an officer, member of the
governing board, or one of the ten (10) principal stockholders of a corporation
licensed under the rules of this chapter or the laws of the state and whose
license was revoked.
      4.   Any officer, agent or employee of any distillery, winery, brewery,
or any wholesaler or jobber of liquor or malt beverages.
      5.   Any person who does not hold a city retail beer license for said
premises.
      6.   Any person licensed under the laws of the state as a bartender and
whose permit as a bartender has been revoked.
   B.   Restriction On Issuance Of Multiple Licenses: No person shall be
granted more than one license in the city for any one year; and no partnership,
association or corporation holding a license under this chapter shall have as a
member, officer or stockholder any person who has any financial interest of any
kind in, or is a member of, another partnership or association or an officer of
another corporation holding a license in the city for the same year; provided,
that this section shall not prevent any person, firm or corporation owning two
(2) or more buildings on connected property in the city from making application
for and receiving licenses permitting the sale of liquor by the drink in such
building.
   C.   Sales On Ground Floor Level: A license shall be issued only to an
applicant for a premises where the business of retail sale of liquor by the
drink to the general public shall be conducted on the ground level floor of any
building. (1991 Code § 5.04.050)
3-2-6: LICENSE FEE; TERM; RENEWALS:
   A.   Fee Imposed; Prorating: The license fee imposed and required to be paid
to the city clerk shall be the sum of two hundred twenty five dollars ($225.00)
per annum; provided, however, that the license fee for any license issued for
only a portion of a year shall be prorated from the date that the licensee
commences to operate to the end of the calendar year, but in no event for less
than six (6) months.
   B.   Term Of License: All licenses shall expire at one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
January 1 of the following year. No refund of licensee fees shall be allowed.
   C.   Renewals:
      1.   Renewals may be granted upon application duly filed accompanied by a
true copy of the application for the state license and the license issued by
the state for the sale of liquor by the drink at retail, if the record of the
applicant meets the requirements of this chapter and upon payment of the
license fee for the ensuing year. Any operation under an expired license shall
constitute a violation thereof.
      2.   In the event a licensee who has previously been issued a license on
a prorated basis under the provisions of this section wishes to have such
license renewed for the same period for the next succeeding year, he shall file
his intention to so apply for such license with the city clerk, accompanied by
the required fee and other requirements for renewal provided in this section,
on or before December 31 of the year preceding. (1991 Code § 5.04.060)
3-2-7: CONTENTS OF LICENSE; TRANSFERABILITY:
   A.   Contents: Every license issued under the provisions of this chapter
shall set forth the name of the person to whom issued, the location by street
and number, or other definite designation of the premises. If issued to a
partnership, the names of the persons constituting the partnership shall be set
forth. If issued to a corporation or association, the names of the principal
officers and the governing board shall be set forth.
   B.   Signature Required: Such license shall be signed by the licensee.
   C.   Separate Licenses: Every license issued under this chapter is separate
and distinct, and no person except the licensee therein named, except as
provided in subsection D of this section, shall exercise any of the privileges
granted thereunder.
   D.   Transfer Of License; Fee: A license may be transferred to another
licensee who shall meet all qualifications provided in this chapter. To
transfer the license to another person, partnership, corporation or
association, the licensee shall file application therefor, which application
shall contain the same requirements as provided in section
3-2-4 of this chapter and shall be accompanied by an application fee of fifty
dollars ($50.00), and the city council shall make the same investigation and
determination of this chapter provided for any other licenses, and if all
conditions required of the licensee under this chapter have been met by the
proposed transferee, then consent to the transfer shall be endorsed upon the
license by the city council, and the transferee shall be entitled to the rights
and privileges granted under this chapter for retail sale of liquor by the
drink under the license transferred.
   E.   License Termination For Noncompliance: In all other cases, if a
licensee ceases to properly supervise, control, conduct and operate the
business described in the license, the same shall be terminated and no part of
the fee paid therefor shall be refunded. (1991 Code § 5.04.070)
3-2-8: DISPENSING PREMISES REGULATIONS:
   A.   Compliance With State And Local Laws: Every licensee must conform to
all regulations and laws of the state and the provisions of this chapter
relating to the sale of liquor by the drink. Liquor by the drink shall not be
sold by any person except the one duly licensed. (1991 Code § 5.04.080)
   B.   Hours Of Operation: It is unlawful to sell, offer for sale, give away,
consume, or allow to be consumed, any liquor upon any licensed premises during
the following days and hours:
      1.   Memorial Day, Thanksgiving, and Christmas from one o'clock (1:00)
A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. the following day.
      2.   On any other day between one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and ten o'clock
(10:00) A.M.; however, beginning July 1, 2008, it shall be lawful to sell
liquor on any day of a state, municipal, general, or special election. (Ord.
185, 4-14-2008)
3-2-9: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Council Authority: In the event of a conviction of any licensee under
the provisions of this chapter, of any law of the state, or of the United
States, or any ordinance of the city, regulating, governing or prohibiting the
sale, manufacture, transportation or possession of alcoholic beverages or
intoxicating liquors, or if the city council shall determine that any such
licensee has violated any of the provisions of this chapter or any of the
regulations of the director of the Idaho state police, or of the city council
promulgated under the authority of the laws of the state or ordinances of the
city, the city council may, in its discretion, or in addition to any other
penalty imposed, determine to revoke the license of any such licensee, to
suspend the same for a period not in excess of six (6) months, or to refuse to
grant a renewal of such license after the date of its expiration. (1991 Code §
5.04.100; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   Notice; Determination:
      1.   When the city council shall make a determination to revoke, to
suspend, or to refuse the grant of renewal of a license by reason of a
licensee's conviction or violation of any law or regulation referred to in
subsection A of this section, the city council shall give the licensee involved
written notice thereof, which shall be served upon such licensee personally, or
by certified mail addressed to such licensee at the premises for which license
was issued. If the city council's determination is made upon the basis of the
licensee's conviction, the notice shall refer to and identify the judgment of
the conviction, and when made upon any other basis, the notice shall contain a
statement of the acts with which the licensee is charged and upon which the
city council's determination is based, which statement shall be in an ordinary
and concise language so as to enable a person of common understanding to know
what is intended, and in the case of a determination to suspend the license,
the period of such suspension.
      2.   In cases where the city council has determined to revoke or suspend
a license, revocation or suspension shall become effective fifteen (15) days
after notice shall have been personally served on or mailed to such licensee,
and the notice shall so state.
      3.   In cases where the city council has determined to refuse grant of
renewal of a license, notice thereof shall be served or mailed not less than
fifteen (15) days before the date the license shall expire. (1991 Code §
5.04.110)
3-2-10: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of an
infraction and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 202, 10-13-2014)
CHAPTER 3
BEER
SECTION:
3-3-1: Purpose
3-3-2: Definitions
3-3-3: License Required
3-3-4: Application For License; Fee
3-3-5: License Denial Or Revocation For False Information
3-3-6: License Location Specific
3-3-7: Transfer Of License; Fee
3-3-8: License Term; Fees
3-3-9: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
3-3-10: Violation; Penalty
3-3-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter shall be deemed an exercise of the police powers of the city for
the protection of the public health, peace and morals, and all of its
provisions shall be liberally construed for the attainment of that purpose.
(1991 Code § 5.08.010)
3-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
The terms used in this chapter shall have the same definitions and meanings as
such terms are set forth in Idaho Code section 23-1001. (1991 Code § 5.08.020;
amd. 2011 Code)
3-3-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any retailer to sell, trade, barter or dispose of beer
without first having obtained a license therefor from the city council as
provided in this chapter. (1991 Code § 5.08.030)
3-3-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE:
   A.   Filing Of Application; Contents; Payment Of Fee: Every person who shall
apply for a city license to sell beer at retail shall tender the license fee
to, and file written application for license with, the city clerk. The
application shall be on a form prescribed by the city council which shall
require such information concerning the applicant, the premises for which
license is sought and the business to be conducted thereon by the applicant as
the city council may deem necessary or advisable, and which shall enable the
city council to determine that the applicant is eligible and has none of the
disqualifications for a license, as provided for in this section. Such
information shall include the following:
      1.   The name and place of residence of the applicant and length of his
residence within the state; and, if the applicant is a partnership, the names,
places of residence and lengths of residence within the state of each partner;
and, if the applicant is a corporation or association, the date and place of
incorporation or organization, the location of its principal place of business
in Idaho and the names and places of residence of its officers, directors or
members of its governing board, and of the person who manages or will manage
the business selling beer at retail.
      2.   The particular place for which the license is desired, designating
the same by a street and number, if practicable, or by such other apt
description as definitively locates such place, and the name of the owner of
the premises for which license is sought.
   B.   Other Requirements: The application shall affirmatively show:
      1.   That the applicant is a bona fide owner of the business which will
be engaged in the sale of beer at retail and with respect to which license is
sought.
      2.   That the condition of the place or building wherein it is proposed
to sell beer at retail conforms to all laws and regulations of the state and to
the ordinances of the county and city applicable thereto relating to public
health and safety and to the zoning ordinances of the city applicable thereto.
      3.   That there is no stamp or permit outstanding and in force which has
been issued to any person by the United States government for the premises for
which license to sell beer at retail is sought, which stamp or permit denotes
payment of any special tax imposed by the United States government on a retail
dealer in liquor or wines, unless the premises are premises for which a retail
license for sale of liquor by the drink, issued under the provisions of Idaho
Code title 23, chapter 9, is in force and effect.
      4.   That the individual applicant, or each partner of a partnership
applicant, is a citizen of the United States; or, with respect to a corporation
or association, that is qualified to do business within the state and that the
person who is or will be the manager of the corporation's or association's
business of selling beer at retail is a citizen; further, that such individual
applicant, at least one of the partners of the partnership applicant, and the
manager of the corporation or association applicant, shall have been a bona
fide resident of the state for at least thirty (30) days prior to the date of
application.
      5.   That the applicant, if an individual, is not less than nineteen (19)
years of age.
      6.   That within three (3) years immediately preceding the date of filing
the application, the applicant has not been convicted of the violation of any
law of the state of Idaho, any other state, or of the United States,
regulating, governing or prohibiting the sale, manufacture, transportation or
possession of alcoholic beverages or intoxicating liquors, or, within said
time, suffered the forfeiture of a bond for failure to appear in answer to
charges of any such violation.
      7.   That within five (5) years immediately preceding the date of filing
the application, the applicant has not been convicted of any felony or paid any
fine or completed any sentence of confinement therefor within said time.
      8.   That within three (3) years next preceding the date of filing the
application, the applicant has not had any license provided for in this
chapter, or any license or permit issued to the applicant pursuant to the law
of this state or any other state, or of the United States, to sell,
manufacture, transport, or possess alcoholic beverages or intoxicating liquors,
revoked.
   C.   Applicability To Officers Of Partnerships And Corporations: The
affirmative showing required with respect to an applicant under subsections B5,
B6, B7 and B8 of this section shall also be required to be made with respect to
each partner of a partnership applicant and to each incumbent officer, director
or member of the governing board of a corporation or association applicant, and
to each person then employed by an applicant whose duties include the serving
or dispensing of beer. (1991 Code § 5.08.040)
   D.   Swearing Before Notary Public: The application must be subscribed and
sworn to by the individual applicant, or by a partner of a partnership
applicant, or by an officer or manager of a corporation or association
applicant, before a notary public or other person authorized by law to
administer oaths. (1991 Code § 5.08.050)
3-3-5: LICENSE DENIAL OR REVOCATION FOR FALSE INFORMATION:
   A.   Application: If an applicant shall be unable to make the affirmative
showing required in section
3-3-4 of this chapter or if an application shall contain a false material
statement, knowingly made, the same shall constitute disqualification for
license and license shall be refused.
   B.   License: If license is received on any application containing a false
material statement, knowingly made, such license shall be revoked.
   C.   Suspension Or Revocation Of License: If at any time during the period
for which license is issued, a licensee becomes unable to make the affirmative
showings required by section
3-3-4 of this chapter, the license shall be revoked, or, if disqualification
can be removed, the license shall be suspended until the same shall be removed.
   D.   Procedure: The procedure to be followed upon refusal, revocation or
suspension of license as provided for in this section shall be in accordance
with the procedure set forth in section
3-3-9 of this chapter. (1991 Code § 5.08.060)
3-3-6: LICENSE LOCATION SPECIFIC:
Retailers' licenses shall be granted only for a certain room or building
designated in the license, and the place of business shall not be changed or
moved without the consent of the city council in regular session. (1991 Code §
5.08.070)
3-3-7: TRANSFER OF LICENSE; FEE:
Every person to whom a license shall be granted to sell, barter, trade or
dispose of beer shall at all times conduct a quiet and orderly place of
business. Such license shall not be transferred without the consent of the city
council. A transfer may not be approved without the transferee having filed an
application for beer license as provided in this chapter and having paid to the
city a transfer fee of fifty dollars ($50.00). The transferee shall meet all
requirements for issuance of a beer license as is provided in this chapter; no
license transferred by process of law or otherwise shall authorize the
transferee, including any executor, administrator or trustee in bankruptcy of
the estate of the licensee, to retail beer thereunder until the transferee
shall have filed, under oath, applications therefor containing substantially
the same information required of an applicant for a license, and if the
transferee possesses the qualifications and none of the disqualifications for a
license as provided in this chapter, the city council shall approve such
transfer and amend the license to show. Such transferee shall accompany each
such application for transfer with, and shall pay the sum of, fifty dollars
($50.00). (1991 Code § 5.08.080)
3-3-8: LICENSE TERM; FEES:
   A.   Term Of License: All licenses issued under this chapter shall terminate
at one o'clock (1:00) A.M. January 1 of each year. (1991 Code § 5.08.090; amd.
2011 Code)
   B.   Fees Enumerated: Retailer's license fees for the sale of beer shall be
as follows:
      1.   Where such retailer sells only bottled or canned beer, none of which
is consumed on the premises where sold, the license fee shall be twenty five
dollars ($25.00) per year; and (1991 Code § 5.08.090)
      2.   Where such bottled or canned beer is consumed on the premises where
sold, the license fee shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). (1991 Code § 5.08.090;
amd. 2011 Code)
3-3-9: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Council Authority: In the event of a conviction of any licensee under
the provisions of this chapter, of any law of the state, or of the United
States, or any ordinance of the city, or regulation governing or prohibiting
the sale, manufacture, transportation or possession of alcoholic beverages or
intoxicating liquors, or if the city council determines that any such licensee
has violated any of the provisions of this chapter or any of the regulations of
the director of the Idaho state police, or of the city council promulgated
under the authority of the laws of the state or ordinances of the city, the
city council may, in its discretion, or in addition to any other penalty
imposed, determine to revoke the license of any such licensee, to suspend the
same for a period not in excess of six (6) months, or to refuse to grant a
renewal of such license after the date of its expiration. (1991 Code §
5.08.100; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   Notice; Determination:
      1.   When the city council makes a determination to revoke, to suspend,
or to refuse grant of renewal of license by reason of a licensee's conviction
or violation of any law or regulation referred to in subsection A of this
section, the city council shall give the licensee involved written notice
thereof, which shall be served upon such licensee personally, or by certified
mail addressed to such licensee at the premises for which license was issued.
If the city council's determination is made upon the basis of conviction, the
notice shall refer to and identify the judgment of the conviction, and when
made upon any other basis, the notice shall contain a statement of the acts
with which the licensee is charged and upon which the city council's
determination is based, which statement shall be in an ordinary and concise
language so as to enable a person of common understanding to know what is
intended, and in the case of a determination to suspend license, the period of
such suspension.
      2.   In cases where the city council has determined to revoke or suspend
a license, revocation or suspension shall become effective fifteen (15) days
after notice shall have been personally served on or mailed to such licensee,
and the notice shall so state.
      3.   In cases where the city council has determined to refuse grant or
renewal of license, notice thereof shall be served or mailed not less than
fifteen (15) days before the date the license shall expire. (1991 Code §
5.08.110)
3-3-10: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
It is unlawful and punishable as provided in this section for any person, firm,
copartnership, association, corporation or any group or combination to violate
any of the provisions contained in this chapter and, upon conviction of the
violation of any of such provisions, a penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code shall be imposed. (1991 Code § 5.08.120; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 4
WINE
SECTION:
3-4-1: Purpose
3-4-2: Definitions
3-4-3: License Required
3-4-4: Application For License; Fee
3-4-5: License Denial Or Revocation For False Information
3-4-6: License Location Specific
3-4-7: Transfer Of License; Fee
3-4-8: License Term; Fees
3-4-9: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
3-4-10: Violation; Penalty
3-4-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter shall be deemed an exercise of the police powers of the city for
the protection of the public health, peace and morals, and all of its
provisions shall be liberally construed for the attainment of that purpose.
(1991 Code § 5.12.010)
3-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
The terms used in this chapter shall have the same definitions and meanings as
such terms are set forth in Idaho Code section 23-1303. (1991 Code § 5.12.020;
amd. 2011 Code)
3-4-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any retailer to sell, trade, barter or dispose of wine
without first having obtained a license therefor from the city council as
provided in this chapter. (1991 Code § 5.12.030)
3-4-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE:
   A.   Filing Of Application; Contents; Payment Of Fee: Every person who shall
apply for a city license to sell wine at retail shall tender the license fee
to, and file written application for license with, the city clerk. The
application shall be on a form prescribed by the city council which shall
require such information concerning the applicant, the premises for which
license is sought and the business to be conducted thereon by the applicant as
the city council may deem necessary or advisable, and which shall enable the
city council to determine that the applicant is eligible and has none of the
disqualifications for a license, as provided for in this section. Such
information shall include the following:
      1.   The name and place of residence of the applicant and length of his
residence within the state; and, if the applicant is a partnership, the names,
places of residence and lengths of residence within the state of each partner;
and, if the applicant is a corporation or association, the date and place of
incorporation or organization, the location of its principal place of business
in Idaho and the names and places of residence of its officers, directors or
members of its governing board, and of the person who manages or will manage
the business of selling wine at retail.
      2.   The particular place for which the license is desired, designating
the same by a street and number, if practicable, or by such other apt
description as definitely locates such place, and the name of the owner of the
premises for which license is sought.
   B.   Other Requirements: The application shall affirmatively show:
      1.   That the applicant is a bona fide owner of the business which will
be engaged in the sale of wine at retail and with respect to which license is
sought.
      2.   That the condition of the place or building wherein it is proposed
to sell wine at retail conforms to all laws and regulations of the state and to
the ordinances of the county and city applicable thereto relating to public
health and safety and to the zoning ordinances of the city applicable thereto.
      3.   That there is no stamp or permit outstanding and in force which has
been issued to any person by the United States government for the premises for
which license to sell wine at retail is sought, which stamp or permit denotes
payment of any special tax imposed by the United States government on a retail
dealer in liquor or wines, unless the premises are premises for which a retail
license for sale of liquor by the drink, issued under the provisions of Idaho
Code title 23, chapter 9, is in force and effect.
      4.   That the individual applicant, or each partner of a partnership
applicant, is a citizen of the United States; or, with respect to a corporation
or association, that is qualified to do business within the state and that the
person who is or will be the manager of the corporation's or association's
business of selling wine at retail is a citizen; further, that such individual
applicant, at least one of the partners of the partnership applicant, and the
manager of the corporation or association applicant, shall have been a bona
fide resident of the state for at least thirty (30) days prior to the date of
application.
      5.   That the applicant, if an individual, is not less than nineteen (19)
years of age.
      6.   That, within three (3) years immediately preceding the date of
filing the application, the applicant has not been convicted of the violation
of any law of the state of Idaho, any other state, or of the United States,
regulating, governing or prohibiting the sale, manufacture, transportation or
possession of alcoholic beverages or intoxicating liquors, or, within said
time, suffered the forfeiture of a bond for failure to appear in answer to
charges of any such violation.
      7.   That, within five (5) years immediately preceding the date of filing
the application, the applicant has not been convicted of any felony or paid any
fine or completed any sentence of confinement therefor within said time.
      8.   That, within three (3) years next preceding the date of filing the
application, the applicant has not had any license provided for in this
chapter, or any license or permit issued to the applicant pursuant to the laws
of this state or any other state, or of the United States, to sell,
manufacture, transport, or possess alcoholic beverages or intoxicating liquors,
revoked.
   C.   Applicability To Officers Of Partnerships And Corporations: The
affirmative showing required with respect to an applicant under subsections B5,
B6, B7 and B8 of this section shall also be required to be made with respect to
each partner of a partnership applicant and to each incumbent officer, director
or member of the governing board of a corporation or association applicant, and
to each person then employed by an applicant whose duties include the serving
or dispensing of wine. (1991 Code § 5.12.040)
   D.   Swearing Before Notary Public: The application must be subscribed and
sworn to by the individual applicant, or by a partner of a partnership
applicant, or by an officer or manager of a corporation or association
applicant, before a notary public or other person authorized by law to
administer oaths. (1991 Code § 5.12.050)
3-4-5: LICENSE DENIAL OR REVOCATION FOR FALSE INFORMATION:
   A.   Application: If an applicant shall be unable to make the affirmative
showing required in section
3-4-4 of this chapter or if an application shall contain a false material
statement, knowingly made, the same shall constitute disqualification for
license and license shall be refused.
   B.   License: If license is received on any application containing a false
material statement, knowingly made, such license shall be revoked.
   C.   Suspension Or Revocation Of License: If at any time during the period
for which license is issued, a licensee becomes unable to make the affirmative
showings required by section
3-4-4 of this chapter, the license shall be revoked, or, if disqualification
can be removed, the license shall be suspended until the same shall be removed.
   D.   Procedure: The procedure to be followed upon refusal, revocation or
suspension of license as provided for in this section shall be in accordance
with the procedure set forth in section
3-4-9 of this chapter. (1991 Code § 5.12.060)
3-4-6: LICENSE LOCATION SPECIFIC:
Retailers' licenses shall be granted only for a certain room or building
designated in the license, and the place of business shall not be changed or
moved without the consent of the city council in regular session. (1991 Code §
5.12.070)
3-4-7: TRANSFER OF LICENSE; FEE:
Every person to whom a license shall be granted to sell, barter, trade or
dispose of wine shall at all times conduct a quiet and orderly place of
business. Such license shall not be transferred without the consent of the city
council. A transfer may not be approved without the transferee having filed an
application for wine license as provided in this chapter and having paid to the
city a transfer fee of fifty dollars ($50.00). The transferee shall meet all
requirements for issuance of a wine license as is provided in this chapter; no
license transferred by process of law or otherwise shall authorize the
transferee, including any executor, administrator or trustee in bankruptcy of
the estate of the licensee, to retail wine thereunder until the transferee
shall have filed, under oath, an application therefor containing substantially
the same information required of an applicant for a license, and if the
transferee possesses the qualifications and none of the disqualifications for a
license as provided in this chapter, the city council shall approve such
transfer and amend the licenses to show. Such transferee shall accompany each
such application for transfer with, and shall pay the sum of, fifty dollars
($50.00). (1991 Code § 5.12.080)
3-4-8: LICENSE TERM; FEES:
   A.   Term Of License: All licenses issued under this chapter shall terminate
at one o'clock (1:00) A.M. January 1 of each year. (1991 Code § 5.12.090; amd.
2011 Code)
   B.   Fees Enumerated: Retailer's license for the sale of wine shall be as
follows:
      1.   Where such retailer sells only bottled wine, none of which is
consumed on the premises where sold, the license fee shall be twenty five
dollars ($25.00) per year; and (1991 Code § 5.12.090)
      2.   Where such bottled wine is consumed on the premises where sold, the
license fee shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). (1991 Code § 5.12.090; amd. 2011
Code)
3-4-9: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Council Authority: In the event of a conviction of any licensee under
the provisions of this chapter, of any law of the state, or of the United
States, or any ordinance of the city, or regulation governing or prohibiting
the sale, manufacture, transportation or possession of alcoholic beverages or
intoxicating liquors, or if the city council determines that any such licensee
has violated any of the provisions of this chapter or any of the regulations of
the director of Idaho state police, or of the city council promulgated under
the authority of the laws of the state or ordinances of the city, the city
council may, in its discretion, or in addition to any other penalty imposed,
determine to revoke the license of any such licensee, to suspend the same for a
period not in excess of six (6) months, or to refuse to grant a renewal of such
license after the date of its expiration. (1991 Code § 5.12.100; amd. 2011
Code)
   B.   Notice; Determination:
      1.   When the city council makes a determination to revoke, to suspend,
or to refuse grant of renewal of license by reason of a licensee's conviction
or violation of any law or regulation referred to in subsection A of this
section, the city council shall give the licensee involved written notice
thereof, which shall be served upon such licensee personally, or by certified
mail addressed to such licensee at the premises for which license was issued.
If the city council's determination is made upon the basis of conviction, the
notice shall refer to and identify the judgment of the conviction, and when
made upon any other basis, the notice shall contain a statement of the acts
with which the licensee is charged and upon which the city council's
determination is based, which statement shall be in an ordinary and concise
language so as to enable a person of common understanding to know what is
intended, and in the case of a determination to suspend the license, the period
of such suspension.
      2.   In cases where the city council has determined to revoke or suspend
a license, revocation or suspension shall become effective fifteen (15) days
after notice shall have been personally served on or mailed to such licensee,
and the notice shall so state.
      3.   In cases where the city council has determined to refuse grant of
renewal of a license, notice thereof shall be served or mailed not less than
fifteen (15) days before the date the license shall expire. (1991 Code §
5.12.110)
3-4-10: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
It is unlawful and punishable as provided in this section for any person, firm,
copartnership, association, corporation or any group or combination to violate
any of the provisions contained in this chapter and, upon conviction of the
violation of any of such provisions, a penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code shall be imposed. (1991 Code § 5.12.120; amd. 2011 Code)
TITLE 4
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCE
SECTION:
4-1-1: Nuisance Conditions Prohibited; Responsible Party
4-1-2: Abatable Nuisances; Procedures And Penalties
4-1-3: General Nuisances; Procedures And Penalties
4-1-4: Hindering Authorized Person
4-1-1: NUISANCE CONDITIONS PROHIBITED; RESPONSIBLE PARTY:
   A.   Nuisance Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupant,
user, or person in charge or control of any property to create, cause, commit,
maintain, or allow the existence of any nuisance on such property, or upon any
street, sidewalk or public right-of-way abutting such property including the
area behind curbs, sidewalks, parking areas, and property to the center of
alleys and ditches. Further, it shall be unlawful for any person to create,
cause, allow, or commit any nuisance upon any public property, right-of-way, or
infrastructure, including sidewalks, streets, gutters, or storm drains.
   B.   Prohibited Nuisances: Prohibited nuisances shall specifically include,
but shall not be limited to, the following conditions and/or matter:
      1.   The proliferation and/or growth of weeds which:
         a.   Are over eight inches (8") in height:
         b.   By reason of size, manner of growth, location, or dryness,
constitute a safety, health, or fire hazard to any person, building,
improvement, crop, or other real or personal property; or
         c.   Are designated as noxious weeds by the State of Idaho.
      2.   Graffiti, on any surface.
      3.   Nuisance materials on the ground, whether leaked, drained, seeped,
dripped, sprayed, or dumped, except that this shall not include the incidental
leakage of nuisance materials from registered vehicles lawfully moving or
parked upon a public right-of-way; the lawful application of pesticides or
herbicides for purposes of controlling pests or weeds; or activity otherwise
specifically allowed by law or by written permit issued by the City or other
governing authority.
      4.   Snow or ice on any public sidewalk abutting or adjoining any
privately owned premises.
      5.   Personal property on any portion of a public sidewalk, except as
specifically allowed by law or by written permit issued by the City or other
governing authority.
      6.   One or more junk vehicle(s), where such junk vehicle is not enclosed
in any structure or otherwise concealed from public view pursuant to title 10
of this Code, except as to junk vehicles stored or parked pursuant to the
operation of a lawfully conducted business, industry or commercial enterprise.
      7.   Stagnant or impure water which causes or creates an offensive,
unhealthy, or unsanitary condition.
      8.   Refuse, vegetative decay or any decaying substance, garbage or filth
of any kind which is exposed to the elements and which causes or creates an
offensive, unhealthy, or unsanitary condition.
      9.   Discarded matter which has no substantial market value, is exposed
to the elements, and not enclosed in any structure or otherwise concealed from
public view, including, but not limited to rubble, litter, asphalt, concrete,
plaster, tile, cardboard, paper, scrap wood, scrap metal, tires, broken glass,
household goods and equipment, machinery, or miscellaneous property.
      10.   The accumulation of and/or failure to lawfully dispose of solid
waste on any commercial or residential premises.
      11.   Any building or structure that is so dilapidated or is in such
condition as to menace the public health or the safety of persons or property
on account of increased fire hazard or otherwise.
   C.   Responsible Party: Where a nuisance exists upon property that is
vacant, abandoned, and/or uninhabited, the owner of record, as reflected on the
most recent assessment roll, shall be presumed to be responsible for creating,
causing, committing, maintaining, and/or allowing such nuisance. Such owner of
record shall be subject to any and all penalties imposed as set forth herein,
and shall be responsible for payment of any and all costs incurred in abating
the nuisance. The owner of record shall bear the burden of rebutting this
presumption. (Ord. 214, 4-30-2018)
4-1-2: ABATABLE NUISANCES; PROCEDURES AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Applicability: The procedures set forth in this section shall apply to
"abatable nuisances", as that term is defined in section
1-3-2 of this Code.
   B.   Notice And Order To Abate: If it is determined by a Code Enforcement
Officer or Peace Officer that an abatable nuisance exists, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall cause a notice of violation and order to abate to be issued to
the owner, occupier, and/or person in control of such property. Such notice and
order shall contain the street address and parcel number of the property,
describe the nuisance existing thereon, order the abatement of the nuisance,
establish the time period for abatement, specify the penalty for noncompliance,
and describe the opportunity and time for appeal. The Code Enforcement Officer
or Peace Officer shall issue such notice and order to the owner, occupier, or
person in control of the property on which the nuisance exists in one of the
following ways:
      1.   By personal service upon such owner, occupier, or person in charge
or control of the property; or
      2.   By regular mail to such owner, occupier, or person in charge or
control of the property, at the address shown on the last available assessment
roll, or as otherwise known; or
      3.   By posting such notice and order at a conspicuous place on the
property and publishing one notice in the official newspaper of the City that
the property has been posted in accordance with this chapter and ordering the
owner, occupier, or person in charge or control of the property.
   C.   Time Period For Abatement: It shall be the duty of the owner, occupier,
or person in charge or control of any property where any abatable nuisance
exists, to abate such nuisance within five (5) calendar days from the date of
personal service, mailing, or publication, except that the Code Enforcement
Officer may require summary abatement of an abatable nuisance where such
condition presents an imminent or ongoing threat to or impairment of human
health or safety. Abatement of graffiti shall meet the following standards:
      1.   The removal of such graffiti shall not follow the pattern of the
graffiti such that the inscription, work, figure, symbol, drawing, mark, or
design of such graffiti remains apparent.
      2.   The removal of such graffiti by painting over it shall be reasonably
similar or identical to the original color of the surface upon which such
graffiti was applied.
      3.   If the surface is heavily covered with graffiti, the entire surface
shall be repainted.
   D.   Appeal: Within five (5) calendar days from the date of service,
mailing, or publication of the notice of violation and order to abate, the
owner, occupier, and/or person in charge or control of the subject property may
appeal to the City Council by filing a written appeal with the City Clerk,
which appeal shall enumerate the grounds for appeal. The City Clerk may
schedule such appeal for hearing at the next regular meeting of City Council.
City Council shall consider written and oral testimony from the appellant and
shall affirm, withdraw, or modify the order to abate. The decision of the City
Council shall be final. If City Council affirms the order, the appellant shall
have five (5) calendar days from the date of such affirmation to abate the
nuisance as ordered.
   E.   Criminal Penalties: If, following notice of violation and order to
abate, any person allows the existence of an abatable nuisance, such person
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each and every day in which any such
violation continues may be deemed a separate offense. Upon conviction for a
violation of this section, the City shall request from the Criminal Court an
order of restitution for any and all costs of abatement and/or other related
costs incurred by the City. Peace Officers and Code Enforcement Officers shall
have the authority to issue uniform citations to violators of this section.
   F.   Civil Penalties: In addition to any other penalties described in this
section, the City may also take civil action to obtain an order enjoining the
ongoing maintenance of such property free from nuisance, and/or to recover any
and all costs of abatement, enforcement, litigation, and/or prosecution
including, but not limited to, attorney fees and court costs.
   G.   Abatement; Administrative Penalties: In addition to pursuing criminal
and/or civil penalties, and notwithstanding the imposition of any civil or
criminal fine, penalty or imprisonment, the Code Enforcement Officer, after
providing notice and hearing as provided herein, may abate or cause the
abatement of any abatable nuisance where the owner, occupant, agent or person
in control of property does not comply in all respects with an order to abate,
the Code Enforcement Officer may abate or cause the abatement of such nuisance.
The owner, occupier, and/or person in charge or control of the subject property
shall be billed, assessed, and/or held responsible for any and all actual
expenses of such work, and any related charges, including fees and fines that
may be imposed pursuant to this chapter and/or adopted by fee schedule,
pursuant to the following procedures:
      1.   Recovery Of Abatement Costs And Fees: Within thirty (30) days of
abatement of the nuisance, the City shall send to the owner, occupier, and/or
person in charge or control of the subject property, by regular mail, a billing
statement requiring payment to City the costs of abating the nuisance and
administrative fee as established by fee schedule.
      2.   Nonpayment Of Abatement Costs: If full payment is not made to City
within fifteen (15) days of the mailing of the billing statement requiring
payment of abatement costs and fees, the City may:
         a.   Attempt to recover such amount through the City bill collection
procedures; and/or
         b.   Levy a special assessment against the subject property pursuant
to Idaho Code sections 50-1008 and 50-334 and/or any subsequently adopted or
otherwise applicable laws. Notice of the special assessment shall be sent by
regular mail to the owner of the subject property, and shall state the address
and parcel number of the subject property, date of abatement action taken, and
state the amount to be assessed, including any applicable administrative and/or
late fees, and shall state that if the assessment is not paid within thirty
(30) days, the assessment will be placed on the Real Property Tax rolls and
will become a lien against such property. If payment to the City Clerk is not
made within thirty (30) days after mailing the notice of special assessment,
the assessment shall be declared delinquent and shall be certified, including a
ten percent (10%) late fee, to the Twin Falls County Assessor by the City
Clerk, not later than August 1 of each year. Upon such certification, the
assessment shall be placed upon the tax roll and shall thereafter become a lien
against the property described in the notice and shall be collected in the same
manner and subject to the same penalties as other City taxes. Upon payment of
the assessment, fees and penalties in full, the City Clerk shall file a release
of lien with the Twin Falls County Assessor.
   H.   Summary Abatement: Nothing contained herein shall prevent a Code
Enforcement Officer, Peace Officer, or Fire Marshal from requiring,
undertaking, or causing summary abatement of an abatable nuisance where such
condition presents an imminent or ongoing threat to or impairment of human
health or safety.
   I.   Noxious Weeds: In addition to other remedies set forth in this chapter,
the Code Enforcement Officer or Peace Officer may notify Twin Falls County of
the presence of any noxious weeds. (Ord. 214, 4-30-2018)
4-1-3: GENERAL NUISANCES; PROCEDURES AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Applicability: The procedures set forth in this section shall apply to
"general nuisances", as that term is defined in section
1-3-2 of this Code.
   B.   Criminal Penalties: Any person who causes, creates, or allows the
existence of any general nuisance shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each and
every day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate
offense. Peace Officers and Code Enforcement Officers shall have the authority
to issue uniform citations to violators of this section. Issuance of notice of
violation and order to abate shall not be a mandatory prerequisite to issuance
of a uniform citation under this section.
   C.   Civil Penalties: In addition to any other penalties described in this
section, the City may also take civil action to obtain an order mandating the
abatement of such general nuisance and ongoing maintenance of such property
free from nuisance, and/or to recover any and all costs of enforcement,
litigation, and/or prosecution including, but not limited to, attorney fees and
court costs.
   D.   Summary Abatement: Nothing contained herein shall prevent a Code
Enforcement Officer, Peace Officer, or Fire Marshal from requiring,
undertaking, or causing summary abatement of a general nuisance condition where
such condition presents an imminent or ongoing threat to or impairment of human
health or safety. (Ord. 214, 4-30-2018)
4-1-4: HINDERING AUTHORIZED PERSON:
It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor to interfere with, hinder or refuse to
allow any authorized City official or employee to enter upon private or public
property to enforce the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 214, 4-30-2018)
CHAPTER 2
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
4-2-1: Burning Restrictions; Garbage Defined
4-2-2: Burning Permit Required
4-2-3: Notify Chief Prior To Burning
4-2-4: Hours Of Burning
4-2-5: Types Of Burning Apparatus; Burning Allowed
4-2-6: Penalty
4-2-1: BURNING RESTRICTIONS; GARBAGE DEFINED:
   A.   Burning Garbage: It shall be unlawful for any person to burn garbage
within the city limits. "Garbage" is defined as, and includes, all animal and
vegetable refuse from kitchens and other places where food is prepared, all
offal from fish, meat and vegetable markets and all organic substances unfit
for food and subject to decay.
   B.   Paper Products And Weeds: Paper, paper products, grass, weeds, leaves
or branches only may be burned during the hours and as in this chapter
prescribed.
   C.   Burning On Oiled Or Asphalt Streets 1 : No burning of rubbish, garbage,
dirt or refuse of any type and variety whatsoever shall be allowed upon any
oiled or asphalt street, alley, parkway or other public area, including public
rights of way. (Ord. 155, 8-12-1996)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  7-1-4 of this code.
4-2-2: BURNING PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Permit Required: Prior to burning any paper, paper products, grass or
weeds, an individual shall obtain from the city hall a burning permit.
   B.   Types Of Permits; No Fee: An individual may obtain a onetime burning
permit or a seasonal burning permit, and no fee shall be charged. (Ord. 155, 8-
12-1996; amd. 2011 Code)
4-2-3: NOTIFY CHIEF PRIOR TO BURNING:
The permittee must inform the fire department forty eight (48) hours prior to
burning so that the fire chief is able to inspect the proposed burn site prior
to any burning. (Ord. 155, 8-12-1996; amd. 2011 Code)
4-2-4: HOURS OF BURNING:
The regular hours for burning paper, paper products, grass, and weeds only
shall be from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) P.M., Monday
through Saturday, and from ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M.
on Sunday, with a maximum burn time of three (3) hours. (Ord. 155, 8-12-1996;
amd. 2011 Code)
4-2-5: TYPES OF BURNING APPARATUS; BURNING ALLOWED:
   A.   Burning By Commercial Entities Or Businesses: The following provisions
apply only to burning by commercial entities, organizations or businesses:
      1.   All materials authorized to be burned as prescribed herein shall be
burned in closed motor type incinerators provided with adequate draft
installations or metal containers equipped with screen type covers and cutouts
for draft.
      2.   All burning apparatus shall be situated on the premises of the owner
or occupant in a location to prevent fire hazards.
      3.   Properly equipped barbecue pits or other apparatus for burning may
be used, upon inspection and approval by the fire chief.
   B.   Burning By Individuals: Individuals burning solely residential or
household paper, paper products, grass, weeds, leaves or branches need not use
an incinerator or other apparatus as required by subsection A of this section.
(Ord. 155, 8-12-1996)
4-2-6: PENALTY:
A violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punishable as set forth
in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 155, 8-12-1996)
CHAPTER 3
ABANDONED VEHICLES, HOUSEHOLD GOODS AND MACHINERY
SECTION:
4-3-1: Placement On Public Property
4-3-2: Impoundment Of Abandoned Property
4-3-3: Violation; Penalty
4-3-1: PLACEMENT ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
No person shall place, allow, discard, maintain, park or store any dismantled,
abandoned, junked, damaged or destroyed household goods or equipment, motor
vehicles, "machinery" or "miscellaneous property" as defined in section
1-3-2 of this Code upon any public street, alley, sidewalk or other public
property within the City. (Ord. 214, 4-30-2018)
4-3-2: IMPOUNDMENT OF ABANDONED PROPERTY:
Any property or goods upon public property within the City in violation of this
chapter may be impounded and removed by the Police Department as is provided by
law for the disposal of abandoned property. (Ord. 214, 4-30-2018)
4-3-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be guilty of an infraction and shall be subject to penalty as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this Code. The cost of removal shall be included in any such fine
imposed. Each day of violation under this chapter shall be deemed a separate
offense and punishable as the same. (Ord. 214, 4-30-2018)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-1-1: Public Disturbance Noises
5-1-2: Firearms And Fireworks
5-1-1: PUBLIC DISTURBANCE NOISES:
   A.   Public Disturbance Noises Enumerated: It is unlawful for any person to
cause, or for any person in possession of property to allow to originate from
the property, sound that is a public disturbance noise. The following sounds
are determined to be public disturbance noises:
      1.   Horns Or Sirens Attached To Motor Vehicle: The frequent, repetitive,
or continuous sounding of any horn or siren attached to a motor vehicle, except
as a warning of danger or as specifically permitted or required by law.
      2.   Vehicle Noise In Residential District; Jake Brakes: The creation of
frequent, repetitive, or continuous sounds in connection with the starting,
operation, repair, rebuilding, or testing of any motor vehicle, motorcycle, off
highway vehicle, or internal combustion engine within a residential district,
so as to unreasonably disturb or interfere with the peace, comfort, and repose
of owners or possessors of real property. This also includes the use of motor
vehicles without mufflers. The use of engine brakes on commercial semitractor
trucks, commonly known as "jake brakes" or "pac brakes", is also prohibited
within the city.
      3.   Music Or Other Sounds From Buildings: The creation of frequent,
repetitive or continuous sounds which emanate from any building, structure,
apartment, or condominium, which unreasonably interferes with the peace,
comfort, and repose of owners or possessors of real property, such as sounds
from audio equipment, musical instrument, band sessions, or social gatherings.
      4.   Vehicle Radios Or Other Sound Systems: Sound from motor vehicle
sound systems, such as tape players, radios, and compact disc players, operated
at a volume so as to be audible greater than fifty feet (50') from the vehicle
itself.
      5.   Sound Systems Operated Loudly And Off Premises Of Operator: Sound
from audio equipment such as tape players, radios, or compact disc players,
operated at a volume so as to be audible greater than fifty feet (50') from the
source, and if not operated upon the property of the operator.
      6.   Dogs Barking Or Howling 1 : Frequent and continuous barking or
howling of dogs on any premises or property owned or controlled by any person
in the city, particularly between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and
six o'clock (6:00) A.M. or at any time and place so as to unreasonably disturb
or interfere with the peace, comfort, and repose of owners or possessors of
real property.
   B.   Exceptions: The foregoing provisions shall not apply to regularly
scheduled and city approved events at parks, streets, parking lots, or halls,
such as public address systems for baseball games or park concerts, or street
dances. (Ord. 176, 12-8-2003)
   C.   Penalty: A violation of any provisions of this section shall be deemed
an infraction punishable pursuant to section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 202, 10-13-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 5-3B-11A of this title.
5-1-2: FIREARMS AND FIREWORKS:
   A.   Discharge Of BB Guns, Slingshots And Firearms; Permit: It is unlawful
for any person to discharge any air gun, slingshot or other contrivance which
propels a missile or missiles by use of compressed air, springs or any other
elastic substance, or to discharge any firearm, including .22, shotgun or any
manner of rifle without first having obtained a written permit from the city
council permitting the possession and discharge of such BB guns, slingshots, or
other firearms as provided in this section. (1991 Code § 9.08.010)
   B.   Issuance Of Permits: The city council is authorized and empowered to
issue written permits for the public display or exhibition of fireworks within
the city, also to issue permits for the use of BB guns, slingshots and firearms
of all descriptions. (1991 Code § 9.08.020)
   C.   Sale And Discharge Of Fireworks: "Fireworks", as defined in Idaho Code
section 39-2602(3), shall not be sold or offered for sale at retail, given away
or discharged in the city except as follows: beginning at twelve o'clock (12:
00) midnight June 23 and ending at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight July 5, and
beginning at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight December 26 and ending at twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight January 1. (1991 Code § 9.08.030; amd. 2011 Code)
   D.   Enforcement: It shall be the duty of the members of the police
department to take such steps as may be necessary for the enforcement of this
section. (1991 Code § 9.08.040)
   E.   Violation; Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this section
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code; or in the event that the person violating this chapter is a
minor, he shall be dealt with and punished as provided in the juvenile
corrections act for the state 1 . (1991 Code § 9.08.050; amd. 2011 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 20-501 et seq.
CHAPTER 2
CURFEW FOR MINORS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Age And Hour Restrictions
5-2-2: Responsibility Of Parents Or Guardians
5-2-3: Enforcement
5-2-4: Refusal Of Guardian To Report To Police Station
5-2-5: Violation; Penalty
5-2-1: AGE AND HOUR RESTRICTIONS:
It is unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to be upon,
loiter, wander or stroll upon the streets, alleys, avenues, parks or any other
public place within the city limits after the hour of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
until five o'clock (5:00) A.M. of the following day, unless such person shall
be accompanied by a parent, legal guardian or any other adult person lawfully
and properly accompanying the minor person. The curfew hours shall be extended
for a period of one-half (1/2) hour past the end of any officially sanctioned
school, city or church activity held within the city limits. (1991 Code §
9.04.010; amd. 2011 Code)
5-2-2: RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS OR GUARDIANS:
It is unlawful for any parent, legal guardian or any other adult person having
legal care and custody of any minor person under the age of eighteen (18) years
to allow or permit any such person to go upon or be upon any street, alley,
park or any other public place after the hour of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. until
five o'clock (5:00) A.M. of the following day within the city limits, except as
provided in section
5-2-1 of this chapter. (1991 Code § 9.04.020; amd. 2011 Code)
5-2-3: ENFORCEMENT:
Any police officer or any other law enforcement officer is authorized and
empowered by virtue of his office to take charge of any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years violating the provisions of this chapter, and it shall be
the duty of any such officer taking charge of any such person to take the
person to the police station and to immediately thereafter notify the parent or
guardian of the person of the violation of the terms of this chapter, and to
notify the parent or legal guardian that the person will be held in custody at
the police station until some person can come to the police station and get the
minor person, and the person shall be held at the police station pending the
arrival of the parent or guardian. (1991 Code § 9.04.030)
5-2-4: REFUSAL OF GUARDIAN TO REPORT TO POLICE STATION:
It is unlawful and shall be considered a separate offense under this chapter
for any parent, guardian or any other adult person having the legal care and
custody of any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to refuse to come to
the police station and to take the minor person under their custody immediately
to their home upon being notified by the police department. (1991 Code §
9.04.040)
5-2-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any parent, guardian or other adult person violating the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of an infraction and shall be subject to penalty as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 202, 10-13-2014)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL
ARTICLE A.  LIVESTOCK
SECTION:
5-3A-1: Application Of Article
5-3A-2: Keeping Livestock; Permit Requirements; Fee
5-3A-3: Swine Prohibited
5-3A-4: Sanitary Conditions Required; Creating Nuisance
5-3A-5: Nuisances Declared
5-3A-6: Loading Pens And Sale Yards
5-3A-7: Revocation Of Permit; Inspections; Hearing
5-3A-1: APPLICATION OF ARTICLE:
This article shall apply to all animals and poultry now within the city and to
those subsequently brought into the city. (1991 Code § 6.04.010)
5-3A-2: KEEPING LIVESTOCK; PERMIT REQUIREMENTS; FEE:
   A.   Fowl And Rabbits: It is unlawful to keep or maintain any fowl or
rabbits within the limits of the city without first obtaining a permit from the
city council, which permit shall be granted subject to the applicant for the
permit meeting the following specifications:
      1.   To maintain and keep fowl or rabbits, the applicant must have at
least five thousand (5,000) square feet of real estate for each twenty five
(25) fowl or rabbits and in no event shall any applicant keep or maintain more
than fifty (50) fowl or rabbits, and in no event shall the fowl or poultry
house, rabbit hut, fowl, poultry or rabbit run be less than forty feet (40')
from a dwelling other than that of the applicant.
      2.   Approval of the city. (1991 Code § 6.04.030)
   B.   Other Animals: It is unlawful to keep or maintain any horses, cows,
sheep, goats or any other animals except dogs and cats in the city limits
without first obtaining a permit from the city council, which permit shall be
granted subject to the applicant meeting the following specifications: (1991
Code § 6.04.040)
      1.   To maintain or keep one cow or one horse or one sheep or one goat,
the applicant must have at least ten thousand (10,000) square feet of
pastureland for one animal and five thousand (5,000) square feet of pastureland
for each additional animal. Fences enclosing such animals must be so
constructed so as to prevent the animals from going upon the property of
adjoining property owners in any manner whatsoever.
      2.   Approval of the city. (1991 Code § 6.04.040; amd. 2011 Code)
   C.   Permit Fee: The applicant for a permit to keep or maintain animals in
the city shall, with the filing of his application, pay the city clerk ten
dollars ($10.00) for the application, which, if granted, will include a permit
for one year from the date of issuance of the permit. (1991 Code § 6.04.050;
amd. 2011 Code)
5-3A-3: SWINE PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any pigs or hogs within the
corporate limits of the city. (1991 Code § 6.04.020)
5-3A-4: SANITARY CONDITIONS REQUIRED; CREATING NUISANCE:
   A.   Cleanliness Of Premises; Animals Confined:
      1.   Animal locations, structures, pens, corrals and any other premises
or structure used for the keeping of and maintaining of horses, cows, sheep,
goats, rabbits, chickens, doves and pigeons or any other animals must be kept
in a clean and sanitary condition, free from obnoxious odors and substances.
      2.   All persons who keep or maintain any horses, cows, sheep, goats,
rabbits, chickens, doves or pigeons, or any other animals shall keep them
confined at all times in enclosures strong enough, or staked out, or picketed
on the premises or in such a manner as to prevent the animals or fowl from
going upon the premises or property of another.
   B.   Allowing Disturbances: It is unlawful for any person keeping or
maintaining any of the said animals or fowl to allow the same to create a
disturbance to the residents in the particular locality by creating any noise,
odor or damage to the adjacent property, and the keeping and maintaining of
such animals and fowl shall not interfere with the peaceful and quiet enjoyment
of such property by such adjacent owners or residents. (1991 Code § 6.04.060)
5-3A-5: NUISANCES DECLARED:
   A.   Dead Animals: It is declared a nuisance to allow dead fowl or animal
bodies to remain upon the ground or in stables or in the particular animal run
longer than six (6) hours.
   B.   Burning Refuse Or Manure: It is declared a nuisance to burn any refuse,
manure or animal or poultry droppings and feathers within the city limits.
   C.   Obnoxious Odors: It is declared a nuisance to have obnoxious odors
emanating from barns, manure piles, and animal enclosures, and the keeping of
unsightly, smelly, dilapidated barns and animal enclosures. (1991 Code §
6.04.070)
5-3A-6: LOADING PENS AND SALE YARDS:
For the purpose of selling, loading and shipping any horses, cows, pigs, hogs,
goats, sheep or chickens, it is lawful to keep the same in loading pens
provided for such purpose, but no such animals shall be kept in such pens
within the corporate limits of the city for a period of more than thirty six
(36) hours except by written permission of the city. (1991 Code § 6.04.080)
5-3A-7: REVOCATION OF PERMIT; INSPECTIONS; HEARING:
   A.   Evidence Of Noncompliance: The code officer shall recommend to the city
council the revocation of any permit upon evidence that any of the conditions
set forth in this article as a prerequisite to the issuance of a permit have
been violated or that the permit was issued upon fraudulent or untrue
representations, or that the person holding the permit has violated any of the
provisions of this article.
   B.   Petition Of Adjacent Residents: The code officer shall recommend to the
city council the revocation of any permit when fifty percent (50%) of the
owners or residents of the property abutting upon the premises where any of the
said animals are being kept or maintained, file a petition for such revocation.
(1991 Code § 6.04.090; amd. 2011 Code)
   C.   Premises Open To Inspection: All places and premises upon which any of
said animals are kept or housed shall be open at all times for inspection by
the city. If, upon inspection, there is found to exist any violation of any
provision of this article, the city shall give the person responsible for such
violation a written notice specifying the violation in particular and requiring
such offender to abate or correct the same within a period of twenty four (24)
hours. If such violation is not abated or corrected within such period, the
city shall recommend to the city council that the permit of such person be
revoked. (1991 Code § 6.04.090)
   D.   Hearing On Revocation:
      1.   When the code officer has recommended to the city council that the
permit be revoked, the city council shall notify the permittee by registered or
certified mail to appear before the city council and be heard upon the
recommendations of the city. The notice must be sent within forty eight (48)
hours of the recommendation and the hearing held within fifteen (15) days of
the recommendation. (1991 Code § 6.04.100; amd. 2011 Code)
      2.   At the hearing, if it shall appear to the city council that cause
exists for cancellation of such permit, the permit may be revoked without
further process of law. (1991 Code § 6.04.100)
ARTICLE B.  DOGS
SECTION:
5-3B-1: Definitions
5-3B-2: Enforcement
5-3B-3: Licensing, Registration, Fees And Tags
5-3B-4: Harboring More Than Three Dogs Or Strayed Dogs
5-3B-5: Vicious Animals
5-3B-6: Female In Heat
5-3B-7: Impoundment And Redemption Procedures; Pound
5-3B-8: Rabies Vaccinations
5-3B-9: Rabid Animals
5-3B-10: Running At Large Prohibited
5-3B-11: Noisy Dogs; Sanitation
5-3B-12: Improper Care
5-3B-13: Exhibiting Dog License Upon Demand
5-3B-14: Cruelty To Animals
5-3B-15: Poisoning Prohibited
5-3B-16: Euthanasia
5-3B-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, unless it is plainly evident from the context
that a different meaning is intended, certain terms used in this article are
defined as follows:
AT LARGE: Any dog which is not confined within a fenced or completely enclosed
area or on a chain or leash.
DOG: Any male, female, spayed female or neutered male dog of any age.
DOG KENNEL 1 : Premises where more than three (3) dogs, over six (6) months of
age, are raised, kept, housed or boarded.
DOG OF LICENSING AGE: Any dog which has attained the age of six (6) months.
IMPOUNDED: Having been received into the custody of the municipal pound or into
the custody of the animal control officer/humane officer or police department
or any authorized agent or representative thereof.
OWNER: Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation owning, keeping
or harboring a dog.
POUND: An animal shelter, lot, premises or buildings maintained by the city for
the confinement and care of dogs seized either under the provisions of this
article or otherwise.
UNLICENSED DOG: A dog for which the license for the current year has not been
paid, or to which the tag provided for in this article is not attached.
VICIOUS DOG: A dog that has bitten, clawed or otherwise harmed, or constitutes
a physical threat, or a dog whose temperament or habits endanger or menace any
person or other animal without provocation by such person or animal. This term
shall not include a dog that bites, attacks or menaces a person or other animal
that has tormented or injured the dog. (Ord. 183, 3-3-2008; amd. 2011 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also definition of "kennel" in section
  10-3-2 of this code.
5-3B-2: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Authority And Duties: The person designated by the city council to act
as animal control officer and the police department shall have the following
duties:
      1.   To enforce all provisions of this article and any amendment thereof
and all ordinances enacted relating to dogs.
      2.   To enforce licensing and control of dogs in the City.
      3.   To file complaints against any person failing to license any dog as
provided or who otherwise fails to comply with the provisions of this article.
      4.   To capture dogs found running at large.
      5.   To collect the destruction fee and secure euthanasia records for all
dogs to be destroyed at the owner's request.
      6.   To be responsible for posting notices concerning impounded dogs. It
shall be the duty of the person designated by the City Council as animal
control officer to hold all dogs delivered to him and provide suitable care for
such dogs for the period of impoundment and to destroy all dogs remaining in
the dog pound unclaimed or not redeemed at the expiration of the time limit of
forty eight (48) hours in a humane manner.
   B.   Right Of Entry: In the enforcement of any provisions of this article,
the animal control officer, humane officer, or any police officer is authorized
to enter the premises of any person to take possession of a licensed or
unlicensed, at large, dangerous, or vicious dog when in fresh pursuit of such
dog at the time the dog goes onto private property.
   C.   Interference With Enforcement: It is unlawful for any person to
interfere with, molest, hinder or prevent the animal control officer or police
officer in the discharge of their duties as prescribed in this article, or to
violate any of the provisions of this article. Violation of this subsection
shall be punishable by a fine of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00), plus
court costs. (Ord. 183, 3-3-2008)
5-3B-3: LICENSING, REGISTRATION, FEES AND TAGS:
   A.   License And Registration Required:
      1.   All dogs over the age of six (6) months kept, harbored or maintained
by any person in the City shall be licensed and registered.
      2.   All dogs under the age of six (6) months kept, harbored or
maintained by any person in the City and found to be at large, and impounded
will be required to be licensed and registered at the time the impound fees are
paid in order to be released back to the owner.
      3.   Dog licenses shall be issued by the City Clerk and/or animal control
officer upon payment of a license fee as provided in this article.
      4.   All dog owners within the City shall renew their current dog
licenses on or before March 1 of each year. The owner shall state at the time
application is made for such license, his name, address, phone number, and the
sex, breed and color of each dog owned or kept by him and a certificate of a
veterinarian showing inoculation with antirabies vaccine as required in this
article.
      5.   The failure to present a certificate of rabies vaccination shall not
excuse the requirements of licensing otherwise eligible dogs.
      6.   The license fee shall cover the period of one year (12 months)
commencing on January 1 and terminating on December 31.
      7.   The provisions of this subsection shall not be intended to apply to
dogs whose owners are nonresidents temporarily within the City for thirty (30)
days or less, nor to dogs brought into the City for the purpose of
participating in any dog show, nor to commercial kennels.
      8.   Dogs used as guides or assistants for blind persons or other
handicapped persons shall be licensed and registered as other dogs provided for
in this article.
      9.   Payment of the license fee shall be made to the City Clerk or animal
control officer.
   B.   License Fees:
      1.   Annually, on January 1, the owner of the dog shall pay a license fee
in an amount to be established by resolution of the City Council for each dog;
the license fee is due no later than March 1 of each year.
      2.   Any person, during the period mentioned in this section, who keeps
or harbors a dog within the City limits and fails to register the dog by March
1 shall pay a license fee in an amount to be established by resolution of the
City Council for each dog.
      3.   The owner of any newly acquired dog of licensing age or any dog
which attains licensing age shall make application for a license and official
metal registration tag for such dog within ten (10) days after such acquisition
or age attainment. A new resident of the City who owns a dog of licensing age
shall make and apply for a license within ten (10) days of moving into the
City.
   C.   License Tags; Issuance And Removal:
      1.   Upon payment of the license fee, the City Clerk or animal control
officer shall issue to the owner a certificate and a metallic tag for each dog
so licensed.
      2.   The shape or color of the tag shall be changed every year, and shall
have stamped thereon the year issued, the words "Hansen Dog Tag" and the
license number corresponding with the tag number of the certificate.
      3.   Every owner shall be required to provide each dog with a collar or
harness to which the license tag shall be affixed, and shall see that the
collar and the tag are constantly worn.
      4.   Show dogs during showings are exempted from wearing the collar and
tag.
      5.   Replacement dog tags shall be issued upon payment of one dollar
($1.00) for each tag so issued to replace the original tag that was lost or
destroyed.
      6.   Dog tags shall not be transferable from one dog to another, and no
refunds shall be made on any dog license fee for any reason whatsoever.
      7.   The original certificate shall be retained by the owner or harborer
of the licensed dog for inspection by the animal control officer or Police
Department.
      8.   No person shall remove or cause to be removed the collar or metallic
tag from any licensed dog without the consent of the owner, keeper or harborer
thereof.
   D.   Penalty: Violation of the provisions of this section is punishable by a
fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) per violation, in addition to court costs and
the cost of the license. (Ord. 217, 9-10-2018)
5-3B-4: HARBORING MORE THAN THREE DOGS OR STRAYED DOGS:
   A.   Keeping In Kennel: It is unlawful for any person to harbor or keep
within the City more than three (3) dogs or any lost or strayed dog, unless
said dogs are kept and maintained in a kennel allowed pursuant to the zoning
regulations 1  of this Code. Violation of this provision is punishable by a
fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per violation, in addition to court
costs.
   B.   Notify Animal Control Officer Of Strayed Dog: Whenever any dog is found
which appears to be lost or strayed, it shall be the duty of the finder to
notify the animal control officer or the Police Department. The animal control
officer or officers of the Police Department shall impound the dog and dispose
of the same as provided in this article for the disposition of a dog impounded
for running at large contrary to the terms of this article. If there is
attached to the dog a license tag for the then current year, the animal control
officer or Police Department shall notify the person to whom the license was
issued, at the address given in the license. (Ord. 183, 3-3-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this Code.
5-3B-5: VICIOUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Secure Enclosure: Persons owning or having custody or control of any
dog or other animal that is vicious or dangerous shall keep such animal in a
secure enclosure from which the animal cannot escape and for which exit and
entry is controlled by the owner of the premises or owner of the animal.
   B.   Running At Large Prohibited; Right To Kill Vicious Dog: No vicious or
dangerous dog or other animal shall run at large on private or public property
in such a manner as to endanger the life or limb of any person off of said
premises or of any person lawfully entering such premises. Any vicious dog
removed from the secure enclosure must be restrained by a chain sufficient to
control the vicious dog. Any police officer or animal control officer may kill
any animal they find to be immediately threatening the safety of or endangering
the life or limb of any person, whether said animal is licensed or not.
   C.   Dog Rushing At Person: Any owner or keeper of a dog that rushes at any
person on a public right-of-way or lawfully on any property, public or private,
or any postal, utility or City employee during the course of their employment,
or any cyclist or motor vehicle, shall keep such dog confined or tethered in
such a manner as to prevent such action by said dog.
   D.   Penalties For Violations: Violation of this section shall be punishable
by a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) plus court costs for a first
offense, a fine of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) plus court costs for a
second offense, and a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00) plus court costs
for each subsequent offense beyond the second. If a dog or other animal has
been found to have violated the terms of this section two (2) separate times,
the dog or other animal shall be deemed a nuisance and may be destroyed in a
humane manner in addition to any other penalty imposed on the owner.
   E.   Offense Of Having Custody Of Vicious Dog: In any case where a person
has been charged or cited with the offense of owning or having custody of a
vicious or dangerous dog or other animal pursuant to the provisions of this
article, the City Attorney may file a motion requesting destruction of the
animal prior to a final adjudication of the criminal charges. The animal shall
remain confined at the animal shelter or pound pending a final decision on the
motion. The court may order the destruction of the animal upon making a finding
that the animal is "vicious" as defined in this article, and that it poses a
danger to the public if allowed to be released from confinement. (Ord. 183, 3-
3-2008)
5-3B-6: FEMALE IN HEAT:
   A.   Running At Large:
      1.   The owner of a female dog shall cause the dog, when in season, to be
penned or enclosed in such a manner as to preclude other dogs from attacking
such female dog or being attracted to such female dog as to create a public
nuisance.
      2.   It is unlawful for a female dog to be found running at large on any
public or private property while such female dog is in the copulating season.
If a female dog cannot be controlled by the owner during the copulating season,
the female dog may be declared a nuisance and impounded by the animal control
officer or Police Department.
      3.   Violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of fifty
dollars ($50.00) plus court costs for the first offense, a fine of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) plus court costs for a second offense, and a fine of two
hundred dollars ($200.00) plus court costs for each subsequent offense beyond
the second.
      4.   If an owner is convicted of allowing the same dog to run at large
more than three (3) times in a two (2) year period, the dog may be deemed a
nuisance and destroyed in a humane manner.
   B.   Confinement: It is unlawful for any person to let to a bitch dog any
dog, or let to any female any male animal, except within an enclosure so
arranged as to obstruct such animal completely from the view of all persons who
have no proprietary interest in the breeding of such animals. (Ord. 183, 3-3-
2008)
5-3B-7: IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION PROCEDURES; POUND:
   A.   Impoundment Generally: All unlicensed dogs, all dogs disturbing the
peace and quiet of a person or neighborhood, all vicious or dangerous dogs, and
all dogs found to be within the City limits in violation of any of the
provisions of this article shall be taken and impounded in the Municipal dog
pound. Such dogs shall be so taken without necessity of filing a complaint and
shall be impounded and disposed in accordance with the provisions of this
article.
   B.   Recordkeeping: The City Clerk or designee shall keep a record of each
animal impounded, the date of receipt of the animal, the date and manner of its
disposal, and if redeemed, reclaimed or sold, the name of the person who
redeemed, reclaimed or purchased, the address of the person and the amounts of
all fees received or collected for or because of the impounding, reclaiming, or
purchasing thereof, together with the number of any tag and the date of any tag
exhibited or issued upon the redemption or sale of any such animal.
   C.   Redemption; Payment Of Fees:
      1.   Any dog impounded as a licensed or unlicensed dog may be redeemed
and taken from such pound by the owner or any authorized person upon exhibiting
to the City Clerk a certificate of registry as provided in subsection 5-3B-3A
of this article, showing that the license imposed in said section has been paid
for the dog, and upon paying the City Clerk an impounding fee and a fee for
each and every subsequent business day the dog has been impounded, which fees
shall be established by resolution of the City Council.
      2.   All impounded dogs not redeemed within forty eight (48) hours may be
offered for sale at the best price obtainable at either private or public sale
and all monies received therefrom shall be paid to the City clerk.
      3.   All dogs that are not sold or redeemed shall be taken to an animal
humane organization or destroyed in a humane manner.
      4.   In the event the same dog is impounded a second time, a third time,
or a fourth time, the owner shall be required to pay the impounding fees
established by resolution of the City Council for each subsequent offense.
   D.   Pound Hours: All pound business is done at the City Clerk's Office
Monday through Friday from nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M.
The City Council, from time to time, shall determine what the regular hours
shall be and shall cause the same to be posted at or near the main entrance of
the pound in plain view of the public.
   E.   Maintenance Of Pound: The City shall provide suitable premises and
facilities to be used as the City dog pound. It shall be maintained in some
convenient location and shall be sanitary, heated and ventilated. (Ord. 217, 9-
10-2018)
5-3B-8: RABIES VACCINATIONS:
   A.   Vaccination Required: Every dog shall be vaccinated by a licensed
veterinarian with antirabies vaccine by the time that any dog reaches the age
of six (6) months and every three (3) years thereafter on the anniversary date
of the first vaccination; provided, that the vaccination used is of the chick
embryo type, and otherwise the dog must be inoculated annually.
   B.   Certificate Of Vaccination: Upon vaccination, the veterinarian shall
issue to the owner a certificate or tag showing the date of vaccination, and
the rabies tag must be affixed to the collar of the dog and worn at all times.
(Ord. 183, 3-3-2008)
5-3B-9: RABID ANIMALS:
   A.   Report:
      1.   Anyone having knowledge of the whereabouts of an animal known to
have or suspected of having rabies shall report the fact immediately to the
animal control officer or Police Department. The animal control officer or
Police Department shall likewise be notified of any person or animal bitten by
a rabid or suspected rabid animal.
      2.   It shall be the duty of the physician, upon treatment of any person
bitten by any animal, to immediately report the name and address of such person
to the City animal control officer or Police Department.
   B.   Quarantine Of Biting Animals:
      1.   A dog which is known to have bitten or injured any person so as to
cause an abrasion of the skin, or a suspected rabid dog, shall be placed in
confinement under observation of a veterinary hospital or Municipal pound and
shall not be killed or released until at least ten (10) days. Any animal of a
species subject to rabies that has bitten a person shall likewise be confined
and observed for at least ten (10) days. If the animal dies or has been killed,
its head shall be removed and immediately taken to the State Health Laboratory
to be examined for rabies.
      2.   No person shall fail, refuse or neglect to allow the animal control
officer to make an inspection or examination thereof at any time during the
period of quarantine. No such dog or animal shall be removed from the place of
quarantine without written permission of the animal control officer or Police
Department. Violation of this section shall be deemed a misdemeanor punishable
pursuant to section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   C.   Quarantine Of Bitten Animal: Any animal of a species subject to rabies
which has been bitten by a known rabid animal or has been in intimate contact
with a rabid animal shall be isolated in a suitable place approved by the
Police Department for a period of one hundred twenty (120) days, or destroyed.
(Ord. 183, 3-3-2008)
5-3B-10: RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
   A.   Prohibition: It is unlawful for any dog to be found running at large.
The owner, possessor or person who keeps any dog found to be at large shall be
in violation of this provision.
   B.   Description Of Running At Large: A dog shall be deemed to be running at
large when found on, off or away from the premises of the owner, possessor or
keeper thereof, or not under the immediate control of the owner, possessor or
keeper or his agent or servant or a member of his immediate family, either by
leash, cord, chain or otherwise. Also, a dog shall be deemed to be running at
large when found upon the private premises of others or upon the streets,
alleys, sidewalks, highways, vacant lots, schoolyards or other public places in
the city.
   C.   Dogs Within Parks: Dogs are not allowed within the city parks. When in
the immediate control of the owner, possessor or keeper thereof, either by
leash, cord, or chain, dogs may be allowed only upon the park sidewalks or
surrounding park streets.
   D.   Penalty: Violation of the provisions of this section is declared to be
a nuisance and menace to the public health and safety, and the dog or dogs
shall be taken up and impounded as provided in this article. Violation of the
provisions of this section shall be further punishable by a fine of fifty
dollars ($50.00) plus court costs for a first offense, a fine of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) plus court costs for a second offense, and a fine of two
hundred dollars ($200.00) plus court costs for each subsequent offense beyond
the second. (Ord. 183, 3-3-2008)
5-3B-11: NOISY DOGS 1 ; SANITATION:
   A.   Allowing Disturbances Prohibited:
      1.   No person, firm or corporation shall own, keep or harbor any dog
which by loud, continuous or frequent barking, howling or yelping annoys or
disturbs any neighborhood or person.
      2.   No person who owns or keeps any dog within the city limits shall
allow said dog to be loud or to continuously bark, howl or yelp to annoy or
disturb any neighborhood or person.
   B.   Dog Pound Excepted: This section shall not apply to the municipal dog
pound or veterinary hospitals.
   C.   Sanitation Of Premises: Every person who keeps, maintains or harbors a
dog shall maintain his premises including, but not limited to, dog pens or
runs, in a clean and sanitary condition so that they are not offensive, a
harborage for vermin, malodorous or a health hazard.
   D.   Penalty: Violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of
fifty dollars ($50.00) plus court costs for a first offense, a fine of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) plus court costs for a second offense, and a fine of
two hundred dollars ($200.00) plus court costs for each subsequent offense
beyond the second. (Ord. 183, 3-3-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 5-1-1A6 of this title.
5-3B-12: IMPROPER CARE:
Any person who owns or keeps and maintains any dogs within the city limits in
such a manner as to be offensive to other persons on account of noise or odors
or otherwise, shall be guilty of an infraction. (Ord. 202, 10-13-2014)
5-3B-13: EXHIBITING DOG LICENSE UPON DEMAND:
It is unlawful for any person keeping or harboring a dog for which a license is
required by this article to fail or refuse to exhibit the registration
certificate or license tag upon demand by the animal control officer or police
officer. Violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of fifty
dollars ($50.00), plus court costs. (Ord. 183, 3-3-2008)
5-3B-14: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
It is unlawful for any person to maltreat or torture any dog; or having the
right or authority to kill any dog, to kill such dog in an inhumane manner.
Violation of this provision shall be deemed a misdemeanor punishable pursuant
to section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 183, 3-3-2008)
5-3B-15: POISONING PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to wilfully and maliciously administer or cause
to be administered poison of any sort whatsoever to any animal, the property of
another, with the intent to injure or destroy such dog, or to wilfully or
maliciously place any poison or poisoned food where the same is accessible to
any such animal. Any person so offending shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable pursuant to section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 183, 3-3-2008)
5-3B-16: EUTHANASIA:
   A.   Fee: A fee of seventy five dollars ($75.00) shall be charged for each
dog destroyed by city employees at the request of any person, firm or
corporation who delivers such dog to the city with written direction for
destruction of such dog and provides satisfactory evidence of ownership of the
dog to be destroyed.
   B.   Restrictions: It is unlawful for the animal control officer to destroy,
cause or allow to be destroyed any dog impounded until the expiration of the
impound time limit of forty eight (48) hours and notice given as provided in
this article; except, the animal control officer may destroy a dog prior to the
expiration of the time limit when a dog is brought for destruction by the owner
as provided in subsection A of this section, or in the case where the animal
control officer may impound or receive a dog severely injured or infected by a
contagious disease other than rabies; and in the animal control officer's
judgment, the dog is suffering or recovery is doubtful, in which case the
animal control officer may destroy the dog. The animal control officer shall
notify, within twenty four (24) hours after impounding a dog, the owner, if
known, and if unknown, notice shall be posted at the city pound or city hall in
a public place, the date of impoundment and description of the dog. (Ord. 183,
3-3-2008)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
STATE LAW; TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: State Law Adopted
6-1-2: Copies On File
6-1-1: STATE LAW ADOPTED:
There is adopted for the purpose of establishing rules and regulations for the
use of all streets and public thoroughfares of the city by motor vehicles,
Idaho Code title 49, chapters 5, 6 and 7, as the same may hereafter be revised
by the Idaho legislature or amended by the governing body, and the same is
adopted and incorporated as an ordinance of the city as fully as though set
forth at length in this section. (1991 Code § 10.04.010)
6-1-2: COPIES ON FILE:
Three (3) copies of the Idaho motor vehicle laws, together with any revisions
or amendments, duly certified by the city clerk, shall be kept on file in the
city office for use and examination of and by the public. (1991 Code §
10.04.020)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Alleys
6-2-2: Parking And Camping Restrictions In City Parks
6-2-3: Trucks, Trailers And Abandoned Vehicles
6-2-1: ALLEYS:
   A.   Parking Restrictions:
      1.   No person shall park a vehicle in any alley within the business zone
of the city except for the specific purpose of loading and unloading
merchandise.
      2.   In other than the business zone, no person shall park a vehicle
within an alley in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available
less than ten feet (10') in the width of the roadway for the free movement of
vehicular traffic.
      3.   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in
such a position as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
      4.   No person shall leave a vehicle unattended in an alley in the
business district.
   B.   Blocking Alleys: No person shall abandon, park, leave, dump, scatter,
or by any other means deposit trash, vehicles, items or things in any alleyway
of the city in such a manner or means as to block or impede the traffic in any
alley of the city. (1991 Code § 10.08.010)
   C.   Violation; Penalty: It is unlawful for any person to violate any of the
provisions contained in this section, and, upon conviction of a violation of
any of the provisions contained in this section, a penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code shall be imposed. (1991 Code § 10.08.010; amd. 2011 Code)
6-2-2: PARKING AND CAMPING RESTRICTIONS IN CITY PARKS:
   A.   Parking In City Parks Restricted: It shall be unlawful for any person
to park any motorized vehicles in the Hansen city park, Rolling Hills Park and
any other public park within the Hansen city limits, other than in designated
parking areas.
   B.   Overnight Parking Or Camping Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
person to park any motorized vehicles overnight or to camp overnight in the
Hansen city park, Rolling Hills Park and any other public park within the
Hansen city limits. (Ord. 170, 7-9-2001)
6-2-3: TRUCKS, TRAILERS AND ABANDONED VEHICLES:
   A.   Parking Restrictions:
      1.   Trucks And Trailers: No person shall park a motor truck of more than
one and one-half (11/2) ton capacity or automobile with trailer attached except
with the right hand side parallel and the wheels of the vehicles within
eighteen inches (18") of the curb or edge of the roadway, and in moving such
motor truck or automobile with trailer attached away from the curb, it shall be
moved forward, and no such motor truck or automobile with trailer attached
shall be parked within four feet (4') of another car. No person shall park a
motor vehicle of one and one-half (11/2) ton capacity, or more, nor shall any
person park a motor vehicle which has an overall length of more than twenty two
feet (22'), nor shall any person park a trailer of more than one-half (1/2) ton
capacity upon any street or alley located within a residential district within
the city except while engaged in the actual loading or unloading of passengers
or property.
      2.   Abandoned Vehicles: No inoperative or abandoned vehicle shall be
parked for a longer period than twenty four (24) hours on any street or alley.
   B.   Removal Of Vehicle; Cost Recovery: Any police officer of the city, upon
finding a vehicle in violation of any of the provisions of this section, is
authorized to remove or cause to be removed said vehicle, and the vehicle may
be redeemed only upon payment of the cost of removal and any storage charges
for the vehicle.
   C.   Violation; Penalty: Any person convicted of violating any of the
provisions of this section shall be punished as designated in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 170, 7-9-2001)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Excavations
7-1-2: Awning And Shade Restrictions
7-1-3: Sale Or Display Of Merchandise
7-1-4: Fires Unlawful
7-1-5: Snow And Ice Removal From Sidewalks
7-1-1: EXCAVATIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: It is unlawful for any person, other than authorized
city employees, to remove, break, repair or disturb any curb, sidewalk,
surfacing or any other structure, or to fill or excavate or to construct any
structure, either permanent or temporary, or to do any other work within or
upon the streets or alleys without first obtaining a permit therefor as
provided in this section. (1991 Code § 12.04.010)
   B.   Application: Any person desiring to do any work within or upon any
street or alley shall file an application to the city clerk. (1991 Code §
12.04.020; amd. 2011 Code)
   C.   City Approval Required: Permits for any work involving the removal or
destruction of any street surfacing, curb, curb and gutter, sidewalk, sign or
other structure within a public right of way shall be approved by the city.
(1991 Code § 12.04.030)
7-1-2: AWNING AND SHADE RESTRICTIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to place, erect, construct or maintain any
awning, shade or other structure of any kind or for any purpose over or above
the sidewalk space of any street or avenue within the city, unless each and
every part thereof other than the cloth or fabric covering shall be at least
seven feet (7') above the surface of the sidewalk, and unless each and every
part of the cloth or other fabric covering and fringe be at least six and one-
half feet (61/2') above the sidewalk; provided, that this section does not, and
shall not be deemed to, affect or change in any way the provisions for height
of electric or other signs. (1991 Code § 12.04.040)
7-1-3: SALE OR DISPLAY OF MERCHANDISE:
   A.   Compliance With Section: It is unlawful for any person or business
entity to offer to sell or to consummate sales or to display merchandise or to
conduct demonstrations of merchandise on or within the boundaries of any public
right of way except as provided in this section.
   B.   Grant Of Permission: The city may grant prior permission for such
conduct. In granting permission, the city shall consider, among other things,
the length, nature, time and place of the event and shall satisfy itself that
the public welfare will be adequately secured.
   C.   Requirements Of Applicant: The city shall require the applicant to
provide adequate security, holding and saving the city harmless from any injury
caused any person or property due to the applicant's conduct; shall instruct
the applicant to avoid the complete blockade of any portion of the public right
of way utilized; and shall require the applicant to be singularly and solely
responsible for the cleaning of the entire public right of way surrounding the
event for which permission is given.
   D.   Filing Application Prior To Event: A person is required to apply to the
city for the permission provided for at least thirty (30) days prior to the
intended event. Permission granted by the city shall be by letter, setting
forth all of the conditions of the permission given and shall be signed by the
applicant.
   E.   Appeal City Decision: Any person aggrieved by the decision of the city
or any of the conditions imposed by the city in granting such permission may
appeal to the city council by orally informing the city of such intent. The
appeal shall be heard at the next regularly scheduled city council meeting.
(1991 Code § 12.04.050)
7-1-4: FIRES UNLAWFUL 1 :
It is unlawful for any person to set or maintain a fire on any public right of
way. (1991 Code § 12.04.060)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 4-2-1C of this code.
7-1-5: SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL FROM SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Removal Required: Every owner, tenant or occupant of any premises
within the city limits abutting or adjoining any sidewalk in the city shall be
required to remove all snow and ice from any such sidewalks.
   B.   Placement Restricted: Every such owner, tenant or occupant of any
premises within the city limits shall be prohibited from placing, storing, or
stacking any snow or ice removed from said premises within or upon any public
right of way held by the city or upon any public street within the city.
   C.   Violation; Penalty: Upon a first violation of this section, a written
warning shall issue to the offending party. Upon a second violation of this
section, and for each subsequent violation within three hundred sixty five
(365) days of the first violation of this section shall be punished by a fine
in the amount of twenty five dollars ($25.00), said amount to be added to the
user's monthly water bill. (Ord. 158, 12-9-1996)
CHAPTER 2
TREES
SECTION:
7-2-1: Statement Of Value
7-2-2: Purpose And Objectives
7-2-3: Definitions
7-2-4: City Tree Board
7-2-5: Public Tree Care
7-2-6: Private Tree Care
7-2-7: New Development
7-2-8: Budget For Tree City USA Status
7-2-1: STATEMENT OF VALUE:
Established trees are valuable assets to the community of Hansen. In the
ecosystem typical of the area, trees are uncommon and depend on human care to
not just survive but to thrive, thereby remaining healthy and not becoming a
public hazard. Healthy, strategically placed trees beautify, increase property
values and make the community a more pleasant and thereby desirable place to
live, work and play. (Ord. 188, 4-13-2009)
7-2-2: PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES:
This chapter is intended to establish a Hansen tree board. The tree board's
major objectives are to apply for, gain and retain tree city USA status. This
status, once obtained, is an important tool in the other major goal; that being
to preserve, protect and properly maintain trees within the Hansen community
through education and sound arboricultural practices, resulting in a safe,
healthy, beautiful environment in the city. (Ord. 188, 4-13-2009)
7-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
HAZARDOUS TREES: Public or private trees in a condition (dead, damaged,
diseased or dying) by which they are a hazard or a future hazard to the public
and/or public or personal property.
OBSTRUCTIVE TREES: Public or private trees that prevent appropriate passage or
safe vision on any public rights of way.
PARK TREES: Trees or shrubs in public parks or open spaces owned by the city to
which the public has free access.
PRIVATE TREES: All other than public trees and shrubs.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: Improved or unimproved public property owned by, dedicated
to, or deeded to the city for public, pedestrian, vehicular or other use. It
includes, but is not limited to, streets, alleys, sidewalks, access routes for
public utilities and open public spaces such as parks and city landscaping.
PUBLIC TREES: Trees or shrubs situated in such a manner that over fifty percent
(50%) of the base, trunk or canopy is on public property or impacting the
public right of way.
STREET TREES: Trees or shrubs on land lying between property lines on all
public rights of way within the city. (Ord. 188, 4-13-2009)
7-2-4: CITY TREE BOARD:
   A.   Appointment: The city council shall appoint a permanent tree board to
serve and assist with the issues involving public trees. This includes issues
involving planting, maintenance (appropriate and timely preservation or
removal) of trees and shrubs within the city limits. All decisions of the tree
board shall be submitted to the city council for ratification.
   B.   Membership: The tree board shall consist of a minimum of five (5)
members initially appointed by the mayor. Membership should consist of citizens
in the community of Hansen with an interest in and, to some extent, a knowledge
of issues involving trees and urban forestry. From thence, members shall be
chosen as provided for in the bylaws of said organization. One member will also
be a member of the city council to serve as liaison with the city council.
   C.   Terms; Vacancies; Application For Position:
      1.   The representative of the city council will serve a term of two (2)
years but will not serve as chair of the board. Initially two (2) of the
members of the board will serve a term of one year while the other two (2) will
serve a term of two (2) years the first term and then a term of two (2) years
thereafter (see the bylaws of the Hansen tree board for further details).
Thereafter, unless otherwise indicated by the tree board, future members and
the chair of the board will be chosen by vote as outlined in the board bylaws.
      2.   In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any
member, his or her successor shall be appointed for the unexpired portion of
the term.
      3.   Interested parties may apply for a position on the tree board by
applying to the tree board.
   D.   Compensation: The tree board will serve without monetary compensation
for serving on the board. Recompense for expenses attendant with participation
in approved activities may be made.
   E.   Minutes Of Meetings: The tree board will keep minutes of all meetings
and the minutes will be available for public view.
   F.   Meetings: The tree board shall meet as needed, but at least once per
quarter, to review plans and practices for seasonal consideration in
conjunction with oversight of the city maintenance personnel's activities. The
chair may call a meeting of the board as needed.
   G.   Voting: A majority (nominally 2/3 of the members) vote of the board
members is required as outlined in the board's bylaws.
   H.   Duties And Responsibilities: The Hansen tree board shall provide
recommendations to the mayor and city council as to the preservation,
protection and management of the community forest of Hansen, in accordance with
the intent and purpose of this chapter. The board shall have the following
duties and responsibilities:
      1.   To advise the city council on maintaining a community forestry
program.
      2.   To develop a community forest master plan for the community of
Hansen.
      3.   To educate and promote proper tree/shrub planting, care and pruning
practices.
      4.   To create or collaborate on informational brochures, articles or
publications such as the bulletins published by the National Arbor Day
Foundation, to educate the public on appropriate community trees and their
benefits.
      5.   To represent the city in distributing tree information and speaking
before the public or the council on tree/community related issues.
      6.   To recruit volunteers for planting projects and promote Arbor Day
activities in the community.
      7.   To hold regular meetings as required by the elected chair of the
tree board.
      8.   To aid the city council in obtaining and maintaining tree city USA
status.
      9.   To work in collaboration with other administrative agencies,
including, but not limited to, soil conservation districts, highway districts
and public utilities.
      10.   To develop minimum standards for the community forest based on
International Society Of Arboriculture ANSI 300 standards, which takes into
account local soil and water issues for tree planting within the community
forest master plan.
      11.   To develop policies regarding the handling of sites with historical
trees including, but not limited to, determining and distributing information
on trees of significance, of historical trees potentially scheduled for
removal, pruning or area construction prior to such action within the right of
way area, by either the homeowner, Idaho Power or the highway districts. The
board also requests the opportunity to send a representative to the site for
the purposes of inquiring about the action, gain knowledge concerning the needs
of the public or agency requirements and documenting the consequences to the
tree(s).
      12.   To develop policies and procedures regarding the permitting of any
arborist wishing to work within the community of Hansen.
      13.   To enhance and pursue opportunities for obtaining monetary funds
for community forestry purposes, related supplies and community forestry
activities through local and federal assistantship grants and donations. (Ord.
188, 4-13-2009)
7-2-5: PUBLIC TREE CARE:
   A.   Standards And Principles: Public tree care and management will be done
in accordance with the principles contained in the book published by the
National Arbor Day Foundation entitled "Urban Forestry Guide" and the "Tree
City USA Bulletins", consistently updated and the "Standards And
Specifications" as appended. Accordingly, any and all personnel dealing with
city trees and shrubs shall be knowledgeable and utilize current arboricultural
standards of practice.
   B.   City Jurisdiction: Except as outlined in this section, the city will
have jurisdiction to maintain public trees as it sees fit.
   C.   Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful:
      1.   For any public tree to be "topped or headed" in such a way that the
crown is removed or severely cut back.
      2.   To cut down, destroy, or damage any public tree without permission
of the city.
      3.   Attach devices or signs to any public tree.
      4.   To dispose of and/or apply any substance toxic to trees near any
public tree or on public property, or in such a way that it may leach into the
soil and affect said public trees/property or adjacent private trees/property.
      5.   To damage any public tree as a result of construction or excavation
activities as outlined in TC-USA Bulletins 3, 4 and any future publications
that may apply.
      6.   To vandalize or deface any public tree.
      7.   To remove or damage any device whose purpose is to provide care or
support for any public tree.
      8.   To fail to remove branches or debris resulting from private tree
maintenance or natural disaster from any rights of way, or that impact a
neighboring property. Responsibility for removal of the tree lies with the
owner of the tree.
      9.   To plant public trees within the following limits:
         a.   Within four feet (4') of any structure or building.
         b.   Within ten feet (10') of fire hydrants or utility poles.
         c.   Within two feet (2') of existing curb, sidewalk or asphalt.
         d.   Within ten feet (10') of sewer or water line access.
         e.   Within twenty feet (20') of a stop or yield sign.
         f.   Within sight triangle of any public intersection.
         g.   Trees whose maximum height will eventually interfere with
overhead power lines.
   D.   Penalty For Noncompliance: Failure to abide by subsections C9a through
C9g of this section may result in a fine of no less than one hundred dollars
($100.00), which may compound at up to one hundred dollars ($100.00) per month
thereafter. At the recommendation of the board, commensurate damages may be
assessed by the city council upon assessment of the circumstances. (Ord. 188,
4-13-2009)
7-2-6: PRIVATE TREE CARE:
   A.   Except under stated conditions, the city will not dictate policy for
trees on private property. The tree board will provide citizens with education
on the proper tree planting and maintenance as needed. (Ord. 188, 4-13-2009)
   B.   The city may require pruning or removal of any private tree(s) that are
judged by the tree board to be hazardous or obstructive. If after a fourteen
(14) day period of time, or if a private landowner is unable to take the
appropriate action, the city may take steps to remedy the situation and bill
the landowner. (Ord. 188, 4-13-2009; amd. 2011 Code)
7-2-7: NEW DEVELOPMENT:
New development requiring platting, or any request for a change in zoning, are
encouraged to be evaluated for existing and future trees and their impact to
the proposed development. The tree advisory board will be allowed to review all
preliminary plats coming before the city for comment. The tree board or
designee may visit the site to examine issues of tree removal, tree retention,
water management and new tree plantings. (Ord. 188, 4-13-2009)
7-2-8: BUDGET FOR TREE CITY USA STATUS:
A minimum budget shall be designated by the city council of no less than the
percent per capita as required to meet the minimum criteria for tree city USA
status to fulfill the established criteria. The monies shall be handled in full
accordance with city council guidelines. (Ord. 188, 4-13-2009)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
UTILITIES, GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Water Service Application; Signing Of Agreement
8-1-2: Guarantee Of Payment By Property Owner
8-1-3: Water Turn Off For Nonpayment Of Charges
8-1-4: Deposit Required As Additional Guarantee For Payment
8-1-1: WATER SERVICE APPLICATION; SIGNING OF AGREEMENT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use water from a public water line
unless he has made application therefor, paid all required fees and charges,
and signed an agreement with the City to pay all water, sanitation and
wastewater use charges when due, and to be governed by all rules and regulation
as provided herein. (Ord. 150, 5-8-1995)
8-1-2: GUARANTEE OF PAYMENT BY PROPERTY OWNER:
If an applicant for water service is not the owner of or has no legal equity in
the property or premises for which said water is to be furnished, then said
agreement shall also be signed by a person owning or having a legal or
equitable interest in said property guaranteeing payment to the City of all
water, sanitation and wastewater use charges therefor. (Ord. 150, 5-8-1995)
8-1-3: WATER TURN OFF FOR NONPAYMENT OF CHARGES:
If a water user fails to pay the water, sanitation, or wastewater use charges
within thirty (30) days after due, the Water Superintendent shall have the
power to turn off the water at said premises and assess a service charge to be
established by resolution of the City Council against the delinquent account.
Said user and his guarantor shall not receive water service at said premises
until all delinquent use charges and service charges have been paid and he has
made a new application therefor in accordance with the provisions herein. (Ord.
217, 9-10-2018)
8-1-4: DEPOSIT REQUIRED AS ADDITIONAL GUARANTEE FOR PAYMENT:
   A.   If the Water Superintendent has found it necessary to turn off water,
as provided in section
8-1-3 of this chapter, two (2) or more times due to nonpayment of use charges
by the same user, owner or guarantor, he shall have the power to require, in
addition to any other guarantee, that the user, owner or guarantor deposit with
the City a sum of money equal to the estimated use charges for a two (2) month
period as a guarantee that said use charge will be paid when due.
   B.   In the event a water user, owner or guarantor has a deposit and
defaults in the payment of the water, sanitation or wastewater use charges or
service charges as required herein, the deposit, or as much thereof as may be
necessary, shall be applied upon the delinquent charges and the balance thereof
refunded to said user, and the water service shall not be turned on again until
said user again meets the requirements as herein provided. (Ord. 150, 5-8-1995)
CHAPTER 2
WATER SERVICE
SECTION:
8-2-1: City Authority To Regulate
8-2-2: Application For Water; Fee; Service Line Extension
8-2-3: Water Use By Nonresidents
8-2-4: Water Rates And Charges
8-2-5: Delinquencies; Turn Off For Nonpayment
8-2-6: Connection Or Reconnection, Authorization
8-2-7: Unauthorized Water Use
8-2-8: Maintenance Of Pipes; Consumer Responsibility
8-2-9: Inspection; Right Of Entry
8-2-10: Nonliability Of City
8-2-11: Alternate Day Sprinkling
8-2-12: Wasting Water Prohibited
8-2-13: Water Conservation Measures
8-2-1: CITY AUTHORITY TO REGULATE:
The City Council shall have power to make such rules for plumbers and consumers
as become necessary from time to time. Such rules shall be published in
accordance with laws pertaining to the publication of ordinances of the City.
(1991 Code § 13.04.050)
8-2-2: APPLICATION FOR WATER; FEE; SERVICE LINE EXTENSION:
   A.   Application; Agreement: Whenever any person desires to obtain a supply
of water from the City, he shall make application therefor, in writing, to the
City Clerk and sign an agreement that he will be governed by such rules and
regulations, not inconsistent with this chapter, as may be prescribed by the
City Council for the control of the water supply. The applicant shall furnish
the City Council with all information called for upon the application.
   B.   Fee For Service Line: The application having been filed, the applicant
shall pay a fee, to be established by resolution of the City Council, to cover
the expense of the service line from the main to the property of the applicant.
(Ord. 217, 9-10-2018)
   C.   Fee For Additional Service Line: Water connection fees for service
lines in addition to a first service line shall be established by resolution of
the City Council. The fee shall be sufficient to reimburse the City for all
connection costs. Each fee, including any type of system development unless
otherwise provided herein, shall be a fixed amount representing the average
cost incurred for performing the services for which reimbursement is sought.
(Ord. 208, 5-9-2018)
   D.   Extension Of Service Pipe: After the filing of application and payment
of fee, the City is authorized to extend, at the expense of the City, the
service pipe to the inside line of the property to receive water, at a point
most convenient for the supplying of premises of the applicant. (Ord. 217, 9-
10-2018)
8-2-3: WATER USE BY NONRESIDENTS:
   A.   Special Contract: Any person, company or corporation outside of the
City limits desiring to use water from the mains or service lines of the City
shall sign a special contract to the effect that they will be governed by and
abide by all the rules and regulations pertaining to the use of water.
   B.   Council Decision: Nothing in this chapter shall require the City to
furnish water to water users outside the limits of the City, and the decision
of the City Council to furnish or not to furnish water to applicants residing
outside the City shall be final. (1991 Code § 13.04.020)
8-2-4: WATER RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Water Service Rates: All water delivered from the City water system
shall be charged for and paid for at the minimum monthly rate, to be
established by resolution of the City Council, for service within and outside
the City limits.
   B.   Irrigation Fee:
      1.   Fee Imposed; Negotiation Of Special Assessments:
         a.   An irrigation fee in the sum to be established by resolution of
the City Council per year shall be assessed against water users of the City who
use the water system and/or Twin Falls Canal Company water for irrigation of
lawns, gardens and pastures within or without the City limits.
         b.   It is the intent that the total assessment paid by each water
user shall be in proportion to the use and benefit derived from the water use.
For water users using a larger amount than the single residence, the total
assessment shall be negotiated between the City and the water user.
      2.   Time Of Assessment: The assessment is for the irrigation season and/
or the months of May, June, July and August.
      3.   Payment; Fee: The assessment may be paid in a lump sum established
by resolution of the City Council, on or before May 1; or if the water user
chooses, a monthly assessment may be charged against the water user's monthly
water statement for the months of May, June, July and August of each year.
      4.   Time Of Making Payment: The irrigation fee shall be payable in full
on or before September 1 of each year.
      5.   Water Turn Off For Nonpayment; Notice: Should any water user fail to
pay the assessment when the account is past due or unpaid for ten (10) days,
the City Council shall have the power to turn off the water from the premises
until such past due charges are paid in full. Notice shall be required to the
owner, lessee or any occupant of the property, or any person interested
therein, before turning off the water.
      6.   Special Fund: A special fund shall be established for the purpose of
accounting for revenues received and expenditures made which shall be entitled
"Irrigation and Sprinkler Fund". (Ord. 217, 9-10-2018)
8-2-5: DELINQUENCIES; TURN OFF FOR NONPAYMENT:
   A.   Authority To Turn Off: When any water rates upon any premises have been
past due or unpaid for ten (10) days, the City Council shall have the power to
turn off the water from the premises until such past due charges shall be fully
paid and discharged. Written notice shall be required to the owner and/or
lessee before turning off such water.
   B.   Disconnect And Reconnect Fees: A disconnecting charge shall be made to
any customer whose service is disconnected, and a charge shall be made for
connecting or reconnecting water service, which charges shall be established by
resolution of the City Council. All bills for both water and sewer service
shall be payable as follows:
      1.   Minimum charges, set forth above, shall be payable within thirty
(30) days from their rendition, and the City Council shall be empowered to bill
monthly service charges for both water and sewer thirty (30) days in advance,
in which event the bill shall become delinquent thirty (30) days from its
rendition.
      2.   On all delinquent bills, there shall be charged a late fee, to be
established by resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 217, 9-10-2018)
8-2-6: CONNECTION OR RECONNECTION, AUTHORIZATION:
   A.   Work By Person Of Authority: No plumber or other person, except some
person under the direction of the City, will be allowed to make connection with
the City mains or to make alterations in conduit, pipe or other fixtures
connected therewith, or to connect pipes when they have been disconnected, or
to turn water on or off premises, except to test their work or to make repairs
and to see that the shutoff is in the same condition as when first found.
   B.   Use Of Water Without Authority: It is unlawful for any person, after
the water has been turned off from his premises on account of nonpayment of
water rates, or other violations of the rules and regulations pertaining to the
water supply, to turn on or allow the water to be turned on or used, or allow
the water to be used without authority. (1991 Code § 13.04.030)
8-2-7: UNAUTHORIZED WATER USE:
It is unlawful for any water taker to permit any person from other premises or
any unauthorized person to use or obtain water from his premises or water
fixtures, whether inside or outside of his building. (1991 Code § 13.04.040)
8-2-8: MAINTENANCE OF PIPES; CONSUMER RESPONSIBILITY:
All water takers shall keep their service pipes, connections and other
apparatus in good repair and protected from frost at their own expense; but no
person, except under the direction of the City Council, shall be allowed to dig
into the street or sidewalk for the purpose of laying, removing or repairing
any service pipe. (1991 Code § 13.04.060)
8-2-9: INSPECTION; RIGHT OF ENTRY:
Free access shall at all ordinary hours be allowed the representative of the
City or authorized persons to all places supplied with water from the
waterworks system to examine the apparatus, the amount of water used and the
manner of its use. Any water user violating any of the rules and regulations
controlling the water supply shall forfeit all payments made and the right to
the use of the water. (1991 Code § 13.04.070)
8-2-10: NONLIABILITY OF CITY:
The City shall not be held liable for damage to any water taker by reason of a
stoppage or interruption of his water supply, caused by a scarcity of water,
accident to works or mains, alterations, additions, repairs, or from other
unavoidable cause. (1991 Code § 13.04.080)
8-2-11: ALTERNATE DAY SPRINKLING:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    ALTERNATE DAY SPRINKLING: Shall require all persons with household numbers
ending in an even number to water only on even numbered days. House numbers
ending in an odd number shall water only on odd numbered days.
   NONCONSUMPTIVE USAGE: Shall include any domestic use of water other than
culinary, bathing, or health related purposes by residential users and water
required for production by commercial customers.
   VEHICLE WASHING: Shall include washing cars, trucks, campers, trailers and
boats. This restriction shall not include commercial car wash facilities or
benefit car washes sanctioned and regulated by the Water Superintendent.
   B.   Levels Of Emergency; Water Usage Restrictions: The City Council
recognizes that different levels of emergency can occur, and herein sets forth
usages that must be limited or curtailed during an emergency. The City Council
by resolution may implement the following usages of water within the City
limits:
      1.   Tier 1 emergency: Alternate day sprinkling.
      2.   Tier 2 emergency: Alternate day sprinkling; street flushing
prohibited.
      3.   Tier 3 emergency: Lawn sprinkling prohibited; street flushing and
sweeping prohibited.
      4.   Tier 4 emergency: All nonconsumptive use prohibited.
   C.   Violation; Penalty: A violation of this section shall be punished as
provided herein.
      1.   A violation of this section shall be punishable by assessing a fee
of ten dollars ($10.00) for the first violation and a fee of twenty five
dollars ($25.00) for each subsequent violation to be added to the user's
monthly water bill.
      2.   If the Council finds that any water user is guilty of repeated and
chronic violations of this section, that water user's water service shall be
terminated for the duration of the water emergency. (Ord. 154, 10-9-1995)
8-2-12: WASTING WATER PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any water taker to waste water or to allow it to be wasted
by imperfect stops, valves, leaky joints or pipes, or to allow tanks or water
troughs to leak or overflow, or to wastefully run water from hydrants, faucets
or stops, or through basins, water closets, urinals, sinks or other apparatus,
or to use the water for purposes other than for which he has paid, or to use
water in violation of the rules and regulations for controlling the water
supply under the provisions of this chapter. (1991 Code § 13.04.090)
8-2-13: WATER CONSERVATION MEASURES:
In time of scarcity of water, whenever it is, in the judgment of the City
Council, necessary, the Mayor shall by proclamation limit the use of water for
other than domestic purposes to such extent as may be necessary for the public
good. It is unlawful for any person, by himself or his family, servants or
agents, to violate any proclamation made by the Mayor pursuant to this section.
(1991 Code § 13.04.100)
ARTICLE A.  CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
8-2A-1: Purpose
8-2A-2: Definitions
8-2A-3: Cross Connections Unlawful
8-2A-4: Backflow Prevention Required; Installation
8-2A-5: Type Of Device Dependent Upon Degree Of Hazard
8-2A-6: Backflow Device Requirements; Permit
8-2A-7: Underground Sprinklers
8-2A-8: Failure To Cooperate; Termination Of Water Service
8-2A-9: Prerequisites For Water Delivery; Cross Connection Inspections
8-2A-10: Installation Permits
8-2A-11: Cessation Of Water Service For Improper Connection
8-2A-12: Violation; Penalty
8-2A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to protect the public health of water consumers
by the control of actual and/or potential cross connections. (Ord. 178, 11-8-
2004)
8-2A-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BACKFLOW: The flow, other than the intended direction of flow, of any foreign
liquids, gases, or substances into the distribution system of a public water
supply.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device to counteract backpressure or prevent
backsiphonage.
CONTAMINATION: The entry into or presence in a public water supply of any
substance which may be deleterious to health and/or quality of the water.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical arrangement whereby a public water supply is
connected, directly or indirectly, with another water supply system, sewer,
drain, conduit, pool, storage reservoir, plumbing fixture, or other device
which contains or may contain contaminated water, sewage or other waste or
liquids of unknown or unsafe quality which may be capable of imparting
contamination to the public water supply as a result of backflow.
HEALTH OFFICER: The Idaho department of health and welfare, or its authorized
agent, or a similar agency of the state of Idaho.
MUNICIPAL WATER SYSTEM: Means and includes all components and facilities of the
public water system that is owned, operated and maintained by the city for
domestic and other uses, which system and facilities consist generally of all
wells, storage reservoirs, transmission mains, structures, buildings,
chlorination facilities, pumps, pump houses, distribution mains, water lines,
fire hydrants, valves, service connections, fittings, mechanical equipment and
all other facilities as required for the furnishing and distribution of water
as a public system to certain areas of the city.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM: Any water system for domestic use that is not owned,
operated, and maintained by the city.
PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY: Any system or water supply intended or used for human
consumption or other domestic uses, including source, treatment, storage,
transmission and distribution facilities, where water is furnished to any
collection or number of individuals, or is made available to the public for
human consumption or domestic use.
PURVEYOR: The city or its authorized agent.
SUPERINTENDENT: The person appointed by the city council to be responsible for
the operation and maintenance of the municipal water system, or his authorized
agent. (Ord. 178, 11-8-2004)
8-2A-3: CROSS CONNECTIONS UNLAWFUL:
   A.   Water Supply Protection Required: No water service connection to any
premises shall be installed or continued in use unless the water supply is
protected by backflow prevention devices as may be required by this section and
title 1, chapter 8 of Idaho regulations for public drinking water systems. The
installation and maintenance of a cross connection which will endanger the
water quality of the potable water supply of the city shall be unlawful and is
prohibited. Any such cross connection now existing or hereafter installed in
violation of this section is declared to be a public nuisance and the same
shall be abated.
   B.   Compliance With Standards: The control or elimination of cross
connections shall be in accordance with this section and title 1, chapter 8 of
Idaho regulations for public drinking water systems, together with the latest
editions of appropriate manuals of standard practice pertaining to cross
connection control approved by the superintendent. The superintendent shall
have the authority to require standards more stringent than state regulations
if he deems that the conditions so dictate. The purveyor may adopt by
resolution additional rules and regulations as necessary to carry out the
provisions of this article.
   C.   Connection To Fire Hydrant: No connection will be made to any fire
hydrant in the municipal water system by any person without having received a
permit for installation of an approved backflow prevention device or adequate
air gap approved by the superintendent as provided in this article, except for
firefighting purposes.
   D.   Private Water Source: No person shall make or permit the cross
connection of any private water system to a water line that is served by the
municipal water system except as provided in this article. Whenever an owner
connects to the municipal water system, he shall, at his expense, physically
disconnect any private water source from the municipal water source in such a
manner that water from a private water source will never pass through the same
pipes that carry water from the municipal source, except as may be approved by
the superintendent and health officer. (Ord. 178, 11-8-2004)
8-2A-4: BACKFLOW PREVENTION REQUIRED; INSTALLATION:
Backflow prevention devices shall be installed at the service connection or
within any premises where, in the judgment of the superintendent, the nature
and extent of activities, or the materials stored on the premises, would
present an immediate and dangerous hazard to health and/or be deleterious to
the quality of the water should a cross connection occur, even though such
cross connection does not exist at the time the backflow prevention devices
shall be installed under circumstances including, but not limited to, the
following:
   A.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless the quality of the
auxiliary supply is in compliance with title 1, section 8 of Idaho regulations
for public drinking water systems, and is acceptable to the superintendent.
   B.   Premises having internal cross connections that are not correctable, or
intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impracticable to ascertain
whether or not cross connections exist.
   C.   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to assure that cross connections do not exist.
   D.   Premises having a repeated history of cross connections being
established or reestablished.
   E.   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as to
permit entry into the municipal water system or where a cross connection could
reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of process
waters and cooling waters.
   F.   Premises where materials of a toxic or hazardous nature are handled in
such a way that if backsiphonage should occur, a serious health hazard might
result.
   G.   The following types of facilities will fall into one of the categories
where a backflow prevention device is required to protect the municipal water
system. A backflow prevention device shall be installed at these facilities
unless the superintendent and health officer determine that no hazard exists:
      1.   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics.
      2.   Laboratories.
      3.   Metal plating industries.
      4.   Sewage treatment plants.
      5.   Food or beverage processing plants.
      6.   Chemical plants using a water process.
      7.   Petroleum processing or storage plants.
      8.   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors.
      9.   Others as specified by the health officer.
   H.   Other premises where backflow prevention devices are reasonably
required to protect the municipal water system.
   I.   Under circumstances set forth in this section, the superintendent shall
have the right to require a reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
device or a proper air gap separation to be installed at the property line, and
to require of the property owner a signed legal letter of release to the city
and the superintendent for any responsibility of the quality of water on the
property. (Ord. 178, 11-8-2004)
8-2A-5: TYPE OF DEVICE DEPENDENT UPON DEGREE OF HAZARD:
The type of protective device required shall depend upon the degree of hazard
which exists:
   A.   An air gap separation and/or a reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device shall be installed where the municipal water system may be
contaminated with sewage, industrial waste of a toxic nature, or other
contaminant which could cause a health or system hazard.
   B.   In the case of a substance which may be objectionable but not hazardous
to health, a double check valve assembly, air gap separation, or reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention device shall be installed.
   C.   Where lawn sprinkling systems are installed, a pressure vacuum breaker,
double check valve assembly, reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
device, or an air gap separation shall be installed where there are valves
downstream of such device.
   D.   An atmospheric vacuum breaker may only be used where there are no
valves or shutoffs of any kind downstream of the device. (Ord. 178, 11-8-2004)
8-2A-6: BACKFLOW DEVICE REQUIREMENTS; PERMIT:
   A.   Approval Required: Any protective device required by this article shall
be a model approved by the superintendent. Backflow prevention devices will be
approved if they have successfully passed the performance tests of the
University Of Southern California Engineering Center, or other technical
centers approved by the purveyor. These devices shall be furnished and
installed by, and at the expense of, the customer.
   B.   Location: Backflow prevention devices required by this article shall be
installed at the meter, at the property line of the premises, or at a location
designated by the superintendent. The device shall be located so as to be
readily accessible for maintenance and testing.
   C.   Permit Required: Backflow prevention devices required by this article
shall be installed under a permit issued by, under the supervision of, and with
the approval of, the superintendent.
   D.   Inspections:
      1.   Backflow prevention devices installed pursuant to this article shall
be inspected and tested upon installation, then annually, or more often if
necessary. Inspections, tests and maintenance shall be at the customer's
expense. Whenever the devices are found to be defective, they shall be
repaired, overhauled or replaced at the customer's expense.
      2.   Charges for permits, inspections, tests, and maintenance as required
by this article are to be established by resolution of the city council.
Inspections, tests, repairs and records thereof shall be accomplished under the
superintendent's supervision by certified testers. (Ord. 178, 11-8-2004)
8-2A-7: UNDERGROUND SPRINKLERS:
No underground sprinkling device shall be installed without adequate backflow
prevention devices at the point from which the water for irrigation is taken
from the municipal water system, or at a location designated by the
superintendent. (Ord. 178, 11-8-2004)
8-2A-8: FAILURE TO COOPERATE; TERMINATION OF WATER SERVICE:
Failure of the customer to cooperate in the installation, maintenance, testing
or inspection of backflow prevention devices required by this section and title
1, section 8 of Idaho regulations for public drinking water systems shall be
grounds for the termination of water service to the premises, or in the
alternative, the installation of an air gap separation at the customer's
expense. (Ord. 178, 11-8-2004)
8-2A-9: PREREQUISITES FOR WATER DELIVERY; CROSS CONNECTION INSPECTIONS:
   A.   No water shall be delivered to any new structure of six thousand
(6,000) or more square feet in area until the superintendent has received and
approved the mechanical plans and a list of plumbing materials to be used, and
a permit for installation has been issued, nor to any building of lesser size
without a visual inspection by the superintendent prior to sheetrock and
insulation installation, but after all preliminary plumbing has been done. This
is required for preliminary cross connection inspection approval.
   B.   Any construction for industrial or other purposes which is classified
as "hazardous facility" pursuant to subsection 8-2A-4G of this article, where
it is reasonable to anticipate intermittent cross connections, as determined by
the superintendent, shall be protected by the installation of one or more
approved backflow prevention devices at the point of service from the municipal
water system or any other location designated by the superintendent.
   C.   Inspections shall be made periodically of all buildings, structures or
improvements of any nature now receiving water through the municipal water
system, for the purpose of ascertaining whether cross connections exist. Such
inspections shall be made by the superintendent. (Ord. 178, 11-8-2004)
8-2A-10: INSTALLATION PERMITS:
If cross connection control devices are found to be necessary, the owner of the
property served shall apply to the purveyor for a specific installation permit
prior to installation thereof. If additions are made to the private service
line for any purpose such as underground sprinkling systems, or any other
additions, the owner of the property shall apply to the purveyor for a specific
installation permit prior to installation thereof. (Ord. 178, 11-8-2004)
8-2A-11: CESSATION OF WATER SERVICE FOR IMPROPER CONNECTION:
In the event an improper cross connection is not corrected within the time
limit set by the superintendent, or, in the event the purveyor is refused
access to the property for the purpose of determining whether or not cross
connections exist, or if a cross connection control device is not installed on
the premises, delivery of water to the property shall cease until the
deficiency is corrected to the superintendent's satisfaction. In addition, the
purveyor may effect the necessary repairs or modifications at the expense of
the property owner and refuse delivery of water to the property until the costs
thereof shall have been paid. (Ord. 178, 11-8-2004)
8-2A-12: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Penalty Imposed: Any person who violates, omits, disobeys, neglects, or
refuses to comply with any of the provisions of this article or any other rules
and regulations with regard to cross connections adopted by the purveyor shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall, for each
offense, be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 178, 11-8-2004; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   Liability For Expense Of Damage: Each day on which any such violation
shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense. Any person violating any of
the provisions of this article shall become liable to the city for any expense,
loss or damage occasioned by the city by reason of such violation. (Ord. 178,
11-8-2004)
ARTICLE B.  WELLHEAD PROTECTION PLAN
SECTION:
8-2B-1: Short Title And Purpose
8-2B-2: Definitions
8-2B-3: Wellhead Protection Overlay District Established
8-2B-4: Prohibited Uses Within Zone Ia
8-2B-5: Prohibited Uses Within Zone Ib
8-2B-6: Prohibited Uses Within Zone II
8-2B-7: Prohibited Uses Within Zone III
8-2B-8: Notice Of Proposed Action To Operator Of Public Or Community Water
Supply
8-2B-9: Nonconforming Uses
8-2B-10: Enforcement
8-2B-11: Amendments
8-2B-1: SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Title: This article shall be known as the WELLHEAD PROTECTION PLAN.
   B.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this article to promote the public
health, safety, and general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses
due to contamination of the public water supply, and to formalize groundwater
protection/pollution abatement and control procedure. Specific goals are to:
      1.   Protect human life and health;
      2.   Ensure that the public is provided with a sustainable safe potable
water supply;
      3.   Minimize expenditure of public money for pollution remediation
projects;
      4.   Minimize regulations on land use; and
      5.   Minimize business interruptions. (Ord. 179, 12-13-2004)
8-2B-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this article, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings given in this section:
AGRICULTURAL RUNOFF WASTEWATER: Water diverted for irrigation but not applied
to crops, or runoff of irrigation tail water from the cropland as a result of
irrigation.
AQUIFER REMEDIATION RELATED WELLS: These wells shall include those used to
prevent, control, or remediate aquifer pollution, including, but not limited
to, superfund sites.
COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM: A public system which serves at least fifteen (15)
service connections used by year round residents or regularly serves at least
twenty five (25) year round residents.
COMMUNITY WELLHEAD: The upper terminal of a well, including adapters, ports,
seals, valves and other attachments.
FACILITY: Refers to any business or corporation that is built, installed, or
established to serve a particular purpose.
HAZARDOUS WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY: A hazardous waste treatment, storage, or
disposal facility which receives hazardous material as described in part 40
chapter 260.1 of the code of federal regulations.
HAZARDOUS WASTE OR MATERIAL: Any waste or material which, because of its
quantity, concentration, physical, chemical or infectious characteristics, may:
   A.   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness; or
   B.   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or to
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed; or
   C.   Any material or substance designated as a hazardous or toxic substance
defined by title 40 part 261.3 of the code of federal regulations, or any
material or substance designated as a hazardous or toxic substance by the state
of Idaho, acting through the division of environmental quality or any successor
agency.
INJECTION: The subsurface emplacement of fluids.
LIVESTOCK CONFINEMENT OPERATION: As defined in the Twin Falls County zoning
ordinance.
NONCOMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM: A public water system that is not a community water
system.
PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM: A. A system that provides the public with piped water for
human consumption, if such system has at least fifteen (15) service connections
or regularly serves an average of at least twenty five (25) individuals daily
at least sixty (60) days out of the year. Such term includes:
      1.   Any collection, treatment, storage and distribution facilities under
control of the operator of such system, and used primarily in connection with
such system; and
      2.   Any collection or pretreatment storage facilities not under such
control that are used primarily in connection with such system.
   B.   A public water system is either a "community water system" or a
"noncommunity water system".
SANITARY LANDFILL: A solid waste disposal operation where the wastes are spread
on land in thin layers, compacted to the smallest practical volume, and covered
with cover material once each day of operation in order to safeguard against
environmental pollution, nuisances, and health hazards.
SPECIAL DRAINAGE WELLS: Those used for disposing of water from sources other
than direct precipitation. Examples of this well type include: landslide
control drainage wells, potable water tank overflow drainage wells, swimming
pool drainage wells, and lake level control drainage wells.
STORMWATER RUNOFF: Water discharged as a result of rain, snow, or other
precipitation.
TIME OF TRAVEL DISTRICTS (TOT): The time required for a contaminant to move in
the ground from a specific point to a well.
UNDERGROUND INJECTION WELL: Any excavation or artificial opening into the
ground which meets the following three (3) criteria:
   A.   A bored, drilled or dug hole, or a driven mineshaft, or a driven well
point; and
   B.   It is deeper than its largest straight line surface dimension; and
   C.   It is used for or intended to be used for injection.
WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT (WHP): A land use designation on the land
use map, or a zoning designation on a zoning map, that modifies the basic
underlying designation in some specific manner. The wellhead protection overlay
district will also appear in the hazardous component of the comprehensive plan.
A map will define specific area districts centering around wells supplying
drinking water to a public water system. The map is delineated using one of the
following methods:
   A.   Calculated fixed radius;
   B.   Arbitrary fixed radius;
   C.   Simplified variable shapes;
   D.   Semianalytical, and analytical methods;
   E.   Hydrogeologic mapping;
   F.   Numerical modeling;
and follow the guidelines established in the Idaho wellhead protection plan.
WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT Ia: A minimum fixed radius extending no
less than fifty feet (50') radially from the wellhead supplying potable water
to the public water supply.
WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT Ib: A three (3) year "time of travel
district (TOT)" as defined in this section.
WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT II: A six (6) year "time of travel
district (TOT)" as defined in this section.
WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT III: A ten (10) year "time of travel
district (TOT)" as defined in this section. (Ord. 179, 12-13-2004)
8-2B-3: WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a wellhead protection overlay district identified
and described as all the area within the ten (10) year TOT district around
public water supplies as shown on the official zoning map. It is further
established that these areas be composed of four (4) districts: "wellhead
protection overlay district Ia", "wellhead protection overlay district Ib",
"wellhead protection overlay district II", and "wellhead protection overlay
district III" as they are defined in this chapter. The city council may record
with the county recorder's office a metes and bounds description of the
wellhead protection overlay district. (Ord. 179, 12-13-2004; amd. 2011 Code)
8-2B-4: PROHIBITED USES WITHIN ZONE Ia:
Uses permitted within zone Ia shall be limited to necessary public water supply
wellhead equipment including the following: wellhead facility buildings, water
storage tanks, disinfection equipment, disinfection chemical storage and
approved landscaping. All other uses shall be prohibited. (Ord. 179, 12-13-
2004)
8-2B-5: PROHIBITED USES WITHIN ZONE Ib:
The following uses or conditions shall be and are hereby prohibited within zone
Ib of the wellhead protection areas:
   A.   Sanitary landfills.
   B.   Livestock confinement operations.
   C.   Hazardous waste disposal facility.
   D.   Injection well is a prohibited use, except for closed systems.
   E.   Existing sewer lines shall not be closer than one hundred feet (100')
of a wellhead or of new sanitary system, and sewer lines shall not be closer
than one hundred fifty feet (150') of a wellhead.
   F.   Existing septic tanks or drain fields shall not be closer than one
hundred feet (100') of a wellhead, and new installation of septic tanks or
drain fields shall not be closer than two hundred feet (200') away from the
wellhead.
   G.   Junk or salvage yards.
   H.   Disposal of waste oil, oil filters, tires and all other petroleum
products.
   I.   All manufacturing or industrial businesses involving the collection,
handling, manufacture, use, storage, transfer or disposal of any hazardous
solid or liquid material or waste having potential impact on groundwater, and
any land use activities posing a hazard or threat to existing groundwater
quality, except upon issuance of a special use permit. The special use permit
process may be instigated by the zoning administrator during the application
review process. (Ord. 179, 12-13-2004)
8-2B-6: PROHIBITED USES WITHIN ZONE II:
The following uses or conditions shall be and are prohibited within zone II of
the wellhead protection area:
   A.   Sanitary landfills.
   B.   Hazardous waste disposal facility.
   C.   Injection well is a prohibited use except for the following:
      1.   Deep well injection (below 18 feet in depth):
         a.   Geothermal heat.
         b.   Heat pump return.
         c.   Cooling water return.
      2.   Shallow well injection only (less than 18 feet in depth), including:
         a.   Storm runoff.
         b.   Agricultural runoff wastewater.
         c.   Special drainage water.
         d.   Aquifer recharge.
         e.   Aquifer remediation.
         f.   Septic systems (general).
   D.   All manufacturing or industrial businesses involving the collection,
handling, manufacture, use, storage, transfer or disposal of any hazardous
solid or liquid material or waste having potential impact on groundwater, and
any land use activities posing a hazard or threat to existing groundwater
quality, except upon issuance of a special use permit. The special use permit
process may be instigated by the zoning administrator during the application
review process. (Ord. 179, 12-13-2004)
8-2B-7: PROHIBITED USES WITHIN ZONE III:
The following uses or conditions shall be and are prohibited within zone III of
the wellhead protection area:
   A.   Injection well is a prohibited use, except for the following:
      1.   Deep well injection (below 18 feet in depth):
         a.   Geothermal heat.
         b.   Heat pump return.
         c.   Cooling water return.
      2.   Shallow well injection only (less than 18 feet in depth):
         a.   Storm runoff.
         b.   Agricultural runoff wastewater.
         c.   Special drainage water.
         d.   Aquifer recharge.
         e.   Aquifer remediation.
         f.   Septic systems (general).
   B.   All manufacturing or industrial businesses involving the collection,
handling, manufacture, use, storage, transfer or disposal of any hazardous
solid or liquid material or waste having potential impact on groundwater, and
any land use activities posing a hazard or threat to existing groundwater
quality, except upon issuance of a special use permit. The special use permit
process may be instigated by the zoning administrator during the application
review process. (Ord. 179, 12-13-2004)
8-2B-8: NOTICE OF PROPOSED ACTION TO OPERATOR OF PUBLIC OR COMMUNITY WATER
SUPPLY:
Whenever there is a request which requires a special use permit from the
planning and zoning committee for land lying within a wellhead protection
district, written notice of the hearing shall be given to the entity operating
the public or community water supply within that overlay district. The planning
and zoning committee may require a granting of easements for monitoring wells
if the committee deems it appropriate for protection of the public water
supply. (Ord. 179, 12-13-2004; amd. Ord. 132-A, 4-13-2015)
8-2B-9: NONCONFORMING USES:
Any legal use existing at the time of the effective date hereof, and listed as
a prohibited use herein, shall become a legal nonconforming use and may not be
expanded or improved except as otherwise provided in the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 179, 12-13-2004)
8-2B-10: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, government entity or business
to occupy or use the land within the area designated in the wellhead protection
overlay district of zone I, II, and III contrary to, or in violation of, any of
the provisions of this article. (Ord. 179, 12-13-2004)
8-2B-11: AMENDMENTS:
Proposed amendments will require advance notice to all entities operating
public or community water supplies that this article affects. (Ord. 179, 12-13-
2004)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER SERVICE
SECTION:
8-3-1: Purpose
8-3-2: Definitions
8-3-3: Applicability
8-3-4: Violation; Penalty
8-3-1: PURPOSE:
It is determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to and for the
protection of the health, safety and welfare of the public and inhabitants of
the city, and for the purpose of controlling the use and connection to, and for
providing an equitable distribution of the costs and expenses of maintenance,
operation, upkeep, and repair of the entire sewerage system which includes the
sewer collection system and sewage disposal facilities of the city, to charge
and collect service charges or fees upon all lots, lands, property and premises
served or benefited by the sewerage system of the city, which system and
facilities consist generally of all pipelines, conduits, catch basins,
manholes, cleanouts, sewer mains, intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, lift
stations, pumps, structures, mechanical equipment and facilities for the
treatment and disposal of sewerage or sewage byproducts; to provide for
industry cost recovery from all industrial users; and to provide for the
control, use and administration of the installation of private sewage disposal
systems where a public sanitary sewer is not available. (1991 Code § 13.08.010)
8-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter, including articles A, B and C, shall be as follows:
ACT: The federal water pollution control act, entitled public law 92-500, and
all amendments thereto as administered by the United States environmental
protection agency (EPA).
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter, under standard procedure, in five (5)
days at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C), expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/
l).
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (5') outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the point of
connection with the public sewer or other place of disposal.
CITY: The city of Hansen, Twin Falls County, Idaho, or its authorized or
designated agent, representative, or deputy thereto.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
FLOW (Q): The volume of sewage being discharged into the sewage system.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY: Financial recovery by the city, from the industrial
users of the sewerage system, of that portion of the U.S. government grant
amount allocable to the treatment of wastes from such users pursuant to section
204(b) of the act.
INDUSTRIAL USER: A. Any nongovernmental user of publicly owned treatment works
identified in the standard industrial classification manual, 1972, office of
management and budget, as amended and supplemented under the following
divisions:
      1.   Division A: Agriculture, forestry and fishing.
      2.   Division B: Mining.
      3.   Division D: Manufacturing.
      4.   Division E: Transportation, communications, electric, gas and
sanitary services.
      5.   Division I: Services.
   B.   An "industrial user" also means as follows:
      1.   A nongovernmental, nonresidential user which discharges more than
the equivalent of twenty five thousand (25,000) gallons per day of sanitary
waste and which is identified in the standard industrial classification manual
under divisions A, B, D, E, and I;
      2.   A user which discharges any wastewater containing toxic pollutants
or which has any other adverse effect on the treatment works; or
      3.   A commercial user of an individual system.
   C.   A user in the divisions listed may be excluded if it is determined that
it will introduce primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing processes,
trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
MULTIPLE BUILDING DEVELOPMENT: Means and includes the various types of
developments that would have common or joint ownership areas such as
condominiums, townhouses, mobile home parks or courts, shopping centers, etc.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body
of surface or ground water.
OWNER: A person owning real estate which is, or proposes to be, connected to
the sewage system.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per
liter of solution with a pH value of 7 being neutral.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particles greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and to which stormwaters, surface
waters, and groundwaters are not admitted.
SERVICE CONNECTION: The point at which the building sewer connects to the
public sewer.
SEWAGE OR WASTEWATER: A combination of the water carried wastes from
residences, business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments,
together with such groundwaters, surface waters and stormwaters as may be
present.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT OR WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY: Any devices and system
used in the storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of municipal sewage
or industrial wastes of a liquid nature to implement section 201 of the act.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
SEWER USER: Any individual, firm, company, association, society or corporation
or group who has connected to the sewerage system.
SEWERAGE SYSTEM: All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
SHALL; MAY: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes for more than five (5)
times the average twenty four (24) hour concentration of flows during normal
operation.
STORM DRAIN: Sometimes termed "storm sewer", means a sewer which carries
stormwater and surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial
wastes, other than unpolluted water such as cooling water.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids, organic or inorganic, that either float on the
surface of, or are in suspension in, water, sewage or other liquids, and which
are removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in standard methods for the
examination of water and wastewater and referred to as "nonfilterable residue".
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (1991 Code § 13.08.020; amd. 2011 Code)
8-3-3: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter, including articles A, B and C, shall apply to
all property within the corporate limits of the city, and any special users
outside of the corporate limits of the city, including all property owned or
occupied by the United States, Twin Falls County, and the state of Idaho. (1991
Code § 13.08.030)
8-3-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Any person found to be violating any provision of
this chapter, including articles A, B and C, shall be served by the city with
written notice stating the nature of the violation and provided a reasonable
time limit, but in any event, not to exceed ninety (90) days, for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in the notice, permanently cease all violations. (1991 Code § 13.08.040)
   B.   Penalty Imposed: Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the
time limit provided for in subsection A of this section shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation. Each day in which any such violation
shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense. (1991 Code § 13.08.040; amd.
2011 Code)
   C.   Liability For Damage: Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter, including articles A, B and C, shall become liable to the city
for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the city by reason of such
violation. (1991 Code § 13.08.040)
ARTICLE A.  PUBLIC SEWER USE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-3A-1: Use Required; Responsibility Of Owner Or Subdivider
8-3A-2: Unlawful Deposit Of Waste
8-3A-3: Privies, Septic Tanks And Cesspools Prohibited; Exception
8-3A-4: Injury To Sewer Works Unlawful
8-3A-5: Compliance Required
8-3A-6: Discharge Of Stormwater And Unpolluted Waters
8-3A-7: Prohibited Discharges
8-3A-8: Certain Discharges; Review And Approval Required
8-3A-9: Unapproved Discharges; Rejection, Pretreatment Or Payment
8-3A-10: Grease, Oil And Sand Interceptors
8-3A-11: Pretreatment Facilities; Maintenance
8-3A-12: Control Manhole
8-3A-13: Test Standards
8-3A-14: Payment In Lieu Of Pretreatment
8-3A-15: Unauthorized Discharges; Abatement
8-3A-16: BOD, COD And Suspended Solids Restrictions
8-3A-17: Industrial Users
8-3A-18: Private Sewer Permitted; Regulations
8-3A-1: USE REQUIRED; RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER OR SUBDIVIDER:
   A.   Connection Mandatory If Available: The owner or occupant of any house,
building, or property used for residential, commercial, industrial,
governmental or recreational use, or other purpose, situated within the city
which is abutting on or having a permanent right of access to any street, alley
or right of way in which there is located a public sewer of the city is
required to cease using any other method of disposing sewage, waste or polluted
water, and at his expense to connect such building directly with the public
sewer in accordance with the provisions of this article, within fifteen (15)
days after date of official notice from the city to do so; provided, however,
that the sewer is within three hundred feet (300') of any property line of the
building to be served or common property line in a multiple building
development.
   B.   Responsibility Of Developer: The developer of a new subdivision shall,
at his expense, construct the necessary extensions of the public sewer system
to provide public sewer facilities for each lot in his subdivision. (1991 Code
§ 13.08.050)
8-3A-2: UNLAWFUL DEPOSIT OF WASTE:
It is unlawful for any person to place or deposit in any unsanitary manner on
public or private property within the city, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other
objectionable waste. (1991 Code § 13.08.060)
8-3A-3: PRIVIES, SEPTIC TANKS AND CESSPOOLS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION:
Except as provided in section
8-3A-18 of this article, it is unlawful to construct or maintain any privy,
privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facilities intended or used for the
disposal of sewage. (1991 Code § 13.08.070)
8-3A-4: INJURY TO SEWER WORKS UNLAWFUL:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the sewerage works. (1991 Code § 13.08.080)
8-3A-5: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
The use of the public sewers of the city shall be in accordance with the
regulations set forth in sections
8-3A-6 through
8-3A-15 of this article. (1991 Code § 13.08.090)
8-3A-6: DISCHARGE OF STORMWATER AND UNPOLLUTED WATERS:
   A.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged from any connection
any stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage,
uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any
sanitary sewer.
   B.   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers or to a natural
outlet approved by the city. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process
waters may be discharged, complying with the requirements of section 308 of the
federal water pollution control act and on approval of the city, to a storm
sewer or natural outlet. (1991 Code § 13.08.100)
8-3A-7: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES:
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   A.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
   B.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including, but not limited
to, cyanides in excess of two-tenths milligrams per liter (0.2 mg/l) as CN in
the wastes as discharged to the public sewer.
   C.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works.
   D.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow of sewers or other interference with the proper
operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders,
sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood,
unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails and
paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or ground by garbage
grinders. (1991 Code § 13.08.110)
8-3A-8: CERTAIN DISCHARGES; REVIEW AND APPROVAL REQUIRED:
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the city that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment process
or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream or can otherwise
endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. In forming its
opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the city will give
consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation
to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers,
nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant,
degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant and other
pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are:
   A.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred fifty
degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
   B.   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/l) or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between thirty two (32) and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (0 and
65°C, respectively).
   C.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation and
operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/4)
horsepower or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the city.
   D.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
   E.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting any excessive
chlorine requirement to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the city for such materials.
   F.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the city, as necessary, after treatment of the composite sewage,
to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies of
jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
   G.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the city in compliance with applicable
state or federal regulations.
   H.   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
   I.   Materials which exert or cause:
      1.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids, such as, but not
limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries and lime residues, or of dissolved
solids, such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulphate.
      2.   Excessive discoloration, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes,
and vegetable tanning solutions.
      3.   Unusual BOD, chemical demand or chlorine requirements in such
quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment works.
      4.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined in section
8-3-2 of this chapter.
   J.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters. (1991 Code § 13.08.120)
8-3A-9: UNAPPROVED DISCHARGES; REJECTION, PRETREATMENT OR PAYMENT:
   A.   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in sections
8-3A-7 and
8-3A-8 of this article, and which, in the judgment of the city, may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the city may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      4.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of
article C of this chapter.
   B.   If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the city and subject to the requirements of all
applicable codes, ordinances and laws. (1991 Code § 13.08.130)
8-3A-10: GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS:
Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the
city, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing
grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful
ingredients; except, that such interceptors shall not be required for private
living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and
capacity approved by the city and shall be located readily and easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection. These interceptors shall be adequately
maintained and are subject to periodic inspection by the city. (1991 Code §
13.08.140)
8-3A-11: PRETREATMENT FACILITIES; MAINTENANCE:
Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided for any
waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his expense. (1991 Code § 13.08.150)
8-3A-12: CONTROL MANHOLE:
When required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a building
sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole
together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building
sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such
manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be
constructed in accordance with plans approved by the city. The manhole shall be
installed by the owner at his expense, and shall be maintained by him so as to
be safe and accessible at all times. (1991 Code § 13.08.160)
8-3A-13: TEST STANDARDS:
All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of standard methods for the examination of
water and wastewater, published by American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided or upon suitable samples
taken at the manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been required,
the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in
the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected.
Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the
effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the existence of
hazards to life, limb and property. (1991 Code § 13.08.170)
8-3A-14: PAYMENT IN LIEU OF PRETREATMENT:
No statement contained in this article shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the industrial concern.
(1991 Code § 13.08.180)
8-3A-15: UNAUTHORIZED DISCHARGES; ABATEMENT:
Any property owner or sewer user violating the provisions of sections
8-3A-7 through
8-3A-14 of this article shall, upon notice by the city, immediately install
such preliminary treatment through separators, traps and/or chemical, physical
or biochemical processes as will make and assure that the sewage contributed
from such property or premises will meet the requirements of this article.
(1991 Code § 13.08.190)
8-3A-16: BOD, COD AND SUSPENDED SOLIDS RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   The admission into the public sewers of any of the following water or
wastes shall be subject to the review and approval of the city:
      1.   Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) greater than four hundred milligrams
per liter (400 mg/l);
      2.   Chemical oxygen demand (COD) greater than nine hundred milligrams
per liter (900 mg/l); or
      3.   Suspended solids in excess of three hundred milligrams per liter
(300 mg/l).
   B.   Where necessary, in the opinion of the city, the owner shall provide,
at his expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary to reduce the
BOD to four hundred milligrams per liter (400 mg/l), the COD to nine hundred
milligrams per liter (900 mg/l), and the suspended solids to three hundred
milligrams per liter (300 mg/l). Plans, specifications and any other pertinent
information relating to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be
submitted for the approval of the city and of the Idaho department of health
and welfare, and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until
such approvals are obtained in writing. (1991 Code § 13.08.200)
8-3A-17: INDUSTRIAL USERS:
   A.   Classification:
      1.   All industrial users of the sewerage system shall comply with any
applicable requirements of section VIII of the federal water pollution control
act.
      2.   There shall be two (2) classes of industrial users: major
contributing industry and minor contributing industry. They are defined as
follows:
         a.   A major contributing industry is one that:
            (1)   Will contribute greater than ten percent (10%) of the design
hydraulic flow of the treatment works;
            (2)   Will contribute greater than ten percent (10%) of the design
pollutant loading of the treatment works;
            (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as
defined in standards issued under section V of the act; or
            (4)   Has significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on the sewerage system or in the quality of its
effluent.
         b.   A minor contributing industry shall be all industries not
included in the major contributing industry classification as defined in
subsection A2a of this section. (1991 Code § 13.08.210)
   B.   Wastes Monitored: All major contributing industry wastes shall be
monitored by the city or industry on a regular basis at intervals not less than
monthly, and more frequently as the characteristics of the specific industrial
discharge may dictate. Minor contributing industries shall be monitored by the
city or industry as the characteristics of the specific industrial discharge
may dictate as determined by the city. (1991 Code § 13.08.220)
   C.   Reports Required:
      1.   All major contributing industries shall submit to the city on the
first day of the months of June and December, a statement in writing regarding
specific actions taken to achieve full compliance with the requirements of the
federal water pollution control act.
      2.   Each contributing industry shall report any substantial (exceeding
10 percent, plus or minus) change in flow or characteristics of wastewater
being discharged into the sewerage system. The report shall include quantity
and quality of effluent and duration and frequency of discharge. (1991 Code §
13.08.230)
8-3A-18: PRIVATE SEWER PERMITTED; REGULATIONS:
   A.   Special Requirements: Where a public sanitary sewer is not available
under the provisions of this article, the building sewer shall be connected to
a private sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this article
and in accordance with the following special provisions: (1991 Code §
13.08.240)
      1.   Permit Required; Fee: Before commencement of construction of a
private sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit
from the city. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the city, which the applicant shall supplement by plans,
specifications and other information as may be deemed necessary by the city. A
permit and inspection fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be paid to the
city at the time the application is filed. (1991 Code § 13.08.240; amd. 2011
Code)
      2.   Inspection Of Work: A permit for a private sewage disposal system
shall not be effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction
of the city. The city shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
city when the work is ready for final inspection and before any underground
works are covered. The inspection shall be made by the city within seventy two
(72) hours after receipt of notice from the applicant, Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays being excluded in calculating the elapsed time.
      3.   Compliance With State And District Health Regulations: The type,
capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal system shall
comply with all of the rules and regulations and recommendations of the Idaho
department of health and welfare and/or the central district health department.
No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural
outlet.
      4.   Connection To Public Sewer Upon Availability: At such time as a
public sewer becomes available to property served by a private sewage disposal
system, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this article, and any septic tank, cesspool or similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
      5.   Maintenance In Sanitary Manner: The owners shall operate and
maintain the private sewage disposal facility in a sanitary manner at all times
and at no expense to the city.
      6.   Disposal Of Septic Tank Pumpings: Septic tank pumpings shall not be
deposited in any manhole, cleanout or sewer opening. The pumpings may be dumped
at the sewage treatment plant at a point designated by the city. The number of
gallons dumped and the nature of the wastes shall be provided to the plant
operator prior to dumping. A fee for the septic tank dumping shall be
determined by the city.
   B.   Compliance With Additional Requirements: No statement contained in this
section shall be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that
may be imposed by the department of health and welfare of the state. (1991 Code
§ 13.08.240)
ARTICLE B.  BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATIONS AND CONNECTIONS
SECTION:
8-3B-1: Materials And Workmanship; Conformance Required
8-3B-2: Work On Public Sewers; Permit Required
8-3B-3: Building Sewer Permits; Classifications; Application; Fees
8-3B-4: Expenses Paid By Owner; Indemnification Of City
8-3B-5: Excavations; Safety Precautions
8-3B-6: Separate Sewers Required; Exception
8-3B-7: Use Of Old Building Sewers
8-3B-8: Notice To Inspect Building Sewer
8-3B-9: Connection; Material And Workmanship Specifications
8-3B-10: Pipe Laying Specifications
8-3B-11: Connections Of Groundwater Sources Prohibited
8-3B-12: Sewer Connection Permit; Fees
8-3B-13: Connection By Licensed Plumber
8-3B-14: Sewer Line Materials And Methods
8-3B-15: Separate Service Connections Required
8-3B-16: Inspection And Approval Of Connections
8-3B-17: Sewerage System Extensions
8-3B-18: Backfilling; Conformance With Specifications
8-3B-1: MATERIALS AND WORKMANSHIP; CONFORMANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Compliance With Article: All materials and workmanship in the
installation of building sewers and service connections shall conform to the
regulations set forth in this article.
   B.   Compliance With Building And Plumbing Codes: The materials of
construction of the building sewer and service connections, and the methods to
be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing and backfilling
the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing
codes as have been or may be adopted by the city 1 . (1991 Code § 13.08.250)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9, chapter 1 of this code.
8-3B-2: WORK ON PUBLIC SEWERS; PERMIT REQUIRED:
No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the city. The permit is not to be issued
until sewer connection charges and fees have been paid in full. (1991 Code §
13.08.260)
8-3B-3: BUILDING SEWER PERMITS; CLASSIFICATIONS; APPLICATION; FEES:
   A.   Classes Of Permits: There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer
permits:
      1.   A general permit for residential and commercial sewer service; and
      2.   Industrial user permits for sewer service to establishments
producing industrial wastes.
   B.   General Permits; Fee: General permits shall be applied for by the owner
or his agent on a form provided by the city clerk. The permit application shall
be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the city at the time the application is filed.
Also, the owner or his agent shall pay to the city, at the time the application
is filed, a hookup fee, which shall be established by resolution of the city
council.
   C.   Industrial User Permits; Fee:
      1.   Industrial user permits shall be applied for by the owner or his
agent by letter to the city council accompanied by an executed copy of the
industrial user agreement together with any plans, specifications or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the city.
      2.   Industrial user permits shall be approved by the city council based
on recommendation by the engineer for the city. Approval shall be contingent
upon the availability of excess capacity in the sewage treatment plant, the
provisions of this article, and any other considerations the city council deems
appropriate.
      3.   The amount of the permit, inspection fee and hookup fee for an
industrial wastes sewer service will vary with each permit and shall be
established by the city at the time of the application. (1991 Code § 13.08.270)
8-3B-4: EXPENSES PAID BY OWNER; INDEMNIFICATION OF CITY:
All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer and service connection shall be borne by the owner. The owner
shall indemnify and hold harmless the city from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer
and the making of the service connection for same to the public sewer. (1991
Code § 13.08.280)
8-3B-5: EXCAVATIONS; SAFETY PRECAUTIONS:
All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city. (1991 Code §
13.08.290)
8-3B-6: SEPARATE SEWERS REQUIRED; EXCEPTION:
A separate and independent building sewer and service connection shall be
provided for every building; except, where one building stands at the rear of
another on an interior lot and no separate sewer is available or can be
constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or
driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the
rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer. (1991 Code §
13.08.300)
8-3B-7: USE OF OLD BUILDING SEWERS:
Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when they
are found, on examination and being tested as required by the city, to meet all
requirements of this article. (1991 Code § 13.08.310)
8-3B-8: NOTICE TO INSPECT BUILDING SEWER:
The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the city when the
building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer.
(1991 Code § 13.08.320)
8-3B-9: CONNECTION; MATERIAL AND WORKMANSHIP SPECIFICATIONS:
The service connection to the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing codes as adopted by the city. In addition, the
materials and workmanship of the service connection shall meet the following
requirements:
   A.   A precast service connection fitting shall be installed as an increment
of the sewer pipeline or installed as an external fabrication to the sewer
pipeline, the fabrication to be installed within the center one-third (1/3) of
an individual laying length of the public sewer pipe, as a precaution in
preventing and breaking the bell or the spigot end of the sewer pipe. The
service connection fitting shall be installed as a watertight connection to the
public sewer, care being taken not to extend the building sewer line into the
public sewer line, therefore creating a possible restriction. The invert of the
building sewer line at the service connection fitting shall be at an elevation
above the invert of the public sewer at least equal to two-thirds (2/3) of the
diameter of the public sewer. All foreign material shall be removed from the
sewer pipe and there shall be a permanent connection which is airtight and
watertight between the public sewer line and the building sewer line.
   B.   The building sewer service connection fitting to reinforced sewer
pipelines shall be made as specified under subsection A of this section, except
that in cutting a hole in reinforced pipe for installation of the service
connection tee, extreme care shall be exercised to avoid damage to the pipe.
The hole for the tee shall be carefully chipped first to expose reinforcing
steel and the steel cut by torch or saw. No chisel cutting of the reinforcing
steel of any character will be permitted.
   C.   In lieu of a standard service connection fitting, a riser service
connection may be made to sewer lines that are deep below ground surface. The
branch or riser shall be connected the same as a tee, except that it shall be
set vertically over the public sewer pipe, and extended vertically such that
the top of the riser is not to be less than five feet (5') below the surface of
the ground. (1991 Code § 13.08.330)
8-3B-10: PIPE LAYING SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   The building sewer from the building drain to the public sewer and the
service connection thereto shall not be smaller than four inch (4") diameter
sewer pipe.
   B.   The minimum grade or slope of the building sewer shall be as follows:
      1.   Four inch (4") diameter sewer pipe shall be laid on a grade of not
less than one-eighth inch (1/8") per foot;
      2.   Six inch (6") diameter sewer pipe shall be laid on a grade of not
less than one-eighth inch (1/8") per foot; and
      3.   Eight inch (8") diameter sewer pipe shall be laid on a grade of not
less than four feet (4') per one thousand feet (1,000').
   C.   The alignment of the building sewer from the outlet of the building
drain to the public sewer connection shall be straight, with no bends, warps or
sags permitted except with the permission of the city. The trench bottom shall
be cut to proper grade so that when the pipe is laid, the body or barrel of the
pipe shall be on solid material. Bell holes are to be excavated in the trench
bottom at all pipe joints. (1991 Code § 13.08.340)
8-3B-11: CONNECTIONS OF GROUNDWATER SOURCES PROHIBITED:
No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation drains,
areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building
sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a
public sanitary sewer. (1991 Code § 13.08.350)
8-3B-12: SEWER CONNECTION PERMIT; FEES:
To obtain municipal sewer service, the owner or his agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the city. A permit and inspection fee
shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed. Also, the owner
or his agent shall pay to the city, at the time the application is filed, a
connection charge in the amount as provided for in article C of this chapter.
(1991 Code § 13.08.360)
8-3B-13: CONNECTION BY LICENSED PLUMBER:
The connection of the building sewer to the public sewer shall be made by a
plumber holding a validated state plumbing license. (1991 Code § 13.08.370)
8-3B-14: SEWER LINE MATERIALS AND METHODS:
The materials of construction of the sewer service line and the methods to be
used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing, and backfilling of
the trench and surface replacement shall all conform to the requirements of
specifications and codes as have been or may be adopted by the city. (1991 Code
§ 13.08.380)
8-3B-15: SEPARATE SERVICE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED:
A separate and independent city sewer service connection shall be provided for
each building. (1991 Code § 13.08.390)
8-3B-16: INSPECTION AND APPROVAL OF CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Required: No connection of any kind to a public sewer line shall be
made and no sewage permitted to flow through such connection except pursuant to
inspection and approval by the city. (1991 Code § 13.08.400)
   B.   Notice To Inspect: The applicant for the city sewer service connection
shall notify the city when the connection of the sewer service connection and
line to the public sewer main are ready for inspection. (1991 Code § 13.08.410)
   C.   Authority To Enter; Limitations: The city, through its authorized
representative bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this
article. The city shall have no authority to inquire into processes including
metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper or other industries
beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge
to the public sewers or natural waterways. (1991 Code § 13.08.420)
   D.   Indemnification Of Sewer User: While performing the necessary work on
private properties referred to in subsection C of this section, the authorized
representative of the city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the
premises established by the sewer user, and the sewer user shall be held
harmless for injury or death to any city authorized representative, and the
city shall indemnify the sewer user against loss or damage to its property by
any authorized city representative and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury and property damage asserted against the sewer user and growing
out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the sewer user to maintain safe conditions as required
in this article or as reasonably required by a prudent man standard. (1991 Code
§ 13.08.430)
   E.   Entry And Work Upon Easements: The city, through its authorized
representative bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be
permitted to enter all private properties through which the city holds a duly
negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of
the sewerage works lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if
any, on the easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved. (1991
Code § 13.08.440)
   F.   Failure To Pass: The city may reject any material or workmanship for
cause, and upon such order, rejected material shall be removed and replaced
with approved material. Disapproved workmanship shall cause the removal and
replacement of all materials involved, including appurtenances, excavation,
backfilling and other work items. (1991 Code § 13.08.450)
8-3B-17: SEWERAGE SYSTEM EXTENSIONS:
   A.   Installation Regulations:
      1.   All proposed extensions of the municipal sewerage system to serve
undeveloped areas within the existing corporate limits, newly annexed areas, or
areas outside the corporate limits, shall comply with the overall master plan
for the municipal sewerage system. Costs for all extensions which lie outside
the boundary limits of the property for which the extension is requested shall
also be the responsibility of the owner or his agent. The city may, if it has
uncommitted funds in its sewer construction account, participate in a portion
of the cost of any oversized sewer lines. When it is necessary to install
oversized lines as part of an extension, the cost of all oversized lines will
normally be the responsibility of the owner or his agent.
      2.   Unless a special permit is granted by the city, all municipal
sewerage system extensions into newly developing areas shall be installed prior
to the construction of any new streets.
      3.   All design and construction of any extensions to the municipal
sewerage system shall comply with the official specifications for sewerage
system extensions as adopted by the city.
      4.   The plans for all extensions to the sewerage system shall be
prepared and signed by a registered professional engineer as per the licensing
requirements of the Idaho Code. Three (3) copies of the plans shall be filed
with the city. Two (2) copies of the plans shall be filed with the Idaho
department of health and welfare for their review and approval as required by
the Idaho Code. In approving a plan for extension to the municipal sewerage
system, the city reserves the right to stipulate other requirements such as a
special permit fee, rights of way limits, sequence of construction, time limits
for having existing service disrupted, the filing of a performance bond and
other similar measures as may be required to protect the public. No work shall
commence on any such extension of the municipal sewerage system until the
extension project has been approved by the city. (1991 Code § 13.08.460)
   B.   Certification; Conveyance To City: After the construction of any
municipal sewerage system extensions, it shall be the obligation of the owner,
or his agent, to have a registered professional engineer certify to the city
and to the Idaho department of health and welfare that the system extensions
were installed in accordance with the approved plans and specifications on file
with the respective agencies. Following certification by the registered
professional engineer and acceptance by the city, the entire extension of the
municipal sewerage system, including the city sewer service lines, shall become
the property of the city and it shall be the city's responsibility to maintain
and operate the system thereafter. (1991 Code § 13.08.470)
   C.   Additions; Fees: If it is necessary for the city to permit a sewer
service connection and/or sewer service line at any time after the extension
has been originally accepted by the city, the owner or his agent shall be
required to pay the sewer hookup fee as well as the standard permit and
inspection fees as may be established by the city for such purposes. (1991 Code
§ 13.08.480)
8-3B-18: BACKFILLING; CONFORMANCE WITH SPECIFICATIONS:
Backfilling of building sewers and service connections within the limits of
public rights of way or easements shall conform to special specifications
promulgated by the city, for sewer installation, and shall be subject to
inspection by and approval of, the city. (1991 Code § 13.08.490)
ARTICLE C.  RATES, CHARGES AND FEES
SECTION:
8-3C-1: Various Fees And Charges Established
8-3C-2: Payment Of User Charges By Nonusers
8-3C-3: Equivalent Connections Schedule
8-3C-4: Sewer User Charge
8-3C-5: Sewer Connection Charge
8-3C-6: Industrial User Charges
8-3C-7: Industrial Cost Recovery
8-3C-8: Users Outside City Limits; Use Charges
8-3C-9: Payment Of Bills; Delinquencies
8-3C-10: Sewerage System Fund
8-3C-1: VARIOUS FEES AND CHARGES ESTABLISHED:
There is established a system of connector charges, permit and inspection fees,
industrial cost recovery charges, periodic service charges and other fees for
the use of, and for service rendered by, the sewerage works of the city, and
which charges, rates and fees shall be as near as possible, uniform as to the
different fees provided by this article; and which charges, rates and fees are
levied and assessed against each lot, parcel of land, building or property
having any connection with the sanitary sewerage works of the city or otherwise
discharging sanitary sewage, industrial wastewater or other liquids into the
sanitary sewerage works of the city. (1991 Code § 13.08.500)
8-3C-2: PAYMENT OF USER CHARGES BY NONUSERS:
It is specifically enacted that all property in the city to which a public
sewer is available, but is not used by the owner or occupier of the parcel of
land, is still subject to user charges under the provisions of this article.
(1991 Code § 13.08.510)
8-3C-3: EQUIVALENT CONNECTIONS SCHEDULE:
The sewer user charges and sewer connection fees and charges are based on the
following schedule. All other users will be required special appraisal and will
be computed on an individual basis.
Classification Number Of Equivalent Connections
                                                                               Number Of
Classification                                                                 Equivalent
                                                                               Connections
Apartment (See multiple living unit)
Bank                                                                           2.00
Bar                                                                            2.00
Barbershop, per chair (minimum $1.00)                                          0.50
Beauty salon, per operator station (minimum $1.00)                             0.50
Bowling alley, per lane (minimum $1.00)                                        0.20
Cafe, per customer seating capacity (minimum to be $2.00 equivalent            0.10
connections)
Car dealer                                                                     2.00
Car wash (to be computed on an individual basis)
Church                                                                         2.00
Club, private                                                                  2.00
Condominium (see multiple living unit)
Dentist, per practitioner                                                      1.00
Department store                                                               2.00
Doctor, per practitioner                                                       1.00
Drugstore                                                                      2.00
Dry cleaners                                                                   2.00
Duplex (see multiple living unit)
Fourplex (see multiple living unit)
Garage                                                                         XXXX
Grocery store (see retail food store)
Hospital, per bed                                                              0.15
Industry (see major or minor contributing industry)
Laundries:
   Self-service up to and including 10 machines                             4.00
   Each washing machine in excess of 10                                     0.25
   Commercial (to be computed on an individual basis)                       XXXX
Lodge or private club                                                          2.00
Major contributing industry, as per separate agreement                         XXXX
Minor contributing industry, as per separate agreement                         XXXX
Mobile home court or park, per space                                           1.00
Motel, hotel, or rooming house, etc., without cooking facilities:
   First unit                                                               1.00
   Each additional unit                                                     0.50
Multiple living unit:
   Studio or 1 bedroom                                                      0.50
   2 bedrooms                                                               0.75
   3 or more bedrooms                                                       1.00
Office building, for each 2,500 square feet of gross floor space or fraction   1.00
thereof
Photo development lab                                                          2.00
Railroad depot                                                                 2.00
Restaurant, per customer seating capacity                                      0.10
Retail food store, for each 1,500 square feet of gross floor space or fraction 1.00
thereof
Retail food store, for each 3,000 square feet of gross floor space or fraction 1.00
thereof
Schools, per each 50 students in average daily                                 1.00
Service station:
   Full service                                                             4.00
   Gas and restroom only                                                    2.00
   With car wash (to be computed on an individual basis)                    XXXX
Single-family residences                                                       1.00
Swimming pool:
   Public, to be computed on an individual basis                            XXXX
   Private, for each 500 square feet of pool water surface area or fraction 0.25
thereof
Tavern                                                                         2.00
Theater                                                                        2.00
Townhouse                                                                      1.00
Trailer court or park:
   First unit                                                               1.00
   Each additional space, long term tenant type                             1.00
   Each additional space, short term tenant type                            0.50
Triplex (see multiple living unit)
Variety store, for each 3,000 square feet of gross floor space or fraction     1.00
thereof
 
(1991 Code § 13.08.520)
8-3C-4: SEWER USER CHARGE:
The owner, or his agent, of all properties connecting to the public sewer of
the City under the terms of this article shall pay a sewer user charge, to be
established by resolution of the City Council, for each equivalent connection
or fraction thereof as may be assigned to the property by the City. (Ord. 217,
9-10-2018)
8-3C-5: SEWER CONNECTION CHARGE:
   A.   The owner, or his agent, of all properties connecting to the public
sewer of the City under the terms of this article shall pay a sewer connection
charge, to be established by resolution of the City Council, for each
equivalent connection or fraction thereof as may be assigned to the property by
the City.
   B.   For all properties that have an existing public sewer adjacent to their
property without direct cost to the present owner, or former owners of the
property, there shall be an additional connection charge of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) for each equivalent connection or fraction thereof as may
be assessed to the property by the City. (Ord. 217, 9-10-2018)
8-3C-6: INDUSTRIAL USER CHARGES:
   A.   All industrial user charges shall be established by separate agreement
between each separate contributing industry and the City Council. All charges
so established shall be in proportion to the benefit derived by the user from
the sewerage system and shall be in accordance with pertinent Federal
regulations as are defined in the Federal Water Pollution Control Act. The
charges so established shall generate sufficient revenue to pay the industrial
user portion of the bonded indebtedness, operation and maintenance of the
Sewerage System Reserve Fund, as required to pay for future capital
improvements to the sewage treatment plant, and industrial cost recovery
payments as outlined in section
8-3C-7 of this article, all as required by said Act.
   B.   The charges shall be based on the amount of flow (Q), the biochemical
oxygen demand (BOD), the suspended solids (SS) and any other pertinent
components of the wastes that the industrial user is contributing to the
sewerage system. All contributing industrial user charges shall be reviewed
annually and revised as necessary to ensure that each contributing industrial
user pays its allocable share. If the discharge of a contributing industrial
user changes significantly (greater than 10 percent, plus or minus) by
strength, volume, delivery flow rate or other pertinent component
characteristics, such industrial user's charge shall be adjusted accordingly to
assure that the user continues to pay its allocable share. (1991 Code §
13.08.550)
8-3C-7: INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY:
   A.   All contributing industrial users of the sewerage system shall make
industrial cost recovery payments for that portion of the cost of construction
of the sewerage system which is allocable to the treatment of their industrial
wastes in accordance with the Federal Water Pollution Control Act.
   B.   Pertinent components of said Act are:
      1.   Industrial cost recovery payments shall be in proportion to the
amount of flow (Q), biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), suspended solids (SS) and
any other characteristics of wastes which contribute to the cost of
construction the industrial user is contributing to the sewerage system.
      2.   Contributing industrial users discharging pretreated process wastes
into the sewerage system shall pay industrial cost recovery based on the
characteristics of the waste effluent from the pretreatment facilities.
      3.   The City may permit contributing industrial users to reserve extra
or additional capacity in the sewerage system for future use by the industry.
Such capacity shall be reserved through formal, written agreement and shall be
subject to pertinent industrial cost recovery allocable to the capacity
reserved. In the event that the City has unused capacity in its sewerage system
available for use and the industrial user is permitted by the City to exceed
its agreed upon reserved capacity, the industry shall be required to pay
industrial cost recovery calculated on the full reserved capacity plus the
additional industrial cost recovery for the use above the limits of the
original agreed upon reserve capacity or any element thereof.
      4.   All contributing industrial users shall be required to pay any
additional industrial cost recovery charges associated with the cost of future
upgrading of the treatment works as may be required of the City to comply with
waste discharge requirements.
      5.   Industrial cost recovery for expansion of the treatment works shall
be required from those industries which have exceeded the reserved capacity and
have been a contributing factor to the need for expansion. Industrial cost
recovery payments will be required for that portion of the expanded capacity
which is allocable to the industrial user's discharge.
      6.   Payments for industrial cost recovery shall begin within a month of
the date of initiation of service by the industry of the treatment facility as
was constructed with grant assistance funds and shall continue for a base
period of thirty (30) years. Contributing industrial users shall pay their
share of industrial cost recovery, at no interest, in two hundred forty (240)
equal monthly payments, except that any increase as a result of using extra
capacity beyond the original agreed upon amount will be in addition thereto.
      7.   A contributing industry which connects to the treatment works at
some time after such treatment works have been put into initial service shall
begin industrial cost recovery payments on the date use is initiated and shall
continue for the unexpired portion of the initial base period of twenty (20)
years for industrial cost recovery or until the new industry ceases the use of
the facility, whichever occurs first. The total industrial cost recovery
payment from a "new" contributing industry shall be the federal cost of the
capacity used multiplied by the ratio of use to the industrial cost recovery
base period of twenty (20) years.
      8.   The amount of payment required from an industry for industrial cost
recovery is to be determined by the following procedure:
         a.   The costs of the treatment facility shall be allocated in
proportion to the benefit of the proposed facility to each wastewater
characteristic as follows:
      Q = 50 percent of grant amount
      BOD = 30 percent of grant amount
      SS = 20 percent of grant amount
         b.   The cost of any future expansion, upgrading, or reconstruction of
the waste treatment facility shall be allocated in proportion to the benefit of
the improvement to any wastewater characteristic so benefitted at that time.
         c.   The total cost per unit of each characteristic shall be
calculated as follows:
      Q unit cost =
        (grant amount) (percent of grant amount allocated to Q)
            (total design flow of facility in gallons per day)
      BOD unit cost =
        (grant amount) (percent of grant amt allocated to BOD)
            (total design BOD capability of facility in lb/day)
      SS unit cost =
        (grant amount) (percent of grant amt allocated to SS)
            (total design SS capability of facility in lb/day)
         d.   The cost to an industry for industrial cost recovery (ICR) is
calculated as follows:
Total ICR cost =
     (industry's final reserved amount of Q) (Q unit cost) +
     (industry's final reserved amt of BOD) (BOD unit cost) +
     (industry's final reserved amt of SS) (SS unit cost)
 
Annual ICR cost  = total ICR cost
                   20
Monthly ICR cost = total ICR cost
                   240
 
         e.   For small contributing industrial concerns where it is
impractical to develop a monitoring program to measure wasteload discharges,
industrial cost recovery payments may be made on the basis of estimated flows
alone; provided, that the industry does not discharge an excessive strength
waste that may disrupt the treatment process as determined by the city. The
industrial cost recovery payment will be calculated on a similar basis as
described in this subsection, except that one hundred percent (100%) of the
grant amount will be allocated to flow.
      9.   All industrial cost recovery payments collected from industry and
paid to the city shall be used in accordance with the EPA grant agreement as
follows:
         a.   Fifty percent (50%) shall be returned to the environmental
protection agency (EPA);
         b.   Forty percent (40%), together with all interest earned thereon,
shall be used solely for the cost of any future expansion, upgrading or
reconstruction on the sewerage system eligible for EPA assistance; and
         c.   Ten percent (10%) shall be used as the city sees fit in the
maintenance, operation and/or construction of sewerage facilities to serve any
or all areas of the city.
      10.   Actions for nonpayment will be in accordance with section
8-3C-9 of this article. (1991 Code § 13.08.560)
8-3C-8: USERS OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS; USE CHARGES:
The city may permit the use of the sewerage works by individual properties that
are partially or entirely outside the corporate limits of the city. Each
request for such service must be approved by the city council and all
regulations of this article must be complied with by such special sewer user.
The sewer user will be considered a special user as long as the property being
served remains outside the corporate limits of the city. In addition to all
other charges and fees as are required to be paid by any sewer user, including
industrial users, the special users may be charged a supplemental monthly user
charge that will be to reimburse the city for any other costs to the city that
are attributable to administering, operating and/or maintaining the special
sewer user service. (1991 Code § 13.08.570)
8-3C-9: PAYMENT OF BILLS; DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   Due Date: All monthly sewer charges shall be due and payable to the
city clerk between the first and tenth day of each month for the billing from
the previous cycle. For new construction, the monthly sewer charges shall be
due and payable when the service connection has been inspected and approved or
when the building being served is substantially completed, whichever is the
latest date. Upon failure to pay the same, as prescribed, each user shall pay,
in addition to the amount due, a late fee of five dollars ($5.00). (1991 Code §
13.08.580; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   Delinquency Notice: If a sewer user has not paid his monthly charges by
the tenth of the month, it shall be deemed delinquent; provided, if the charges
are not paid within the ten (10) days after the delinquency notice, an
additional five dollar ($5.00) late fee will be added to the account. All
delinquent charges or fees, as provided by this article, not paid after the
final determination of the sewer user's account, shall be imposed as a lien
against and upon the property or premises against which such charge or fee is
levied or assessed, and the city clerk shall, at the time of certifying the
city taxes, certify such delinquencies together with all penalties to the tax
collector of the county, and when so certified, the same shall be a lien upon
the property and will be collectible as other taxes. All monies collected by
the city clerk under the provisions of this section shall be paid over to the
city treasurer in the same manner as is required for the payment of other city
monies. (1991 Code § 13.08.590; amd. 2011 Code)
8-3C-10: SEWERAGE SYSTEM FUND:
   A.   All fees and charges received and collected under authority of this
article shall be deposited and credited to a special fund to be designated as
the "sewerage system fund". The accounts of the fund shall show all receipts
and expenditures for the maintenance, operation, upkeep and repair of the
sewerage works and any payments into sinking funds as may be established for
the purpose of:
      1.   Paying principal of and interest on the general obligation sewer
bonds of the city which shall from time to time be outstanding;
      2.   Industrial cost recovery funds for payment to EPA;
      3.   Sewerage capital improvement fund for industrial cost recovery
payments that are to be used exclusively for future expansion, upgrading or
reconstruction of the sewage system eligible for EPA assistance; and
      4.   Other special funds as may be established by the city council.
   B.   As provided by law, when budgeted and appropriated, the funds and
credits to the account of the sewerage system fund shall be available for the
payment of the requirements for the maintenance, operation, repairs and upkeep
of the sewerage works of the city and, to the extent legally available, for
payment into a sinking fund established for the payment of the principal of and
interest of the general obligation sewer bonds of the city which shall from
time to time be outstanding. (1991 Code § 13.08.600)
CHAPTER 4
GARBAGE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
SECTION:
8-4-1: Definitions
8-4-2: Garbage Collection Authorized By City
8-4-3: Container Requirements; Placement
8-4-4: Separation Of Garbage And Rubbish
8-4-5: Monthly Assessment
8-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
GARBAGE: Kitchen refuse from residences and places where food is prepared for
human consumption, all animal and vegetable refuse from such kitchen and other
places, offal from fish, meat and vegetable markets and all organic substances
of every kind and nature unfit for food and subject to quick decay.
RUBBISH: Ashes, floor sweepings, empty cans, broken dishes, broken glassware,
and other discarded household utensils; but the term "rubbish" does not mean or
include broken or discarded stoves or furniture, broken or discarded building
materials, paper, grass, weeds, lawn clippings, brush, leaves or other waste
material accumulated outside the dwelling houses within the residence district.
(1991 Code § 8.08.010)
8-4-2: GARBAGE COLLECTION AUTHORIZED BY CITY:
All garbage and rubbish within the City shall be removed or hauled by the City
or under its direction, and it is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to remove or haul garbage or rubbish or to engage in the business of removing
or hauling garbage or rubbish from the City; provided, that this prohibition
shall not apply to persons hauling their own garbage or rubbish. (1991 Code §
8.08.020; amd. 2011 Code)
8-4-3: CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS; PLACEMENT:
   A.   Garbage Containers: There shall be provided and kept by the owner,
agent or occupant of every building or residence a suitable thirty two (32)
gallon container provided with a tight cover and a bale or handles, in which
shall be placed all garbage and liquid refuse that accumulates in the
buildings, residences or on such premises. (1991 Code § 8.08.030; amd. 2011
Code)
   B.   Rubbish Containers: There shall be provided by the owner, agent or
occupant of any and every building or residence one or more suitable thirty two
(32) gallon vessels and containers for rubbish equipped with a bale or handles,
and of such size and weight that when filled with rubbish may be readily
handled by one person without assistance. (1991 Code § 8.08.040; amd. 2011
Code)
   C.   Placement For Pick Up: All garbage and rubbish shall be placed in
proper receptacles or containers as provided in subsections A and B of this
section, and shall be, by the owner thereof, placed on the rear of the lot upon
which the garbage or rubbish has been accumulated if such lot is accessible by
an alley, or on the front of the property upon which the garbage or rubbish has
been accumulated if such property is not accessible by an alley, in order that
such garbage and rubbish shall be in a place convenient for hauling by the City
or by the person removing or hauling such garbage under the direction of the
City. (1991 Code § 8.08.050)
8-4-4: SEPARATION OF GARBAGE AND RUBBISH:
It is unlawful for any person within the City having garbage and refuse to
deposit rubbish in the same vessel, receptacle or container containing garbage
or to deposit garbage in the same vessel, receptacle or container containing
rubbish. (1991 Code § 8.08.060)
8-4-5: MONTHLY ASSESSMENT:
The City shall make an assessment in an amount that is reasonable to defray the
expenses of removal of garbage or rubbish from the City. The assessment shall
be made on a monthly basis and the amount thereof may be changed from time to
time by resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 217, 9-10-2018)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Codes Adopted
9-1-2: Building Permits
9-1-1: CODES ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption Of Building Codes: The approved editions of the following
nationally recognized codes, as adopted by the State of Idaho or the Idaho
Building Code Board, are adopted as the official Building Codes of the City:
      1.   International Building Code, including all rules promulgated by the
board to provide equivalency with the provisions of the Americans With
Disabilities Act accessibility guidelines and the Federal Fair Housing Act
accessibility guidelines.
      2.   International Residential Code, parts I through IV and IX.
      3.   International Energy Conservation Code. (Ord. 173, 12-9-2002)
   B.   Adoption Of Fire Codes: The following are hereby adopted by the City
for the purpose of prescribing regulations regarding conditions hazardous to
life and property from fire or explosions: 1) that certain code and standard
known as the International Fire Code, including appendices; and 2) the
International Fire Code standards published by the Western Fire Chiefs
Association and the International Conference of Building Officials, being
particularly the latest editions thereof. (2011 Code)
   C.   Successive Codes Adopted: The adopted versions of the foregoing codes
shall be deemed superseded by successive versions of such codes as they are
adopted or approved by the Idaho Building Code Board effective on the date any
such codes are made effective by the Idaho Building Code Board.
   D.   Agricultural Buildings Exempted: Agricultural buildings are exempt from
the Building Codes adopted herein but shall remain subject to placement
requirements established by zoning regulations. (Ord. 173, 12-9-2002)
   E.   Copies On File: One copy of each of the codes and standards adopted in
this section have been and now are filed with the City Clerk for use and
inspection by the public. (2011 Code)
9-1-2: BUILDING PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter,
repair, move, convert or demolish any building or structure in the City or
cause the same to be done without first obtaining a building permit for each
such building or structure from the City building inspector and paying the
appropriate fee pursuant to the building permit fee schedule which shall be
established by resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 211, 12-11-2017)
   B.   Filing Of Application For Permit: To apply for a permit, the applicant
shall first file an application therefor in writing on a form furnished for the
purpose by the City building inspector, who shall determine the acceptability
of the request in conformance with the International Building Code, and who
shall thereupon issue or deny the application. (1991 Code § 15.08.020; amd.
Ord. 173, 12-9-2002)
CHAPTER 2
MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Definitions
9-2-2: Mobile Home Use In Mobile Home Park Only
9-2-3: Permit Requirements; Fee
9-2-4: Park And Mobile Home Requirements
9-2-5: Register Of Occupants
9-2-6: Communicable Diseases; Control Measures
9-2-7: Right Of Entry For Inspection
9-2-8: Permit Revocation For Noncompliance
9-2-9: Conflicting Provisions; Higher Standards Prevail
9-2-10: Violation; Penalty
9-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME: A mobile home which does not have a toilet or a bathtub
or shower.
INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME: A mobile home that has a toilet and a bathtub or
shower.
INSPECTOR: The building official of the city and authorized representatives.
MOBILE HOME: Any structure or vehicle used or so constructed as to permit its
being used as a conveyance upon the public streets or highways and capable of
being duly licensed as such, and constructed in such a manner as to permit the
occupancy thereof as a dwelling or sleeping place for one or more persons.
MOBILE HOME PARK: Any plot of ground containing two (2) acres or more arranged
to accommodate mobile homes either permanently or temporarily used for living
or sleeping purposes, but shall not include a plot of ground used by a mobile
home dealer exclusively for display, storage, or sale of mobile homes.
MOBILE HOME SPACE: A plot of ground within a mobile home park designated and
intended for the accommodation of one mobile home.
PERMIT: A written permit issued by the city council permitting the mobile home
park to operate under this chapter and as a conditional use as prescribed in
title 10 of this code.
SERVICE BUILDING: A substantial permanent building providing toilet facilities,
separate bath or shower accommodations for both sexes, and other facilities for
use in common by the occupants of mobile homes. (1991 Code § 15.20.010)
9-2-2: MOBILE HOME USE IN MOBILE HOME PARK ONLY:
It is unlawful for anyone to live in a mobile home except in a mobile home
park. (1991 Code § 15.20.020)
9-2-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS; FEE:
   A.   Permit Required: It is unlawful for any person to construct, maintain,
operate or alter any mobile home park within the limits of the city unless such
person has a valid permit issued by the city council in the name of such person
for the specific mobile home park. Permits shall be issued on an annual basis
from date of issuance of permit. (1991 Code § 15.20.030)
   B.   Permit Nontransferable: No permit shall be transferable, and any person
holding such permit shall give written notice to the city clerk within twenty
four (24) hours after having sold, or otherwise disposed of, an interest in or
control of any mobile home park. Such notice shall include the name and address
of the person succeeding to the ownership or control of such mobile home park.
(1991 Code § 15.20.040)
   C.   Application For Permit; Contents: Application for a mobile home park
permit shall be made on a form provided by the city clerk. There shall be
submitted with the application a complete plot plan showing:
      1.   The area and dimensions of the mobile home park.
      2.   The number, location and size of all mobile home spaces.
      3.   The location, width and arrangements of roadways and walkways.
      4.   The location of service buildings and any other proposed structures.
      5.   The location of water and sewer lines and the location of the
recreational area.
      6.   The means provided for access from the mobile home spaces,
recreational area and service buildings to roadways and public thoroughfares.
The means of ingress and egress to and from public thoroughfares shall be
arranged to provide reasonable safety for the users. (1991 Code § 15.20.050)
   D.   Permit Fees:
      1.   A fee for each mobile home park shall be paid to the city clerk at
the time of filing the application therefor. The fee schedule shall be as
follows:
         a.   For the first two (2) mobile homes, the fee will be fifty dollars
($50.00) each.
         b.   For each mobile home over two (2), the fee will be twenty five
dollars ($25.00).
      2.   An annual fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) shall be paid
by each mobile home park and no renewal permit shall be issued until payment of
the sum shall be made to the city clerk.
      3.   The fee for application of a mobile home park permit shall not
include building, electrical, plumbing, gas and other fees required for work
included in the construction. (1991 Code § 15.20.060)
9-2-4: PARK AND MOBILE HOME REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Compliance With Plans Submitted: No person shall do any work in and
about the construction, alteration, repair, improvements or enlargement of any
mobile home park or any structure thereon, for which a permit is required,
which varies in any substantial particular from the plans and specifications
submitted and approved for such mobile home park. (1991 Code § 15.20.070)
   B.   Construction Of Permanent Structures: Permanent structures including
carports, storage buildings, service buildings and others shall be constructed
in accordance with the requirements of the city building code. No permanent
additions of any kind shall be built onto, attached to or become a part of any
mobile home. (1991 Code § 15.20.080)
   C.   Skirting Requirements: All mobile homes except those temporarily parked
shall be skirted with a material that is compatible in appearance with the
construction of the mobile home. The skirting may be in contact with the
ground, but shall not attach the mobile home thereto. (1991 Code § 15.20.090)
   D.   Approval Of Plans And Specifications: Sufficient preliminary plans and
specifications for the complete construction of the mobile home park shall be
prepared by the developer and shall be presented to the city planning and
zoning committee for approval and acceptance. (1991 Code § 15.20.100; amd. Ord.
132-A, 4-13-2015)
   E.   Site Restrictions: Each mobile home park shall be located on a well
drained site and shall be in conformity with the zoning laws, this chapter and
other ordinances of the city. (1991 Code § 15.20.110)
   F.   Minimum Area: The minimum area of a mobile home park site shall be not
less than two (2) acres. The number of mobile home spaces located in
residential districts shall not exceed seven (7) spaces per acre. (1991 Code §
15.20.120)
   G.   Yard Setbacks:
      1.   Each mobile home park shall provide a twenty five foot (25') wide
landscaped strip around the perimeter of the park with the screening to be
placed within the twenty five foot (25') line.
      2.   Where a mobile home park is bounded by intersecting public streets,
no wall, fence or other structure shall be erected, and no hedge, shrub, tree
or growth exceeding three feet (3') above the street grade shall be maintained
within the triangular area formed by the intersecting property lines and a
straight line joining the property line at points which are thirty feet (30')
distant from the point of intersection, measured along the street lines. (1991
Code § 15.20.130)
   H.   Mobile Home Spaces; Design Standards:
      1.   Minimum Area: Space requirements shall be a size not less than that
required to provide for front, side and rear yard depths as provided by this
subsection.
      2.   Yard Setbacks: Setbacks for mobile home spaces are as follows:
         a.   Front yard: Ten feet (10');
         b.   Side yards: Shall not be less than twenty feet (20') between
adjacent sides of mobile homes or permanent accessory buildings;
         c.   Rear yard: Five feet (5'), except, no rear yard setback shall be
required where adjacent to the twenty five foot (25') perimeter area.
      3.   Off Street Parking: Two (2) vehicular parking spaces shall be
provided on each mobile home space.
      4.   Patios And Parking Pads:
         a.   Each mobile home space shall be provided with a patio convenient
to the entrance to the mobile home for which it is designed to accommodate.
Each patio shall have a minimum area of one hundred fifty (150) square feet and
shall be surfaced with portland cement concrete or other rigid impervious
pavement meeting the specifications prescribed in title 10 of this code.
         b.   Each mobile home space shall be provided with a mobile home
parking pad constructed of crushed gravel or higher quality material and not
less than the area of the unit. (1991 Code § 15.20.140)
   I.   Recreational Area: Each mobile home park shall provide a minimum of one
hundred (100) square feet of recreational area for each mobile home space for
the common use of the occupants of the spaces. (1991 Code § 15.20.150)
   J.   Landscaping And Screening:
      1.   Setbacks and recreational areas shall be landscaped with lawn and
shrubs and properly tended and maintained.
      2.   Screening of the boundary lines of the mobile home park shall
consist of shrubs which will, within a reasonable time, grow to a height of at
least six feet (6') or decorative fencing of wood or masonry at least seven
feet (7') in height. Screening shall be of such density that visibility through
the screening is or will be, within a reasonable time, decreased by at least
ninety percent (90%). (1991 Code § 15.20.160)
   K.   Temporary Parking: Temporary parking facilities for mobile homes shall
be no closer than fifty feet (50') to any perimeter boundary of the park or
street within the park. The temporary parking area shall not exceed twenty
percent (20%) of the gross parking area. No mobile home shall remain parked in
the temporary parking area for more than seven (7) days. (1991 Code §
15.20.170)
   L.   Signs: One mobile home park sign not exceeding eighteen (18) square
feet in area. One nameplate or address sign for each mobile home space of not
more than one square foot in area. (1991 Code § 15.20.180)
   M.   Tenant Storage Space: Each mobile home park shall provide not less than
thirty two (32) square feet of substantially fenced storage space for each
mobile home space in the park. Such storage accommodations shall be so designed
that they can be closed and locked and each storage accommodation shall be made
available for reasonably convenient access from the mobile home space it is
intended to serve. (1991 Code § 15.20.190)
   N.   Service Building Requirements:
      1.   There shall be located within two hundred feet (200') of every
temporary mobile home parking area and at least fifteen feet (15') from the
nearest parking space, a service building containing these minimum facilities
for each fifteen (15) spaces provided for occupancy by dependent mobile homes:
         a.   Two (2) flush type toilets for females.
         b.   One flush type toilet for males.
         c.   One flush type urinal.
         d.   Two (2) lavatories and one shower for each sex.
         e.   One laundry tray and a wastewater sink.
      2.   Toilet facilities for males and females located in the same building
shall be separated by a sound resistant wall.
      3.   Service buildings shall have adequate heating facilities to maintain
a temperature of seventy degrees Fahrenheit (70°F) during cold weather and to
supply a minimum of three (3) gallons of hot water per hour per each temporary
parking space during the times of peak demand.
      4.   All rooms in service buildings shall be well ventilated and all
openings shall be effectively screened. (1991 Code § 15.20.200)
   O.   Street And Sidewalk Regulations:
      1.   Access roads shall be provided and designed and constructed by means
of loops or access to public streets at both ends as to be continuous so that
vehicles may enter and leave without making a U-turn. Each such road shall
connect with a public street and have a minimum width of thirty feet (30').
Each street shall be posted with street signs to comply with city standards.
      2.   There shall be provided sufficient service roads and walkways to
provide reasonable access to all recreational areas, parking areas, service
buildings, storage space and other facilities.
      3.   Each mobile home park shall have rolled or standard curb and
driveway approaches for each access to individual parking spaces from park
access road.
      4.   Curbs, gutters and sidewalks, in accordance with city
specifications, shall be installed on city streets bordering mobile home parks.
(1991 Code § 15.20.210)
   P.   City Access: Each mobile home park shall provide to the city acceptable
easement or right of way to install and maintain city owned utilities and for
access to use firefighting equipment. (1991 Code § 15.20.220)
   Q.   Utilities:
      1.   General Regulations:
         a.   Sanitary sewers shall conform to city standards.
         b.   Water lines shall conform to city standards.
         c.   Fire hydrants shall conform to city standards.
         d.   Gas service lines shall conform to city standards.
         e.   Street lighting shall provide a minimum of one-half (1/2) foot-
candle of lighting intensity on all streets.
         f.   All telephone and power lines within the mobile home park shall
be underground. (1991 Code § 15.20.230)
      2.   Electric Power:
         a.   Each mobile home space shall be provided with a separate metered
service of sufficient capacity to adequately supply electric power to meet the
needs of each individual mobile home; power needs shall be determined by the
electrical inspector.
         b.   An electrical service shall be provided for each mobile home
space. The installation shall comply with all city electrical codes and
ordinances. Such electrical outlets shall be weatherproof. (1991 Code §
15.20.240)
      3.   Liquefied Gas Restrictions: Liquefied petroleum gas for cooking
purposes shall not be used at individual mobile home spaces unless the
containers are properly connected by copper or other suitable metallic tubing.
Liquefied petroleum gas cylinders shall be securely fastened in place and
adequately protected from the weather. No cylinder containing liquefied
petroleum gas shall be located in a mobile home nor within five feet (5') of a
door thereof. (1991 Code § 15.20.250)
      4.   Water And Sewer:
         a.   All plumbing in mobile home parks shall comply with state and
local plumbing laws and regulations.
         b.   Water and sewer fees shall be charged in accordance with
commercial and industrial rates as set forth by the city; provided, however,
that not more than one mobile home be connected to one water hookup. (1991 Code
§ 15.20.260)
      5.   Refuse:
         a.   The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in the park shall
be so managed as to create no health hazards, rodent harborage, insect breeding
areas, accident hazards or air pollution.
         b.   All refuse shall be stored in flytight, watertight, rodentproof
containers, which shall be provided in sufficient number and capacity to
prevent any refuse from overflowing. Satisfactory container racks or holders
shall be provided and shall be located not more than one hundred fifty feet
(150') from any mobile home. (1991 Code § 15.20.270)
   R.   Fire Protection:
      1.   The park area shall be subject to the rules and regulations of the
fire department.
      2.   Every mobile home park shall be kept free of flammable material at
all times. (1991 Code § 15.20.280)
9-2-5: REGISTER OF OCCUPANTS:
   A.   Register Required: Every mobile home park owner or operator shall
maintain a register containing a record of all mobile homes, travel trailers
and occupants using the park. Such register shall be available to any
authorized person inspecting the park, and shall be preserved for the period of
one year after departure of occupant.
   B.   Contents: Such register shall contain:
      1.   The names and addresses of all occupants stopping in the park;
      2.   The make, model and license number of each motor vehicle, mobile
home and travel trailer;
      3.   The state, territory or county issuing the mobile home or travel
trailer license; and
      4.   The date of arrival and departure of each trailer or home. (1991
Code § 15.20.290)
9-2-6: COMMUNICABLE DISEASES; CONTROL MEASURES:
Every owner, operator, attendant, or other person operating a mobile home park
shall notify the local health officer immediately of any suspected communicable
or contagious disease within the park. In the case of diseases diagnosed by a
physician as quarantinable, such owner, operator, attendant, or other person
operating a mobile home park shall not permit the departure of a trailer or
home or its occupants, or the removal therefrom of clothing or other articles
which have been exposed to infection, without approval of the health officer.
(1991 Code § 15.20.300)
9-2-7: RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTION:
Upon presentation of proper credentials, the inspector may enter at reasonable
times, any building, structure or premises in the city to inspect the same for
compliance with the requirements of this chapter and to perform any other duty
imposed upon him thereby. (1991 Code § 15.20.310)
9-2-8: PERMIT REVOCATION FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
   A.   Permit Revocation Authorized: In the event of a conviction of any
permittee, under the provisions of this chapter, of violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter or of any law of the state, the county, or the
United States pertaining to mobile home parks, or if the city council
determines that any permittee has violated any of the provisions of this
chapter or that the mobile home park does not conform to the requirements set
forth in this chapter, then the city council may, in its discretion, in
addition to other penalties provided, determine to revoke the permit or refuse
to grant a renewal thereof.
   B.   Notice And Hearing: When the city council determines there is cause to
revoke or refuse to grant renewal of a permit, the city council shall give
written notice thereof to the permittee to be served personally or by certified
mail at the premises of the mobile home park. The notice shall contain the
reason for the determination. The city council shall, in the notice, set forth
the time and place of hearing before the city council. The permittee may appear
at the hearing and, after receiving all evidence presented concerning the
determination, the city council shall finally determine for revocation or
refusal to renew the permit, which action shall be final therein. (1991 Code §
15.20.320)
9-2-9: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS; HIGHER STANDARDS PREVAIL:
In case any of the provisions of this chapter should be found to be in conflict
with any provision of any zoning, building, fire safety or health ordinance of
the city, the provisions which establish the higher standard for the promotion
and protection of health and safety shall prevail, and if any provision of this
chapter is found to be in conflict with the provision of any other ordinance
which establishes a lower standard for the promotion and protection of health
and safety, then the provisions of this chapter shall prevail. (1991 Code §
15.20.340)
9-2-10: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
It is unlawful and punishable as provided in this section for any person, firm,
partnership, association, corporation or any group or combination to violate
any of the provisions of this chapter and, upon conviction of a violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter, a penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code shall be imposed. (1991 Code § 15.20.330; amd. 2011 Code)
TITLE 10
LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1
ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Short Title
10-1-2: Authority Of City Council
10-1-3: Purpose Of Title
10-1-4: Conformance With Title
10-1-5: Jurisdiction
10-1-6: Interpretation
10-1-7: Suitability Of Subdivided Land; Public Improvements
10-1-8: Conflicts Of Law
10-1-9: Effect On Actions Pending
10-1-10: Amendments; Authority Of City
10-1-11: Violation; Penalty
10-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
The regulations set forth in this title shall be known, cited and referred to
as the development regulations of the city and shall include all zoning and
subdivision regulations governing development of land under the jurisdiction of
the city. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-1-2: AUTHORITY OF CITY COUNCIL:
Pursuant to the powers and jurisdictions vested through the laws, statutes and
regulations of the state, the city council exercises the power and authority to
adopt zoning and subdivision regulations to regulate development of lands under
its jurisdiction. Such regulation of the development of land and the attachment
of reasonable conditions to land development is an exercise of valid police
power delegated by the state to the city. The developer has the duty of
compliance with reasonable conditions laid down by the city council for design,
dedication, improvement and restrictive use of the land so as to conform to the
physical and economical development of the city and to the safety and general
welfare of the future property owners in the subdivision and of the community
at large. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-1-3: PURPOSE OF TITLE:
Pursuant to the general policy of the city, the provisions of this title are
adopted for, but not limited to, the following purposes:
   A.   To protect and provide for the public health, safety and general
welfare of the people of the city.
   B.   To guide the future growth and development of the city, in accordance
with any comprehensive plan of the city.
   C.   To provide for adequate light, air and privacy, to secure safety from
fire, flood and other danger, and to prevent overcrowding of the land and undue
congestion of population.
   D.   To protect and conserve the value of land throughout the city and the
value of buildings and improvements upon the land, and to minimize the
conflicts among the uses of land and buildings.
   E.   To guide public and private policy and action in order to provide
adequate and efficient transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks,
playgrounds, recreation and other public requirements and facilities.
   F.   To provide the most beneficial relationship between the uses of land
and buildings and the circulation of traffic throughout the municipality,
having particular regard to the avoidance of congestion in the streets and
highways, and the pedestrian traffic movement appropriate to the various uses
of land and buildings, and to provide for the proper location and width of
streets and building lines.
   G.   To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivisions and resubdivisions, in order to further the orderly layout and use
of land, and to ensure proper legal descriptions and monumenting of subdivided
land.
   H.   To ensure that public facilities are available and will have a
sufficient capacity to serve any proposed development.
   I.   To prevent the pollution of air, streams and ponds; to assure the
adequacy of drainage facilities; to safeguard the water table; and to encourage
the wise use and management of natural resources through the city in order to
preserve the integrity, stability and beauty of the community and the value of
the land.
   J.   To preserve the natural beauty and topography of the city and to ensure
appropriate development with regard to these natural features.
   K.   To provide for open spaces through the most efficient design and layout
of the land, including the use of average density in providing for minimum
width and area of lots, while preserving the density of land as established in
this title. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-1-4: CONFORMANCE WITH TITLE:
Under the power and authority so vested, the city council declares that no
building permit or certificate of zoning compliance shall be issued for any
parcel or plat of land subject to the regulations nor shall any excavation or
filling of land or construction of any public or private improvements take
place or be commenced thereon, except in conformity with this title, and no
land subject to this title shall be subdivided and sold or offered for sale
until the owner has obtained approval of a final plat in accordance with this
title and the approved plat is filed with the county recorder. (Ord. 151, 8-14-
1995)
10-1-5: JURISDICTION:
   A.   This title shall apply to all lands and improvements within the
corporate city limits.
   B.   They shall also apply to lands and improvements outside the corporate
city limits that:
      1.   Are within the designated "area of impact" and are not incorporated
into an active agricultural unit of twenty (20) acres or more.
      2.   Are under written agreement by past or present owners to be
regulated in return for enjoying the benefits of certain services normally
available only to in-city lands.
   C.   For subdivision regulation only, all lands within one mile of the
corporate city limits are subject by state law to the city ordinances. (Ord.
151, 8-14-1995)
10-1-6: INTERPRETATION:
The administrator shall be responsible for the interpretation of the provisions
of this title, and any interpretation and application of this title shall be
the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety and
general welfare. This is not intended to abrogate any appeal rights provided in
this title. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-1-7: SUITABILITY OF SUBDIVIDED LAND; PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
It is declared to be the policy of the city to consider the development of land
within the jurisdiction of the city subject to the control of the city and to
adopt development regulations to facilitate accomplishment of the goals and
objectives of any comprehensive plans of the city for the orderly, planned,
efficient and economical development of the city. It shall be the general
policy of the city that:
   A.   All land to be subdivided shall be of such character that it can be
used safely for building purposes without danger to health or peril from fire,
flood or other menace.
   B.   Land shall not be subdivided until all available public facilities and
improvements exist or have been given proper consideration by the city council
and proper provision has been made for improvements such as schools, parks,
recreation facilities, transportation facilities and improvements.
   C.   All existing and proposed public improvements shall conform to and be
properly related to any proposals shown in a comprehensive plan, official map
or capital budget and program of the city. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-1-8: CONFLICTS OF LAW:
   A.   This title is not intended to interfere with, abrogate or annul any
other ordinance, rule or regulation, statute or other provision of law. Where
any provisions of law conflict, whichever provisions are more restrictive or
impose higher standards shall control.
   B.   This title is not intended to abrogate any easement, covenant or any
other private agreement or restriction; provided, that, where the provisions of
this title are more restrictive or impose higher standards or regulations than
such easement, covenant, or other private agreement or restriction, the
requirements of this title shall govern. Where the provisions of the easement,
covenant or private agreement or restriction impose duties and obligations of
this title or the determinations of the city council in approving a subdivision
or in enforcing this title, and such private provisions are not consistent with
this title or determinations thereunder, then such private provisions shall be
operative and supplemental to this title and determinations made thereunder but
will not be enforced by the city. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-1-9: EFFECT ON ACTIONS PENDING:
This title shall not be construed as abating any action now pending under, or
by virtue of, prior existing subdivision regulations, or as discontinuing,
abating, modifying, or altering any penalty accruing or about to accrue, or as
affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any
right of the city under any section or provision existing at the time of the
effective date hereof, or as vacating or annulling any rights obtained by any
person, firm or corporation, by lawful action of the city except as shall be
expressly provided for in this title. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-1-10: AMENDMENTS; AUTHORITY OF CITY:
For the purpose of providing for the public health, safety and general welfare,
the city may from time to time amend the provisions imposed by these
development regulations. Public hearings on all proposed amendments shall be
held by the city in the manner prescribed in chapter 5, article E of this
title. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-1-11: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Filing Of Written Complaint: Whenever a violation of this title occurs,
or is alleged to have occurred, any person may file a written complaint. Such
complaint shall fully state the causes and basis of the same and shall be filed
with the administrator. The administrator shall properly record such complaint,
immediately investigate the same and take such action, or cause the same to be
taken thereon as provided by this title. The city attorney shall, in addition
to taking whatever criminal action is deemed necessary, take steps to civilly
enjoin any violation of this title.
   B.   Violation A Misdemeanor: Any violation of the provisions of this title
or any failure to comply with any of its requirements shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Each day such violation continues beyond notice shall be
considered a separate offense. The landowner, tenant, subdivider, builder,
public official or any other person who commits, participates in, assists in or
maintains such continuing violation may be found guilty of a separate offense
for each day the violation continues as specified in this section. Nothing
contained in this section shall prevent the council or any other public
official or private citizen from taking such lawful action as is necessary to
restrain or prevent any violation of this title or the Idaho Code.
   C.   Nonconformity Due To Eminent Domain; Special Use Permit: Where property
has been made nonconforming or where an existing nonconforming use has been
increased by the exercise of eminent domain, it shall not be a violation and no
penalty, either civil or criminal, shall result. Persons desiring to change or
modify the use of the nonconforming properties in a manner which would, but for
the exercise of eminent domain, be permitted outright, may apply for a special
use permit, which permit may be granted with due consideration given to the
health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
   D.   Penalty Imposed: Any persons convicted of violating any of the
provisions of this title shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 2
AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
10-2-1: Map Adopted
10-2-2: Establishment; Statutory Authority; Considerations
10-2-3: Applicability Of City Regulations
10-2-4: Administration; Planning And Zoning Committee
10-2-5: Appeals Board; Appeal Procedure
10-2-6: Annual Review
10-2-1: MAP ADOPTED:
There is established and adopted a geographical area of city impact, as shown
on the map, entitled "Area Of City Impact For Hansen, Idaho", which map is
incorporated in this section as if the same were set out in full, and is
adopted as the official area of impact map. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-2-2: ESTABLISHMENT; STATUTORY AUTHORITY; CONSIDERATIONS:
   A.   Adoption Of Ordinances: Pursuant to the mandate of Idaho Code section
67-6526, which requires, among other things, that cities and counties:
      1.   Shall adopt by ordinance a map identifying an area of city impact
within the unincorporated area of the county; and
      2.   Shall, by separate ordinance, provide for the application of plans
and ordinances for the area of city impact;
the city council and the board of county commissioners have entered into and
have conducted extensive negotiations regarding the area of impact.
   B.   Factors Considered: These negotiations considered the following
factors:
      1.   Trade area;
      2.   Geographic factors; and
      3.   Areas that can reasonably be expected to be annexed into the city in
the near future. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
   C.   City And County Negotiations: In establishing an area of impact, the
governing boards of the county and city negotiated and compromised, each with
the other, and the city submitted to the planning and zoning committee the
questions of: (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995; amd. Ord. 132-A, 4-13-2015)
      1.   Area of city impact; and
      2.   The plan and ordinance requirements that should apply thereto. (Ord.
151, 8-14-1995)
10-2-3: APPLICABILITY OF CITY REGULATIONS:
   A.   The comprehensive plan and subsequent amendments thereto, together with
the zoning and subdivision ordinances and subsequent amendments thereto, as
officially adopted by the city, and the various international codes and all
successive versions as are adopted or approved by the Idaho building code board
1 , shall apply to the agreed upon area of city impact. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995;
amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   Within the area of impact, city ordinances, rules and regulations shall
not apply to any parcel of land twenty (20) acres or larger used solely for
agricultural purposes. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 9-1-1A of this code.
10-2-4: ADMINISTRATION; PLANNING AND ZONING COMMITTEE:
The area of impact shall be administered by the five (5) member city planning
and zoning committee who shall serve terms in office according to the bylaws
for the planning and zoning committee. Two (2) members and an alternate of the
committee shall be appointed by the county commissioners. The two (2) members
and alternate so appointed shall serve a term of three (3) years and may
succeed themselves for one full term. A county appointment, appointed to fill a
vacated but unexpired term, shall serve the balance of the term remaining and
may continue in office one additional full term of three (3) years. Members
appointed by the commissioners shall be owner residents within the area of
impact, residing outside the city limits, and shall vote only on issues
concerning real property located within the area of impact. The alternate
member to the committee shall attend all meetings of the committee, including
both regular and special meetings, and shall actively participate in all
discussions had on any matter before the committee. The alternate member shall
not vote on any matter except as provided in this section. The committee
alternate shall have full voting privileges whenever a regular member is
absent, unable to act due to a conflict of interest, and whenever a vacancy
occurs on the committee for any reason. The alternate member shall so act, with
full voting privileges, until the disability of the regular committee member
has been removed. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995; amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 132-A, 4-13-2015)
10-2-5: APPEALS BOARD; APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Right To Appeal: Any person directly aggrieved and affected by a final
decision of the planning and zoning committee in which the two (2) county
commission appointees shall participate or by a final decision of the city
council may appeal to a board of appeals, consisting of four (4) persons. Two
(2) of the persons shall be regularly appointed or elected members of the city
council and appointed by the council, and two (2) members shall be duly elected
or appointed county commissioners and appointed by the committee. Members of
the appeals board shall serve a term of twelve (12) months, and new
appointments shall be made every twelve (12) calendar months. (Ord. 151, 8-14-
1995; amd. Ord. 132-A, 4-13-2015)
   B.   Public Hearing; Board Decision: The appeals board shall hold a public
hearing to consider the appeal of the aggrieved party and such hearing shall be
held upon such terms and conditions and pursuant to such notice to affected
persons as the board shall deem just and appropriate. Upon hearing the matter,
the appeals board shall decide the matter by majority vote, reduce its decision
to writing and shall provide a copy of the same to the appellant. The decision
of the appeals board shall be final. In the event the board is unable to decide
the matter by a majority vote, and the board is deadlocked, the decision
appealed from shall remain in full force and effect and all administrative
remedies shall be deemed exhausted. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-2-6: ANNUAL REVIEW:
The parties hereto shall review and renegotiate the area of impact annually,
the first of the annual reviews and renegotiations to commence twelve (12)
months from the effective date hereof. In addition, the area of impact may be
reviewed and renegotiated at any time upon the request of either party hereto.
Such reviews and renegotiations shall be in conformance with Idaho Code section
67-6526. This area of impact and rules governing the same, shall be
automatically amended to conform to any federal or state grant requirements and
the respective governing boards shall take all action necessary to cause such
amendments. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Interpretation
10-3-2: Definitions
10-3-1: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   For the purpose of this title, certain words used in this title shall
be interpreted and shall mean what is indicated in this chapter.
   B.   The present tense includes the future tense, and the singular number
includes the plural, and the plural number includes the singular.
   C.   The word "shall" or "will" is a mandatory requirement; the word "may"
is a permissive requirement.
   D.   The words "used" or "occupied" include the words "intended", "designed"
or "arranged" to be used or occupied. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ACCESS EASEMENT: An easement across one or more adjacent properties to allow
vehicular access to an otherwise inaccessible area at any time.
ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE: A use or structure that is incidental and
subordinate to the principal allowed use of a property and located on the same
lot as the principal allowed use.
ADMINISTRATOR: A person who is legally vested with the right of administration
of this title.
ALLEY: See definition of Street.
ANIMAL, SMALL AND LARGE: An animal shall be considered small if it is a
domestic pet normally kept in a house and weighs less than one hundred fifty
(150) pounds at maturity. All other animals shall be classed as large animals.
ANIMATED SIGN: A sign with action or motion, flashing, color changes requiring
electrical energy, electronic or manufactured sources of supply, but not
including wind actuated elements such as flags, banners or specialty items.
This definition does not include public service signs such as time and
temperature units.
APARTMENT HOTEL: A building or portion thereof designed for or containing both
individual guestrooms or suites of rooms and dwelling units.
APPLIANCE REPAIR: The repair of a household or office device operated by gas or
electrical current.
APPROVED: Unless otherwise indicated, means by the city council. All approvals
delegated in this title to administrative personnel of the city are subject to
review and final determination by the council.
ARCHITECTURAL PROJECTION: Any projection which is not intended for occupancy
and which extends beyond the face of an exterior wall of a building but shall
not include signs. Examples of such projections are cornices, eaves, canopies,
sunshades, gutters, chimneys, flues, belt courses, etc.
AREA OF IMPACT: The area surrounding the city as established by mutual
agreement with the county in conformance with state law.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
AUTOMOBILE, MOBILE HOME, TRAVEL TRAILER AND FARM IMPLEMENT REPAIR: The repair
of automobiles, mobile homes, travel trailers and farm implements.
AUTOMOBILE, MOBILE HOME, TRAVEL TRAILER AND FARM IMPLEMENT SALES AREAS: An open
area, other than a street, used for the display, sale or rental of new or used
automobiles, mobile homes, travel trailers, or farm implements but not
including repair work except minor incidental repair of same to be displayed,
sold or rented on the premises.
AUTOMOBILE STORAGE SPACE: Parking and/or storage of new and/or used automobiles
which are capable of immediate operation under their own power.
AUTOMOBILE WRECKING: The dismantling or wrecking of two (2) or more used motor
vehicles, mobile homes or trailers.
AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD: Any area where automobile wrecking is carried out
and/or accumulation of parts thereof are stored in the open and are not being
restored to operation within six (6) months of notification; or any land,
building or structure used for the wrecking or storing of such motor vehicles.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASEMENT: A portion of living space in a dwelling unit, all or at least one-
half (1/2) of its height below the average level of the adjoining ground.
BICYCLE WAY: A public way designed for the use of nonmotorized vehicles.
BLOCK: A group of lots, tracts or parcels within well defined boundaries,
usually streets.
BUILDING: Any combination of materials constructed in accordance with the
current international building code or which is used or intended to support or
shelter any use, person, animal, plant or other property. Permanent buildings
are attached to a foundation. Temporary buildings are not attached to a
foundation and merely rest on the ground. An enclosed building has a covering
on all sides.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from the average elevation of
the proposed finished grade at the front of the building to the highest point
of the building excluding roof projections.
CARPORT, ATTACHED: "Attached carport" means having all or part of one wall
common to the dwelling or to a covered porch attached to the dwelling.
CARPORT, DETACHED: "Detached carport" means a roofed structure of which all
sides and ends are not enclosed.
CHANGE OF USE: Change of use from one of the following categories to another:
Agricultural processing
Agriculture
Communications and utilities
Cultural facilities
Manufacturing
Parks
Public assembly
Residential
Retail trade
Services
Sports facilities
Transportation
Wholesale trade
COMMERCIAL USE: A structure or area intended for the selling, bartering or
swapping of any merchandise, commodities, objects or services.
COMMITTEE: The city planning and zoning committee.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The overall guiding document for all development within the
legal jurisdiction of the city.
CONCESSION: A building or structure having less than three hundred (300) square
feet of area that is used for the sale of food, beverages and/or souvenirs.
COUNCIL: The Hansen city council.
COUNTY: Twin Falls County, Idaho, and its governing board.
COVENANT: A written promise or pledge.
DAYCARE SERVICE: Services offered by persons who are paid to supervise or care
for six (6) or more persons including the resident children for less than
fourteen (14) hours per day, but excluding those businesses or religious
institutions which provide incidental daycare service for patrons or attendees
while parents are on the premises.
DEDICATION: The setting apart of land or interests in land, for use by the
public, by ordinance, resolution or entry in the official minutes as by the
recording of a plat. Dedicated land becomes public land upon the acceptance by
the local governing authority.
DEVELOPER: The owner, or his legally authorized agent, of lands that are being
platted or mapped.
DEVELOPMENT: Lands within the boundaries of an area that is platted or mapped
in accordance with this title and that is intended to be improved by the
construction of buildings, structures, public ways, utilities and other similar
improvements.
DIRECTIONAL SIGNS: On premises incidental signs designed to guide or direct
pedestrians or vehicular traffic.
DORMITORY: A rooming house or residence hall occupied by students.
DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT: A commercial establishment, excluding gasoline service
stations, in which business is conducted while the customers are vehicle
occupants.
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof designed exclusively for residential
occupancy, but not including hotels, boarding houses and lodging houses,
trailers, camp cars or trailer houses.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE: "Multiple dwelling" means a building or portion thereof,
designed for three (3) or more households living independently of each other
and including apartment hotels.
DWELLING, TWO-HOUSEHOLD: A building designed exclusively for occupancy for two
(2) households living independently of each other including duplexes,
semidetached houses and separately owned shared-wall dwellings.
DWELLING UNIT: Space within the dwelling designed to accommodate all normal
cooking, sleeping and sanitation needs of the residents.
EASEMENT: A right of use for a stated purpose, falling short of ownership,
granted by a property owner to the public or to another person and restricting
the property owner's use of the property by prohibiting the construction of any
permanent building or structure over the easement and by prohibiting any other
stated restriction of use.
ENGINEER: A professional engineer registered in the state of Idaho.
FARM: An area twenty (20) acres or more in the area of impact which is being
used for the purpose of producing food, fiber, seed stock, fodder or oil
producing crops.
FEEDLOT AND DAIRIES: Land use primarily for the feeding of farm animals where
the number of animals being fed exceeds five (5) per acre.
FINISHED FLOOR: Any floor usable for living purposes, which includes working,
sleeping, eating, cooking or recreation, or a combination thereof. A floor used
only for storage purposes is not a "finished floor".
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP: The official map on which the federal insurance
administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the
risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the federal insurance
administration that includes flood profiles, the flood boundary-floodway map,
and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
FLOOD OR FLOODWATERS: A temporary overflow of water on lands not normally
covered by water.
FLOODPLAIN: The relatively flat areas or lowlands adjoining the channel of a
watercourse, or areas where drainage is or may be restricted by manmade
structures which have been or may be covered partially or wholly by floodwater,
but shall compose an area not less than that area confined by the 50-year flood
and shall not exceed that area confined by the 100-year flood.
FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS: The codes, ordinances and other regulations relating to
the use of land and construction within the channel and floodplain areas,
including zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, housing
codes, setback requirements, open area regulations and similar methods of
control affecting the use and development of the areas.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to properties and structures which reduce or eliminate
flood damage to lands, water and sanitary facilities, structures and contents
of buildings.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot (1').
FRONT: The front of a building shall be the wall so designated by the building
inspector which best conforms to the intent of this title. The front property
line shall be the lot line most nearly parallel to the front of a building. In
designating the front of a building, the building inspector shall base his
decision on the location of the door which provides the principal access into
the building and/or the location of the trafficway which provides the principal
access to the property. The decision of the building inspector may be appealed
to the city council for interpretation of the intent of this title and final
determination of the designated front.
FRONT, ENTIRE: "Entire front" means all the property fronting on one side of a
street between intersecting streets, or between a street and right of way,
waterway, end of dead end street or city boundary, measured along the street
line. An intersecting street shall determine only the boundary of the frontage
on the side of the street which it intersects.
GARAGE, ATTACHED: "Attached garage" means a garage having all or part of one
wall common to the dwelling or to a covered porch attached to the dwellings.
GARAGE, DETACHED: "Detached garage" means a garage which is completely
surrounded by open space.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: "Private garage" means a building or a portion of a building
in which only motor vehicles used by the tenants of the building on the
premises are stored or kept.
GOVERNING AUTHORITY: The city council.
GOVERNMENTAL FACILITIES: Facilities owned and operated by a governmental agency
for the benefit of the general public.
HIGHWAY: A street designated as a highway by an appropriate state or federal
agency.
HISTORIC SITES: Sites established by the city, county, state or federal
government as historic monuments that should be preserved.
HOME OCCUPATION: A service, excluding daycare, offered by the resident of a
household unit or the sale of items handcrafted on the premises by the resident
of a household unit; provided, the service, sale or handcrafting is performed
only by the resident therein; and provided, the area used in performing the
home occupation does not exceed four hundred (400) square feet in area; and
provided, there is no exterior indication of the home occupation.
HOSPITAL: An institution providing health services, primarily for inpatient and
medical or surgical care of the sick or injured, including outpatient
departments, training facilities, central service facilities and staff offices.
Hospitals are assumed to be for humans unless otherwise indicated.
HOTEL: Any building containing six (6) or more rooms intended or designed to be
used or which are used, rented or hired out to be occupied or which are
occupied for sleeping purposes by guests.
HOUSEHOLD: An individual or two (2) or more individuals related by blood,
marriage, legal adoption or guardianship, together with any servants or a group
of four (4) or less persons who are unrelated and reside together for more than
thirty (30) days.
HOUSEHOLD BUILDING: A single building containing one or more household units.
HOUSEHOLD UNIT: A room or group of rooms within a building containing cooking
and bathroom facilities intended for use and occupancy by one family.
IMPROVEMENT: Any alteration to the land or other physical constructions
associated with subdivision and building site developments.
KENNEL 1 : Any lot or premises on which three (3) or more domesticated mammals
over one pound, of a single species, and more than six (6) months of age, are
housed, groomed, bred, boarded, trained or sold.
LESSEE: A person holding a legally enforceable lease.
LINE, BUILDING: "Building line" means one of four (4) perpendicular lines
established by the building inspector for the purpose of measuring setbacks.
The lines shall be established parallel to the predominant building walls and
shall pass through the most exterior point on the building walls, excluding
architectural features not intended for occupancy.
LINE, PROPERTY: "Property line" means the legal boundary of a parcel of real
property.
LOADING SPACE: An off street space or berth on the same lot with a building, or
contiguous to a group of buildings, for the temporary parking of a commercial
vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials, and which abuts
upon a street, alley or other appropriate means of access.
LOT: Unless otherwise defined, means a parcel of land with sufficient size to
meet the minimum requirements of this title for use, dimensional standards and
off street parking and which is owned by a single person with a separate
interest or a group of persons with a separate interest together with an
interest in common in the real property.
LOT AREA: The total area of a lot measured on a horizontal plane within the
boundary lines exclusive of public and private roads and easements of access to
other property.
LOT, CORNER: "Corner lot" means a lot situated at the intersection of two (2)
or more streets.
LOT DEPTH: The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines,
measured along the median between the two (2) side lot lines.
MAINTENANCE EASEMENT: An easement granted for the purpose of providing access
for repair and maintenance of the appurtenant property in zero lot line
subdivisions.
MANUFACTURED HOUSING: A structure constructed according to HUD/FHA mobile home
construction and safety standards, transportable in one or more sections,
which, in the traveling mode, is eight (8) body feet or more in width or is
forty (40) body feet or more in length, or when erected on site, is three
hundred twenty (320) or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent
chassis and designed to be used as a permanent dwelling with a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing,
heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein, except
that such term shall include any structure which meets all other requirements
of this definition except size requirements and with respect to which the
manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the secretary of
housing and urban development and complies with the standards established under
42 USC 5401 et seq. Said structures shall also comply with the following
requirements:
   A.   Shall be multisectional and enclose a space of not less than one
thousand (1,000) square feet.
   B.   Shall be placed on an excavated and backfilled foundation and enclosed
at the perimeter such that the home is located not more than twelve inches
(12") above grade.
   C.   Shall have a pitched roof with a slope not less than a nominal four
feet (4') in height for each twelve feet (12') in width.
   D.   Shall have exterior siding and roofing which, in color, material and
appearance is similar to the exterior siding and roofing material commonly used
on residential dwellings within the community or which is comparable to the
predominant materials used on surrounding dwellings as determined by the zoning
administrator/building inspector.
   E.   Shall have a garage or carport constructed of like materials.
   F.   Shall be subject to any required development standard, architectural
requirement and minimum size requirements for a conventional single- family
residential dwelling on a similar lot.
   G.   Shall be inspected by the city building inspector to ensure that the
manufactured home is placed on site to HUD standards and meets the requirements
of this definition.
   H.   Shall be issued a building permit if all of the requirements of this
definition are met.
MANUFACTURING USE: The fabricating or assembling of materials into finished or
partially finished products by hand or by the use of machinery, but excluding
home occupations, activities creating products in which the process does not
yield any vapor, liquid or solid waste materials, and crafts made in
conjunction with retail business which may include, but not be limited to,
ceramics, mosaic, fabrics, jewelry, leather goods, silk screening, dress
designing, sculpturing and wood carving.
MARQUEE: A permanent roofed structure supported by the main building and
projecting over a public way.
MOBILE HOME: A transportable structure of over eight hundred forty (840) square
feet interior area, built on a chassis and designed to be used without a
permanent foundation as a dwelling unit when connected to utilities.
MOBILE HOME PARK: Any tract of land that is divided into rental spaces under
common ownership or management for the purpose of locating two (2) or more
manufactured homes for dwelling purposes.
MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: A parcel of land divided into individual lots which
are intended to be sold to persons and are designed to be occupied by
residential buildings or permanent mobile homes.
MONUMENT: Any permanent marker either of concrete, galvanized iron pipe, or on
steel rods, used to identify any tract, parcel, lot or street lines, as
specified in Idaho Code section 50-1303.
MULTIPLE-OCCUPANCY BUILDING: A building containing more than two (2) businesses
or households.
NONCONFORMING: A building, structure or use not conforming to the provisions of
this title.
OFF PREMISES SIGN: A sign mounted on property other than that occupied by the
business being advertised by the sign.
100-YEAR FLOOD: The highest level of flooding that, on the average, is likely
to occur once every one hundred (100) years (i.e., that has a 1 percent chance
of occurring each year).
OPEN SPACE: An area retaining a natural ground cover free of any buildings,
structures, streets or parking areas.
ORIGINAL PARCEL OF LAND: A lot or tract as recorded on any plat or record on
file in the office of the county recorder, or an unplatted contiguous parcel of
land held in one ownership and of record at the time of the effective date
hereof. In cases of "unrecorded matters of fact", the commission shall use its
best judgment to determine a fair designation.
ORPHANAGE: A rooming house or residence hall occupied by orphaned children.
OWNER: Any person or group of persons having legal title to real property which
is subject to this title.
PARKING SPACE, AUTOMOBILE: An enclosed or unenclosed surfaced area of not less
than twenty feet by nine feet (20' x 9') in size, together with access and
maneuvering space sufficient to permit a standard automobile to be parked
within the surfaced area, permanently reserved for the temporary parking or
storage of one automobile. The total space shall be not less than two hundred
seventy (270) square feet.
PATIO, COVERED: "Covered patio" means the same as "carport".
PEDESTRIANWAY: A public way designed to be used as a walkway for pedestrians.
PERFORMANCE BOND: An amount of money or other negotiable security paid by the
subdivider or his surety to the city clerk which guarantees that the subdivider
will perform all actions required by the governing body regarding an approved
plat; and provided, that, if the subdivider defaults and fails to comply with
the provisions of an approved plat, the subdivider or his surety will pay
damages up to the limit of the bond, or the surety will itself complete the
requirements of the approved plat.
PERMANENT: Not less than six (6) months.
PERSON: Any individual or any corporation, joint venture, limited partnership,
partnership, firm, association, trustee or other similar entity or
organization.
PICK UP SHELTER: A structure used only by persons waiting for public
transportation.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: A tract of land on which a variety of residential,
commercial and manufacturing uses may coexist in a preplanned environment with
more flexible standards than normally apply to the use of land in a standard
zoning district.
PLAT: The drawings, certifications, descriptions and approval of a division or
proposed division of real property into two (2) or more lots, blocks, parcels,
sites, plots, units, common areas, limited common areas or other descriptive
designations of real property for the purpose of offering for sale, lease or
development, either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans,
terms and conditions to any person having a separate interest or an individual
interest in common together with a separate interest in any or all of the real
property.
PORCH: A covered entrance to a building.
PREMISES: An area of land including a lot, with or without buildings.
PRIVATE: Belonging to an individual or group of persons and not for the public
or open to the public.
PRIVATE WAY: Any right of way or easement indicated or platted across real
property owned by the person dedicating or platting the private way and
intended for the general or special use of a person or persons rather than the
general public.
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES: Services offered by persons engaged in the legal,
engineering, architectural, design, planning, accounting, auditing, educational
and related professions and persons who service the human body or mind.
PROJECT: A development.
PROJECTING DOUBLE FACED BUILDING SIGN: A double faced sign which projects more
than twelve inches (12") over public property, and which uses a building wall
as its main source of support.
PUBLIC: Owned by federal, state or local government or subdivisions thereof.
PUBLIC WAY: Any right of way or easement dedicated or platted across real
property owned by the person dedicating or platting the public way and intended
for the general or special use of the public; or any right of way or easement
legally obtained by the city through the use thereof; provided, such public way
has not been vacated by the city council.
REAL PROPERTY: Real estate consisting of:
   A.   Lands, possessory rights to land, ditch and water rights and mining
claims, both lode and placer;
   B.   That which is affixed to land; and
   C.   That which is appurtenant to land.
REAR: The rear of a building and rear property line shall be the wall and lot
line most nearly parallel to the front wall and lot line.
RELIGIOUS FACILITIES: A building intended for the worship of God and its
related facilities such as meeting halls, household unit for persons employed
in the building, and schools for religious teachings.
RELIGIOUS QUARTERS: A rooming house or residence hall occupied by persons
employed by a single religious organization.
REPRODUCIBLE DRAWING: A permanent drawing prepared in black india ink or an
archival photographic image process conforming to the standards established by
the American National Standards Institute on a polyester material four
thousandths of an inch (0.004") thick with a matte finish.
RESERVE STRIP: A strip of land between a partial street and adjacent property
which is reserved or held in public ownership for future street extension or
widening.
RESIDENCE HALL: A building without cooking facilities where one or more rooms
without cooking facilities are occupied by separate households where more than
seventy five percent (75%) of the households reside for more than thirty (30)
days.
RESIDENTIAL USE: Any use designed or intended to meet the cooking, sleeping and
sanitary needs of one or more individuals.
RETIREMENT HOME: A rooming house or residence hall occupied by retired persons.
REVOLVING SIGN: A sign which revolves or rotates about an axis.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land dedicated or reserved for use as a public way,
which normally includes streets, sidewalks and other public utilities or
service areas.
ROOF PROJECTIONS: Chimneys, smokestacks, church spires, flagpoles, radio and
television antennas or towers, masts, cooling towers, elevator shafts and other
similar projections.
ROOF SIGN: A sign erected upon or above a roof or parapet wall of a building
and which is wholly or partially supported by the building. Supports must be an
integral part of the design. There shall be no exposed wires or struts.
ROOMING HOUSE: A building with common cooking facilities having one or more
rooms without cooking facilities occupied by separate households for more than
thirty (30) days with or without board.
SANITARIUM, SANATORIUM: A private hospital, whether or not such facility is
operated for profit.
SCHOOL: Any place primarily used for educational purposes.
SERVICE BUILDING: A permanent building or buildings designed to provide service
facilities to the inhabitants or users of any development.
SERVICE ROAD: A dedicated minor way which is used for vehicular access to the
back or side of residential property otherwise abutting on a street.
SERVICE STATION: A building or portion thereof and land used for supplying
fuel, oil and minor accessories for motor vehicles at retail direct to the
customer and for making minor emergency repairs.
SHELTER HOME: A building or facility however named, operated on either a profit
or nonprofit basis for the purpose of providing a home with necessary
supervision for three (3) or more persons not related to the owner and who are
unable to care for themselves.
SIDE: The side of a building and side property line shall be the wall and lot
line most nearly perpendicular to the front wall and lot line.
SIGN STRUCTURE: Any structure which supports or is capable of supporting any
sign as defined in this code. A sign structure must be an integral part of the
sign design.
SPECIAL USE PERMIT: A permit granted by the commission for a permanent use that
is otherwise prohibited but may be allowed under specific provisions when not
in conflict with a comprehensive plan.
STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS: The specifications as specified in this title or as
officially adopted by the city council.
STATE: State of Idaho.
STREET: A right of way which provides access to adjacent properties, the
dedication of which has been officially accepted. The term "street" also
includes the terms "highway", "thoroughfare", "parkway", "road", "avenue",
"boulevard", "land", "place" and other such terms.
Alley: A minor street providing secondary access at the back of a property
otherwise abutting a street.
Arterial: A street designated for the purpose of carrying fast and/or heavy
traffic.
Collector: A street designated for the purpose of carrying traffic from local
streets to other collector streets and/or arterial streets.
Cul-De-Sac: A street connected to another street at one end only, and provided
with a turnaround space at its terminus.
Frontage: A local street parallel to and adjacent to an arterial street to
provide access to abutting properties.
Half Street: A street comprised of one-half (1/2) of the width required to
conform with a standard city street section.
Local: A street which has the primary purpose of providing access to abutting
properties.
Loop: A local street with both terminal points on the same street of origin.
Partial: A dedicated right of way providing only a portion of the required
street width, usually along the edge of a subdivision or tract of land.
Private: A street that is not accepted for public use or maintenance which
provides vehicular and pedestrian access.
Stub Street: A street which terminates without provisions for a turnaround
area.
STREET GRADE: The officially established grade of the street upon which a lot
fronts. If there is no officially established grade, the existing grade of the
street shall be taken as the street grade.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change which would tend to prolong the life of the
supporting members of a building or structure, such as bearing walls, columns,
beams or girders.
STRUCTURES: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires location
on the ground or attachment to something having a fixed location on the ground.
Among other things, structures include buildings, mobile homes, walls, fences
and billboards.
SUBDIVIDER: The individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association,
syndicate, trust or other legal entity that executes the application and
initiates proceedings for the subdivision of land in accordance with the
provisions of this title. The subdivider need not be the owner of the property;
however, he shall be an agent of the owner or have sufficient proprietary
rights in the property to represent the owner.
SUBDIVISION: The result of an act of dividing an original lot, tract or parcel
of land into more than two (2) parts for the purpose of transfer of ownership
or development; which shall also include the dedication of public streets and
other rights of way and the addition to, or creation of, a cemetery. However,
this title shall not apply to the following:
   A.   An adjustment of lot lines as shown on a recorded plat which does not
reduce the area, frontage, width, depth or building setback lines of each
building site below the minimum zoning requirements and does not change the
original number of lots in any block of the recorded plat;
   B.   An allocation of land in the settlement of an estate of a decedent or a
court decree for the distribution of property;
   C.   The unwilling sale of land as a result of legal condemnation as defined
and allowed in the Idaho Code;
   D.   Widening of existing streets to conform to a comprehensive plan;
   E.   The acquisition of a street right of way by a public agency in
conformance with a comprehensive plan; and
   F.   The exchange of land for the purpose of straightening property
boundaries which does not result in the change of the present land usage.
SURVEYOR: A land surveyor or professional engineer registered in the state.
THEATER, OUTDOOR DRIVE-IN: An open lot or part thereof, with its appurtenant
facilities, devoted primarily to the showing of moving pictures or theatrical
productions on a paid admission basis, to patrons seated in automobiles or on
outdoor seats.
TOURIST COURT: A group of attached or detached buildings containing individual
sleeping or living units designed for, or used temporarily by, automobile
tourists or transients, with parking spaces conveniently located to each unit
and including auto courts, motels or motor lodges.
TOWNHOUSE: A single-family dwelling with party walls and no side yards between
abutting dwellings.
TRAFFICWAY: A public or a private way whose primary use is for movement of
motorized vehicles.
TRAILER, CAMP CAR OR TRAILER HOUSE: Any unit used for living or for sleeping
purposes which is equipped with wheels or a similar device used for the purpose
of transporting the unit from place to place, whether by motor power or other
means, and such vehicles that are used as aforesaid that have had the wheels or
equipment removed.
TRANSIENT LODGING: A rooming house or residence hall having one or more rooms
occupied by separate families where less than seventy five percent (75%) of the
families reside for more than thirty (30) days.
UNATTENDED VEHICLE: A vehicle parked for more than twenty four (24) hours in
one location.
UNIT: A separate interest in real property in a condominium or townhouse
ownership.
UNPLATTED AREA: Any area that has not been subdivided according to law.
USE: An activity or purpose for which land or premises or a building thereon is
designed, arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained, let
or leased.
VARIANCE: A modification of the requirements of this title.
VICINITY MAP: A drawing which sets forth by dimensions or other descriptive
means the relationship of proposed developments, trafficways or other landmarks
within the general area in order to better locate and orient the area in
question.
WALL: The full width or length of a building, including recessed windows or
doors.
YARD: An open space on a lot, unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground
upward, except as otherwise provided in this title.
YARD, REAR: "Rear yard" means a yard extending between side lot lines across
the rear of the lot and from the rear lot line to the rear of the principal
building, excluding architectural projections.
YARD, SIDE: "Side yard" means a yard extending from the principal building to
the side lot line on both sides of the principal building between the lines
establishing the front and rear yards, excluding architectural projections.
(Ord. 151, 8-14-1995; amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 132-A, 4-13-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. See also definition of "dog kennel" in section
  5-3B-1 of this code.
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A.  DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED; MAP
SECTION:
10-4A-1: Purpose
10-4A-2: Compliance Required
10-4A-3: Districts Designated
10-4A-4: Boundaries; Map Adopted
10-4A-5: Conditions Regulated
10-4A-6: General Regulations
10-4A-1: PURPOSE:
To preserve the peace, health and safety and provide for various utilities, the
City establishes the following zones for the benefit of its citizens. The
districts are established on the official zoning map. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4A-2: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
Except as provided in this chapter, and chapter 5 of this title, no building,
structure or land shall hereafter be used, and no building or structure or part
thereof shall be erected, constructed, reconstructed, repaired, moved or
structurally altered except in conformance with the regulations specified in
this chapter, and chapter 5 of this title, for the district in which it is
located; nor shall any yard, lot or open space be reduced in dimensions or area
to an amount less than the minimum requirements set forth in this chapter, and
chapter 5 of this title. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4A-3: DISTRICTS DESIGNATED:
In order to carry out the provisions of this chapter, and chapter 5 of this
title, the City is divided into the following zoning districts:
 
R-1 Residential
R-2 Residential Medium Density
C-B Commercial - Central Business
M-1 Industrial
A   Agricultural
MH  Mobile Home
DRO Downtown Residential Overlay District
 
(Ord. 218, 12-10-2018)
10-4A-4: BOUNDARIES; MAP ADOPTED:
   A.   The boundaries of the zoning districts are established as shown on a
map entitled "Zoning District Map of the City of Hansen, Idaho", dated April
10, 1989, which map is made a part of this chapter, and chapter 5 of this
title, by reference.
   B.   Unless otherwise defined on the zoning district map, district boundary
lines are lot lines; the centerline of streets, alleys, railroad rights-of-way,
or such lines; extended section lines; Municipal corporate lines; or, other
lines drawn to scale on the zoning district map.
   C.   Where a lot is divided at the time of the effective date hereof, or by
subsequent amendments, by zoning district boundary lines, the less restrictive
zoning requirements may be extended not more than twenty five feet (25') into
the more restrictive zoning district adjacent to the zoning district boundary
line. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4A-5: CONDITIONS REGULATED:
Within each of the zones, the size of buildings and structures, the density of
population and the location and use of buildings, structures and land for
trade, industry, residence or other purpose are regulated and restricted as set
forth in this chapter, and chapter 5 of this title, or as may be amended. (Ord.
151, 8-14-1995)
10-4A-6: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, and chapter 5 of this title,
land, buildings and premises in any district shall, after the effective date
hereof, be used only in accordance with the regulations established in this
chapter, and chapter 5 of this title, for that district, and the following
general provisions:
   A.   Buildings: No building shall hereafter be erected, constructed,
relocated or structurally altered to have a greater height, proportion of
coverage, or smaller yards or open spaces about it than permissible under the
limitations set forth for the district in which such buildings are located.
   B.   Yards And Open Spaces:
      1.   No yards, open spaces or off street parking space or loading space
existing or provided hereafter about any building shall be reduced below the
minimum requirements set forth in this chapter, and chapter 5 of this title,
for such open space, parking space or loading space, or further reduced if
already less than the minimum requirements.
      2.   No open space, yard or off street parking space or loading space
existing or hereafter provided for a building or use and necessary to meet or
partially meet the requirements of this chapter, and chapter 5 of this title,
shall be considered as all or part of the yard, open space, off street parking
space or loading space required for any other building or upon any other lot.
   C.   Lots: No lot held under one ownership at the effective date hereof
shall be reduced in dimension or area in relation to any building thereon so as
to be smaller than required by this chapter, and chapter 5 of this title, and
if already less, the dimension or area of such lot shall not be further
reduced. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
ARTICLE B.  R-1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4B-1: Purpose
10-4B-2: Permitted Uses
10-4B-3: Special Uses
10-4B-4: Prohibited Uses
10-4B-5: Property Development Standards
10-4B-6: Lot Area And Occupancy
10-4B-7: Building Height
10-4B-8: Yards; Setbacks
10-4B-9: Access
10-4B-10: Landscaping
10-4B-11: Off Street Parking
10-4B-12: Walls, Fences And Hedges
10-4B-1: PURPOSE:
The R-1 district is intended to promote and preserve residential development
and to provide a low density residential environment with a mix of both single
and multiple household dwellings in an area with ample space for personal
privacy, private open space and free from encroachment by commercial and
industrial activities. Centralized water and sewer facilities are required for
lots under one acre. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4B-2: PERMITTED USES:
In the R-1 district, buildings, structures or premises shall be used and
buildings and structures shall hereafter be erected, altered or enlarged only
for the following uses:
Open space, public parks and playgrounds without crowd attracting facilities.
Residential:
Accessory buildings, personal swimming pools and other accessory uses.
Single household dwellings.
Underground and aboveground transmission lines. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4B-3: SPECIAL USES:
In the R-1 district, a special use may be granted for a permanent use that is
not in conflict with the comprehensive plan and that is not permitted outright
because it may conflict with other uses unless special provisions are taken.
Special use permits may be granted for the following uses:
Botanical gardens and arboretums.
Bus pick up shelters.
Daycare facilities.
Golf courses and country clubs.
Historic sites, monuments.
Home occupations.
Outdoor commercial and public swimming pools.
Private outdoor ice and roller skating.
Private outdoor tennis courts.
Public and nonprofit private academic and vocational schools on arterial or
collector streets.
Public parks with crowd attracting facilities.
Religious facilities on arterial or collector streets.
Utility buildings and structures (structures less than 120 square feet in area
and less than 3 feet above natural ground are permitted uses). (Ord. 151, 8-14-
1995)
10-4B-4: PROHIBITED USES:
In the R-1 district, uses not specified in sections
10-4B-2 and
10-4B-3 of this article are prohibited unless administrative determination is
made by the administrator that the use is similar enough to a use listed in
said sections that distinction between them is of little consequence. Mobile
homes are prohibited in the R-1 district. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995; amd. 2011 Code)
10-4B-5: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The property development standards set forth in sections
10-4B-6 through
10-4B-12 of this article shall apply to all land and buildings in the R-
1 district. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4B-6: LOT AREA AND OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Lot Area: In the R-1 district:
      1.   The minimum lot area shall be five thousand seven hundred fifty
(5,750) square feet for a single household dwelling and ten thousand (10,000)
square feet for a duplex dwelling.
      2.   A permitted use that conforms to all other provisions of this
chapter, and chapter 5 of this title, may be allowed on a lot which does not
meet the minimum lot size requirements contained in this section, if the lot
existed at the effective date hereof and conformed to the minimum lot size
requirements of the city code at the time it was created; except that,
residential uses shall be limited to a single household unit per building.
   B.   Lot Occupancy: In the R-1 district, no dwelling, including its
accessory buildings, shall occupy more than sixty percent (60%) of a lot. (Ord.
151, 8-14-1995)
10-4B-7: BUILDING HEIGHT:
In the R-1 district, no building shall exceed thirty five feet (35') in height.
(Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4B-8: YARDS; SETBACKS:
   A.   Front Yard: In the R-1 district:
      1.   The front building line shall not be closer than ten feet (10') to
the front property line.
      2.   Where lots have double frontage on two (2) streets, the required
front yard of ten feet (10') shall be provided on both streets.
      3.   On a corner lot, the required front yard of ten feet (10') shall be
provided on both streets.
      4.   No accessory buildings shall be constructed in the front yard nor
closer than twenty feet (20') to the property line on other street frontages.
   B.   Side Yard: In the R-1 district:
      1.   The side building line shall not be closer than seven feet (7') to
the side property line.
      2.   Detached accessory buildings shall not be closer than three feet
(3') to the side property line nor closer than ten feet (10') to main building.
   C.   Rear Yard: In the R-1 district:
      1.   The rear building line shall not be closer than twenty feet (20') to
the rear property line.
      2.   Detached accessory buildings shall not be closer than three feet
(3') to the rear property line nor closer than ten feet (10') to a main
building. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4B-9: ACCESS:
In the R-1 district, all lots shall have vehicular access on a dedicated
improved public street with a fifty foot (50') minimum right of way unless a
secondary means of permanent vehicular access has been approved on a
subdivision plat. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4B-10: LANDSCAPING:
In the R-1 district, all nonresidential uses shall have ten percent (10%) of
the site landscaped. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4B-11: OFF STREET PARKING:
In the R-1 district, each residential dwelling unit shall have a minimum of two
(2) off street parking spaces. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4B-12: WALLS, FENCES AND HEDGES:
In the R-1 district, walls, fences and hedges shall be permitted on the
property line or within the required side or rear yard but shall not exceed
three feet (3') in height within ten feet (10') of the front property line.
(Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
ARTICLE C.  R-2 RESIDENTIAL MEDIUM DENSITY DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4C-1: Purpose
10-4C-2: Permitted Uses
10-4C-3: Special Uses
10-4C-4: Prohibited Uses
10-4C-5: Property Development Standards
10-4C-6: Lot Area And Occupancy
10-4C-7: Building Height
10-4C-8: Yards; Setbacks
10-4C-9: Access
10-4C-10: Landscaping
10-4C-11: Off Street Parking
10-4C-12: Walls, Fences And Hedges
10-4C-1: PURPOSE:
The R-2 district is intended to promote and preserve medium density residential
development and to provide a residential environment to allow the present and
future residents to live and play in an area with space for personal privacy,
minimum vehicular traffic and free from encroachment by commercial and
industrial activities. Centralized water and sewer facilities are required.
(Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4C-2: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses in the R-2 district are:
Open space, public parks and playgrounds.
Residential:
Accessory buildings less than one hundred twenty (120) square feet, personal
swimming pools, and other accessory uses.
Duplex and triplex dwellings.
Single household dwellings.
Underground and aboveground transmission lines. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4C-3: SPECIAL USES:
In the R-2 district, a special use may be granted for a permanent use that is
not in conflict with the comprehensive plan and that is not permitted outright
because it may conflict with other uses in the district unless special
provisions are taken. Special use permits may be granted for the following
uses:
Botanical gardens and arboretums.
Bus pick up shelters.
Daycare facilities.
Golf courses and country clubs.
Governmental protective facilities.
Historic sites, monuments.
Home occupations.
Mobile homes.
Multi-residential larger than threeplex.
Outdoor commercial and public swimming pools.
Private outdoor ice and roller skating.
Private outdoor tennis courts.
Public and nonprofit private academic and vocational schools on arterial or
collector streets.
Religious facilities on arterial or collector streets.
Utility buildings and structures (structures less than 120 square feet in area
and less than 3 feet above natural ground are permitted uses). (Ord. 151, 8-14-
1995)
10-4C-4: PROHIBITED USES:
In the R-2 district, uses not specified in sections
10-4C-2 and
10-4C-3 of this article are prohibited unless administrative determination is
made that the use is similar enough to a use listed in said sections that
distinction between them is of little consequence. Mobile homes are prohibited
unless they comply with the mobile home district standards. (Ord. 151, 8-14-
1995)
10-4C-5: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The property development standards set forth in sections
10-4C-6 through
10-4C-12 of this article shall apply to all land and buildings in the R-
2 district. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4C-6: LOT AREA AND OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Lot Area: In the R-2 district:
      1.   The minimum lot area per single household dwelling shall be four
thousand (4,000) square feet, seven thousand (7,000) square feet for a duplex,
and the lot area for multiplex dwelling units will increase over the duplex
area by two thousand (2,000) square feet per dwelling unit and one thousand
(1,000) square feet per unit above or below the ground level.
      2.   A permitted use that conforms to all other provisions of this
chapter, and chapter 5 of this title, may be allowed on a lot which does not
meet the minimum lot size requirements contained in this section, if the lot
existed at the effective date hereof and conformed to the minimum lot size
requirements of the city code at the time it was created; except that,
residential uses shall be limited to a single household unit per building.
   B.   Lot Occupancy: In the R-2 district, no dwelling, including its
accessory buildings, shall occupy more than sixty percent (60%) of the lot.
(Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4C-7: BUILDING HEIGHT:
In the R-2 district, no building shall exceed thirty five feet (35') in height.
(Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4C-8: YARDS; SETBACKS:
   A.   Front Yard: In the R-2 district:
      1.   The front building line shall not be closer than ten feet (10') to
the front property line.
      2.   Where lots have double frontage on two (2) streets, the required
front yard of ten feet (10') shall be provided on both streets.
      3.   On a corner lot, the required front yard of ten feet (10') shall be
provided on both streets.
      4.   No accessory building shall be constructed in the front yard nor
closer than twenty feet (20') to other street frontages.
   B.   Side Yard: In the R-2 district:
      1.   The side building line shall not be closer than five feet (5') to
the side property line.
      2.   Detached accessory buildings shall not be closer than three feet
(3') to the side property line nor closer than ten feet (10') to a main
building.
   C.   Rear Yard: In the R-2 district:
      1.   The rear building line shall not be closer than twenty feet (20') to
the rear property line.
      2.   Detached accessory buildings shall not be closer than three feet
(3') to the rear property line nor closer than ten feet (10') to a main
building. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4C-9: ACCESS:
In the R-2 district, all lots shall have vehicular access on a dedicated
improved public street with a fifty foot (50') minimum right of way unless a
secondary means of permanent vehicular access has been approved on a
subdivision plat. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4C-10: LANDSCAPING:
In the R-2 district, all nonresidential uses shall have ten percent (10%) of
the site landscaped. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4C-11: OFF STREET PARKING:
In the R-2 district, each residential dwelling unit shall have a minimum of two
(2) off street parking spaces. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4C-12: WALLS, FENCES AND HEDGES:
In the R-2 district, walls, fences and hedges shall be permitted on the
property line or within the required side or rear yard but shall not exceed
three feet (3') in height within ten feet (10') of the front property line.
(Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
ARTICLE D.  C-B COMMERCIAL - CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4D-1: Purpose
10-4D-2: Permitted Uses
10-4D-3: Special Uses
10-4D-4: Prohibited Uses
10-4D-5: Property Development Standards
10-4D-6: Lot Area And Occupancy
10-4D-7: Building Height
10-4D-8: Yards; Setbacks
10-4D-9: Access
10-4D-10: Landscaping
10-4D-11: Off Street Parking
10-4D-12: Walls, Fences And Hedges
10-4D-1: PURPOSE:
The C-B district is intended to provide for commercial activities of various
sizes from large retail stores to small specialty shops with residential
opportunities for persons wishing to work and live in a unified environment.
(Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4D-2: PERMITTED USES:
In the C-B district, buildings, structures or premises shall be used and
buildings and structures shall, after the effective date hereof, be erected,
altered or enlarged only for the following uses:
Automobile open parking lot or garage.
Communication and utilities facilities as follows:
Radio and television stations.
Telegraph centers and stations.
Telephone exchange stations.
Underground and aboveground transmission lines.
Cultural facilities as follows:
Aquariums.
Botanical gardens and arboretums.
Historic sites and monuments.
Libraries, museums and art galleries.
Planetarium.
Home occupations.
Open space.
Printing and publishing.
Public assembly:
Amusement parks.
Auditoriums.
Exhibition halls.
Theaters.
Public parks and playgrounds.
Residential:
Household buildings with a minimum of five (5) units.
Household units existing at the time this chapter, and chapter 5 of this title,
are adopted.
Household units in upper floors of commercial buildings.
Rooming halls, residence halls, residential hotels.
Transient lodging.
Retail trade uses as follows:
Alcoholic beverages.
Apparel and accessories.
Automobile parts store.
Bakery.
Bookstore.
Building materials, hardware.
Craft shop conducted in conjunction with retail business which may include
ceramics, mosaics, fabrics, jewelry, leather goods, silk screening, dress
designing, sculpturing and wood carving.
Eating places.
Farm and garden supplies.
Florist.
Food, drugs, liquor, etc.
Gasoline service stations and car washes.
General merchandise.
Hobby and toy store.
Home furnishing and equipment.
Ice cream store.
Import store.
Music store.
Pawnshop.
Pet shop.
Sporting goods.
Services such as:
Advertising.
Apparel repair and alteration.
Appliance repair.
Beauty and barber.
Building care contracting.
Business associations.
Civic, social and fraternal organizations.
Construction trade offices.
Consumer, credit, collection.
Daycare facilities.
Duplicating, stenographic.
Employment.
Finance and investment.
Funeral.
Governmental facilities.
Insurance and related.
Labor union organizations.
Laundering and dry cleaning.
Laundromats.
Medical clinics and related services.
News syndicate.
Nursing homes and rest homes.
Photographic.
Professional.
Professional organizations.
Public, private or commercial, academic and vocational schools.
Real estate and related.
Religious facilities.
Shelter homes.
Welfare and charitable services.
Sporting facilities as follows:
Athletic areas.
Golf course and country clubs.
Golf driving ranges.
Ice and roller skating.
Indoor recreational facility.
Miniature golf.
Swimming pools (commercial and public).
Tennis courts.
Taxicab office.
Transportation uses as follows:
Bus pick up shelter.
Facilities for tickets and arrangements. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4D-3: SPECIAL USES:
In the C-B district, a special use may be granted for a permanent use that is
not in conflict with the comprehensive plan and that is not permitted outright
because it may conflict with other uses in the district unless special
provisions are taken. Special use permits may be granted for the following
uses:
Automobile and truck sales.
Drive-in establishments.
Kennels.
Public assembly, concessions.
Services such as:
Automobile and truck repair.
Equipment rental.
Governmental protective agencies.
Storage rentals.
Small animal hospital.
Sporting vehicles.
Utility buildings and structures (structures less than 120 square feet in area
and less than 3 feet above natural ground are permitted uses).
Veterinarian.
Wholesale distribution and warehousing. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4D-4: PROHIBITED USES:
Uses not specified in sections
10-4D-2 and
10-4D-3 of this article are prohibited in the C-B district unless
administrative determination is made that the use is similar enough to a use
listed in said sections that distinction between them is of little consequence.
Mobile homes are prohibited unless they comply with the mobile home district
standards. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4D-5: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The property development standards set forth in sections
10-4D-6 through
10-4D-12 of this article shall apply to all land and buildings in the C-
B district. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4D-6: LOT AREA AND OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Lot Area: In the C-B district:
      1.   Commercial Uses: The lot area shall be of sufficient size to provide
for the building, off street parking and landscaping.
      2.   Residential Uses: Residential uses less than five (5) units and not
attached to a commercial use shall provide the minimum lot area of the R-
2 district.
   B.   Lot Occupancy: In the C-B district:
      1.   Commercial Uses: No requirement.
      2.   Residential Uses: Residential uses less than five (5) units and not
attached to a commercial use shall conform to the lot occupancy requirements of
the R-2 district. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4D-7: BUILDING HEIGHT:
In the C-B district, no building shall exceed fifty feet (50') in height. (Ord.
151, 8-14-1995)
10-4D-8: YARDS; SETBACKS:
In the C-B district:
   A.   Commercial Uses: No property line setbacks are required.
   B.   Residential Uses: Residential uses less than five (5) units and not
attached to a commercial use shall conform to the yard standards of the R-
2 district. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4D-9: ACCESS:
In the C-B district, all lots shall have vehicular access on a dedicated
improved public street with a fifty foot (50') minimum right of way unless a
secondary means of permanent vehicular access has been approved on a
subdivision plat. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4D-10: LANDSCAPING:
In the C-B district:
   A.   Commercial uses shall provide landscaping equal to five percent (5%) of
the total required parking area.
   B.   Household buildings five (5) units or more shall provide landscaping
equal to ten percent (10%) of the lot area. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4D-11: OFF STREET PARKING:
In the C-B district:
   A.   Each commercial use shall comply with the provisions of chapter 5,
article A of this title.
   B.   Residential uses under five (5) units per building shall provide two
(2) off street parking spaces for each residential unit.
   C.   Household buildings and residential units in commercial buildings shall
provide one off street parking space for each dwelling unit in the building.
Elderly household building projects shall provide 0.5 parking spaces per
household unit. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4D-12: WALLS, FENCES AND HEDGES:
In the C-B district, walls, fences and hedges shall be permitted on the
property line or within the required side or rear yard but shall not exceed
three feet (3') in height within ten feet (10') of the front property line.
(Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
ARTICLE E.  M-1 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4E-1: Permitted Uses
10-4E-2: Special Uses
10-4E-3: Lot Size
10-4E-4: Yards
10-4E-5: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-4E-6: Landscaping
10-4E-1: PERMITTED USES:
In the M-1 district, the following buildings and uses are permitted:
   A.   Any use permitted in the commercial - central business district.
   B.   Any of the following uses:
Bottling plant.
Flour milling.
Freight and truck terminal.
Gunstock manufacturing.
Ice manufacturing, storage and sales.
Junk, rags, paper, metal sorting, collecting and/or baling, when conducted
wholly within a completely enclosed building.
Machine shop.
Metal, wood and plastics fabrications plant.
Metalizing shop.
Paint shop.
Planing mill.
Railroad.
Sheet metal shop.
Storage yard.
Tool and hardware manufacturing.
Trailer manufacturing.
Welding shop. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
   C.   Any other use held similar to the uses set out in subsections A and B
of this section, as approved by the planning and zoning committee. (Ord. 151,
8-14-1995; amd. Ord. 132-A, 4-13-2015)
10-4E-2: SPECIAL USES:
Farm produce storage facility, including cleaning, washing, sorting, packaging
and processing.
Any of the above uses and similar uses which will have an unusually large
economic impact upon city services. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4E-3: LOT SIZE:
In the M-1 district, there are no lot size restrictions. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4E-4: YARDS:
In the M-1 district, there are no yard restrictions. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4E-5: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
   A.   Off Street Parking: In the M-1 district, all permitted uses shall have
a minimum of one parking space for each employee on the largest working shift.
(Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
   B.   Off Street Loading And Unloading Area: No building shall be constructed
within the M-1 industrial district unless provisions are made for off street
loading and unloading areas. The planning and zoning committee shall approve
the size of all loading and unloading areas before a permit shall be granted
for any new construction or additions to existing buildings. (Ord. 151, 8-14-
1995; amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 132-A, 4-13-2015)
10-4E-6: LANDSCAPING:
Industrial uses shall provide landscaping equal to five percent (5%) of total
parking area. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995; amd. 2011 Code)
ARTICLE F.  A AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4F-1: Purpose
10-4F-2: Permitted Uses
10-4F-3: Special Uses
10-4F-4: Prohibited Uses
10-4F-5: Property Development Standards
10-4F-6: Lot Area And Occupancy
10-4F-7: Building Height
10-4F-8: Yards; Setbacks
10-4F-9: Access
10-4F-10: Landscaping
10-4F-11: Off Street Parking
10-4F-12: Signs
10-4F-13: Walls, Fences And Hedges
10-4F-1: PURPOSE:
The A district is intended to preserve the rural integrity of areas adjacent to
the city that will be available for orderly planned growth and can be
efficiently served by city services as the need arises. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4F-2: PERMITTED USES:
In the A district, buildings, structures or premises shall be used and
buildings and structures shall, after the effective date hereof, be erected,
altered or enlarged only for the following uses:
Agriculture as follows:
Farms, animals on pasture.
Farms, fish.
Farms, plants and trees.
Cultural facilities as follows:
Botanical gardens and arboretums.
Historic sites and monuments.
Residential as follows:
Accessory buildings, personal swimming pools and other accessory uses.
Single household dwellings.
Underground and aboveground transmission lines. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4F-3: SPECIAL USES:
In the A district, a special use may be granted for a permanent use that is not
in conflict with the comprehensive plan and that is not permitted outright
because it may conflict with other uses in the district unless special
provisions are taken. Special use permits may be granted for the following
uses:
Bus pick up shelters.
Cemetery.
Equestrian facilities.
Golf course and country clubs.
Home occupations.
Intensive agricultural units of five (5) acres or more without residential
facilities.
Outdoor commercial and public swimming pools.
Private outdoor ice and roller skating.
Private outdoor tennis courts.
Public parks with or without crowd attracting facilities.
Utility buildings and structures (structures less than 120 square feet in area
and less than 3 feet above natural ground are permitted uses).
Zoo. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4F-4: PROHIBITED USES:
Uses not specified in sections
10-4F-2 and
10-4F-3 of this article are prohibited in the A district unless administrative
determination, in accordance with section
1-6-1 and title 2, chapter 1 of this code, is made that the use is similar
enough to a use listed in this article that distinction between them is of
little consequence. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4F-5: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The property development standards set forth in sections
10-4F-6 through
10-4F-13 of this article shall apply to all land and buildings in the A
district. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4F-6: LOT AREA AND OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Lot Area: In the A district:
      1.   The minimum lot area per household dwelling and per farm shall be
one acre.
      2.   A permitted use that conforms to all other provisions of this
chapter, and chapter 5 of this title, may be allowed on a lot which does not
meet the minimum lot size requirements contained in this section if the lot
existed at the effective date hereof and conformed to the minimum lot size
requirements of the city code at the time it was created; except, that
residential uses shall be limited to a single household unit per building.
   B.   Lot Occupancy: In the A district, no dwelling, including its accessory
buildings, shall occupy more than forty percent (40%) of a lot. (Ord. 151, 8-
14-1995)
10-4F-7: BUILDING HEIGHT:
In the A district, no building shall exceed thirty five feet (35') in height
except those used for the storage of farm produce. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4F-8: YARDS; SETBACKS:
   A.   Front Yard: In the A district:
      1.   The front building line shall not be closer than thirty feet (30')
to the front property line.
      2.   Where lots have double frontage on two (2) streets, the required
front yard of thirty feet (30') shall be provided on both streets.
      3.   On a corner lot, the required front yard of thirty feet (30') shall
be provided on both streets.
      4.   No accessory buildings shall be constructed in the front yard nor
closer than thirty feet (30') to the other street frontages.
   B.   Side Yard: In the A district:
      1.   The side building line shall not be closer than seven feet (7') to
the side property line.
      2.   Detached accessory buildings shall not be closer than three feet
(3') to the side property line nor closer than ten feet (10') to a main
building.
      3.   Architectural projections shall not be closer than four feet (4') to
the property line.
   C.   Rear Yard: In the A district:
      1.   The rear building line shall not be closer than thirty feet (30') to
the rear property line.
      2.   Detached accessory buildings shall not be closer than three feet
(3') to the rear property line nor closer than ten feet (10') to a main
building. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4F-9: ACCESS:
In the A district, all lots shall have vehicular access on a dedicated improved
public street with a fifty foot (50') minimum right of way unless a secondary
means of permanent vehicular access has been approved on a subdivision plat.
(Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4F-10: LANDSCAPING:
In the A district, all nonresidential/nonagricultural uses shall have five
percent (5%) of the site landscaped. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4F-11: OFF STREET PARKING:
In the A district, each residential dwelling shall have a minimum of two (2)
off street parking spaces. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4F-12: SIGNS:
In the A district, each residential dwelling may have one nameplate sign
mounted on the building or freestanding and shall not exceed two (2) square
feet and not be higher than seven feet (7'). (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4F-13: WALLS, FENCES AND HEDGES:
In the A district, walls, fences, and hedges shall be permitted on the property
line or within the required side or rear yard but shall not exceed three feet
(3') in height within ten feet (10') of the front property line. (Ord. 151, 8-
14-1995)
ARTICLE G.  MH MOBILE HOME DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4G-1: Purpose
10-4G-2: Overlay Districts
10-4G-3: Permitted Uses
10-4G-4: Property Development Standards
10-4G-1: PURPOSE:
The MH mobile home district is intended to provide for placement of
individually owned mobile homes on real property under a single ownership.
(Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4G-2: OVERLAY DISTRICTS:
An MH district may overlay R-2 zoning districts. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4G-3: PERMITTED USES:
Residential:
Accessory building, personal swimming pools and other accessory uses.
Permanent mobile homes.
Private parks and playgrounds.
Other uses as allowed by the commission and council to service only the mobile
home park. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-4G-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following property development standards shall apply to all lands and
buildings in mobile home park districts:
   A.   Project Size: The minimum project size shall be five (5) acres.
   B.   Density Per Acre: The density per acre of a mobile home district shall
be in substantial conformity with that of the underlying zoning district.
Buildings may be clustered and individual lot sizes may be reduced below the
requirements of the underlying zoning district, provided the total number of
dwelling units shall not exceed the number permitted in the underlying district
per acre, multiplied by the number of acres in the development. The remaining
land not contained in individual lots shall be set aside for parks and
playgrounds. If individual subsurface sewage disposal systems are used, the
maximum density shall be one household per acre.
   C.   Building Height: The building height of a mobile home district shall
not exceed thirty five feet (35').
   D.   Yards:
      1.   Along the periphery of a mobile home park district, a twenty five
foot (25') landscaped strip shall be provided and a minimum six foot (6') high
screening fence shall be required within the twenty five foot (25') strip,
except along street frontages.
      2.   Spacing between principal buildings shall be at least equivalent to
such spacing as would be required between buildings similarly developed under
the terms of this title on separate zoning lots, due consideration being given
to the openness normally afforded by intervening streets and alleys.
      3.   All buildings shall have a trafficway set back from centerline of
forty five feet (45') on a public street and twenty five feet (25') on a
private street.
      4.   Accessory structure envelopes shall be shown on the site plan of
projects approved after the effective date hereof. Projects approved prior to
the effective date hereof may have accessory structures placed so as to meet
setback requirements of this section, but such structure shall not be placed in
the front and not in the twenty five foot (25') landscaped buffer around the
perimeter of the project. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
ARTICLE H.  DRO DOWNTOWN RESIDENTIAL OVERLAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4H-1: Purpose
10-4H-2: Permitted Uses
10-4H-3: Special Uses
10-4H-4: Prohibited Uses
10-4H-5: Property Development Standards
10-4H-6: Lot Area And Occupancy
10-4H-7: Building Height
10-4H-8: Yards; Setbacks
10-4H-9: Access
10-4H-10: Landscaping
10-4H-11: Off Street Parking
10-4H-12: Walls, Fences And Hedges
10-4H-1: PURPOSE:
This overlay district is intended to provide for residential uses in certain
zoning districts where residential uses are restricted and the viability of the
uses which are allowed in such zoning districts have diminished. Centralized
water and sewer facilities are required. This overlay may be placed on a C-
B Commercial- Central Business District. (Ord. 218, 12-10-2018)
10-4H-2: PERMITTED USES:
Buildings, structures or premises shall be used and buildings and structures
shall hereafter be erected, altered or enlarged only for the following uses:
Any use permitted in the basic district upon which the overlay is placed.
Residential:
   A.   Single household dwellings. (Ord. 218, 12-10-2018)
10-4H-3: SPECIAL USES:
A special use permit may be granted for a permanent use that is not in conflict
with the comprehensive plan and that is not permitted outright because it may
conflict with other uses in the district unless special provisions are taken.
Special use permits may be granted for the following uses:
Any use permitted in the basic district upon which the overlay is placed. (Ord.
218, 12-10-2018)
10-4H-4: PROHIBITED USES:
Uses not specified in sections
10-4H-2 and
10-4H-3 of this article are prohibited in the DRO Downtown Residential Overlay
District unless administrative determination is made that the use is similar
enough to a use listed in said sections that distinction between them is of
little consequence. Mobile homes are prohibited unless they comply with the
mobile home districts standards. (Ord. 218, 12-10-2018)
10-4H-5: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The property development standards set forth in sections
10-4H-6 through
10-4H-12 of this article shall apply to all land and buildings in the DRO
Downtown Residential Overlay District. (Ord. 218, 12-10-2018)
10-4H-6: LOT AREA AND OCCUPANCY:
Same as that of the basic district upon which the overlay is placed. (Ord. 218,
12-10-2018)
10-4H-7: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Same as that of the basic district upon which the overlay is placed. (Ord. 218,
12-10-2018)
10-4H-8: YARDS; SETBACKS:
Same as that of the basic district upon which the overlay is placed. (Ord. 218,
12-10-2018)
10-4H-9: ACCESS:
Same as that of the basic district upon which the overlay is placed. (Ord. 218,
12-10-2018)
10-4H-10: LANDSCAPING:
Same as that of the basic district upon which the overlay is placed. (Ord. 218,
12-10-2018)
10-4H-11: OFF STREET PARKING:
Same as that of the basic district upon which the overlay is placed. (Ord. 218,
12-10-2018)
10-4H-12: WALLS, FENCES AND HEDGES:
Same as that of the basic district upon which the overlay is placed. (Ord. 218,
12-10-2018)
CHAPTER 5
ZONING REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A.  OFF STREET PARKING
SECTION:
10-5A-1: Parking And Loading Spaces Required
10-5A-2: Location Requirements
10-5A-3: Joint Or Mixed Use
10-5A-4: Off Street Loading Areas
10-5A-5: Minimum Size Of Parking Spaces
10-5A-6: Number Of Spaces Required
10-5A-7: Insufficient On Street Parking; Additional Off Street Requirement
10-5A-8: Layout Requirements
10-5A-1: PARKING AND LOADING SPACES REQUIRED:
Off street parking and loading spaces conforming to the provisions of this
article shall be provided in all zoning districts and subdistricts, when a
building or structure is constructed, erected or enlarged, when the capacity of
a building or structure is increased or when the use of a building or structure
is changed. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-5A-2: LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
The required off street parking location shall be located not more than the
following distances measured along the sidewalk or a walkway available for
public use from the primary entrance of the premises to the nearest entrance of
the parking lot:
   A.   For retail or commercial customer parking, medical-dental clinics,
churches, restaurants, bars, entertainment facilities and residential uses,
three hundred fifty feet (350').
   B.   Employee parking for uses stated in subsection A of this section, five
hundred feet (500'). (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-5A-3: JOINT OR MIXED USE:
Joint or mixed use of off street parking facilities shall be as follows:
   A.   Mixed Uses: Total requirements for off street parking spaces shall be
the sum of the requirements for various uses.
   B.   Joint Uses: The joint use of off street parking facilities is allowed,
provided:
      1.   The applicant shows that there is no substantial conflict in the
principal operating hours of the building, structure or use for which the joint
use of parking facilities is proposed.
      2.   The parking facility for such proposed joint use is not further than
three hundred fifty feet (350') for customers and five hundred feet (500') for
employees from the building, structure or use required to provide off street
parking.
      3.   The parties concerned in the joint use of off street parking
facilities shall submit a written agreement in a form to be recorded for such
joint use, approved by the city attorney as to form and content, and such
agreement, when approved as conforming to the provisions of this article, shall
be recorded in the office of the county recorder. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-5A-4: OFF STREET LOADING AREAS:
In addition to any off street parking required in this chapter, and chapter 4
of this title, all commercial or manufacturing uses in the zoning districts and
subdistricts shall provide adequate off street loading and unloading areas. As
a minimum, any building over ten thousand (10,000) square feet shall provide
one off street loading space which shall not measure less than forty feet by
twelve feet (40' x 12') and shall have an unobstructed height of fourteen feet
six inches (14'6") and shall be made permanently available for such purposes
and shall be surfaced, improved and maintained as required. Additional spaces
meeting the same standards may be required by the city council upon
recommendation. Maneuvering for loading and unloading on public rights of way,
excluding alleys, shall be prohibited for buildings constructed after the
effective date hereof. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-5A-5: MINIMUM SIZE OF PARKING SPACES:
Parking spaces shall have a minimum size of nine feet by twenty feet (9' x
20'), or if parallel to the access aisle, nine feet by twenty three feet (9' x
23'), or if compact car space, seven feet six inches by fifteen feet (7'6" x
15'), or if parallel to access aisle, seven feet six inches by eighteen feet
(7'6" x 18'). (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-5A-6: NUMBER OF SPACES REQUIRED:
Whenever off street parking is required by this article, the minimum number of
off street parking spaces to be provided shall be approved by the city engineer
and city council. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-5A-7: INSUFFICIENT ON STREET PARKING; ADDITIONAL OFF STREET REQUIREMENT:
Whenever any developer is allowed by the city council to plat, map or construct
a public or private trafficway without sufficient width for on street parking,
the adjacent property shall provide, in addition to the off street parking
requirements of this article, off street parking equal to the amount of on
street parking so eliminated. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-5A-8: LAYOUT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Drawing Required: Whenever off street parking is required by this
chapter, and chapter 4 of this title, a parking layout drawing shall be
submitted to and approved by the city engineer. The layout shall show a sketch
of all parking spaces, access aisles, entrances to the site and exits from the
site drawn to scale and the dimensions of each item shown, and shall indicate
all information necessary to determine the employee and customer parking
requirements. The entrances to and/or exits from the parking site shall conform
to the requirements of this code for driveway approaches.
   B.   Backing Into Traffic Prohibited: Backing a vehicle from an off street
parking space directly into a public trafficway creates a traffic hazard.
Parking layouts requiring this maneuver shall not be approved by the city
engineer except for residential uses exiting onto a local trafficway of low
traffic volume. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
ARTICLE B.  PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE
SECTION:
10-5B-1: Zoning Permit Requirements
10-5B-2: Certificates Of Zoning Compliance
10-5B-3: Permits And Certificates; Authority And Public Record
10-5B-4: Appeal Procedure
10-5B-1: ZONING PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: No building or other structure shall be erected,
moved, added to or structurally altered, nor shall any building, structure or
land be established or changed in use without a permit therefor issued by the
administrator. Zoning permits shall be issued only in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter, and chapter 4 of this title.
   B.   Application; Contents:
      1.   The application for a zoning permit shall be signed by the owner or
applicant attesting to the truth and exactness of all information supplied on
the application. Each application shall clearly state that the permit shall
expire and may be revoked if work has not begun or is not substantially
completed within one year.
      2.   At a minimum, the application shall contain the following
information:
         a.   Name, address and phone number of applicant.
         b.   Legal description of property.
         c.   Existing use.
         d.   Proposed use.
         e.   Zoning district.
         f.   Plan drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions and the shape
of the lot to be built upon, the exact size and location of existing buildings
on the lot, if any, and the location and dimensions of the proposed building or
alteration.
         g.   Building heights.
         h.   Number of off street parking spaces or loading berths.
         i.   Number of dwelling units.
         j.   Proposed sewer and water facilities.
         k.   Such other matters as may be necessary to determine conformance
with, and provide for, the enforcement of this chapter, and chapter 4 of this
title.
   C.   Approval Or Disapproval; Posting Of Placard: Within thirty (30) days
after the receipt of an application, the administrator shall either approve or
disapprove the applicant in conformance with the provisions of this chapter,
and chapter 4 of this title. All zoning permits shall, however, be conditional
upon the commencement of work within one year. One copy of the plans shall be
returned to the applicant by the administrator after the administrator shall
have marked such copy either as approved or disapproved and attested to same by
his signature on such copy. One copy of plans, similarly marked, shall be
retained by the administrator. The administrator shall issue a placard, to be
posted in a conspicuous place on the property in question, attesting to the
fact that the use or alteration is in conformance with the provisions of this
chapter, and chapter 4 of this title.
   D.   Expiration: If the work described in any zoning permit has not begun
within one year from the date of issuance thereof, the permit shall expire.
(Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-5B-2: CERTIFICATES OF ZONING COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Certificate Required: It is unlawful to use or occupy or permit the use
or occupancy of any building or premises or both, or part thereof hereafter
created, erected, changed, converted or wholly or partly altered or enlarged in
its use or structure until a certificate of zoning compliance shall have been
issued therefor by the administrator stating that the proposed use of the
building or land conforms to the requirements of this chapter, and chapter 4 of
this title, and with all conditional provisions that may have been imposed.
   B.   Temporary Certificate: A temporary certificate of zoning compliance may
be issued by the administrator for a period not exceeding six (6) months during
alterations or partial occupancy of a building pending its completion. (Ord.
151, 8-14-1995)
10-5B-3: PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES; AUTHORITY AND PUBLIC RECORD:
   A.   Zoning permits or certificates of zoning compliance issued on a basis
of plans and applications approved by the administrator authorize only the use
and arrangement set forth in such approved plans and applications or amendments
thereto, and any other use, arrangement or construction contrary to that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter, and chapter 4 of this
title.
   B.   The administrator shall maintain a public record of all zoning permits
and certificates of compliance. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-5B-4: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Right To Appeal: Appeals to the commission concerning the
administrator's interpretation and administration of this chapter, and chapter
4 of this title, may be taken by any person aggrieved by a decision of the
administrator. The appeal shall be taken within twenty (20) days after the
decision of the administrator by filing with the administrator a notice of
appeal specifying the grounds upon which the appeal is to be taken. The
administrator shall transmit to the commission the appeal and all the papers
constituting the record upon which the appeal is based.
   B.   Notice To Parties Concerned: Upon receipt of the notice of appeal, the
administrator shall give written notice to all parties concerned and the
commission shall hold a public hearing concerning the appeal.
   C.   Commission Decision: Within thirty (30) days after the public hearing,
the commission shall either approve or disapprove of the administrator's
action. The commission shall specify in writing the reasons for its approval or
disapproval and, within ten (10) days of the decision, provide the applicant
with written notice of the action on the request.
   D.   Appeal Of Commission Decision To Council: The applicant may appeal the
decision of the commission to the city council, provided the appeal is
submitted to the council within fifteen (15) days from the time the applicant
receives written notification of the commission's decision.
   E.   Council Hearing And Decision: Upon receipt of an appeal from the action
of the commission, the council shall, after publishing notice in a newspaper
and giving written notice to all parties concerned at least fifteen (15) days
in advance, hold a public hearing; a council's determination shall be final for
all purposes. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
ARTICLE C.  VARIANCES
SECTION:
10-5C-1: Variance Defined
10-5C-2: Grounds For Issuance
10-5C-3: Application For Variance
10-5C-4: Special Conditions And Safeguards
10-5C-5: Public Hearing; Notice
10-5C-6: Action By Commission
10-5C-7: Notification Of Applicant
10-5C-8: Appeal To Council
10-5C-1: VARIANCE DEFINED:
"Variance" is a modification of the requirements of this chapter, and chapter 4
of this title, as to lot size, lot coverage, width, depth, front yard, side
yard, rear yard, setbacks, parking space, height of buildings or other
provisions of this chapter, and chapter 4 of this title, affecting the size or
shape of a structure or the placement of the structure upon lots, or the size
of lots and public ways. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-5C-2: GROUNDS FOR ISSUANCE:
The commission may authorize in specific cases such variance from the terms of
this chapter, and chapter 4 of this title, as will not be contrary to the
public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of
the provisions of this chapter, and chapter 4 of this title, would result in
unnecessary hardship. No nonconforming use of neighboring lands, structures or
buildings in the same district, and no permitted or nonconforming use of lands,
structures or buildings in other districts shall be considered grounds for
issuance of a variance. Variances shall not be granted on the grounds of
convenience or profit, but only where strict application of the provisions of
this chapter, and chapter 4 of this title, would result in unnecessary hardship
or the loss of a building or site that is on a national, state, or local
register of historic places or sites. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-5C-3: APPLICATION FOR VARIANCE:
   A.   Contents Of Application: A variance from the terms of this chapter, and
chapter 4 of this title, shall not be granted by the commission unless and
until a written application for a variance is submitted to the administrator
and the commission containing:
      1.   Name, address and phone number of applicant.
      2.   Legal description of property.
      3.   Description of nature of variance requested.
      4.   A narrative statement and documentation demonstrating that the
building or site is on a national, state or local register of historic places
or sites or that the requested variance conforms to all the following
standards:
         a.   That special conditions and circumstances exist which are
peculiar to the land, structures or buildings in the same district.
         b.   That a literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter,
and chapter 4 of this title, would deprive the applicant of rights commonly
enjoyed by other properties in the same district under the terms of this
chapter, and chapter 4 of this title.
         c.   That special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant.
         d.   That granting the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this chapter, or chapter 4 of
this title, to other lands, structures or buildings in the same district.
   B.   Compliance With Standards And Conditions: A variance shall not be
granted unless the commission makes specific findings of fact based directly on
the particular evidence presented to it which support conclusions that the
standards and conditions mentioned in this section have been met by the
applicant. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-5C-4: SPECIAL CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS:
Under no circumstances shall the commission grant an appeal or variance to
allow a use not permissible under the terms of this chapter, or chapter 4 of
this title, in the district involved or any use expressly or by implication
prohibited by the terms of this chapter, and chapter 4 of this title, in the
district. In granting any appeal or variance, the commission may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this chapter, and
chapter 4 of this title. Violation of such conditions and safeguards, when made
a part of the terms under which the appeal or variance is granted, shall be
deemed a violation of this chapter, and chapter 4 of this title. (Ord. 151, 8-
14-1995)
10-5C-5: PUBLIC HEARING; NOTICE:
   A.   Prior to granting a variance permit, at least one public hearing before
the commission in which interested persons shall have the opportunity to be
heard shall be held.
   B.   At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of the time and
place and a summary of the proposal shall be published in the official
newspaper or paper of general circulation within the jurisdiction of the city.
Notice may also be made available to other newspapers, radio and television
stations serving the jurisdiction for use as a public service announcement.
   C.   Written notice shall also be provided to property owners and residents
adjoining and within the parcel under consideration.
   D.   When notice is required to two hundred (200) or more property owners or
residents, in lieu of the mailing notification, three (3) notices in the
newspaper or paper of general circulation is sufficient, provided the third
notice appears ten (10) days prior to the public hearing. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-5C-6: ACTION BY COMMISSION:
   A.   Time Limit For Decision: Within thirty (30) days after the public
hearing, the commission shall either approve, conditionally approve, or
disapprove the request for appeal or variance.
   B.   Specifications: Upon granting or denying an application, the commission
shall specify:
      1.   The regulations and standards used in evaluating the application.
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial.
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit.
   C.   Right To Appeal: The applicant or any affected person may appeal the
decision of the commission to the city council, provided a written appeal is
submitted to the council within fifteen (15) days from the commission's
decision. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-5C-7: NOTIFICATION OF APPLICANT:
Within ten (10) days after a decision has been rendered, the administrator
shall provide the applicant with written notice of the action on the request.
(Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-5C-8: APPEAL TO COUNCIL:
Upon receipt of an appeal from the action of the commission, the city council
shall set a hearing date under the same provisions as the commission hearing to
consider all information, testimony and commission's minutes of the public
hearing to reach a decision to uphold, conditionally uphold or overrule the
decision. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
ARTICLE D.  SPECIAL USE PERMITS
SECTION:
10-5D-1: Special Use Defined
10-5D-2: Authority To Grant
10-5D-3: Application; Contents
10-5D-4: Proposed Use; Requirements
10-5D-5: Public Hearing
10-5D-6: Conditions, Bonds And Safeguards
10-5D-7: Decision By Commission; Special Conditions Attached
10-5D-8: Right To Appeal
10-5D-9: Written Notice Of Action On Request
10-5D-10: Transferability
10-5D-11: Review And Discontinuance
10-5D-12: Appeal To Council
10-5D-1: SPECIAL USE DEFINED:
A "special use" is a permanent use otherwise prohibited by the terms of this
chapter, and chapter 4 of this title, in a given district, but which may be
allowed with conditions under specific provisions of this chapter, and chapter
4 of this title, and when not in conflict with a comprehensive plan. (Ord. 151,
8-14-1995)
10-5D-2: AUTHORITY TO GRANT:
The commission may authorize, in specific cases, special uses; subject,
however, to the minimum conditions and requirements of the zoning district in
which they are located and subject to additional conditions and requirements
necessary to protect the best interests of affected persons and the city as a
whole. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-5D-3: APPLICATION; CONTENTS:
An application for a special use permit shall be filed with the administrator
by at least one owner or lessee of property for which a new special use is
proposed or for which an expansion or relocation of an existing special use is
proposed. At a minimum, the application shall contain the following
information:
   A.   Name, address and phone number of applicant.
   B.   Legal description of property.
   C.   Description of existing use.
   D.   Zoning district.
   E.   Description of proposed special use.
   F.   A plan of the proposed site for the special use showing the location of
all buildings, parking and loading areas, traffic access and traffic
circulation, open spaces, landscaping, refuse and service areas, utilities,
signs, yards and such other information as the commission may require to
determine if the proposed special use meets the intent and requirements of this
chapter, and chapter 4 of this title.
   G.   A narrative statement evaluating the effects on adjoining property, the
effects of such elements as noise, glare, odor, fumes and vibration on
adjoining property, a discussion of the general compatibility with adjacent and
other properties in the district, and the relationship of the proposed use to a
comprehensive plan. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-5D-4: PROPOSED USE; REQUIREMENTS:
The commission shall review the particular facts and circumstances of each
proposed special use in terms of the following standards and shall find
adequate evidence showing that such use at the proposed location:
   A.   Will, in fact, constitute a special use as established by zoning
requirements for the zone involved.
   B.   Will be harmonious with and in accordance with the general objectives
or with any specific objective of a comprehensive plan and/or zoning
regulations.
   C.   Will be designed, constructed, operated and maintained to be harmonious
and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended character of the
general vicinity and that such use will not change the essential character of
the same area.
   D.   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future neighboring
uses.
   E.   Will be served adequately by essential public activities and services
such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage structures,
refuse disposal, water and sewer and schools, or that the persons responsible
for the establishment of the proposed use shall be able to provide adequately
any such services.
   F.   Will not create excessive additional requirements at public cost for
public facilities and services and will not be detrimental to the economic
welfare of the community.
   G.   Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment and
conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any person, property or to
the general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic, noise, smoke,
fumes, glare or odors.
   H.   Will have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be so
designed as not to create an interference with traffic on surrounding public
thoroughfares.
   I.   Will not result in the destruction, loss or damage of natural, scenic
or historic features of major importance. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-5D-5: PUBLIC HEARING:
Upon receipt of the application for a special use, the commission shall hold a
public hearing, publish notice in the newspaper and give written notice to all
parties as required for variance permits. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-5D-6: CONDITIONS, BONDS AND SAFEGUARDS:
In granting any special use, the commission may prescribe appropriate
conditions, bonds and safeguards in conformity with this chapter, and chapter 4
of this title. Violations of such conditions, bonds or safeguards, when made a
part of the terms under which the special use is granted, shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter, and chapter 4 of this title. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-5D-7: DECISION BY COMMISSION; SPECIAL CONDITIONS ATTACHED:
   A.   Time Limit For Decision: Within thirty (30) days after the public
hearing, the commission shall either approve, conditionally approve or
disapprove the application as presented. If the application is approved or
approved with modifications, the commission shall direct the administrator to
issue a special use permit listing the specific conditions specified by the
commission for approval.
   B.   Conditions: Upon granting a special use permit, conditions may be
attached to a special use permit including, but not limited to, those:
      1.   Minimizing adverse impact on other developments.
      2.   Controlling the sequence and time of development.
      3.   Controlling the duration of development.
      4.   Assuring that development is maintained properly.
      5.   Designating the exact location and nature of development.
      6.   Requiring the provision for on site or off site public facilities or
services.
      7.   Requiring more restrictive standards than those generally required
in this chapter, and chapter 4 of this title.
   C.   Studies: Prior to granting a special use permit, the commission may
require studies from the planning staff or public agencies concerning social,
economic, fiscal and environmental effects of the proposed special use.
   D.   Special Use Permit: A special use permit shall not be considered as
establishing a binding precedent to grant other special use permits.
   E.   Permit Nontransferable: A special use permit is not transferable from
one parcel of land to another, but may be transferable from one owner to
another, provided all conditions of the special use permit continue to be met.
   F.   Specifications: Upon granting or denying an application, the commission
shall specify:
      1.   The regulations and standards used in evaluating the application.
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial.
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-5D-8: RIGHT TO APPEAL:
The applicant or any affected person who appeared in person or in writing
before the commission may appeal the decision of the commission to the city
council, provided a written appeal is submitted to the council within fifteen
(15) days from the commission's action. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-5D-9: WRITTEN NOTICE OF ACTION ON REQUEST:
Within ten (10) days after a decision has been rendered, the administrator
shall provide the applicant with written notice of the action on the request.
(Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-5D-10: TRANSFERABILITY:
A special use permit is not transferable from one parcel of land to another,
but may be transferable from one owner to another, provided all conditions of
the special use permit continue to be met. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-5D-11: REVIEW AND DISCONTINUANCE:
   A.   Special uses which have not been established within one year of the
date of issuance of the special use permit may be reviewed by the commission to
determine if the facts and circumstances have changed; the commission may call
for a new special use permit application.
   B.   A special use which has been discontinued for a period of one year
shall not be reestablished without a new special use permit. (Ord. 151, 8-14-
1995)
10-5D-12: APPEAL TO COUNCIL:
Upon receipt of an appeal from the action of the commission, the city council
shall set a hearing date, under the same provisions as the commission hearing,
to consider all information, testimony and the commission's minutes of the
public hearing to reach a decision to uphold, conditionally uphold or overrule
the decision of the commission. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
ARTICLE E.  AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
10-5E-1: Authority Of Council
10-5E-2: Initiation
10-5E-3: Application; Contents; Fee
10-5E-4: Evaluation Of Amendment Request
10-5E-5: Public Hearings
10-5E-6: Commission Recommendation
10-5E-7: Decision By Council
10-5E-8: Resubmission Of Application; Restrictions
10-5E-9: District Boundary Changes
10-5E-1: AUTHORITY OF COUNCIL:
Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare or good zoning
practices require, the city council may, by ordinance, after receipt of
recommendation thereon from the commission and subject to procedures provided
by law, amend, supplement, change or repeal the regulations, restrictions and
boundaries or classification of property. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-5E-2: INITIATION:
Amendments to this chapter, and chapter 4 of this title, may be initiated in
one of the following ways:
   A.   By adoption of a motion by the commission.
   B.   By adoption of a motion by the council.
   C.   By the filing of an application by a property owner or a person who has
an existing interest in property within the area proposed to be changed or
affected by the amendment. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-5E-3: APPLICATION; CONTENTS; FEE:
   A.   Contents Of Application: Applications for amendments to the official
zoning map adopted as part of this chapter, and chapter 4 of this title, shall
be provided by the administrator and shall contain at least the following
information:
      1.   Name, address and phone number of applicant.
      2.   Proposed amending ordinance, approved as to form by the council.
      3.   Present land use.
      4.   Present zoning district.
      5.   Proposed use.
      6.   Proposed zoning district.
      7.   A vicinity map at a scale approved by the administrator, showing the
property lines, thoroughfares, existing and proposed zoning and such other
items as the administrator may require.
      8.   A list of all property owners and residents, and their mailing
addresses, who are within three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries
of the land being considered.
      9.   A statement on how the proposed amendment relates to a comprehensive
plan, availability of public facilities and compatibility with the surrounding
area.
   B.   Fee: A fee as established by the council. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-5E-4: EVALUATION OF AMENDMENT REQUEST:
Zoning districts, zoning subdistricts and overlay districts shall be amended in
the following manner:
   A.   Requests for an amendment to this chapter, and chapter 4 of this title,
shall be submitted to the commission which shall evaluate the request to
determine the extent and nature of the amendment requested.
   B.   If the request is in accordance with a comprehensive plan, the
commission may recommend and the council may adopt or reject the ordinance
amendment under the notice and hearing procedures as provided in this article.
   C.   If the request is not in accordance with a comprehensive plan, the
request shall be submitted to the commission or, in its absence, the council
which shall recommend and the council may adopt or reject an amendment to a
comprehensive plan under the notice and hearing procedures provided in Idaho
Code section 67-6509. After a comprehensive plan has been amended, this
chapter, and chapter 4 of this title, may then be amended as provided for in
this article. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-5E-5: PUBLIC HEARINGS:
   A.   Required: The commission shall hold a public hearing and make
recommendations on proposed zoning amendments. Zoning amendments may consist of
text or map revisions.
   B.   Zoning Amendments:
      1.   The commission, prior to recommending a zoning amendment to the
council, shall conduct at least one public hearing in which interested persons
shall have an opportunity to be heard.
      2.   At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of time and
place and the amendment shall be published in the official newspaper or paper
of general circulation within the jurisdiction of the city. Following the
commission's hearing, if the commission makes a material change from what was
presented at the public hearing, further notice and hearing shall be provided
before the commission forwards the amendment with its recommendation to the
council.
   C.   Zoning Map Amendments:
      1.   The commission, prior to recommending a zoning map amendment that is
in accordance with a comprehensive plan to the council, shall conduct at least
one public hearing in which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be
heard.
      2.   At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of time and
place and the amendment shall be published in the official newspaper or paper
of general circulation within the jurisdiction of the city. Additional notice
shall be provided by mail to property owners and residents within the land
being considered, three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of the
land being considered, and any additional area that may be impacted by the
proposed change as determined by the commission.
      3.   The applicant requesting the zoning map amendment shall sign an
affidavit stating that he has notified, in writing, the required residents and
the property owners as to his purpose of application, time and place of
hearing, residents served, and date of service. A copy of notification shall be
attached to the affidavit.
      4.   When notice is required to two hundred (200) or more property owners
or residents, notice of the proposed change and the hearing thereon shall be
published once a week for three (3) consecutive weeks, with at least one of the
publications being fifteen (15) days prior to the date set for hearing on the
proposed change and for which the notice is given. The publication shall be
published in a local paper of general circulation. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-5E-6: COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION:
Within sixty (60) days from the receipt of the proposed amendment, the
commission shall transmit its recommendation to the council. The commission may
recommend that the amendment be granted as requested, or it may recommend a
modification of the amendment requested, or it may recommend that the amendment
be denied. The commission shall ensure that any favorable recommendations for
amendments are in accordance with a comprehensive plan and established goals
and objectives. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-5E-7: DECISION BY COUNCIL:
   A.   Public Hearing: The city council, prior to adopting, revising or
rejecting the amendment to this chapter, and chapter 4 of this title, as
recommended by the commission, shall conduct at least one public hearing using
the same notice and hearing procedures as the commission. Following the council
hearing, if the council makes a material change from what was presented at the
public hearing, further notice and hearing shall be provided before the council
adopts the amendment.
   B.   Specifications: Upon granting or denying an application to amend this
chapter, and chapter 4 of this title, the council shall specify:
      1.   The regulations and standards used in evaluating the application.
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial.
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit.
   C.   Amendment: In the event the council shall approve an amendment, such
amendment shall thereafter be made a part of this chapter, and chapter 4 of
this title, upon the preparation and passage of an ordinance. (Ord. 151, 8-14-
1995)
10-5E-8: RESUBMISSION OF APPLICATION; RESTRICTIONS:
No application for a reclassification of any property which has been denied by
the city council shall be resubmitted in either substantially the same form or
with reference to substantially the same premises for the same purposes within
a period of one year from the date of such final action unless there is an
amendment in a comprehensive plan which resulted from a change in conditions
applying to the specific property under consideration. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-5E-9: DISTRICT BOUNDARY CHANGES:
Whenever a zoning district boundary change is contemplated by the city, notice
of the proposed zoning district boundary change and the hearing thereon shall
be by publication in the city official newspaper once a week for three (3)
consecutive weeks with at least one of the publications being fifteen (15) days
prior to the date set for hearing on the proposed zoning district boundary
change and for which the notice is given. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995; amd. 2011 Code)
ARTICLE F.  ANNEXATIONS
SECTION:
10-5F-1: Commission Recommendation Required
10-5F-2: Public Hearings
10-5F-3: Amendment Of Planning And Zoning Regulations
10-5F-1: COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION REQUIRED:
Prior to annexation of an unincorporated area, the city council shall request
and shall receive a recommendation from the commission on the proposed plan and
zoning ordinance changes for the unincorporated area. The council shall not
hold a public hearing, give notice of a proposed hearing, nor take action upon
the plan, amendment or repeal until recommendations have been received from the
commission. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-5F-2: PUBLIC HEARINGS:
   A.   Commission: The commission shall conduct at least one public hearing in
which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard. The hearing
shall not consider comments on annexation and shall be limited to the proposed
plan and zoning changes.
   B.   Notice:
      1.   At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of time and
place, and a description of the proposed zoning changes for the unincorporated
area shall be published in the official newspaper or paper of general
circulation within the jurisdiction of the city.
      2.   Additional notice shall be provided by mail to property owners and
residents within:
         a.   The land being considered;
         b.   Three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of the land
being considered; and
         c.   Any additional area that may be impacted by the proposed change
as determined by the commission.
      3.   The applicant requesting a zoning map amendment shall sign an
affidavit stating that he has notified in writing the required residents and
property owners as to his purpose of application, time and place of hearing,
residents served, and date of service. A copy of notification shall be attached
to the affidavit.
      4.   When notice is required to two hundred (200) or more property owners
or residents, in lieu of the mail notification, three (3) notices in the
official newspaper or paper of general circulation in the city is sufficient;
provided, that the third notice appears ten (10) days prior to the public
hearing. Following the commission's hearing, if the commission makes a material
change from what was presented at the public hearing, further notice and
hearing shall be provided before the commission forwards the proposal with its
recommendations to the council.
   C.   Council:
      1.   The council, prior to adoption, amendment or repeal of the plan or
zoning ordinance, shall conduct at least one public hearing using the same
notice and hearing procedures as the commission.
      2.   Following the hearing of the council, if the council makes a
material change in the plan or zone, further notice and hearing shall be
provided before the council adopts the plan or zone. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-5F-3: AMENDMENT OF PLANNING AND ZONING REGULATIONS:
Concurrently or immediately following the adoption of an ordinance of
annexation, the city council shall amend the planning and zoning regulations as
shall be found to be necessary. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
CHAPTER 6
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A.  GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-6A-1: Statutory Authority
10-6A-2: Purpose
10-6A-3: Jurisdiction
10-6A-4: Compliance Required
10-6A-5: Administration
10-6A-1: STATUTORY AUTHORITY:
This chapter, including articles A through E, is authorized by Idaho Code title
50, chapter 13, and the Idaho constitution article XII, section 2, as amended
or subsequently codified. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-6A-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the regulations set out in this chapter, including articles A
through E, is to promote the public health, safety and general welfare, and to
provide for:
   A.   The harmonious development of the area.
   B.   The coordination of streets and roadways within the subdivision with
other existing or planned streets and roads.
   C.   Adequate open space for travel, light, air and recreation.
   D.   Adequate transportation, water drainage and sanitary facilities.
   E.   The avoidance of scattered subdivision of land that would result in
either of the following:
      1.   The lack of water supply, sewer service, drainage, transportation or
other public services; and
      2.   The unnecessary imposition of an excessive expenditure of the public
funds for the supply of such services.
   F.   The requirements as to the extent and the manner in which:
      1.   Roads shall be created and improved; and
      2.   Water and sewer and other utility mains, piping connections or other
facilities shall be installed.
   G.   The manner and form of making and filing of any plat.
   H.   The administration of these regulations by defining the powers and
duties of approval authorities. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-6A-3: JURISDICTION:
This chapter shall apply to the subdividing of land within the corporate limits
of the city including the property within one mile outside the corporate limits
thereof. They shall also apply to the "area of impact" as established by
agreement between the city and county in conformance with state law. (Ord. 151,
8-14-1995)
10-6A-4: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
All subdivisions as defined in chapter 3 of this title shall be submitted for
approval by the city council and shall comply with the provisions of this
chapter. This chapter shall supplement all other regulations, and where at
variance with other laws, regulations, ordinances or resolutions, the more
restrictive requirements shall apply. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-6A-5: ADMINISTRATION:
The administration of this chapter shall be conducted by the administrator. The
administrator shall be appointed by the mayor and the appointment shall be
ratified by the city council. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995; amd. 2011 Code)
ARTICLE B.  APPLICATION PROCEDURES
SECTION:
10-6B-1: Creating Subdivision; Approval Required
10-6B-2: Preapplication
10-6B-3: Subdivision Application; Contents
10-6B-4: Preliminary Plats; Requirements; Fee
10-6B-5: Combining Preliminary And Final Plats
10-6B-6: Receipt Of Application; Review And Recommendation
10-6B-7: Notification Of Property Owners
10-6B-8: Action By Commission
10-6B-9: Action On Combined Preliminary And Final Plat
10-6B-10: Approval; Time Limit
10-6B-11: Final Plats
10-6B-1: CREATING SUBDIVISION; APPROVAL REQUIRED:
Any person desiring to create a "subdivision" as defined in chapter 3 of this
title shall submit all necessary applications to the administrator on forms as
provided by the city. No final plat shall be filed with the county recorder or
improvements made on the property until the plat has been acted upon by the
planning and zoning commission as approved by the city council. No lots shall
be sold until the plat has been recorded in the office of the county recorder.
(Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-6B-2: PREAPPLICATION:
   A.   Sketch Plan; Fee:
      1.   The subdivider shall submit a preapplication to enable the
administrator to review and comment on the proposed subdivision. The
preapplication shall include at least one copy of a sketch plan.
      2.   The sketch plan shall include the entire developmental scheme of the
proposed subdivision, in schematic form and include the following:
         a.   The general layout and approximate dimensions of streets, blocks
and lots in sketch form;
         b.   The existing conditions and characteristics of the land on and
adjacent to the proposed subdivision site; and
         c.   The areas set aside for schools, parks and other public
facilities.
      3.   No fee is required.
   B.   Evaluation By Administrator: The administrator shall notify the
subdivider within fifteen (15) days from the date of receiving an acceptable
preapplication as to the general conformance or nonconformance of the proposal
with this chapter, and shall provide the necessary form and checklists, as well
as the additional following considerations:
      1.   Compliance of the proposed development with existing local or state
policies, goals and objectives or comprehensive plans.
      2.   Determination if additional special permits or ordinance conflicts,
such as rezone, special development permit or variance are needed and the
manner of coordinating such permits.
      3.   Consideration of any unique environmental features or hazard
concerns that may be directly or indirectly associated with the subject
property, such as areas that have been designated as areas of critical
environmental concern, unique plant or animal life and floodplains.
      4.   Consideration of other local and state agencies that the subdivider
should contact before preparing a preliminary plat. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-6B-3: SUBDIVISION APPLICATION; CONTENTS:
   A.   Filing: The subdivider shall file with the administrator a complete
subdivision application form and preliminary plat data as required in this
chapter.
   B.   Contents: The contents of the preliminary plat and related information
shall be in such a form as stipulated by the commission; however, additional
maps or data as deemed necessary by the administrator may also be required.
   C.   Required Information: The subdivider shall submit to the administrator
at least the following:
      1.   Ten (10) copies of the preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision,
drawn in accordance with the requirements stated in this article. Each copy of
the preliminary plat shall be on good quality paper, shall be drawn to a scale
of not less than one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'), shall show the
drafting date and a north arrow.
      2.   A written application requesting approval of the preliminary plat.
      3.   Appropriate information that sufficiently details the proposed
development with any special development area, such as hillside, planned unit
development, floodplain, cemetery, mobile home, large scale development,
hazardous and unique areas of development. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-6B-4: PRELIMINARY PLATS; REQUIREMENTS; FEE:
   A.   Required Information: The following shall be shown on the preliminary
plat or shall be submitted separately together with any other pertinent
information requested by the administrator:
      1.   The name of the proposed subdivision, which does not duplicate the
name of any other subdivision in Twin Falls County.
      2.   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the subdividers, the
engineer or surveyor who prepared the plat, and any other professional persons
involved in the subdivision.
      3.   The names and addresses of all surrounding property owners both
adjacent to and beyond any public thoroughfares from the subject property on
record in the county assessor's office.
      4.   The legal description of the subdivision by section, township and
range.
      5.   A statement of the intended use of the proposed subdivision (such as
residential, single-family, two-family and multiple- family housing,
commercial, industrial, recreational or agricultural) and showing of any sites
proposed for parks, playgrounds, schools, churches or other public uses.
      6.   A map of the entire area scheduled for development if the proposed
subdivision is a portion of a larger holding intended for subsequent
development.
      7.   A vicinity map showing the relationship of the proposed plat to the
surrounding area covering at least a four (4) square mile area.
      8.   The land use and existing zoning of the proposed subdivision and the
adjacent land.
      9.   Existing streets, street names, rights of way and roadway widths,
including adjoining streets or roadways, along with type of surface and the
existence of any curb, gutter and/or sidewalks.
      10.   Approximate location and length of the boundary lines of each lot,
parcel or site and the proposed lot and block numbers. Approximate acreage
enclosed by subdivision.
      11.   Contour lines, shown at five foot (5') intervals where land slope
is greater than twenty percent (20%) and at two foot (2') intervals where land
slope is twenty percent (20%) or less, referenced to an established benchmark
of the city vertical control system, including its location and elevation.
      12.   A site report as required by the appropriate health district where
individual wells or septic tanks are proposed.
      13.   Location, size and direction of flow of all existing utilities,
including, but not limited to, storm and sanitary sewers, irrigation laterals,
ditches, drainages, bridges, culverts, water mains, fire hydrants, gas lines,
power, telephone and streetlights. If utilities are not on or adjacent to the
property, indicate direction and distance to nearest ones that can serve the
subdivision.
      14.   A copy of any proposed restrictive covenants and/or deed
restrictions.
      15.   Any dedications to the public and/or easements, both public and
private, together with a statement of location, dimensions and purpose of such
on both the subject property and surrounding properties.
      16.   Any additional required information for special developments as
specified in this chapter.
      17.   A statement as to whether or not any variance will be requested
with respect to any provision of this title, describing the particular
provision, the variance requested, and the reasons therefor.
      18.   Location, right of way width and name of all public or private
trafficways, the location, right of way width and use of any proposed public or
private pedestrianways or special ways, and a statement of intended
improvements to be made thereto.
      19.   A statement as to what improvements will be made to existing
utilities and what other on site improvements will be made.
      20.   Approximate lot corner and easement locations of all adjacent
subdivisions.
      21.   Approximate location, size and direction of flow of all drainage,
irrigation, sewer and water lines of the preliminary plat to the administrator.
   B.   Fee: The amount of the fee shall be established by resolution of the
city council. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-6B-5: COMBINING PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLATS:
   A.   Conditions Necessary: The applicant may request that the subdivision
application be processed as both a preliminary and final plat if all the
following exist:
      1.   The proposed subdivision does not exceed ten (10) lots;
      2.   No new street dedication or street widenings are involved;
      3.   No major special development considerations are involved, such as
development in a floodplain or a hillside development; and
      4.   All required information for both preliminary and final plat is
complete and in an acceptable form.
   B.   Commission Action: A request to combine both preliminary plat and final
plat into one application shall be acted upon by the commission after receiving
a recommendation by the administrator. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-6B-6: RECEIPT OF APPLICATION; REVIEW AND RECOMMENDATION:
   A.   Certify Completeness Of Application: Upon receipt of the preliminary
plat, and all other required data as provided for in this article, the
administrator shall certify the application as complete and shall affix the
date of the application acceptance thereon. He shall thereafter place the
preliminary plat on the agenda for consideration at the next regular meeting of
the commission. One copy of the preliminary plat shall be delivered by the
subdivider to each member of the commission at least five (5) days prior to the
meeting for plat consideration.
   B.   Refer Plat And Application To Agencies: The administrator shall refer
the preliminary plat and application to as many agencies as deemed necessary.
Such agencies may include the following:
      1.   Other governing bodies having joint jurisdiction;
      2.   The appropriate utility companies, irrigation companies or districts
and drainage districts;
      3.   The superintendent of the school district; and
      4.   Other agencies having an interest in the proposed subdivision.
   C.   Expiration Of Time Allowance: Upon expiration of the time allowance for
department and agency review, the administrator shall prepare a recommendation
to the commission. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-6B-7: NOTIFICATION OF PROPERTY OWNERS:
The subdivider shall certify to the administrator that he has notified all
adjoining property owners of the proposed subdivision. Such written
notification shall be mailed at least ten (10) days prior to the commission
meeting. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-6B-8: ACTION BY COMMISSION:
   A.   Review: The commission shall review the preliminary plat, comments from
the concerned persons and agencies and the report from the administrator to
arrive at a decision on the preliminary plat.
   B.   Considerations: In determining the acceptance of a proposed
subdivision, the commission shall consider the objectives of this chapter, and
at least the following:
      1.   The conformance of the subdivision with a comprehensive plan;
      2.   The availability of public services to accommodate the proposed
development;
      3.   The continuity of the proposed development with the capital
improvement program;
      4.   The public financial capability of supporting services for the
proposed development; and
      5.   The other health, safety or environmental problems that may be
brought to the commission's attention.
   C.   Commission Action: The commission may approve, conditionally approve,
disapprove or table for additional information when acting on the preliminary
plat. If tabled, approval or disapproval shall occur at the regular meeting
following the meeting at which the plat is first considered by the commission.
   D.   Written Statement Of Decision: The action and the reasons for such
action shall be stated in writing by the administrator and forwarded to the
applicant. The administrator shall also forward a statement of the action taken
and the reasons for such action together with a copy of the preliminary plat to
the city council for its information and record.
   E.   Specifications For Granting Or Denial: Upon granting or denying a
preliminary plat, the commission shall specify:
      1.   The regulations and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain plat
approval. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-6B-9: ACTION ON COMBINED PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLAT:
If the commission's conclusion is favorable to the subdivider's request for the
subdivision to be considered as both a preliminary plat and final subdivision,
then a recommendation shall be forwarded to the city council in the same manner
as specified in this article for a final plat. The commission may recommend
that the combined application be approved, approved conditionally or
disapproved. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-6B-10: APPROVAL; TIME LIMIT:
   A.   Time Limit: Failure to file and obtain the certification of the
acceptance of the final plat application by the administrator within one year
after action by the commission shall cause all approvals of the preliminary
plat to be null and void, unless an extension of time is applied for by the
subdivider and granted by the commission.
   B.   Development In Contiguous Segments: In the event that the development
of the preliminary plat is made in successive contiguous segments in an orderly
and reasonable manner, and conforms substantially to the approved preliminary
plat, such segments, if submitted within successive intervals of one year, may
be considered for final approval without resubmission for preliminary plat
approval. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-6B-11: FINAL PLATS:
   A.   Preparation And Submittal: After the approval or conditional approval
of the preliminary plat, the subdivider may cause the total parcel, or any part
thereof, to be surveyed, and a final plat prepared in accordance with the
approved preliminary plat. The subdivider shall submit to the administrator
three (3) copies of the final plat.
   B.   Contents:
      1.   The final plat shall include and be in compliance with all items
required under title 50, chapter 13 of the Idaho Code and shall be drawn at
such a scale and contain lettering of such size as to enable the same to be
placed on one sheet of eighteen inch by twenty four inch (18" x 24") drawing
paper, with no part of the drawing nearer to the edge than one inch (1"). The
reverse of the sheet shall not be used for any portion of the drawing, but may
contain written matter as to the drawing, as to dedications, certifications and
other information. If, because of the size or complexity, required information
cannot be shown, additional sheets may be used, provided they conform to this
article.
      2.   The final plat shall include at least the following:
         a.   A written application for approval of such final plat as
stipulated by the commission;
         b.   Proof of current ownership of the real property included in the
proposed final plat;
         c.   Such other information as the administrator or commission may
deem necessary to establish whether or not all proper parties have signed and/
or approved the final plat;
         d.   Conformance with the approved primary plat and meeting all
requirements or conditions thereof;
         e.   Conformance with all requirements and provisions of this chapter;
         f.   Acceptable engineering practices and local standards established
by the administrator.
   C.   Application; Fees: At the time of submission of an application for a
final plat, a fee as established by resolution of the city council shall be
paid.
   D.   Review By Administrator:
      1.   Upon receipt of the final plat and compliance with all other
requirements as provided for in this chapter, the administrator shall certify
the application as complete and shall affix the date of acceptance thereon.
      2.   The administrator shall review the final plat for compliance with
the approved or conditionally approved preliminary plat. If the administrator
determines that there is substantial difference in the final plat than that
which was approved as a preliminary plat or that there are conditions which
have not been met, the administrator may require that the final plat be
submitted to the commission in the same manner as required in the preliminary
plat process.
      3.   Upon the determination that the final plat is in compliance with the
preliminary plat and all conditional requirements have been met, the
administrator shall place the final plat on the city council agenda at the next
regular meeting.
   E.   Review By Other Agencies:
      1.   The administrator may transmit one copy of the final plat, or other
documents submitted, for review and recommendation to the departments and the
agencies as he deems necessary to ensure compliance with the preliminary
approval and/or conditions of the preliminary approval.
      2.   Such agency review shall also include the construction standards of
improvements, compliance with health standards, the cost estimate for all
improvements and the legal review of the performance bond.
   F.   Application; Decision By Council:
      1.   The council, at its next meeting following receipt of the
administrator's report, shall consider the commission's findings and comments
from concerned persons and agencies to arrive at a decision on the final plat.
The council shall approve, approve conditionally, disapprove or table the final
plat for additional information.
      2.   A copy of the approved plat shall be filed with the administrator.
      3.   Upon granting or denying the final plat, the council shall specify:
         a.   The regulations and standards used in evaluating the application;
         b.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
         c.   The action, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain
approval.
   G.   Plans And Specifications; Fees:
      1.   Prior to recording the final subdivision plat, the subdivider shall
submit to the administrator checked copies of the final plans and
specifications for streets, water, sewer, a master utility plan and other
public improvements to be constructed.
      2.   All plans and specifications shall have sufficient detail, written
information, vertical and horizontal dimensions to accurately locate the
proposed improvements in the field and determine their relationship to other
improvements. Standards shall be established by the administrator.
      3.   At the time of submittal of plans and specifications, a fee to
defray costs and expenses of plan checking as provided for by resolution of the
city council shall be paid.
   H.   Approval; Time Limit: The final plat shall be filed with the county
recorder within one year after written approval by the council, otherwise such
approval shall become null and void unless, prior to the expiration date, an
extension of time is applied for by the subdivider and granted by the council.
   I.   Recording Final Plat; Prerequisites: Upon approval of the final plat by
the council, the subdivider's prepayment of recording fees, posting of surety
bond or other acceptable guarantee and the inclusion of the following
signatures on the final plat, the administrator shall submit the final plat to
the county recorder for recording:
      1.   Certification and signature of the city council verifying that the
subdivision has been approved;
      2.   Certification and signature of the city clerk, if required, and the
city engineer verifying that the subdivision meets the city requirements and
has been approved by the council; and
      3.   Certification of the sanitation restrictions on the face of the plat
per Idaho Code section 50-1326. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
ARTICLE C.  DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-6C-1: Compliance Required
10-6C-2: Street, Sidewalk, Curb And Gutter Design And Construction Standards
10-6C-3: Streets And Alleys
10-6C-4: Intersections
10-6C-5: Pedestrian Walkways
10-6C-6: Utility And Drainageway Easements
10-6C-7: Lots
10-6C-8: Planting And Reserve Strips
10-6C-9: Public Sites And Open Spaces
10-6C-10: Restrictive Covenants
10-6C-11: Right Of Way Requirements
10-6C-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
All plats submitted pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, and all
subdivisions, improvements and facilities done, constructed or made in
accordance with these provisions shall comply with the minimum design standards
set forth in this chapter; provided, however, that any higher standards adopted
by any highway district, state highway department or health agency shall
prevail over those set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-6C-2: STREET, SIDEWALK, CURB AND GUTTER DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Application Of Provisions: Pursuant to section
10-6C-3 of this article, the following design and construction standards shall
apply to all streets, alleys, curbs, gutters, driveways and sidewalks
constructed within the jurisdiction of the city.
      1.   Adequate Access: No building shall be constructed or erected on a
lot in a zoning district unless adequate access to a fifty foot (50') wide
minimum standard all weather public trafficway is provided. Said access may be
a private drive, provided such drive conforms to following chart:
 
      Private Driveway Length
Width 100'     150'     200'     250'     300'
15'   5 units  4 units  n/a      n/a      n/a
20'   8 units  7 units  6 units  n/a      n/a
25'   10 units 10 units 8 units  8 units  n/a
30'   12 units 12 units 12 units 12 units 12 units
 
         a.   In commercial and manufacturing zoning districts, a private drive
may not exceed three hundred feet (300') in length, must have a width of
fifteen feet (15') for one-way traffic and twenty five feet (25') for two-way
traffic and may not serve a total building area of over fifty thousand (50,000)
square feet.
         b.   The city council may approve additional driveway length in excess
of three hundred feet (300') in cases where isolated parcels of land cannot be
developed with minimum fifty foot (50') dedicated right of way.
         c.   Such a private drive shall be surfaced with an all weather
material. No zoning subdistrict will be allowed that does not have direct
access to a fifty foot (50') wide minimum standard all weather paved public
trafficway.
      2.   Curb, Gutter And Sidewalk:
         a.   New curb, gutter and sidewalk shall be constructed at the expense
of the property owner with, and at the same time as, all new construction or
modification of existing buildings in accordance with city standards on all
streets, within and adjacent to the development, and in all zoning districts
except the agricultural district, for all land uses, except where the
commission determines that, due to the location or character of the
development, new curbs, gutters and/or sidewalks need not be constructed.
         b.   The city engineer may defer the construction of required curb,
gutter and/or sidewalk until other curb, gutter and/or sidewalk is constructed
adjacent to other lands in the neighborhood under any one or more of the
following conditions:
            (1)   If the total length of existing curb-gutter on both sides of
the street in an existing development plus the length of the property in
question is less than forty percent (40%) of the total property length adjacent
to a standard block unless the curb-gutter will connect to an existing curb-
gutter section. The standard block shall be the distance between two (2)
intersecting streets or four hundred feet (400'), whichever is less. The same
criteria shall apply separately to sidewalks. All curb-gutter to be considered
as existing shall be acceptable line and grade.
            (2)   If another governmental agency having jurisdiction over a
particular street requests the curb-gutter be deferred.
            (3)   If existing curb, gutter and/or sidewalk is in good repair
and to an acceptable line and grade which conforms to the line and grade of
other curb, gutter and/or sidewalk in the standard block, it may be retained.
         c.   Curb, gutter and sidewalk shall not be required or allowed to be
constructed or may be deferred if, in the opinion of the city engineer, the
improvement would create a traffic hazard or an unusual drainage problem.
      3.   Construction Standards For Vertical And Rolled Curb:
         a.   Both vertical and rolled curb shall be allowed in the city in
accordance with the provisions of this code and in conformance with the
standard construction design and specification for the same, as are on file in
the city engineer's office. The most recent construction design and
specifications shall prevail.
         b.   Standard detail C-2 (4 inch rolled curb) shall be used only when
the following applicable conditions are met:
            (1)   On local residential streets in new development, when the top
of curb to top of curb street drainage capacity is not exceeded by the peak
flow generated during a fifty (50) year twenty four (24) hour storm. It shall
be the developer's engineering consultant's responsibility to compile and
submit drainage calculations to the city for review and approval.
            (2)   On residential cul-de-sac streets in new developments which
meet the drainage requirements set forth in subsection A3b(1) of this section.
            (3)   On local residential streets in existing developments where
no curb or gutter exists in the block under consideration and a study by the
city engineering department indicates that the proposed installation will meet
the drainage requirements set forth in subsection A1 of this section.
            (4)   In all cases, four inch (4") rolled curb shall be
transaudient into six inch (6") vertical curb around all curb returns.
      4.   Public Improvement Requirements: In areas where two (2) or more
zoning districts or subdistricts abut, and said zoning districts or
subdistricts have different public improvement requirements, the council may
impose the least restrictive requirement if the council finds that imposition
of the least restrictive requirements will further the policies and purposes
described in this chapter.
   B.   Exemption: The council may exempt a developer from any or all of the
above requirements where the council determines that, due to the location or
character of the development or improvement, new streets, curbs, gutters and/or
sidewalks need not be constructed or improved. (Ord. 156, 10-9-1996)
10-6C-3: STREETS AND ALLEYS:
   A.   Dedication To Public Use: Within a proposed subdivision, arterial and
collector streets, as shown on a comprehensive plan, shall be dedicated to the
public in all cases; in general, all other streets shall also be dedicated to
public use.
   B.   Location Requirements: Street and road location shall conform to the
following:
      1.   All street locations shall conform to the city master street plan
where streets may, for aesthetic reasons, curve and wind in accordance with
these standards, but such trafficways shall maintain a grid type pattern
approximately one-fourth (1/4) of a mile square.
      2.   Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the arrangement of streets
in new subdivisions shall be such that streets extend to the boundary line of
the tract to make provisions for the future extension of such streets into
adjacent areas. A vehicular nonaccess reserve strip may be required and held in
public ownership. Temporary cul-de-sacs shall be required.
      3.   Streets shall be arranged in proper relation to topography so as to
result in usable lots, safe streets and acceptable gradients.
      4.   Streets shall comply with the standards of the Twin Falls highway
district.
   C.   Alleys, Cul-De-Sacs, Half Streets And Private Streets:
      1.   Alleys shall be provided in multiple dwelling or commercial
subdivisions unless other provisions are made for service access and off street
loading and parking. Dead end alleys shall be prohibited in all cases.
      2.   Cul-de-sac streets shall not be more than six hundred feet (600') in
length and shall terminate with an adequate turnaround having a minimum radius
of fifty feet (50') for right of way.
      3.   Half streets are prohibited; except, where unusual circumstances
make such necessary to the reasonable development of a tract, special
justification shall be presented for variance request to the commission.
Whenever a tract to be divided borders on an existing half or partial street,
the other part of the street shall be dedicated within such tract. A vehicular
nonaccess reserve street may be required and held in public ownership.
      4.   Private streets and roads are prohibited within a subdivision, but
may be allowed in subdistricts, provided the private streets conform to city
standard drawing S-5.
   D.   Width, Grade And Alignment Specifications:
      1.   Street and road right of way widths shall conform to the adopted
major street plan or comprehensive plan and the rules of the state department
of highways and the highway district having jurisdiction, minimum right of way
standards shall be in accordance with section
10-6C-11 of this article.
      2.   Street grades shall not exceed ten percent (10%) on either local or
collector streets, and six percent (6%) for arterial streets. Minimum street
grades shall be four-tenths percent (0.4%).
      3.   Street alignment shall be as follows:
         a.   Horizontal alignment shall be in accordance with section
10-6C-11 of this article.
         b.   Vertical alignment shall be as follows: Minimum stopping sight
distances shall be two hundred feet (200') for minor streets and designed in
accordance with the designated speed for collector and arterial streets.
   E.   Naming Restrictions: The naming of streets shall conform to the
following:
      1.   Street names shall not duplicate any existing name within the limits
of this chapter except where a new street is a continuation of an existing
street. Street names, if spelled differently but sound the same, shall not be
used.
      2.   All new streets shall be named as follows:
         a.   Streets having a predominantly north-south direction shall be
named "street" or "way".
         b.   Streets having a predominantly east-west direction shall be named
"avenue" or "road".
         c.   Meandering streets shall be named "drive", "lane", "path" or
"trail" and cul-de-sacs shall be named "circle", "court" and "place". (Ord.
151, 8-14-1995)
10-6C-4: INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Minimum Angle: Streets shall intersect at ninety degrees (90°) or as
closely thereto as possible, and in no case shall streets intersect at less
than seventy degrees (70°).
   B.   Sight Triangle: Minimum clear sight distance at all minor street
intersections shall permit vehicles to be visible to the driver of another
vehicle when each is one hundred feet (100') from the center of the
intersection.
   C.   Number Of Streets: No more than two (2) streets shall cross at any one
intersection.
   D.   "T" Intersections: "T" intersections may be used wherever such design
will not restrict the free movement of traffic.
   E.   Centerline Offset: Street centerlines shall be offset by a distance of
at least one hundred twenty five feet (125').
   F.   Vertical Alignment: A nearly flat grade with appropriate drainage
slopes is desirable within intersections. This flat section shall be extended a
minimum of one hundred feet (100') each way from the intersection. An allowance
of two percent (2%) maximum intersection grade in rolling terrain, and four
percent (4%) in hilly terrain will be permitted. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-6C-5: PEDESTRIAN WALKWAYS:
Right of way for pedestrian walkways in the middle of long blocks may be
required where necessary to obtain convenient pedestrian circulation to
schools, parks or shopping areas; the pedestrian easement shall be in
accordance with section
10-6C-11 of this article. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-6C-6: UTILITY AND DRAINAGEWAY EASEMENTS:
Unobstructed utility easements shall be provided along front lot lines, rear
lot lines and side lot lines when deemed necessary; total easement width shall
be in accordance with section
10-6C-11 of this article. Unobstructed drainageway easements shall be provided
as required by the city council. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-6C-7: LOTS:
Lots shall conform to the following:
   A.   The lot width, depth and total area shall not be less than the
requirements of any applicable zoning district.
   B.   Where parcels of land are subdivided into unusually large lots (such as
when large lots are approved for septic tanks), the parcels shall be divided,
where feasible, so as to allow for future resubdividing into smaller parcels.
Lot arrangements shall allow for the ultimate extension of adjacent streets
through the middle of wide blocks. Whenever such future subdividing or lot
splitting is contemplated, the plan thereof shall be approved by the commission
prior to the taking of such action.
   C.   Where individual septic tanks have been authorized, sufficient area
shall be provided for a replacement sewage disposal area. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-6C-8: PLANTING AND RESERVE STRIPS:
Planting strips and reserve strips shall conform to the following:
   A.   Planting strips are required to be placed next to incompatible features
such as highways, railroads, commercial or industrial uses to screen the view
from residential properties. Such screening shall be a minimum of twenty feet
(20') wide, and shall not be a part of the normal street right of way or
utility easement.
   B.   A one foot (1') reserve may be required to be placed along half streets
which are within the subdivision boundaries and shall be deeded in fee simple
to the city for future street widening.
   C.   Privately held reserve strips controlling access to streets are
prohibited. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-6C-9: PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES:
Public sites and open spaces shall conform to the following:
   A.   Public Uses: Where it is determined that a proposed park, playground,
school or other public use as shown on the future acquisition map, as
authorized in Idaho Code section 67-6517, is located in whole or in part within
a proposed subdivision, the commission shall notify the appropriate public
safety agency concerning the land proposed to be acquired. Within thirty (30)
days of the date of notice, the public agency may request the governing body to
suspend consideration on the subdivision for sixty (60) days. If an agreement
is not reached within sixty (60) days, the commission shall resume
consideration of the subdivision.
   B.   Natural Features: Existing natural features which add value to
residential development and enhance the attractiveness of the community such as
streets, watercourses, historic spots and similar irreplaceable assets shall be
preserved in the design of the subdivision. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-6C-10: RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS:
Restrictive covenants may be prepared and recorded as part of a subdivision.
This is done to provide protection to future property owners by establishing
higher standards than required under other regulations. The provisions within
protective covenants are enforceable through civil action, and local
governments shall not be required to enforce these provisions. (Ord. 151, 8-14-
1995)
10-6C-11: RIGHT OF WAY REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum right of way, centerline radius, and cul-de-sac requirements are as
set out in the following table:
   RIGHT OF WAY REQUIREMENTS
Minimum Right Of Way (In Feet)
Type Of Public Way Residential Commercial Manufacturing
Minimum Right Of Way (In Feet)
Type Of Public Way  Residential Commercial Manufacturing
Trafficways:
   Alley                                20
   Service road  25          25         Not allowed
   One-way road  25          30         30
   Local street  50          60         60
   Collector stre64          64         64
   Arterial stree80          80         80
Special ways:
   Pedestrian    10          10         10
   Bicycle       15          15         15
   Equestrian    20          30         20
Easements:
   Utility       15          15         15
   Access        10          10         15
Minimum Centerline Radius (In Feet)
Type Of Public Way  Residential Commercial Manufacturing
Trafficways:
   Alley                                60
   Service road  50          50         Not allowed
   One-way road  50          50         60
   Local street  100         150        200
   Collector stre200         250        300
   Arterial stree500         500        500
Special ways:
   All           25          25         25
Easements:
   All           0           0          0
Minimum Cul-De-Sac (In Feet)
Type Of Public Way  Residential Commercial Manufacturing
Trafficways:
   All           100         100        100
 
(Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
ARTICLE D.  IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-6D-1: Construction Plans Required
10-6D-2: Required Public Improvements; Specifications
10-6D-3: Financial Guarantee Of Performance
10-6D-4: Financial Guarantees For Approval Of Final Plat
10-6D-5: Conformance To Plans; Inspection
10-6D-6: Failure To Complete Work; Action By Council
10-6D-1: CONSTRUCTION PLANS REQUIRED:
It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider of every proposed subdivision
to have prepared by a registered engineer, a complete set of construction
plans, including profiles, cross sections, specifications and other supporting
data, for all required public streets, utilities and other facilities. Such
construction plans shall be based on preliminary plans which have been approved
with the preliminary plat, and shall be prepared in conjunction with the final
plat. Construction plans are subject to approval by the responsible public
agencies. All construction plans shall be prepared in accordance with the
public agencies' standards or specifications. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-6D-2: REQUIRED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS; SPECIFICATIONS:
Every subdivider shall be required to install the following public and other
improvements in accordance with the following conditions and specifications:
   A.   Monuments: Monuments shall be set in accordance with Idaho Code section
50-1303.
   B.   Streets And Alleys: All streets and alleys shall be constructed in
accordance with the standards and specifications adopted by the city council.
   C.   Curbs And Gutters: Curbs and gutters shall be constructed on all
streets and service roads. All construction shall be in accordance with the
standards and specifications adopted by the city council.
   D.   Bicycle Pathways: A bicycle pathway shall be provided within all
subdivisions, as part of the public right of way or separate easement, as may
be specified in an overall bicycle plan as adopted by the city council.
   E.   Installation Of Public Utilities: Underground utilities shall be
required in all new subdivisions.
   F.   Driveways: All driveway openings in curbs shall be as specified by the
administration, highway district or state highway department.
   G.   Storm Drainage: An adequate storm drainage system is required in all
subdivisions. The requirements for each particular subdivision shall be
established by the city council. Construction shall follow the specifications
and procedures established by the city council.
   H.   Public Water Supply And Sewer Systems: All new public water supply or
sewer systems shall be an extension of an existing public system.
   I.   Fire Hydrants And Water Mains: Adequate fire protection is required in
accordance with standards established by the city engineer.
   J.   Street Name Signs: Street name signs shall be installed in the
appropriate locations at each street intersection in accordance with the local
standards. Cost of street signs shall be the responsibility of the city.
   K.   Sidewalks And Pedestrian Walkways: Sidewalks are required on both sides
of the street; except that, where the average width of lots, as measured at the
street frontage line or at the building setback line, is over two hundred ten
feet (210'), sidewalks on only one side of the street may be allowed.
Pedestrian walkways, when required, shall have easements at least ten feet
(10') in width and include a paved walk at least five feet (5') in width.
Sidewalks and crosswalks shall be constructed in accordance with the standards
and specifications as adopted by the city council.
   L.   Greenbelt: Greenbelts or landscaping or screening may be required for
the protection of residential properties from adjacent major arterial streets,
waterways, railroad rights of way or other features. Subdivision plats shall
show the location of any greenbelt areas.
   M.   Street Lighting: Streetlights are required to be installed at
intersections throughout the subdivision. Cost of conventional wood pole,
mercury vapor luminaire and overhead service shall be the responsibility of the
city. Other types or configuration for lighting shall be approved by the city
engineer and the cost shall be borne by the subdivider. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-6D-3: FINANCIAL GUARANTEE OF PERFORMANCE:
In lieu of the actual installation of required public improvements before the
recording of the final plat, the city council may permit the subdivider to
provide a financial guarantee of performance in one or a combination of the
arrangements set out in subsections A and B of this section for those
requirements which are over and beyond the requirements of any other agency
responsible for the administration, operation and maintenance of the applicable
public improvement.
   A.   Surety Bond:
      1.   The bond shall accrue to the city covering construction, operation
and maintenance of the specific public improvement.
      2.   The bond shall be in an amount equal to one hundred percent (100%)
of the total estimated cost for completing construction of the specific public
improvements as estimated by the developer's consulting engineer and approved
by the city engineer.
      3.   The term length in which the bond is in force, for the duration of
that phase of the project, shall be for a period to be specified by the council
for the specific public improvement.
      4.   The bond shall be with a surety company authorized to do business in
the state, acceptable to the city council.
   B.   Cash Deposit, Certified Check, Negotiable Bond Or Irrevocable Bank
Letter Of Credit:
      1.   A cash deposit, certified check, negotiable bond or an irrevocable
bank letter of credit or such surety acceptable by the city council shall be
deposited with an escrow agent or trust company.
      2.   The dollar value of the cash deposit, certified check, negotiable
bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be equal to one hundred percent
(100%) of the estimated cost of construction for the specific public
improvement, as estimated by the developer's consulting engineer and approved
by the city engineer.
      3.   The escrow time for the cash deposit, certified check, negotiable
bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be until completed and accepted
by the city engineer.
      4.   In the case of cash deposits or certified checks, an agreement
between the city council and the subdivider may provide for progressive payment
of the cash deposit or reduction of the certified check, negotiable bond or
irrevocable bank letter of credit, to the extent of the cost of the completed
portion of the public improvement, in accordance with a previously entered into
agreement. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-6D-4: FINANCIAL GUARANTEES FOR APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAT:
With respect to financial guarantees, the approval of all final subdivision
plats shall be conditioned on the accomplishment of the following:
   A.   The construction of improvements required by this chapter shall have
been completed by the subdivider and approved by the city engineer.
   B.   Surety acceptable to the city council shall have been filed in the form
of a cash deposit, certified check, negotiable bond or irrevocable bank letter
of credit. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-6D-5: CONFORMANCE TO PLANS; INSPECTION:
Before approving a final plat and construction plans and specifications for
public improvements, an agreement between the subdivider and the city council
shall be made to provide for checking or inspecting the construction and its
conformity to the submitted plans. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-6D-6: FAILURE TO COMPLETE WORK; ACTION BY COUNCIL:
In the event the subdivider shall, in any case, fail to complete such work
within the period of time as required by the conditions of the guarantee for
the completion of public improvements, it shall be the responsibility of the
city council to proceed to have such work completed. In order to accomplish
this, the council shall reimburse itself for the cost and expense thereof by
appropriating the cash deposit, certified check, irrevocable bank letter of
credit, or negotiable bond which the subdivider may have deposited in lieu of a
surety bond, or may take such steps as may be necessary to require performance
by the bonding or surety company, and as included in a written agreement
between the council and the subdivider. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
ARTICLE E.  VACATIONS AND DEDICATIONS
SECTION:
10-6E-1: Vacation Petition Required
10-6E-2: Contents Of Petition
10-6E-3: Vacation Petition Received; Hearing Scheduled
10-6E-4: Public Hearing By Commission
10-6E-5: Commission Recommendation
10-6E-6: Decision By Council
10-6E-7: Dedication Petition; Commission Action
10-6E-8: Dedication Petition; Acceptance; Prerequisites
10-6E-1: VACATION PETITION REQUIRED:
Any property owner desiring to vacate an existing subdivision, plat or part
thereof, or within one mile of the boundaries of the city, or within the city
"area of impact", a public right of way or easement, or desiring to dedicate a
street right of way or easement shall complete and file a petition with the
administrator. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-6E-2: CONTENTS OF PETITION:
The petition for vacation shall set forth the particular circumstances of the
request to vacate, contain a legal description of the platted area or property
to be vacated and the names of the persons affected thereby. In the case where
lots have been sold in a platted area, the petition should include an
acknowledged written statement from each of the owners of the aforesaid sold
lots indicating whether or not they are in agreement with the proposed
vacation. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-6E-3: VACATION PETITION RECEIVED; HEARING SCHEDULED:
Upon receipt of the completed petition, the administrator shall affix the date
of petition acceptance thereon. The administration shall place the petition on
the agenda for consideration at the next regular meeting of the commission.
(Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-6E-4: PUBLIC HEARING BY COMMISSION:
The commission shall hold a public hearing and make recommendations on all
petitions for vacation of an existing subdivision, plat or part thereof inside
or within one mile of the boundaries of the city or within the city "area of
impact", and notice of the public hearing shall be given, by certified mail
with return receipt, at least ten (10) days prior to the date of the public
hearing to all property owners within three hundred feet (300') of the
boundaries of the area described in the petition. Such notice of public hearing
shall also be published once a week for two (2) consecutive weeks in the
official newspaper of the city, the last of which shall not be less than seven
(7) days prior to the date of the hearing. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995; amd. 2011
Code)
10-6E-5: COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION:
Within sixty (60) days from the receipt of the petition for vacation, the
commission shall transmit its recommendation to the city council. The
commission may recommend that the vacation be granted or it may recommend a
modification to the vacation, or it may recommend that the vacation be denied.
(Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-6E-6: DECISION BY COUNCIL:
The city council, prior to approving, modifying or denying the vacation, shall
conduct a public hearing using the same notice and hearing procedures as the
commission. Whenever public rights of way or lands are vacated, the council
shall provide adjacent property owners with a quitclaim deed for the vacated
rights of way in such proportions as are prescribed by law. (Ord. 151, 8-14-
1995)
10-6E-7: DEDICATION PETITION; COMMISSION ACTION:
   A.   Petition for dedication shall set forth the particular circumstances of
the request to dedicate, contain a legal description of the property to be
dedicated and the names of the persons affected thereby.
   B.   No commission action is required for dedication. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
10-6E-8: DEDICATION PETITION; ACCEPTANCE; PREREQUISITES:
When considering a petition for dedication procedures, the city council may
approve, deny or modify the petition. When a dedication is approved, the
required street improvements shall be constructed or a bond furnished, assuring
the construction, prior to acceptance of the dedication. To complete the
acceptance of any dedication of the land, the owner shall furnish to the
council a deed describing and conveying such lands to be recorded with the
county recorder. (Ord. 151, 8-14-1995)
CHAPTER 7
FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Statutory Authorization
10-7-2: Findings Of Fact
10-7-3: Statement Of Purpose
10-7-4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
10-7-5: Definitions
10-7-6: Lands To Which Chapter Applies
10-7-7: Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
10-7-8: Penalties For Noncompliance
10-7-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The legislature of the state of Idaho has delegated the responsibility to local
governmental units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare of its citizenry. (Ord. 187, 9-8-2008)
10-7-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health, and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in areas of special flood hazard which increase flood heights and velocities,
and when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas. Uses that are
inadequately floodproofed, elevated, or otherwise protected from flood damage
also contribute to the flood loss. (Ord. 187, 9-8-2008)
10-7-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter, including articles A and B, to promote the
public health, safety, and general welfare; reduce the annual cost of flood
insurance; and minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in
specific areas by provisions designed:
   A.   To protect human life and health.
   B.   To minimize expenditure of public money and costly flood control
projects.
   C.   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public.
   D.   To minimize prolonged business interruptions.
   E.   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard.
   F.   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas.
   G.   To ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an
area of special flood hazard.
   H.   To ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions. (Ord. 187, 9-8-2008)
10-7-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and
provisions for:
   A.   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   B.   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
   D.   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   E.   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers that
unnaturally divert floodwaters or may increase flood hazards in other areas.
(Ord. 187, 9-8-2008)
10-7-5: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES: Low cost buildings that do not exceed five hundred (500)
square feet, such as detached two (2) car garages, boathouses, small pole barns
and storage sheds, not to be used for human habitation, shall be constructed
and placed on the building site so as to offer minimum resistance to the flow
of floodwaters; shall be anchored to prevent flotation which may result in
damage to other structures; service utilities such as electrical and heating
equipment shall be elevated or floodproofed.
APPEAL: A request for a review of the interpretation of any provision of this
chapter or a request for a variance.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: Designated as AO or AH zone on the flood insurance
rate map (FIRM). AO zones have base flood depths that range from one to three
feet (3') above the natural ground; a clearly defined channel does not exist;
the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate; and, velocity flow may
be evident. AO is characterized as sheet flow; AH indicates ponding, and is
shown with standard base flood elevations.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
Designation on maps always includes the letters A or V.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year (also referred to as the "100-year flood"),
designated on flood insurance rate maps by the letters A or V.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
CRITICAL FACILITY: A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding might
be too great. Critical facilities include, but are not limited to, schools,
nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire and emergency response installations,
and installations which produce, use, or store hazardous materials or hazardous
waste.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials located within the area of special flood hazard.
ELEVATED BUILDING: For insurance purposes, a nonbasement building that has its
lowest elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear
walls, posts, piers, pilings, or columns.
ELEVATION CERTIFICATE: The official form (FEMA form 81-31) used to track
development, provide elevation information necessary to ensure compliance with
community floodplain management ordinances, and determine the proper insurance
premium rate with section B completed by community officials.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
hereof.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): The official map on which the federal
insurance administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS): The official report provided by the federal
insurance administration that includes flood profiles, the flood boundary-
floodway map, and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot (1').
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of this chapter found at subsection
10-7B-2A2 of this chapter (i.e., provided there are adequate flood ventilation
openings).
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on
or after the effective date hereof.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date hereof.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
REPETITIVE LOSS: Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two (2)
separate occasions during a ten (10) year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds twenty
five percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before damage occurred.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement, and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, placement or other improvement was within one hundred eighty
(180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally aboveground.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: A. Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure either:
      1.   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
      2.   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred. For the purposes of this definition "substantial improvement"
is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor,
or other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that
alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   B.   The term can exclude:
      1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct pre-cited
existing violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code
specifications which have been previously identified by the local code
enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living
conditions; or
      2.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the national register of
historic places or a state inventory of historic places.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter that permits
construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this chapter.
WATER DEPENDENT: A structure for commerce or industry that cannot exist in any
other location and is dependent on the water by reason of the intrinsic nature
of its operations. (Ord. 187, 9-8-2008)
10-7-6: LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES:
This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the city. (Ord. 187, 9-8-2008)
10-7-7: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the federal insurance
administration in a scientific and engineering report entitled the "Flood
Insurance Study For Twin Falls County" dated September 26, 2008, and any
revisions thereto, with an accompanying flood insurance rate map (FIRM), and
any revisions thereto, are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a
part of this chapter. The flood insurance study and the FIRM are on file at the
city of Hansen, City Hall, 322 Main, Hansen, Idaho. The best available
information for flood hazard area identification as outlined in subsection 10-
7A-3B of this chapter shall be the basis for regulation until a new FIRM is
issued that incorporates data utilized under said subsection 10-7A-3B of this
chapter. (Ord. 187, 9-8-2008)
10-7-8: PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. Violations of the provisions of this chapter
by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation, and in addition shall pay all costs and
expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city
from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation. (Ord. 187, 9-8-2008; amd. 2011 Code)
ARTICLE A.  ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
10-7A-1: Local Administrator
10-7A-2: Development Permit
10-7A-3: Variance Procedure
10-7A-1: LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Designation; General Duties: The city clerk is hereby appointed to
administer and implement this chapter by granting or denying development permit
applications in accordance with its provisions.
   B.   Other Duties:
      1.   Permit Review: The local administrator shall:
         a.   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
         b.   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state, or local governmental
agencies from which prior approval is required.
         c.   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development is located in the floodway. If located in the floodway, assure that
the encroachment provisions of subsection 10-7B-4A of this chapter are met.
      2.   Information To Be Obtained And Maintained:
         a.   Where base flood elevation data is provided through the flood
insurance study, FIRM, or required as in subsection 10-7A-3B of this article,
obtain and record the actual (as built) elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially
improved structures, and whether or not the structure contains a basement.
         b.   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed nonresidential
structures where base flood elevation data is provided through the FIS, FIRM,
or as required in subsection 10-7A-3B of this article:
            (1)   Obtain and record the elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which the structure was floodproofed.
            (2)   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in
subsection 10-7A-2B3 of this article.
            (3)   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this chapter.
      3.   Alteration Of Watercourses: The administrator shall:
         a.   Notify adjacent communities and the department of water resources
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of
such notification to the federal insurance administration.
         b.   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is
not diminished. (Ord. 187, 9-8-2008)
10-7A-2: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
   A.   Development Permit Required: A development permit shall be obtained
before construction or development begins within any area of special flood
hazard established in section
10-7-7 of this chapter. The permit shall be for all structures including
manufactured homes, as set forth in section
10-7-5 of this chapter, and for all development including fill and other
activities, also as set forth in section
10-7-5 of this chapter.
   B.   Application For Development Permit: Application for a development
permit shall be made on forms furnished by the city and may include, but not be
limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions, and elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities, and the location
of the foregoing. Specifically, the following information is required:
      1.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all structures recorded on a current elevation
certificate (FF 81-31) with section B completed by the local official.
      2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any structure has
been floodproofed.
      3.   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet
floodproofing criteria in subsection 10-7B-2B of this chapter.
      4.   Description of the extent to which a watercourse will be altered or
relocated as a result of proposed development. (Ord. 187, 9-8-2008)
10-7A-3: VARIANCE PROCEDURE:
   A.   Appeal Board:
      1.   The city council shall hear and decide appeals and requests for
variances from the requirements of this chapter.
      2.   The city council shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged
there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination made by the
administrator in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
      3.   Those aggrieved by the decision of the city council, or any
taxpayer, may appeal such decision to the fifth judicial district court.
      4.   In passing upon such applications, the city council shall consider
all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
         a.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         b.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         c.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         d.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         e.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         f.   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
         g.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         h.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
         i.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         j.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         k.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   B.   Conditions For Variances:
      1.   Generally, the only condition under which a variance from the
elevation standard may be issued is for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a small or irregularly shaped lot contiguous to
and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level. As the lot size increases, the technical justification required
for issuing the variance increases.
      2.   Variances shall not be issued within a designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      3.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      4.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant;
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      5.   Variances as interpreted in the national flood insurance program are
based on the general zoning law principle that they pertain to a physical piece
of property; they are not personal in nature and do not pertain to the
structure, its inhabitants, economic or financial circumstances. They primarily
address small lots in densely populated residential neighborhoods. As such,
variances from flood elevations should be quite rare.
      6.   Variances may be issued for nonresidential buildings in very limited
circumstances to allow a lesser degree of floodproofing than watertight or dry
floodproofing, where it can be determined that such action will have low damage
potential, complies with all other variance criteria except subsection B1 of
this section, and otherwise complies with subsections 10-7B-1A, C, and D of
this chapter.
      7.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the permitted structure will be built with its lowest floor below
the base flood elevation and that the cost of flood insurance will be
commensurate with the increased risk. (Ord. 187, 9-8-2008)
ARTICLE B.  FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
SECTION:
10-7B-1: General Standards
10-7B-2: Specific Standards
10-7B-3: AE And A1-30 Zones With Base Flood Elevations; No Floodways
10-7B-4: Floodways
10-7B-1: GENERAL STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazard, the following standards are required:
   A.   Anchoring:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure.
      2.   All manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement, and shall be installed using methods and
practices that minimize flood damage. Anchoring methods may include, but are
not limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors.
   B.   AH Zone Drainage: Adequate drainage paths are required around
structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
   C.   Construction Materials And Methods:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      2.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      3.   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or otherwise
elevated or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components during conditions of flooding. Locating such equipment below the
base flood elevation may cause annual flood insurance premiums to be increased.
   D.   Utilities:
      1.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems.
      2.   Water wells shall be located on high ground that is not in the
floodway.
      3.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      4.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   E.   Subdivision Proposals:
      1.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
      2.   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and
constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      3.   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage.
      4.   Where base flood elevation data has not been provided or is not
available from another authoritative source, it shall be generated for
subdivision proposals and other proposed developments which contain at least
fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres (whichever is less).
   F.   Review Of Building Permits: Where elevation data is not available
either through the flood insurance study, FIRM, or from another authoritative
source (subsection 10-7A-3B of this chapter), applications for building permits
shall be reviewed to assure that proposed construction will be reasonably safe
from flooding. The test of reasonableness is a local judgment and includes use
of historical data, high water marks, photographs of past flooding, etc., where
available. (Ord. 187, 9-8-2008)
10-7B-2: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data has been
provided as set forth in section
10-7-7, "Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard", of this
chapter, or subsection 10-7A-3B, "Conditions For Variances", of this chapter.
Additional standards were clarified in FEMA technical bulletin 11-01 to allow
crawl space construction for buildings located in the special flood hazard
areas; however, adopting this provision can result in a twenty percent (20%)
increase in flood insurance premiums. The following provisions are required:
   A.   Residential Construction:
      1.   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated one foot
(1') or more above the base flood elevation (BFE). Minimum FEMA standards
require the lowest floor to be elevated "to or above" the BFE; however, adding
an additional foot of freeboard increases safety and can reduce insurance
premiums by as much as thirty percent (30%). Adopting additional freeboard is
strongly encouraged by FEMA. This note applies throughout the model ordinance.
      2.   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to
flooding are prohibited, or shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or must meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
         a.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
         b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade.
         c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters.
   B.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated one foot (1')
or more above the base flood elevation; or, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, shall:
      1.   Be floodproofed so that below one foot (1') or more above the base
flood level the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to
the passage of water.
      2.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
      3.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect that
the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice for meeting provisions of this subsection based on their
development and/or review of the structural design, specifications and plans.
Such certifications shall be provided to the official as set forth in
subsection 10-7A-1B2 of this chapter.
      4.   Nonresidential structures that are elevated, not floodproofed, must
meet the same standards for space below the lowest floor as described in
subsection A2 of this section.
Applicants who are floodproofing nonresidential buildings should be notified
that flood insurance premiums will be based on rates that are one foot (1')
below the floodproofed level (e.g., a building floodproofed to the base flood
level will be rated as 1 foot below). Floodproofing the building an additional
foot will reduce insurance premiums significantly.
   C.   Manufactured Homes: All manufactured homes in the floodplain to be
placed or substantially improved on sites shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated one
foot (1') or more above the base flood elevation and be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral
movement.
   D.   Recreational Vehicles: Recreational vehicles placed on sites are
required to either:
      1.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive
days; or
      2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, on wheels or jacking
system, attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and
security devices, and have no permanently attached additions; or
      3.   Meet the requirements of subsection C of this section and the
elevation and anchoring requirements for manufactured homes. (Ord. 187, 9-8-
2008)
10-7B-3: AE AND A1-30 ZONES WITH BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS; NO FLOODWAYS:
In areas with base flood elevations (but a regulatory floodway has not been
designated), no new construction, substantial improvements, or other
development (including fill) shall be permitted within zones A1-30 and AE on
the community's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot (1') at any point within the community. (Ord. 187, 9-8-2008)
10-7B-4: FLOODWAYS:
Located within areas of special flood hazard established in section
10-7-7 of this chapter are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is
an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters that can carry
debris, and increase erosion potential, the following provisions apply:
   A.   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other development unless certification by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating through hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice
that the proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels
during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   B.   If subsection A of this section is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this article for flood hazard reduction. (Ord. 187, 9-
8-2008)
