CITY CODE
of
HAUSER, IDAHO
2004
Code current through:
Ord. 206, passed December 12, 2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the city of Hauser, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 206, passed December 12, 2023. Ordinances of the city
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the city
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
Amrican Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 132
AN ORDINANCE FOR REVISING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING THE GENERAL ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF HAUSER, IDAHO, AND ADOPTING THE HAUSER CITY CODE
BE IT ORDAINED by the mayor and city council of the city of Hauser, Idaho, as
follows:
   Section 1: Pursuant to the provisions of Idaho Code 50-903, and from and
after the date of passage of this ordinance, the city code of the city of
Hauser, Idaho prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., containing the compilation
of all ordinances of a general nature together with the changes made to said
ordinances, under the direction of the governing body of the city, shall be
accepted in all courts without question as the official code and law of the
city as enacted by the mayor and city council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official city code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which shall be
maintained in the office of the city clerk, certified as to correctness and
available for inspection at any and all times that said office is regularly
open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official city
code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official city code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the city code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official city code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication in pamphlet form as provided by law.
PASSED this 13th day of October, 2004.
APPROVED this 13th day of October, 2004.
Ed PeoneMayorATTEST:
Marie HildebrandtCity ClerkRoll Call Vote:AYES: 4NAYS: 0ABSENT: 0
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
HAUSER CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the mayor and city council, this code is hereby declared
to be and shall hereafter constitute the official code of the city 1 . This
code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the HAUSER CITY CODE and it is
hereby published by authority of the mayor and city council and shall be kept
up to date as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal document. (2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-903.
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in published form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2004 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be forwarded to the codifiers and
the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in the proper place
in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be properly
identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code. (2004
Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
mayor and city council. The city clerk shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the city
clerk. Any person having in his custody an official copy of this code shall
make every effort to maintain said code in an up to date and efficient manner.
He shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such
are delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the city
clerk. Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and shall be
returned to the office of the city clerk when directed to do so by order of the
mayor and city council. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; ordinances relating to the transfer or
acceptance of real estate by or from the city; ordinances authorizing a zone
change; ordinances authorizing a bond issue; and all special ordinances. (2004
Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case this code shall be considered as amending such ordinance
or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2004 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party affected, applied to
any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the city herein repealed
and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this code shall be
deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
city under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this code. (2004 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this code, or any part thereof. The mayor and city council hereby declares that
they would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph,
sentence, clause or phrase hereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases
be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.    Tense; Gender: Whenever any word in any section of this code importing
the plural number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or
persons, any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included,
although distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter,
party or person is referred to in this code by words importing the singular
number only, or the masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and
females as well as males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included;
provided, that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section
of this code which contains any express provision excluding such construction
or where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.    Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the
city has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter",
"section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant
to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances.
   C.    Shall/May: When used in this code, the word "shall" is mandatory and
the word "may" is permissive. (2004 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
CITY: The city of Hauser, county of Kootenai, state of Idaho.
CITY COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the elected city council of the city.
CODE: The city code of Hauser, Idaho, and amendments thereto.
COUNTY: The county of Kootenai, state of Idaho.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words, "of the city of
Hauser".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal year of the city shall begin on October 1 of each year
and end on September 30.
LICENSE: The permission granted for automobiles, domestic pets or the carrying
on of a business, profession or occupation.
MAYOR: The elected mayor of the city of Hauser.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment in
other than a penitentiary for less than one year may be imposed.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the city, or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a hazard
to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or to the
community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Hauser".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small quantities
direct to the consumer.
STATE: The state of Idaho.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such buildings or land, whether alone or with others.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his proper
mark. (2004 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.    Misdemeanor: Unless specifically provided elsewhere, any person
convicted of a violation of any section or provision of this code deemed a
misdemeanor may be fined in a sum not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00)
for any offense. In addition thereto, any person so convicted shall pay such
costs as the court may assess.
   B.    Infraction: When an offense is designated as an infraction by any
section or provision of this code (ordinance of the city), it is punishable
only by a penalty not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) and no
incarceration may be imposed. Prosecution of infractions shall be in accordance
with the procedures required for the prosecution of infractions as established
under state law and rules 2 .
   C.    Federal Programs: In any federal program in which the city is
participating, wherein penalties or enforcement remedies are required or
mandated by the terms of participation in the program, penalties shall be in
accordance with such penalties as shall be required by such federal program, to
include criminal or civil monetary penalties not to exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00), or imprisonment for criminal offenses not to exceed six (6) months
or to include both a fine and imprisonment for such criminal offenses. (2004
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-302.
2 2. IC §§ 18-113 and 18-113A.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.    Application Of Penalty Provisions:
      1.    The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this
code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed or where any action
which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor unless otherwise provided. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains
unperformed or such act continues unless otherwise specifically provided in
this code.
      2.    Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code, and there shall
be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of
this chapter shall apply.
   B.    One Recovery For Same Offense: In all cases where the same offense is
made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this code,
the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced. (2004 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty unless the intention of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (2004
Code)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Composition; Terms
1-5-2: Compensation
1-5-3: Meetings
1-5-4: Quorum; Voting
1-5-5: Election of City Council
1-5-1: COMPOSITION; TERMS:
   A.    Mayor And City Council Members: The Legislative Authority for the City
shall be vested in a City Council consisting of four (4) members qualified as
provided by law 1 . The Mayor shall be the Chief Administrative Officer of the
City and be qualified as provided by law 2 .
   B.    Terms: The Mayor shall serve for a term of four (4) years; and, after
their initial elections, Council members shall serve for a term of four (4)
years. (Ord. 14, 9-27-1967)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-701.
2 2. IC § 50-601.
1-5-2: COMPENSATION:
Commencing January 1, 2008, the monthly compensation of the Mayor and members
of the City Council shall be as follows:
 
Mayor                $300.00
City Council members 150.00
 
(Ord. 141, 8-23-2007)
1-5-3: MEETINGS:
Unless otherwise provided, all meetings shall be held at half after six o'clock
(6:30) P.M. at 11837 N. Hauser Lake Road, as authorized by Idaho Code.
   A.    Regular Meetings: The regular meeting of the Hauser City Council shall
be held on the second (2nd) Tuesday of every month beginning October, 2018.
(Ord. 189, 9-10-2018)
   B.    Special Meetings: Special meetings will occur at the discretion of the
Mayor and City Council pursuant to Idaho Code 50-706.
   C.    Planning And Zoning Commission: The regular meetings of the Planning
and Zoning Commission shall be held the fourth Tuesday of each month.
   D.    Hearings: All public hearings will be at the discretion of the Mayor
and City Council for any purpose allowed under all applicable State law. (Ord.
56, 2-15-1982; amd. 2004 Code)
1-5-4: QUORUM; VOTING:
At all meetings of the City Council, a majority of the full City Council shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business; and, unless otherwise
provided by law, a question before the City Council shall be decided by a
majority of the members present 1 . (2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-705.
1-5-5: ELECTION OF CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   There shall be elected at each regular city election, to be held as
required by state law, two (2) council members to serve for a term of four (4)
years; and at each succeeding general city election, there shall be elected two
(2) council members, each to serve a term of four (4) years. At any such
election additional council seats may file as required by state law to fill the
remainder of unexpired terms or to meet other election law requirements.
   B.   Council Seats:
      1.   Pursuant to subsection A of this section, two (2) council members
shall be elected at each election for a term of four (4) years in addition to
any seats that must be filled by election for the remainder of an unexpired
term. From the effective date of this section and hereafter, each council seat
shall be numbered, as allowed by Idaho Code section 50-707, and the City Clerk
shall assign the following numbers to each seat: seat 1, seat 2, seat 3, and
seat 4.
      2.   Any candidate seeking election to the city council shall file his
candidacy for one, and only one, council seat. The candidate shall meet all
other qualifications for the office of city council member, as required by law.
All nominating petitions must contain, at the time of initiating circulation of
a petition, the council seat number for which the candidate is being nominated.
The council seat number must be in the same format and font as the remainder of
the petition and may not be added or changed after the petition is circulated.
Only petition forms designating a particular seat and a particular candidate,
and provided by the Hauser City Clerk, will be accepted by the City Clerk. The
name of the candidate and the seat designation must be disclosed at the time of
obtaining the petition from the Hauser City Clerk. No candidate shall circulate
petitions for more than one designated seat in any election cycle. Any petition
not containing such designated seat number in the manner herein required shall
be null and void.
      3.   Commencing at the general city election to be held on the first
Tuesday following the first Monday in November 2023 seats 1 and 3 shall be the
council seats for which city council candidates shall file. Commencing at the
general city election held in 2022, seats 2 and 4 shall be elected. Henceforth,
the odd-numbered council seats and the even-numbered council seats shall be
elected in alternate general city elections in the same rotation period. (Ord.
200, 9-14-2021)
CHAPTER 6
MUNICIPAL OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: City Clerk
1-6-2: City Treasurer
1-6-1: CITY CLERK:
   A.    Appointment; Term: The city clerk shall be appointed by the mayor with
the consent of the city council, pursuant to Idaho Code title 50, chapter 2. He
shall serve until he resigns or is removed according to Idaho Code 50-206.
   B.    Duties: In addition to the following, the city clerk will keep a
correct journal of the proceedings of the city council and fulfill other
responsibilities as designated in Idaho Code title 50, chapter 2. He shall
attend all meetings of the city council, collect all funds due to the city,
keep proper records of all transactions, issue licenses and collect for the
same and perform such other duties as is required of him either by ordinance,
resolution or order of the city council or of the laws of the state.
      1.    City Seal: The city clerk shall be the keeper of the city seal and
shall affix the same on all instruments and papers which by law or ordinance
are necessary to be attested.
      2.    Licenses: The city clerk shall prepare proper forms of licenses to
be used in all matters that require the same, as prescribed by ordinance within
the corporate limits of the city, shall see to their signature and delivery to
the parties entitled upon payment of the license fees due the city for such
licenses, and turn all such funds over to the city treasurer. (2004 Code)
1-6-2: CITY TREASURER:
   A.    Appointment; Term: The city treasurer shall be appointed by the mayor
with the consent of the city council pursuant to Idaho Code title 50, chapter
2. He shall serve until he resigns or is removed according to Idaho Code 50-
206.
   B.    Duties: In addition to the following, the city treasurer shall serve
as custodian of all monies belonging to the city and fulfill all other
responsibilities designated in Idaho Code title 50, chapter 2. He shall serve
as city accountant and ex officio auditor.
      1.    Bonds: He shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against the
city, showing the number, amount of each and to whom said bonds were issued;
and when any bonds are purchased, paid or canceled, said record shall show the
fact. In his annual report, he shall describe in particular the bonds issued
and sold during the year and the term of the sale with each and every item of
expense thereof.
      2.    Funds: He shall keep all money in his hands belonging to the city
in such bank or financial institution as the mayor and city council shall
determine.
      3.    Books And Records: He shall keep accurate books of account showing
all sums of money received by him and the disbursement thereof. He shall cash
all checks properly drawn upon the city treasury when the condition of the
funds will permit and settle with the city clerk for all funds from any and all
sources received by him, naming the source and amount received. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 7
AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
1-7-1: Purpose
1-7-2: Area Defined; Map
1-7-3: Plan And Development Standards
1-7-4: Administrative Procedures
1-7-5: Annexation Procedures
1-7-6: Renegotiation
1-7-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of establishing the Hauser area of city impact is to identify an
urban fringe area adjoining the city. The urban fringe area is realizing, or
will realize, growth and development pressures that must be planned and managed
in an orderly fashion. (Ord. 119, 10-30-1999)
1-7-2: AREA DEFINED; MAP:
   A.    Area Of City Impact: Trade area, geographic factors (such as the
watershed), and areas that may reasonably be annexed to the city in the near
future were factors taken into consideration in defining the area of city
impact.
   B.    Map: The Hauser area of city impact is the area designated on the
Hauser area of city impact boundary map, by this reference fully incorporated
herein. The officially adopted and agreed upon Hauser area of city impact
boundary map as amended from time to time is hereby established by ordinance.
In case a property under single ownership is divided by the boundary line of
the Hauser area of city impact and the line divides such property so that one
or both of the parts has a depth of three hundred feet (300') or less, such
part may be included in the jurisdiction within which the remainder and larger
portion of the property is located. (Ord. 119, 10-30-1999; amd. Ord. 137, 12-
14-2005)
1-7-3: PLAN AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.    Comprehensive Plan: The Hauser comprehensive plan and subsequent
amendments thereto as officially adopted by the city, and the procedures herein
shall apply to the area of city impact.
   B.    Development Code 1 : The city development code and subsequent
amendments thereto as officially adopted by the city and the procedures herein
shall apply to all class II permits, as defined by the city development code,
to all proposals within the area of city impact. Application for individual
residential building permits for legally created parcels existing at the time
of adoption hereof, or exempt by this subsection shall be made to the county.
All class II permits, as defined by the city's development code, shall be
submitted to the city for review in accordance with the procedures established
in section
1-7-4 of this chapter. The city and the county shall have signature authority
on the plat, with the exception of the following:
      1.    The division of original parcels of record (parcels created prior
to May 14, 1974);
      2.    Existing, approved county subdivisions and plats;
      3.    Plat amendments to existing approved county subdivisions that do
not propose an increase in the number of lots; and
      4.    Lot line adjustments within currently approved county subdivisions
or plats.
The county's subdivision ordinance shall prevail over any city development
codes or ordinances pertaining to subsections B1 through B4 of this section and
do not require the review or approval of the city.
   C.    County Approved Conditional Zoning Development Agreements: County
approved conditional zoning development agreements adopted prior to the
effective date hereof shall continue as agreed upon by the agreement signed by
the Kootenai County board of commissioners. Any proposed amendments to said
development agreement shall be made to the joint planning commission for
compliance to the applicable standards of this chapter. (Ord. 119, 10-30-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8 of this code.
1-7-4: ADMINISTRATION PROCEDURES:
The board of county commissioners and city of Hauser hereby authorize adoption
of additional permit procedures incorporated by reference herein:
   A.    Permit Procedures: All development proposals that require a class II
permit, as defined in the Hauser development code, shall first be submitted to
the code administrator for the city for review in accordance to the procedures
established in subsection 8-10-3B of this code, with exceptions related to the
composition and appointment of planning commission members and appeal
procedures specified herein. All required application submittals made to the
city will be forwarded to the county by the city code administrator within
three (3) days of acceptance by the city.
   B.    Planning And Zoning Commission: For proposals within the Hauser area
of city impact, the planning commission shall consist of seven (7) members,
hereinafter referred to as "joint commission". One-third (1/3) of the
commission shall reside within city limits; three (3) shall reside within the
area of city impact outside the city of Hauser; two (2) shall be planning
commission members from the county. Commissioners that reside outside city
limits shall be appointed by consent of the board of county commissioners.
   C.    Decision And Appeals; Joint Commission: With the exception of
subdivisions of land, as defined by the Hauser development code, request for
amendments to the development code and/or comprehensive plan, all decisions
related to class II permits shall be final, unless otherwise appealed in
accordance with this agreement.
   D.    Review: Review and decisions by the joint commission relating to
subdivisions, request for amendments to the development code and/or
comprehensive plan shall be made in the form of a recommendation to the board
of county commissioners and city council for a combined review and final
decision of the board of county commissioners.
   E.    Decision And Appeals: Decisions relating to subdivisions, as defined
by the Hauser development code, amendments to the development code, and/or
comprehensive plan amendments situated in the Hauser area of city impact
require an affirmative decision by the board of county commissioners. The board
of county commissioners shall take due notice of the recommendation of the
joint commission.
   F.    Appellant Body: The board of county commissioners and members of the
city council, with duties described herein, shall act as the appellant body for
final decisions rendered by the joint commission except those excluded in
subsection C of this section.
   G.    Joint County Board And City Council Hearings: Appeals of the
commission's decision, with the exception of subdivisions, and request for
amendments to the development code and/or comprehensive plan, shall be made to
a joint board of county commissioners and city council, hereinafter "joint
board".
   H.    Final Decisions: Final decisions related to subdivisions, amendments
to the development code and/or the comprehensive plan, in the area of city
impact outside city limits, shall be made by the board of county commissioners
in accordance with the procedures established in the Hauser development code
and this agreement.
   I.    Composition Of Board: The joint board shall consist of the Kootenai
board of county commissioners and two (2) city council members which may
include the mayor.
      1.    City elected officials, acting in the capacity of members of the
joint board, shall not have the authority to make motion(s) or vote in regard
to the approval/denial of a development proposal, or content of conditions
placed upon a project proposal, or amendments to the applicable plan and
development standards.
      2.    The role of city elected officials is limited to an advisory
capacity to the board of county commissioners. City members of the joint board
will have the ability to make inquiries of the project proponents/opponents
during the public hearing, confer with the board of county commissioners prior
to final decisions of the board of county commissioners during the public
hearing process and provide evidence and testimony to the board of county
commissioners in relation to compliance/noncompliance of a proposal to the
Hauser comprehensive plan and development code. (Ord. 119, 10-30-1999)
Annexation by the city shall be limited to those lands lying within the area of
impact and being contiguous to the city limits of Hauser. Upon annexation, the
provisions of this chapter, which is the agreement between the city of Hauser
and Kootenai County, shall no longer apply to the annexed area. Upon receiving
a request for annexation within the area of city impact, the city agrees to
notify the county and allow the county thirty (30) days to comment on such
request prior to any public hearing on the request. (Ord. 119, 10-30-1999)
In accordance with Idaho Code 67-6526(d), the city of Hauser or Kootenai County
may request in writing to renegotiate any provision of this agreement at any
time. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of such request by either party, a
meeting between the two (2) jurisdictions shall occur. While renegotiations are
occurring, all provisions of the adopted area of city impact ordinance shall
remain in effect until said adopted ordinance is amended or a substitute
ordinance is adopted by the city of Hauser and Kootenai County, in accordance
with the notice and hearing procedures provided in Idaho Code title 67, chapter
65 or until a declaratory judgment from the district court is final. Provided,
however, that the adopted ordinance or stipulated portions thereof shall be of
no further force and effect if both jurisdictions so agree in writing. (Ord.
119, 10-30-1999)
CHAPTER 8
MUNICIPAL AFFAIRS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Official Newspaper
1-8-1: OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER:
The "Coeur d'Alene Press" is hereby designated as the official newspaper for
the city 1 . (Ord. 78, 5-13-1987)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-213.
CHAPTER 9
ANNEXATION PROCEDURES AND POLICY
SECTION:
1-9-1: Purpose
1-9-2: Policy
1-9-3: Application
1-9-4: Preannexation Studies
1-9-5: Procedure
1-9-6: Agreements Authorized
1-9-7: Fees And Mitigation Authorized
1-9-8: Authority To Execute
1-9-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish general city policy regarding the
handling of requests for annexation of adjacent lands into the city. The
provisions of this chapter are deemed to be directory in nature and may be
varied as circumstances warrant to effect the greatest advantage to the future
development of the city. Nothing in this chapter shall be considered a
limitation upon the legislative authority of the city council to exercise its
judgment in matters relating to annexation of lands into the city, whether by
request of the owner or otherwise. Notwithstanding enactment of this chapter,
the city council retains full authority to exercise any and all powers of
annexation granted to Idaho municipalities by statute. (Ord. 133, 4-13-2005)
1-9-2: POLICY:
It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city that the voluntary
annexation of new lands into the city should be accomplished only when such
annexation would result in benefit to the city that equals or exceeds the costs
of such annexation or when such annexation would be beneficial to the pattern
of development, including the extension or economic prosperity of the community
in the future. In considering annexation requests, the city intends to evaluate
economic impacts, environmental factors, consequences for public services and
the costs thereof, the ability of the city to integrate projected service
requirements into current service delivery methods and patterns, special needs
prompted by the particular annexation proposal, any effects to the city's area
of city impact, and such other matters as it deems relevant to the annexation
decision. (Ord. 133, 4-13-2005)
1-9-3: APPLICATION:
Any person desiring to request annexation of lands within his or her ownership
may initiate the annexation consideration process by submitting a completed
annexation request to the city of Hauser planning department accompanied by the
filing fee established by resolution of the city council. Upon receipt of such
request, the code administrator shall prepare a report to the mayor and city
council tendering the request which has been received and outlining his
recommendation about the extent of the inquiry which should be made, and the
estimated costs thereof, if the annexation request is to be considered. Upon
completion of such preliminary report, the administrator shall transmit same to
the city council for deliberation concerning the desirability of considering
annexation of the requested lands. Upon receipt of such report, the city
council, after consultation with city staff, shall decide whether it wishes to
further consider annexation of the requested lands or not. In the course of
such consideration, the city council may determine what analysis and study it
would require to properly evaluate the consequences and effects of the proposed
annexation. Based upon the estimates supplied by the administrator, the city
council may, if it wishes to further consider the matter, establish the
necessary prepaid annexation processing fee to be remitted by the requester if
he desires to proceed with the request. Such prepaid fees may include a
standard administrative fee reasonably related to the administrative costs of
processing an annexation request (including staff and legal expense)
established by a resolution of the city council, in addition to any study based
fees established after city council consideration of the specific annexation
request. The city council may determine that special study based fees should be
offset to the benefit of those who pay them against annexation mitigation fees
otherwise chargeable to properties annexed by the city. (Ord. 133, 4-13-2005)
1-9-4: PREANNEXATION STUDIES:
The city council may require the completion of relevant studies before allowing
an annexation proposal to go forward before the planning and zoning commission
for initial public hearing. Any study(ies) required by the city council as a
prerequisite to consideration of an annexation request shall be conducted by
city staff or by a consultant chosen and engaged by the city. The estimated
costs of such studies shall be prepaid the by annexation applicant before the
studies are undertaken. Any consultant engaged to perform specified tasks in
the course of evaluating the consequences of a possible annexation shall serve
the city as its client, not the party(ies) requesting annexation. Any such
studies shall be conducted in accordance with direction from the city to
determine the anticipated consequences of the proposed annexation. Such studies
shall become public documents upon their completion and shall be made available
to the applicant and other interested parties prior to the conduct of any
public hearing(s) concerning the zoning of lands for which annexation is
requested. (Ord. 133, 4-13-2005)
1-9-5: PROCEDURE:
   A.    Upon completion of the required preannexation studies and payment of
requisite fees, the code administrator may schedule any authorized annexation
proposal for a public hearing before the planning and zoning commission as soon
as such request may be accommodated by the commission schedule. No such hearing
shall be scheduled until the required preannexation studies have been received
unless the city council waives such requirement. If the preannexation studies
produce results which are unexpected or extraordinary in their consequence, the
code administrator may refer such matter to the mayor or city council to
reevaluate the willingness of the city to continue consideration of the
annexation request. The legal purpose of such public hearing shall be to
receive public comment and to formulate a recommendation to the city council
regarding proper zoning or land use regulations for the lands in question. At
the conclusion of its deliberations, the planning and zoning commission shall
submit a recommendation to the city council regarding potential zoning of the
lands under consideration for annexation. The planning and zoning commission is
also authorized to comment upon the advisability of annexation of the subject
lands in light of provisions of the comprehensive plan or other planning
considerations. Such recommendations shall include the rationale employed and
facts relied upon by the commission in reaching its recommendation.
   B.    Upon receipt of the planning and zoning commission recommendation, the
city council may schedule a public hearing to consider zoning of the lands for
which annexation has been requested. The city council may also require
additional information from the applicant or others or may require such studies
as it deems necessary to properly consider the annexation request. The costs of
any such additional studies shall be prepaid by the annexation applicant. No
public hearing may be scheduled before the city council until all such expenses
have been paid and until the required study results have been received, unless
expressly authorized by the city council. The public hearing concerning zoning
in anticipation of annexation shall be conducted as a legislative public
hearing.
   C.    Upon completion of the public hearing concerning zoning, and after
considering such other information as it chooses to rely upon, the city council
may decide to enact an ordinance annexing the subject lands, or any parts
thereof, and to establish the zoning designation thereof. No annexation shall
be completed by ordinance publication until all fees and expenses required to
be paid have been received and until an annexation agreement has been executed
and performed to the extent required by the city council.
   D.    The city council may waive the annexation agreement requirement if it
believes such agreement would serve no useful purpose. (Ord. 133, 4-13-2005)
1-9-6: AGREEMENTS AUTHORIZED:
   A.    As a precondition for annexation, the city council may establish terms
and conditions for an annexation agreement to be executed by the owners of
lands for which annexation is desired. The purposes of such agreements are to
mitigate the effects of annexation upon the city to minimize the public costs
incurred thereby. Annexation agreement drafting shall be accomplished by legal
counsel for the city, with reimbursement to be provided by the requesting
property owner prior to publication of any annexation ordinance. Annexation
agreements may be made binding upon the city for their express duration, but
not longer than twenty (20) years, and shall be binding upon the owner(s)
requesting annexation and upon said owner's successors in interest as a
covenant which runs with the land. Annexation agreements shall be executed with
sufficient formality to accomplish the purposes established hereby.
   B.    Annexation agreements shall set forth in some detail the obligations
of the requesting property owner(s) with respect to city responsibilities and
concerns. Among the purposes and/or issues to be addressed by such agreements
are the following:
      1.    Dedication of rights of way, easements, and public sites necessary
for adequate public service provision in the annexed area and nearby parts of
the city.
      2.    Agreement to use city provided utilities to serve future
development of the annexed lands. Alternative utility methods may be employed
with city approval.
      3.    Water supplies sufficient to meet international fire code
requirements may be required.
      4.    Agreement to construct development improvements in accordance with
all city standards concerning sanitary sewers, water line sizing, fire hydrants
and related means of fire protection, flood works and storm water management,
street construction, sidewalks and bicycle paths, etc.
      5.    Comply with other legal requirements from city ordinances or state
or federal law.
      6.    Public improvements must be tested and inspected to assure
compliance with standards. As built drawings may be required at the requesting
party's expense.
      7.    Building or construction permits, or certificates of occupancy may
be denied if material provisions of an annexation agreement are breached or not
met.
      8.    Special considerations which are attributable to unique
circumstances concerning the specific annexation proposal such as public works
project development, phasing, duration, compliance with future enactments,
potential deannexation for noncompliance, penalties for want of performance,
attorney fees for enforcement, etc. (Ord. 133, 4-13-2005)
1-9-7: FEES AND MITIGATION AUTHORIZED:
   A.    Because annexation of lands into the city imposes additional
obligations upon the city and its service delivery capabilities, it is the
policy of the city to require those who request annexation of their lands into
the city to mitigate the effects of such annexation. Accordingly, there is
hereby authorized an annexation fee to be paid prior to publication of an
ordinance of annexation or alternatively to be paid in conjunction with payment
of development impact fees, or by both. Such fees shall be computed in
accordance with a formula established by resolution of the city council
pursuant to the authority granted hereby or as otherwise provided by agreement
with the owner of the lands to be annexed. Such fee may be modified by
subsequent resolution of the city council. Annexation fees are hereby declared
not to be development impact fees, but rather are fees made necessary as a
consequence of annexation of new lands into the city, which costs should not be
borne by lands already situated within the city. Fees paid pursuant to this
chapter shall be deposited in a separate dedicated account to be used
exclusively for studies or projects which are related to newly annexed lands.
The city treasurer is hereby authorized to establish such account and include
it in the annual city budget.
   B.    The city may also require mitigation of annexation impacts by
agreement which requires construction of improvements or dedication of lands
for public purposes. (Ord. 133, 4-13-2005)
1-9-8: AUTHORITY TO EXECUTE:
By this chapter the city council authorizes the mayor to execute any annexation
agreement which has been approved by the city council. Such execution shall
occur only upon completion of all necessary preparatory steps as evidenced by
certification to that effect by the code administrator. No annexation ordinance
shall be submitted to the official newspaper of the city for publication unless
and until an annexation agreement has been executed and recorded in the office
of the county recorder as provided by law or unless said annexation agreement
requirement has been waived. In extraordinary circumstances the city council
may waive the requirement that an annexation agreement be completed prior to
ordinance adoption and publication by formal council action. (Ord. 133, 4-13-
2005)
TITLE 2
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Licenses Required
2-1-2: Exemptions
2-1-3: Application Process For License
2-1-4: Inspections
2-1-5: Forms, Applications And Signatures
2-1-6: License Fees
2-1-7: Change Of Use And Location
2-1-8: Conditions Of License
2-1-9: Building And Premises
2-1-10: Penalty
2-1-1: LICENSES REQUIRED:
All businesses within the city of Hauser require a business license. It shall
be unlawful for any person engaged in any trade, business or profession within
the limits of the city to conduct such trade, business or profession until they
have obtained such a license. (Ord. 173, 4-11-2012)
2-1-2: EXEMPTIONS:
Home occupations conducted on a residential site require a class I permit and
fall under the definitions and standards of title 8 of this code and does not
require yearly business licenses.
An itinerant merchant conducting business within the Hauser city limits or
within the Hauser ACI shall be required to obtain a class I permit and fall
under the definitions and standards of title 8 of this code and does not
require a business license. An itinerant merchant shall be any person who sells
or offers to sell any goods, wares, merchandise or services from any stand,
vehicle, trailer, tent, rack or other shelter or structure not permanently
affixed to real property; and from any motel room, office, building, warehouse,
store, door to door, or other location where the intent is to sell from that
location for less than ninety (90) days. (Ord. 173, 4-11-2012)
2-1-3: APPLICATION PROCESS FOR LICENSE:
Every person required by any provision to obtain a license to engage in any
trade, business or profession for which a license is required shall make
application to the city clerk. Any business established in the city of Hauser
shall be approved with a class I or class II permit application under the
definitions and standards of title 8 of this code. The city shall then require
an annual business license every year after such approval. If the business is
considered a legal nonconforming existing business, then it shall still be
required to have annual business licenses until such time that a class II
permit is necessary for change or expansion.
A separate business license shall be required for each location of a multiple
site business. The license shall authorize the continuance of the business
named therein at the named location for the term of such license. (Ord. 173, 4-
11-2012)
2-1-4: INSPECTIONS:
   A.    Generally: Upon receipt of an application or renewal for a license or
permit, inspections may be required. Whenever inspections of the premises are
reasonably necessary to secure compliance with any code provision or to detect
violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee, permittee or person
in charge of the premises to be inspected to admit any officer or employee of
the municipality at any reasonable time that admission is requested. The
officer charged with the duty of making the investigation or inspection shall
make a report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within fifteen (15) days after
receiving the application or a copy thereof. (Ord. 173, 4-11-2012)
2-1-5: FORMS, APPLICATIONS AND SIGNATURES:
   A.    Forms: Forms for all licenses and permits and applications therefor
shall be prepared and kept on file by the city clerk.
   B.    Signatures Required: Each license or permit issued shall bear the
signatures of the mayor and the city clerk in the absence of any provision to
the contrary. (Ord. 173, 4-11-2012)
2-1-6: LICENSE FEES:
All businesses operating shall be required to pay a license fee for each year
of operation, payable to the city clerk. The fee shall be based upon the city's
current adopted fee resolution. This fee may be prorated. (Ord. 173, 4-11-2012)
2-1-7: CHANGE OF USE AND LOCATION:
Any change in use, ownership, intensity or occupancy of an existing structure
or use shall require a class I or class II permit application under the
definitions and standards of title 8 of this code. (Ord. 173, 4-11-2012)
2-1-8: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.    More Than One License Required: In every case where more than one of
the pursuits, employments or occupations for which a license is required shall
be pursued or carried on in the same place by the same person at the same time,
a license shall be taken out for each according to the rates established by the
city.
   B.    License Term: All license fees required by this chapter shall be paid
in advance on or before January 1 each year and all licenses shall terminate on
December 31 each year.
   C.    Conditions: Conditions may be imposed on the business license by the
city to mitigate impacts. (Ord. 173, 4-11-2012)
2-1-9: BUILDING AND PREMISES:
   A.    No license shall be issued or renewed for any business if the premises
and building to be used for the purpose do not fully comply with the
requirements of the municipality and this code.
   B.    No such license or permit shall be issued or renewed for any business
which would involve a violation of this code. (Ord. 173, 4-11-2012)
2-1-10: PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful and an infraction, punishable in accordance with the
penalties set out in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person subject to license or permits hereunder to
fail to obtain such license or permit by the dates set forth in this chapter.
Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
The city shall have all lawful remedies including, but not necessarily limited
to, debt collection service, the imposition of reasonable interest and
penalties, the imposition of liens pursuant to Idaho Code, title 45, the
issuance of "stop work" orders, and the revocation or suspension of any permits
or renewals. (Ord. 173, 4-11-2012)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
2-2-1: Hours Of Sale
2-2-1: HOURS OF SALE:
It is unlawful for any person to sell beer and wine between the hours of two
o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and liquor to be consumed on
the premises between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:
00) A.M. In addition to the days on which liquor may be sold pursuant to title
23, chapter 9 of the Idaho Code, liquor may be sold on Sunday, Memorial Day and
Thanksgiving. (Ord. 134, 2-3-2005)
ARTICLE A. BEER
SECTION:
2-2A-1: Purpose
2-2A-2: License Required
2-2A-3: Application And Issuance Of License
2-2A-4: License Fees
2-2A-5: Conditions Of License
2-2A-6: Penalty
2-2A-1: PURPOSE:
This article is passed to provide for the licensing and regulating of the
retail sale of beer within the city. (Ord. 4, 2-20-1984)
2-2A-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall sell beer at retail within the city without first obtaining a
license therefor as herein provided. (Ord. 4, 2-20-1984)
2-2A-3: APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.    Application For License: The city council shall grant or deny the
application for a license within thirty (30) days of the time it is filed with
the city clerk. Prior to any revocation or suspension the licensee shall be
afforded a hearing according to Idaho Code 23-1016. Whenever the mayor and city
council denies an application, they shall specify in writing:
      1.    The statutes, ordinances and standards used in evaluating the
application;
      2.    The reason for the denial; and
      3.    The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain the
license, transfer or renewal thereof.
   B.    Record Of Proceedings: In all cases where the city council is
considering application for licenses, transfers or renewals thereof, a
transcribable verbatim record of the proceeding shall be made. If the applicant
for a license, transfer or renewal is denied, a transcribable, verbatim record
of the proceedings shall be kept for a period of not less than six (6) months
after a final decision on the matter. Upon written request and within the time
period provided for retention of the record, any person may have the record
transcribed at his expense. The city council shall also provide for the keeping
of the minutes of the proceedings. Minutes shall be retained indefinitely or as
otherwise provided by law. (Ord. 4, 2-20-1984)
   C.    Form Of Application: All applications for license must be in writing,
filed with the city clerk by March 1, and accompanied by the affidavit of the
applicant showing such applicant to be qualified by this article and the laws
of the state of Idaho, to receive a license, must state the place of business
with respect to which the license is to be issued, and must be accompanied by a
receipt from the city treasurer for the amount of the license fee. A county
license must be approved and issued before the city license is applied for.
(Ord. 4, 2-20-1984; amd. 2004 Code)
   D.    Investigation Of Applicant: No license shall be granted hereunder
until there has been an investigation by the police department of the
applicant. After investigation, the application will be forwarded to the city
council with a recommendation from the chief of police. If the chief of police
recommends that an application be denied, he shall state in writing: (Ord. 4,
2-20-1984)
      1.    The statutes or ordinances and standards used in evaluating the
application; and
      2.    The reason for the denial. (Ord. 4, 2-20-1984; amd. 2004 Code)
   E.    City Clerk To Issue: All licenses shall be issued by the city clerk.
(Ord. 4, 2-20-1984)
2-2A-4: LICENSE FEES:
The license fee is hereby fixed as follows, and a full year's license fee shall
be collected for each license issued:
   A.    For the retailing of draft beer, bottled or canned beer, all or part
of which is to be consumed on the premises where sold, the sum of seventy
dollars ($70.00) per year. (Ord. 4, 2-20-1984)
   B.    For the retailing of bottled or canned beer, none of which is to be
consumed on the premises where sold, the sum of seventeen dollars fifty cents
($17.50) per year. (Ord. 4, 2-20-1984; amd. 2004 Code)
2-2A-5: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.    License Term: All licenses shall be granted by the mayor and city
council for a period of one year, said term to be the same as the license year
set from time to time by Kootenai County. (Ord. 4, 2-20-1984; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.    Transfer Of License: A license may be transferred with the consent of
the mayor and city council, and upon payment of a transfer fee of forty five
dollars ($45.00) where the license is to sell draft beer, all or part of which
is to be consumed on the premises where sold; and thirty five dollars ($35.00)
where the license is to sell bottled or canned beer, none of which is to be
consumed on the premises.
   C.    Exchange For Higher Class Of License: The mayor and city council may
grant to any person theretofore procuring a license to sell beer as herein
provided, a license providing for the class next above said license of licensee
upon his paying to the city treasurer the difference between the license for
which he has already paid and the license which he seeks.
   D.    License Posted: It shall be the duty of the licensee to keep posted a
true copy with the city seal affixed in a conspicuous place in the place of
business for which the license is granted. (Ord. 4, 2-20-1984)
2-2A-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day of continued violation shall be a separate
violation, and in addition thereto, the mayor and city council may revoke the
license of the licensee. (Ord. 4, 2-20-1984; amd. 2004 Code)
ARTICLE B. LIQUOR BY THE DRINK
SECTION:
2-2B-1: Purpose
2-2B-2: License Required
2-2B-3: Application And Issuance Of License
2-2B-4: License Fees
2-2B-5: Conditions Of License
2-2B-6: Penalty
2-2B-1: PURPOSE:
This article is passed pursuant to and under the authority of provisions of
Idaho Code chapter 23. (Ord. 6, 11-17-1980)
2-2B-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
From and after the passage and approval of this article, it shall be lawful for
any person to sell liquor by the drink at retail within the corporate limits of
the city after, and only after, having first procured a license as hereinafter
provided. (Ord. 6, 11-17-1980)
2-2B-3: APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.    Application: Applications for license shall be in writing, personally
signed and sworn to by the applicant upon application forms furnished by the
city clerk, which applications shall be filed by the city clerk and presented
to the mayor and city council at the next meeting of the city council for their
approval, rejection or further consideration.
   B.    Qualifications Of Applicant: The applicant for a license shall possess
all of the qualifications necessary to obtain a license from the director of
law enforcement of the state of Idaho, as prescribed by Idaho Code chapter 23
and maintain such qualifications throughout the period for which such license
is issued. The possession of a license regularly issued by said department of
law enforcement shall be prima facie evidence of the applicant's qualifications
to receive a license hereunder.
   C.    License Issuance: Upon filing the application for license as herein
provided and upon producing evidence of the issuance of a license to the
applicant by the director of law enforcement of the state of Idaho, and upon
approval by the city council of such application, and the payment of the
license fee as herein provided, the city clerk shall issue to the applicant a
license to sell liquor by the drink at retail within the city for such calendar
year or the remainder thereof. (Ord. 6, 11-17-1980)
2-2B-4: LICENSE FEES:
The license fee imposed and collected shall be the sum of two hundred dollars
($200.00) per annum for the license year; provided, however, that if the
license is issued for less than a full calendar year, the license fee shall be
prorated as of the actual month of issue. (Ord. 6, 11-17-1980)
2-2B-5: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.    License Term: The license year shall be the same as the license year
set from time to time by Kootenai County. (2004 Code)
   B.    One License Only: No person shall be granted more than one license for
any one year.
   C.    Transferability: No license shall be transferable. (Ord. 6, 11-17-
1980)
2-2B-6: PENALTY:
   A.    A violation of any of the provisions of Idaho Code chapter 23 shall be
deemed a violation of this article. A revocation or suspension of the state
license by the director of law enforcement shall be deemed prima facie evidence
for revocation or suspension of the license issued hereunder. (Ord. 6, 11-17-
1980)
   B.    A violation of the terms of this article, in addition to being grounds
for revocation or suspension of the license issued hereunder, shall be
penalized as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 6, 11-17-1980; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 3
TEMPORARY EVENTS
SECTION:
2-3-1: Temporary Event Permit
2-3-2: Temporary Event Permit Defined
2-3-3: Application Requirements And Process
2-3-4: Decision
2-3-5: Appeal Of Decision
2-3-6: Penalty For Noncompliance
2-3-1: TEMPORARY EVENT PERMIT:
Temporary uses for events which include, but are not limited to, erection of
temporary structures such as fences, booths, tents, or parking of vehicles and/
or trailers for activities such as carnivals, circuses, parades, fairs,
religious meetings, temporary outdoor displays and/or sale of Christmas trees,
regional yard sales, temporary outdoor markets, temporary farmers' markets,
other similar activities conducted either outdoors or within temporary
structures. (Ord. 174, 4-11-2012)
2-3-2: TEMPORARY EVENT PERMIT DEFINED:
A "temporary event permit" is defined as a permit for a use delineated in
section
2-3-1 of this chapter and established for a period of time not to exceed ten
(10) consecutive days in a calendar year and does not require permanent site
improvements. The temporary event permit may be allowed subject to conditions
required by the administrator so long as the administrator determines that
granting the temporary use permit will not harm the public interest if the
required conditions are complied with. (Ord. 174, 4-11-2012)
2-3-3: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS AND PROCESS:
   A.    Requirements: A complete class I application for a temporary event
shall include:
      1.    A written description of the use.
      2.    Proposed starting and ending date of the use.
      3.    Site plan that shows the location of the use, access, setbacks from
property lines, parking, restroom facilities, traffic patterns and circulation,
fire lanes, emergency exit plans and any other pertinent information that the
administrator may require to evaluate the use.
      4.    Letters from applicable agencies (health, fire, highway) that
includes approval and conditions of the approval to mitigate any impacts on the
city.
      5.    A signed, notarized hold harmless agreement from the property owner
and the event applicant that ensures that the city shall be held harmless from
any liability from the event and that the event applicant and/or property owner
assumes all responsibility and risk for the temporary event.
   B.    Process: The application shall be submitted at least sixty (60) days
prior to the event. The code administrator will review the application
submittal and determine if the application is complete or more information is
needed. If the application is complete, the administrator will create a public
comment notice and then send the property owners a copy of the notice. The
property owners will have fourteen (14) days to provide comment on the upcoming
event. (Ord. 174, 4-11-2012)
2-3-4: DECISION:
   A.    A temporary use may be approved, approved with conditions or denied by
the administrator. A temporary use permit is valid on the dates requested by
the applicant and will be valid for that time period requested. The
administrator will send a written notice of the decision to the applicant. The
code administrator, when deciding a temporary use permit request, shall
consider the following:
      1.    That the permit for the proposed temporary use would be consistent
with the general intent of the comprehensive plan, the development code and the
community in general. More specifically:
         a.    The event must possess permit for food service if required by
Panhandle health district.
         b.    The event must provide adequate all weather parking spaces to
meet traffic generated by the outdoor event.
         c.    Public restrooms (portable toilets) adequate to meet needs of
the public must be provided.
         d.    Solid waste collection and disposal must be provided; the method
and location will be reviewed at site plan review.
         e.    Electrical power to the site and/or vendor stalls must be
permitted by the state of Idaho labor and industrial services, electrical
division, and comply with applicable code requirements.
         f.    No overnight use of the event area, between the hours of ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., may be allowed, unless
specified in the decision.
      2.    Granting the permit would not be detrimental to the surrounding
neighborhood.
      3.    Granting the permit would meet the standards and conditions of
public agencies such as health district, fire district and sheriff department.
      4.    Granting the permit would not create a traffic hazard and would not
harm the functioning of community facilities or services. (Ord. 174, 4-11-2012)
2-3-5: APPEAL OF DECISION:
The planning commission shall hear and decide appeals from the interpretations
of the administrator.
   A.    An appeal must be filed with the city clerk within fourteen (14) days
of the date of any permit denial or interpretation of the administrator.
Failure to timely file an appeal shall be considered a failure to exhaust the
administrative remedies. The appeal must set out the interpretation of the
administrator and a narrative setting forth the facts relied upon by the
appellant and the appellant's claim regarding the error in the interpretation.
   B.    Upon receipt of a completed appeal, the appeal will be scheduled for
the next available planning commission meeting to be heard. The planning
commission shall consider the following in ruling on an appeal: all public
comments, staff and agency evaluations, relevant factors and standards
specified in other sections of this code and compliance with the comprehensive
plan. (Ord. 174, 4-11-2012)
2-3-6: PENALTY FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
Any noncompliance shall be considered an infraction as delineated in section
1-4-1 of this code. Any legal fees associated with the interpretation,
administration or enforcement of this code shall be paid by the property owner
where the event is held. (Ord. 174, 4-11-2012)
TITLE 3
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Nuisance Defined
3-1-2: Nuisances Prohibited
3-1-3: Notice To Abate
3-1-4: Abatement By City
3-1-5: Collection Of Costs
3-1-6: Request For Hearing; City Council Decision
3-1-7: Penalty
3-1-1: NUISANCE DEFINED:
Whatever is injurious to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of
property, so as essentially to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life
or property, is a "nuisance". For purposes of this chapter nuisances are:
   A.    Animals:
      1.    Diseased: All diseased animals running at large.
      2.    Carcasses: Carcasses of animals not disposed of within twenty four
(24) hours after death, as provided by law.
   B.    Condition Of Property:
      1.    Refuse, Garbage: Accumulations of refuse or garbage.
      2.    Discarded, Junked Items: Accumulations of discarded or junked items
creating an unsightly appearance.
      3.    Unreasonable, Unlawful Condition: Any unreasonable or unlawful
condition or use of premises or of building exteriors which, by reason of its
appearance as viewed at ground level from public streets or from neighboring
premises, is detrimental to the property of others.
      4.    Places In Disrepair: All places in such a state of disrepair as to
constitute a fire hazard, an attractive nuisance or a hazard of any sort.
   C.    Noxious Weeds: All noxious weeds and other rank growth upon public or
private property.
   D.    Smoke, Fumes: Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot or cinders in
unreasonable quantities.
   E.    Noise, Vibrations: All unnecessary noises and annoying vibrations.
   F.    Obstructions, Excavations: Obstructions and excavations affecting the
ordinary use by the public of streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds,
except under such conditions as are provided by ordinance.
   G.    Motor Vehicles: Allowing disabled, partially assembled or disassembled
motor vehicles to remain upon private property for more than thirty (30) days.
   H.    Abandoned Refrigerators: All abandoned, unattended or discarded
iceboxes, refrigerators or other containers which have a door or lid, snap lock
or other locking device which may not be released from the inside, upon public
or private property. (2004 Code)
3-1-2: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
The creation or maintenance of a nuisance is prohibited within the city. (2004
Code)
3-1-3: NOTICE TO ABATE:
   A.    Definition: For purposes of this chapter, "person" includes any
individual, firm, corporation, trust, any other organized group or any
governmental entity.
   B.    Notice Required: Whenever the mayor, city clerk or law enforcement
agency finds that a nuisance exists, he shall cause to be served upon the
owner, agent or occupant of the property on which the nuisance is located, or
upon the person causing or maintaining the nuisance, a written notice to abate
or to request a hearing as provided in section
3-1-6 of this chapter.
   C.    Contents Of Notice: The notice to abate shall contain:
      1.    An order to abate the nuisance or request a hearing as provided in
section
3-1-6 of this chapter within a stated time, which shall be reasonable under the
circumstances.
      2.    Location of nuisance, if stationary.
      3.    Description of what constitutes the nuisance.
      4.    Statement of act or acts necessary to abate the nuisance.
      5.    Statement that if the nuisance is not abated as directed and no
request for hearing is made within the time prescribed, the city will abate the
nuisance and assess the cost against such person.
   D.    Method Of Service: The notice to abate shall be served personally,
where practical, by certified United States mail, or by posting such notice to
abate on the premises. Return of service shall be made as provided by law for
returns of personal service. (2004 Code)
3-1-4: ABATEMENT BY CITY:
If the person so notified neglects or fails to abate the nuisance as directed,
the mayor or other officer initiating the notice, may cause the nuisance to be
abated, keeping an accurate account of the expenses incurred. The expense
account shall be fully itemized, verified and filed with the city clerk. Such
expenses shall be paid by the city. (2004 Code)
3-1-5: COLLECTION OF COSTS:
The city clerk shall mail a statement of the total cost to the person failing
to abide by the notice to abate and, if the amount shown by the statement has
not been paid within thirty (30) days, he shall pursue the levy of an
assessment as provided by Idaho Code 50-334 and 50-1008. (2004 Code)
3-1-6: REQUEST FOR HEARING; CITY COUNCIL DECISION:
   A.    Request: Any person ordered to abate a nuisance may have a hearing
with the city council as to whether a nuisance exists. A request for hearing
must be made in writing and delivered to the officer ordering the abatement, or
it will be conclusively presumed that a nuisance exists and it must be abated
as ordered. See subsection 3-1-3C1 of this chapter relating to the time for
requesting the hearing.
   B.    City Council Decision: At the conclusion of the hearing, the city
council shall render a written decision as to whether a nuisance exists. If it
finds that a nuisance exists, it must be ordered to be abated within an
additional time which must be reasonable under the circumstances. (2004 Code)
3-1-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, after a notice to
abate is served and any appeal is exhausted, shall, upon conviction, be guilty
of a misdemeanor and punished as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. Every day any condition is allowed to exist which is in
violation of this chapter shall be a distinct and separate offense. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 2
EMERGENCY POWERS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Legal Authority
3-2-2: Purpose And Intent
3-2-3: Scope
3-2-4: Definitions
3-2-5: Public Health Emergency Orders
3-2-6: Process For Enacting Public Health Emergency Orders
3-2-7: Exclusions
3-2-8: Suspension And Waiver Of Certain City Services, Ordinances, and Policies
And Procedures
3-2-9: Force Majeure
3-2-10: Penalty
3-2-1: LEGAL AUTHORITY:
Idaho Code sections 50-304 and 50-606 authorize the City of Hauser to pass
ordinances related to public health emergencies and granting certain powers to
the mayor to proclaim and enforce the same. Further, the case and common law of
the State of Idaho recognize. . . (Ord. 193, 3-23-2020)
3-2-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The city council for the City of Hauser finds that the preservation of public
health, safety, and welfare may require immediate action by the city in
response to emergencies. Therefore, the city hereby authorizes the mayor
certain powers for immediate response to foreseeable, imminent, or present
public health emergencies. (Ord. 193, 3-23-2020)
3-2-3: SCOPE:
This chapter sets forth the procedures for activating the emergency powers of
the mayor and the specific powers of the mayor during a public health
emergency. (Ord. 193, 3-23-2020)
3-2-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and
derivations will have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with the
context, words used in the present tense include the future tense, words in the
plural number include the singular number and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The words "shall", "will", or "must" are always
mandatory and not merely directory. Words used throughout this chapter, but not
defined herein will have their plain, ordinary, and common meaning. Words in
any gender apply to the feminine, masculine, and nonbinary genders.
 
                               The foreseeable, imminent, or present threat of
PUBLIC HEALTH EMERGENCY:       any pathogen, agent, vector, or environmental
                               condition, including hazardous materials, which
                               does or may cause illness or injury to humans.
PUBLIC HEALTH EMERGENCY ORDER: An advisory, social distancing, isolation, or
                               quarantine order enacted by the Mayor.
                               The separation of infected persons, or of
                               persons suspected to be infected, from other
ISOLATION:                     persons to such places, under such conditions,
                               and for such time as will prevent transmission
                               of the infectious agent.
                               The restriction placed on the entrance to and
QUARANTINE:                    exit from the place or premises where an
                               infectious agent or hazardous material exists.
                               Actions taken to maintain distance from other
                               people, including avoiding or canceling
SOCIAL DISTANCING:             congregate settings and mass gatherings such as
                               by ordering the closure of bars, restaurants and
                               other places of public accommodation. (Ord. 193,
                               3-23-2020)
 
3-2-5: PUBLIC HEALTH EMERGENCY ORDERS:
The mayor, as authorized by this chapter and Idaho Code sections 50-304 and 50-
606, may issue the following orders, as deemed appropriate by the mayor
following consultation with or review of information issued by local, regional,
statewide, or nationwide public health authorities. The mayor, along with other
duly-elected officials at the federal, state, and local level, may declare
public health emergencies. During any one declaration of public health
emergency, the mayor may make up to three (3) successive of the following
orders affecting any one or more persons and/or businesses and such orders may
last no more than fourteen (14) days in duration. Upon affirmative vote by the
City of Hauser city council any such order may be extended, renewed, or applied
as long as the duration of the public health emergency exists.
   A.   Advisory Order: Where a public health emergency is foreseeable or
imminent, the mayor may enact an advisory order, which order may provide
information and recommended guidelines for preventing, detecting, and/or
mitigating the onset or spread of a public health hazard.
   B.   Social Distancing Order: Where a public health emergency is imminent,
the mayor may enact a social distancing order, which order may establish any or
all of the following:
      1.   Appropriate restrictions regarding the operation or occurrence of
planned or foreseeable commercial, recreational, or expressive gatherings or
events.
      2.   Restrictions on travel through or visitation within the community.
      3.   Postponement or cancellation of public meetings and hearings.
      4.   A limit on the number of persons who may gather in one location and
may apply to indoor or outdoor venues.
      5.   Measures to be taken to prevent, avoid, detect, address, or mitigate
a foreseeable, imminent, or present public health hazard.
      6.   A social distancing order must include an effective date and an
anticipated expiration date, which may be extended in the same manner as the
imposition of the initial order.
   C.   Isolation Order: Where a public health emergency is present and poses a
clear threat of harm to the public health, the mayor may enact an isolation
order, which order may establish any or all of the following:
      1.   A directive that infected and/or exposed individuals isolate
themselves from other persons.
      2.   Geographical areas of restricted or prohibited access.
      3.   Other measures necessary to avoid, address, or mitigate an imminent
public health hazard.
      4.   The scope and manner of delivery of services, materials, or supplies
to be provided by the city, if any.
      5.   Measures to be taken to prevent, avoid, detect, address, or mitigate
a foreseeable, imminent, or present public health hazard.
      6.   Conditions of the isolation order.
      7.   An isolation order must include an effective date and an anticipated
expiration date, which may be extended in the same manner as the imposition of
the initial order. An isolation order will be effective only when and for so
long as the public health emergency is present or for so long as the subject(s)
of the isolation order poses a threat to public health. Any person or other
legal entity who or which is the subject of an isolation order is entitled to
appeal the isolation order or to request a modification of any provision of
such order by filing a written appeal with the city clerk within three (3)
days. Such appeal will be heard by city council at their next meeting, or, if
no meeting is scheduled during the term of the isolation order, the city code
administrator or designee will review such appeal and issue a written decision.
The city code administrator's decision will be appealable to the city council
and scheduled at the next city council meeting.
   D.   Quarantine Order: Where a health emergency is present and poses a clear
threat of harm to the public health, the Mayor may enact a quarantine order,
which order may establish any or all of the following:
      1.   A directive that infected and/or exposed individuals isolate
themselves from other persons.
      2.   Geographical or other areas of restricted or prohibited access.
      3.   Other measures necessary to avoid, address, or mitigate an imminent
public health hazard.
      4.   The scope and manner of delivery of services, materials, or supplies
to be provided by the city, if any.
      5.   Measures to be taken to prevent, avoid, detect, address, or mitigate
a foreseeable, imminent, or present public health hazard.
      6.   Conditions of the quarantine.
      7.   A quarantine order must include an effective date and an anticipated
expiration date, which may be extended in the same manner as the imposition of
the initial order. A quarantine order will be effective only when and for so
long as the public health emergency is present or for so long as the subject(s)
of the quarantine order poses a threat to public health. Any person or other
legal entity who or which is the subject of a quarantine order is entitled to
appeal the quarantine order or to request a modification of any provision of
such order by filing a written appeal with the city clerk within three (3)
days. Such appeal will be heard by city council at their next meeting, or, if
no meeting is scheduled during the term of the quarantine order, the city code
administrator or designee will review such appeal and issue a written decision.
The city code administrator's decision will be appealable to the city council
and scheduled at the next city council meeting. (Ord. 193, 3-23-2020)
3-2-6: PROCESS FOR ENACTING PUBLIC HEALTH EMERGENCY ORDERS:
   A.   Issuance Of An Order: The mayor will prepare a written order and
publish it pursuant to this section.
   B.   Notice To The City Council: Following the issuance of any order
authorized by this chapter, the mayor will advise the city council at a
properly noticed public meeting of the issuance of the order and the basis for
its issuance as soon as is reasonably practicable but no later than seven (7)
days after the date that the order is issued.
   C.   Council Veto: The city council may reverse or alter the order issued by
the mayor by a majority vote of the full city council.
   D.   Publication Of Public Health Emergency Order: As soon as possible and
prudent under the circumstances, the mayor will cause a public health emergency
order to be published as follows:
   1.   Posting the order in a prominent place at the Hauser City Hall;
   2.   Posting the order on the city's website; and,
   3.   Posting the order at the premises of the affected person(s) and/or
business(es); and,
   4.   Notifying other government agencies, including Lakeland School
District, Post Falls Highway District, Panhandle Health District.
   Except as may be specifically stated in the Public Health Emergency Order,
such order will be effective upon posting at the Hauser City Hall and affected
premises of the person(s) and/or business(es) affected. (Ord. 193, 3-23-2020)
3-2-7: EXCLUSIONS:
Unless otherwise specifically prohibited by a Public Health Emergency Order
duly enacted by the mayor, the following activities are exempt from the scope
of such order:
A.   Any expressive and associative activity that is protected by the United
States and Idaho Constitutions, including speech, press, assembly, and/or
religious activity.
B.   Activities necessary to operate critical infrastructure and utilities, to
include but not limited to gas, electricity, water, and the provision of
gasoline and diesel fuel.
C.   Activities necessary to operate and use medical facilities and sendees.
D.   Activities necessary to buy, sell, or otherwise deliver food and
necessities for household consumption. (Ord. 193, 3-23-2020)
3-2-8: SUSPENSION AND WAIVER OF CERTAIN CITY SERVICES, ORDINANCES, AND POLICIES
AND PROCEDURES:
During a public health emergency and upon issuance of a public health emergency
order, the mayor may suspend certain non-critical city government services and
functions as deemed necessary and advisable given the specific public health
emergency and in consideration of the health of employees and the general
public. During such time, the mayor may also suspend the regular meetings of
city boards and commissions, including but not limited to planning and zoning
and the parks and recreation commission. To facilitate such suspension of
meetings, the ordinances providing for the regular meetings of these
commissions will be temporarily suspended. Those ordinances providing the
timeline for processing applications will also be suspended. The mayor is also
authorized to waive such internal rules, regulations, and procedures as deemed
necessary to protect the health and welfare of city employees. The mayor may
authorize the city administrator to act on his/her behalf and exercise the
authority granted to the mayor under this section. (Ord. 193, 3-23-2020)
3-2-9:  FORCE MAJEURE:
In the context of this chapter, a public health emergency is a force majeure.
No person is entitled to recover from the City of Hauser any costs incurred, or
profits lost, as may be alleged to be attributed to the enactment of a public
health emergency order. (Ord. 193, 3-23-2020)
3-2-10: PENALTY:
It is unlawful to violate any provision or directive of a duly enacted social
distancing order, isolation order, or quarantine order while such order is in
effect. The violation of any provision or directive of a social distancing
order, isolation order, or quarantine order is a misdemeanor punishable by up
to a one-thousand dollar ($1,000.00) fine and six (6) months in jail. Each
calendar day of violation(s) of this chapter shall be a separate punishable
offense. (Ord. 193, 3-23-2020)
TITLE 4
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Disorderly Conduct
4-1-2: Curfew For Minors
4-1-3: Fireworks
4-1-4: Firearms
4-1-5: Hunting
4-1-1: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
   A.    Prohibited Acts: Every person who shall in any street, sidewalk, alley
or public place or upon any private premises within the city act in a noisy,
riotous, drunken or disorderly manner or otherwise wilfully disturb the peace
and quiet of any neighborhood, family or person by loud or unusual noises or by
drunken or offensive conduct or by vulgar, profane or indecent language, shall
be guilty of disorderly conduct. (Ord. 9, 6-16-1952)
   B.    Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 9, 6-16-1952; amd. 2004 Code)
4-1-2: CURFEW FOR MINORS:
   A.    Ages And Hours Designated: It is unlawful for any person under the age
of eighteen (18) years to be upon, loiter or stroll upon the public
thoroughfares or any other public place between the hours of ten thirty o'clock
(10:30) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. of the following day, Sunday through
Thursday, inclusive, of each week, or between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:
00) midnight and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. of the following day on Friday and
Saturday of each week. (Ord. 102, 6-14-1995; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.    Defenses:
      1.    Defense For Minor: It is a defense to prosecution under this
section if the offending minor was:
         a.    Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
         b.    On an errand at the express direction of the minor's parent or
guardian, without any detour or stop;
         c.    In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         d.    Engaged in an employment activity or going to an employment
activity or returning to the minor's place of residence, without any detour or
stop;
         e.    Involved in an emergency;
         f.    Within the yard or upon the sidewalk abutting the minor's
residence or abutting the residence of another adult with whom the parent or
guardian of such minor has expressly placed temporary custody of the minor;
         g.    Attending an officially sponsored school, religious or other
recreational, cultural or educational activity supervised by adults and
sponsored by a public entity or a religious, charitable, fraternal, civil or
other similar organization organized by adults, or going to or returning home
from such activities, without any detour or stop;
         h.    Exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution or rights protected by the Idaho constitution article I, section
9;
         i.    Is married or has had the disabilities of minor removed in the
manner provided by law.
      2.    Defense For Business Establishments: It is a defense to prosecution
under this section that the owner, operator or employee of an establishment
asked the minor to leave the premises and promptly notified law enforcement
that a minor is present on the premises of the establishment during curfew
hours and refuses to leave. (2004 Code)
   C.    Parental Responsibility: It is unlawful for any parent, legal guardian
or any other adult person having the legal care and custody of any minor person
under the age of eighteen (18) years to allow or permit the person to go upon
or be upon any public thoroughfares or in any public place during the hours set
out in subsection A of this section unless accompanied by such persons as
provided in this section.
   D.    Duty Of Police Officers: Any police officer or other law enforcement
officer is authorized and empowered to take charge of any person under the age
of eighteen (18) years violating the provisions of this section. It shall be
the duty of such officer to take such person to the police station and
thereafter notify the parent, guardian or adult person having care and custody
of such minor immediately of the violation of the terms of this section, and
also to notify such parent, legal guardian or other adult person having the
legal care and custody of the minor, that the minor will be held at the police
station until called for by such parent or guardian. Such minor shall be held
at the police station for up to two (2) hours until called for by such person.
The police officer, at his discretion, may release the minor with instructions
to proceed directly to the minor's home. (Ord. 102, 6-14-1995)
4-1-3: FIREWORKS:
   A.    Provisions Adopted: There are hereby adopted by reference the rules
and regulations for the storage, sale, use and display of fireworks, including
penalties therefor, as set forth in the latest fireworks ordinance of Kootenai
County, Idaho, a copy of which is on file in the office of the city clerk and
by this reference made a part hereof.
   B.    References: All references to Kootenai County and the elected
officials and employees set out in the county ordinance be and the same are
hereby changed to mean the city and the elected officials and employees
thereof.
   C.    Interpretation: The city council reserves unto itself the
interpretation and intent of the county ordinance to carry out the principles
thereof. (Res. 01-1, 6-13-2001; amd. 2004 Code)
4-1-4: FIREARMS:
   A.    It is unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm within the city
limits of the city of Hauser, Idaho; provided, however, that this prohibition
shall not apply to law enforcement officers and Idaho state fish and game
officers in the discharge of their duties.
      1.    Exception: A person may discharge a firearm on properties that are
zoned to allow agricultural use, if discharge of the firearm is for the purpose
of slaughtering animals raised on the property for the purpose of human
consumption and the person discharging the firearm complies with the following
conditions:
         a.    The discharge of the firearm is aimed away from persons,
vehicles, roadways, buildings constructed for human occupancy, and other
animals; and
         b.    The person discharging the firearm provides prior notice to the
law enforcement agency for the city. (Ord. 145, 8-27-2008)
4-1-5: HUNTING:
   A.    It is unlawful for any individual to discharge any weapon which will,
or is designed to, expel a projectile, including a bow and arrow, within the
city limits for the purpose of hunting wildlife. For the purposes of this
section, the definitions of hunting and wildlife provided in title 36, chapter
2, Idaho Code shall apply. (Ord. 145, 8-27-2008)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
4-2-1: License Required
4-2-2: Records Kept
4-2-3: Inoculations Required
4-2-4: Prohibited Acts Or Conditions
4-2-5: Impoundment
4-2-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.    License Procurement: The owner or harborer of any dog or dogs within
the corporate limits of the city shall procure a license for such dog from the
city treasurer.
   B.    Tags And Certificates Required: The number of the license issued shall
correspond with the tag to be issued to such owner with such receipt and such
tag shall be attached to a collar, which collar shall at all times be worn by
the dog. (Ord. 19, 1971)
      1.    Spayed Or Neutered Certificate: The owner shall present to and file
with the city at the time of securing a license required under this chapter, a
certificate of a licensed veterinarian that the dog has been spayed or
neutered.
      2.    Rabies Vaccination Certificate: A certificate of a licensed
veterinarian shall set forth that any dog licensed under this section shall
have had a rabies shot or booster shot within the last thirty six (36) months.
(2004 Code)
   C.    Fees:
      1.    Annual Fees: The annual fee for such license shall be as follows,
which fees may be amended in the future by resolution passed by the mayor and
city council:
   Male or spayed female dog   $ 5.00
   Unspayed female dog   15.00
   (Ord. 19, 1971; amd. 2004 Code)
      2.    Time Of Payment: Said sum shall be paid to the city treasurer of
the city during the month of January each year. This payment shall entitle the
owner or harborer to a receipt from the city treasurer designating the owner's
name and the number of the license issued.
      3.    Late Payment:
         a.    If such license tax is not paid during the month of January,
such owner or harborer shall, in addition to the license fee, pay the
additional sum of five dollars ($5.00).
         b.    Any person acquiring a dog subsequently to the month of January
and before July 1 shall pay a full year's license fee, and any person acquiring
a dog subsequently to July 1 shall pay a license fee of one-half (1/2) of the
full year's license.
   D.    Exceptions: No license shall be required for dogs under three (3)
months of age. (Ord. 19, 1971)
4-2-2: RECORDS KEPT:
The city treasurer shall keep a suitable record of the licenses issued, and
make the same available to law enforcement officials, and shall furnish to said
officials a list of the numbers on which licenses have not been renewed and the
names of the owners or harborers of dogs for which licenses have been given.
(Ord. 19, 1971; amd. 2004 Code)
4-2-3: INOCULATIONS REQUIRED:
When advised by the state or county board of health that there is a danger of
rabies or hydrophobia or when a law enforcement official is of the opinion that
there is such danger, he shall publish in three (3) successive issues of the
official newspaper of the city a notice requiring the owner of any dog within
the city to have such dog vaccinated against rabies or hydrophobia and the
owners of such dogs within the city shall, as soon as possible, have such dogs
vaccinated and shall keep such dog securely confined in a pen or enclosure for
a period of thirty (30) days. At the time such vaccination the veterinarian
vaccinating the dog shall issue a tag as provided in subsection
4-2-1B2 of this chapter and such tag shall be affixed to the collar of the dog.
It shall be the duty of every law enforcement officer to take and destroy any
dog whose owner has not had such dog vaccinated as herein provided. (Ord. 19,
1971; amd. 2004 Code)
4-2-4: PROHIBITED ACTS OR CONDITIONS:
The City of Hauser hereby adopts the following codes and standards and shall
enforce them with regard to animal control in the incorporated areas of the
City of Hauser:
Chapter Adopted: Kootenai County Code Title 5, Chapter 1, as it exists and as
it may be amended by the Board of Commissioners, with the exception of Kootenai
County Code Title 5, Chapter 1, Section 5.1.104, so long as any such amendments
are not in conflict with the Hauser City Code. Anything in the County's Code
notwithstanding, the licensure of dogs and payment of fees shall remain as set
forth in Hauser City Code, Title 4, Chapter 2, Section 1 (Hauser City Code 4-2-
1.) (Ord. 199, 6-8-2021)
4-2-5: IMPOUNDMENT:
It shall be the duty of the law enforcement agency contracted with by the city
for animal control purposes to impound any dog in violation of the provisions
of this chapter and to hold such dog as provided for under current procedures.
(Ord. 19, 1971; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SHORT-TERM RENTALS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Purpose
4-3-2: Definitions
4-3-3: License And Permit Required
4-3-4: Standards
4-3-5: Violations; Penalties
4-3-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this Chapter is to establish regulations for the use of
residential dwellings as short-term rentals to safeguard the public health,
safety and general welfare, to protect the integrity of the City's
neighborhoods, to establish a system to track the short-term rental inventory
in the City, to ensure compliance with local ordinances and laws, and to allow
private property owners the right to fully and efficiently utilize their
property without undue regulation or interference.
   B.   Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed so as to nullify or override
any prior and/or current lease agreements, or covenants, conditions, and
restrictions applicable to any property within the City of Hauser that may
prohibit or restrict such property's use for short-term rental purposes. (Ord.
197, 1-12-2021)
4-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
 
AUTHORIZED AGENT:     A person or entity who manages real property owned by
                      another person or entity.
                      The pamphlet available to property owner(s) for
GOOD NEIGHBOR POLICY: distribution to occupants and/or responsible parties in
                      regard to the use of short-term rentals within the City
                      of Hauser.
OCCUPANT:             The person or persons who contract with the responsible
                      party for use of short-term rental.
OWNER:                The person(s) or entity(ies) which hold the fee interest
                      to the real property underlying any residential dwelling.
                      A single unit providing complete and independent living
                      facilities, including permanent provisions for living,
                      sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation. Tents,
                      recreational vehicles, campers, and similar units not
RESIDENTIAL DWELLING: designed for permanent residential use are included in
                      this definition. Any accessory dwelling unit (ADU) is
                      also considered a residential dwelling. A principal
                      dwelling and its associated ADU may not both be rented
                      out concurrently as short-term rentals.
                      The owner of a residential dwelling being used as a
                      short-term rental, as well as any person designated by
                      the owner who is responsible for compliance with this
                      chapter of the Hauser City Code. A responsible party may
                      also be an authorized agent. The responsible party shall
                      provide for the maintenance of the property and ensure
                      compliance by the occupant and any guests with the
                      provisions of this chapter, or any other applicable law,
RESPONSIBLE PARTY:    rule, or regulation pertaining to the use and occupancy
                      of a short-term rental. The owner of the property shall
                      not be relieved of responsibility or liability for
                      noncompliance with the provisions of this chapter, or any
                      other applicable law, rule, or regulation pertaining to
                      the use and occupancy of a short-term rental because of
                      the designation of another responsible party. All
                      responsible parties shall be at least twenty-one (21)
                      years old.
                      A residential dwelling which is rented for thirty (30)
                      days or fewer, and which is sometimes referred to as a
                      "vacation rental." This term does not include a bed-and-
SHORT-TERM RENTAL:    breakfast facility, an RV park or campground, or a hotel
                      or motel. Recreational vehicles, tents, or other
                      temporary dwellings are also included in this definition.
                      (Ord. 197, 1-12-2021)
 
4-3-3: LICENSE AND PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Business License And Permit Required: All owners who offer, rent, or
advertise their residential dwelling(s) as short-term rental(s) must apply for
and be granted a business license and short-term rental permit prior to
occupancy of the short-term rental. A short-term rental permit is valid only
for the residential dwelling identified in the application. An applicant shall
file a separate application and obtain a separate permit for each residential
dwelling to be used as a short-term rental. A short-term rental permit is non-
transferable.
   B.   Short-Term Rental Permit: The application for a short-term rental
permit shall include:
      1.   The owner's legal name, date of birth, contact telephone number,
both physical and mailing addresses, and email address;
      2.   If the short-term rental is to be operated or managed by someone
other than the owner, the name, date of birth, contact telephone number, both
physical and mailing addresses, and email address for a responsible party with
day-to-day authority and/or control over the short-term rental;
      3.   The address of the short-term rental;
      4.   The signatures of the owner and other responsible party, if any,
agreeing and acknowledging that they are jointly responsible for the compliance
by the occupant and any guests with all applicable laws, rules, and regulations
pertaining to the use and occupancy of the short-term rental, and for any
unreasonable noise, disturbances or disorderly conduct by the occupant and/or
guests while utilizing the property of the short-term rental; and,
      5.   Any fee established by resolution of the City Council.
   C.   If any information required by subsections B.(1) through B.(4) hereof
changes, a Responsible Party shall promptly advise the City. If the fee in B.
(5) changes, it shall not affect any permits already issued, but shall be
applied prospectively for future permit applications.
   D.   Short-term rentals are not a grandfathered use. All short-term rentals
in the City must have a permit to operate.
   E.   A short-term rental permit expires on December 31st of each year;
PROVIDED, if the residential dwelling identified in the application is sold or
title is otherwise transferred, the permit shall automatically expire upon the
transfer of title and the new owner must apply for a new permit. (Ord. 197, 1-
12-2021)
4-3-4: STANDARDS:
   A.   Duties Of Owner(s) Or Responsible Party:
      1.   The owner(s) or responsible party must comply with all license,
permit, and notification provisions of this Chapter.
      2.   A responsible party must be available twenty-four (24) hours per
day, seven (7) days per week, for the purpose of responding within sixty (60)
minutes to complaints regarding the condition of the short-term rental or the
conduct of the occupant of the short-term rental and/or their guests.
      3.   A responsible party shall obtain the name, address, and contact
number or each occupant of a short-term rental.
      4.   A responsible party shall provide the information required in this
section to the City at the City's request, if available.
      5.   A responsible party, upon notification that any occupant or guest
has created any unreasonable noise or disturbance, engaged in disorderly
conduct, or committed a violation of any applicable law, rule or regulation
pertaining to the use and occupancy of a short-term rental, shall promptly
respond in an appropriate manner within sixty (60) minutes and require an
immediate halt to the conduct. Failure of the responsible party to respond in
an appropriate manner within sixty (60) minutes shall constitute a violation of
this Chapter.
      6.   A responsible party shall prepare a written notice, and shall mail
or deliver the noticed to all residents and owners of property abutting or
across the street from the short-term rental, which notice shall state the
intent to operate a short-term rental and the number of bedrooms that will be
rented to overnight guests, and include information on how to contact the
responsible party by phone.
      7.   A responsible party shall post on or near the front door of the
short-term rental a notice which includes the address of the rental, emergency
contact numbers, and a diagram showing emergency exit route(s).
   B.   Information Provided To Occupants:
      1.   At the time of each occupancy of the unit, the responsible party
shall provide to the occupant of a short-term rental the following:
         a.   A current copy of the short-term rental permit;
         b.   The name and contact number of all responsible parties;
         c.   A copy of any good neighbor policies published by the City;
         d.   A notice of the trash pick-up day, and applicable rules and
regulations pertaining to leaving or storing trash on the exterior of the
dwelling; and
         e.   Parking locations and requirements.
   C.   Occupancy:
      1.   The maximum number of overnight guests occupying a short-term rental
shall not exceed twice the number of permitted bedrooms of the unit.
      2.   Guests of an occupant may use a short-term rental only when an
occupant is present and may not stay overnight.
      3.   A responsible party may rent either the entire residential dwelling
or one (1) room of the residential dwelling to an occupant. Under no
circumstances shall a responsible party rent individual rooms in a short-term
rental to different occupants for the same night or nights.
   D.   Parking.
      1.   All occupants and guests of short-term rentals shall, to the
greatest extent possible, utilize any off-street parking.
   E.   Signs and Advertising.
      1.   All signs for any short-term rental shall comply with Title 8,
Chapter 5 of the Hauser City Code.
      2.   The street number of a short-term rental shall be posted in
accordance with Fire Departments IFC requirements.
      3.   All Advertising for the short-term rental(s) shall include the City
permit number and the maximum number of vehicles accommodated by off-street
parking spaces.
   F.   Trash.
      1.   The short-term rental property shall, at all times, be kept in a
neat and sanitary condition, in compliance with the requirements of Title 3,
Chapter 1 of the Hauser City Code. (Ord. 197, 1-12-2021)
4-3-5: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Violations. Any violation of the prior chapters of this title shall be
subject to the penalties described herein.
   B.   Penalties.
      1.   For a first offense, the owner shall be subject to a civil penalty
of three hundred dollars ($300.00).
      2.   For any subsequent offense, the owner shall be subject to a
misdemeanor, pursuant to section 1.28.010 of this Code.
      3.   In addition to any other remedy or procedure authorized by law, for
three (3) or more violations of or failure to comply with any of the standards
in this Chapter in a calendar year, the City Clerk or his/her designee may
revoke any or all of the owner's permits and, in addition, may order that no
new permit shall be issued for up to three (3) years pursuant to the following
procedures.
         a.   Prior to the revocation of any permit or the denial of a permit
for repeated violation of the provisions of this Chapter, written notice of the
reasons for such action shall be served on the owner and/or responsible party
in person or by certified mail at the address on the permit application.
Revocation shall become final within ten (10) days of service unless the owner
and/or responsible party appeals the action. The owner and/or responsible party
shall provide the appeal in writing to the City Clerk or his/her designee
within ten (10) days of receipt of the notice. The written notice of appeal
must state the reasons for the appeal and the relief requested.
         b.   Should the owner and/or responsible party request an appeal
within the ten (10) day period, the City Clerk or his/her designee shall notify
the owner and/or responsible party in writing of the time and place of the
hearing.
         c.   Appeals shall be heard by a neutral hearing officer designated by
the City.
         d.   For good cause shown, the hearing officer may affirm or reverse
the decision to revoke a permit. The hearing officer may affirm, reverse, or
modify a decision to deny a new permit for upon a showing of good cause. (Ord.
197, 1-12-2021)
TITLE 5
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Adoption Of State Law
5-1-2: Speed Limits
5-1-3: U-Turns Prohibited
5-1-4: Parking Restrictions
5-1-5: Traffic Violations; Fines
5-1-1: ADOPTION OF STATE LAW:
That certain document, one copy of which is on file in the office of the city
clerk, designated and marked as the Idaho motor vehicle laws, rules of the
road, chapters 5, 6 and 7, current edition, published by authority of the Idaho
department of law enforcement, be and the same is hereby adopted as the motor
vehicle code of the city for the regulation of motor vehicles within the city.
(Ord. 43, 10-17-1977; amd. 2004 Code)
5-1-2: SPEED LIMITS:
The speed limits for vehicles utilizing any roads within the incorporated city
limits shall be twenty five (25) miles per hour. (Ord. 93, 9-11-1991; amd. 2004
Code)
5-1-3: U-TURNS PROHIBITED:
Drivers of vehicles are hereby prohibited from making U-turns on any city
street between intersections, and are hereby prohibited from such reverse turns
or U-turns within any intersection, when such traffic movements are posted with
signs indicating the prohibition. (Ord. 34, 6-19-1978; amd. 2004 Code)
5-1-4: PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.    Prohibited Parking:
      1.    Temporary Zones: Law enforcement is hereby authorized to indicate
temporary zones where vehicles shall not be parked when, in the opinion of said
officer or the mayor it is necessary to temporarily prevent the parking of
vehicles on any city street or portion of such street. Appropriate signs or
barricades shall be posted at such places. It shall be unlawful for any person
to park a vehicle at such time and at such designated places. Law enforcement
is hereby authorized to remove such illegally parked vehicles and the owner
thereof shall pay the cost of such removal.
      2.    Loading And Unloading: No motor vehicles shall be parked on any
city streets except for the purposes of loading or unloading, which shall be
done as expeditiously as possible and shall not exceed thirty (30) minutes
elapsed time in any one block unless a special permit is obtained from law
enforcement. (Ord. 34, 6-19- 1978; amd. 2004 Code)
      3.    No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the
direction or a police officer or traffic control device, in any of the
following places:
         a.    Alongside or adjacent to any street excavation or obstruction
when stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
         b.    At any place where official signs prohibit such parking or
stopping.
      4.    No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into
any such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
   B.    Penalties: It shall be unlawful for any individual to violate any of
the provisions of this section. Any person found violating any provisions of
this section shall be issued a citation and assessed a fee of fifteen dollars
($15.00), payable to the city treasurer within thirty (30) days from the date
of issuance. If, within thirty (30) days following the issuance of such
citation the assessment has not been paid, a misdemeanor complaint will be
issued to the violator, if found guilty, and he will be fined not less than
thirty dollars ($30.00) nor more than three hundred dollars ($300.00). (Ord.
34, 6-19-1978)
5-1-5: TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS; FINES:
   A.    Violations: Any person violating any of the traffic or parking
provisions set out in this code shall have committed an infraction unless other
penalty is provided by state law, and, upon being found to have violated a
provision of this code, shall be penalized as allowed by state law. (Ord. 104,
7-10-1996)
   B.    Fines: Any person violating any of the parking provisions set out in
this code is assessed the following charges for each violation:
Parking:
 In a handicapped zone                    $100.00
 In alley or in front of driveway         15.00
 Over 30 minutes in loading zone          15.00
 By a fire hydrant                        15.00
 Opposing traffic                         15.00
 Violation of parking lot use regulations 25.00
 Parking on roadway                       25.00
 In a no parking zone                     15.00
 Other                                    15.00
 
(Ord. 104, 7-10-1996; amd. Res. 2012-01, 4-11-2012)
   C.    Citation Procedures: Any law enforcement officer or other person
designated by the city observing any of the foregoing violations shall issue a
ticket describing such violation and the charge assessed for the violation to
the person committing the violation. Law enforcement is authorized to refrain
from instituting a prosecution charging the person with an infraction or, where
applicable, a misdemeanor if such person pays the charge herein assessed to the
ticket track within fourteen (14) days of the violation.
   D.    Vehicle Ownership Prima Facie Evidence:
      1.    In any prosecution against the registered owner of a motor vehicle
charging a violation of any regulation governing the standing or parking of a
vehicle under any ordinance of the city, proof that the particular vehicle
described in the complaint was parked in violation of any such ordinance,
together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was, at the time
of parking, the registered owner of the vehicle shall constitute prima facie
evidence that the registered owner of the vehicle was the person who parked or
placed the vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which the
violation occurred. For the purposes of this subsection, proof that a person is
the registered owner of a vehicle is not prima facie evidence that the
registered owner has violated any other provision of law. Proof of a written
lease or of rental agreement for a particular vehicle described in the
complaint on the date and time of the violation, which lease or rental
agreement includes the name and address of the person to whom the vehicle is
leased or rented, shall rebut the prima facie evidence that the registered
owner was the person who parked or placed vehicle at the time and place where
the violations occurred.
      2.    In any prosecution against the lessee or renter of a motor vehicle
charging a violation of any regulation governing the standing or parking of a
vehicle under any ordinance of the city, proof that the particular vehicle
described in the complaint was parked in violation of any provision of this
section, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was, at
the time of parking, the lessee or renter of the vehicle, shall constitute
prima facie evidence that the lessee or renter of the vehicle was the person
who parked the vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, the
violation occurred. For the purposes of this subsection, proof that a person is
the lessee or renter of a vehicle is not prima facie evidence that the lessee
or renter has violated any other provision of this law.
      3.    Any charge under this section shall be dismissed when the person
charged has made a bona fide sale or transfer of the vehicle, has delivered
possession thereof to the purchaser, and has complied with the requirements of
Idaho Code title 49, chapter 4 prior to the date of the alleged violation and
has advised the court of the name and address of the purchaser and the date of
the sale. (Ord. 104, 7-10-1996)
CHAPTER 2
MOTOR VEHICLES ON CITY LAND
SECTION:
5-2-1: Purpose
5-2-2: Definitions
5-2-3: Conduct Declared Unlawful
5-2-4: Signage
5-2-5: Investigations And Complaints
5-2-6: Citations For Use Of Motor Vehicle
5-2-7: Penalty
5-2-1: PURPOSE:
The citizens of the city value engaging in recreational activities in a
tranquil setting. Motorized vehicles used in proximity to persons engaged in
recreational activities compromise the health and safety of such persons. The
city is authorized to regulate the use of the lands owned by the city whether
that land is within the limits of the city, or, as provided in section 50-222
of the Idaho Code, outside of its corporate limits. (Ord. 138, 11-14-2007)
5-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise indicates, the following
terms shall have these meanings:
EMERGENCY VEHICLE: A motor vehicle owned, leased, controlled, or operated by
the city, by Kootenai County, by the state of Idaho, by the United States, or
by a municipal corporation incorporated within the state of Idaho, and used for
fire control, law enforcement, or medical services.
LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: A person authorized by the city, Kootenai County, the
state of Idaho, or the United States to enforce the laws of their respective
jurisdiction.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every device which is self-propelled including automobiles, dune
buggies, trucks, motorcycles, mopeds, scooters, four-wheelers, and snowmobiles.
Devices which are moved solely by human power and motorized wheelchairs are not
motor vehicles.
MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR: A device powered by a battery, capable of a speed not in
excess of eight (8) miles per hour, and designed for and used by a handicapped
person.
RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES: Walking, running, wildlife viewing, biking, roller
skating, skateboarding, cross country skiing.
RECREATIONAL AREA: Land owned, leased, or controlled by the city and designated
by the city for recreational activities.
SERVICE VEHICLE: A motor vehicle owned, leased, or used by the city, or by an
authorized representative or agent of the city, to perform maintenance,
cleaning, construction, or improvements on a trail or within a recreational
area.
SIGN: A sign placed, constructed, or installed at the direction of the city in
or near an area designated by the city as a recreational area or trail giving
notice that no motor vehicles are permitted within the designated recreational
area or on the designated trail.
TRAIL: A strip of land owned, leased, or controlled by the city, located within
or outside of the corporate limits of the city and designated by the city for
recreational activities. (Ord. 138, 11-14-2007)
5-2-3: CONDUCT DECLARED UNLAWFUL:
   A.    It is unlawful to use or operate a motor vehicle on land owned,
leased, or controlled by the city and designated by a resolution enacted by the
city council declaring such land as a trail or recreational area, provided that
motorized wheelchairs, service vehicles, and emergency vehicles may be lawfully
used on such trail or recreational area.
   B.    It is unlawful to remove, deface, damage, or destroy a sign in, on, or
near a recreational area or trail. (Ord. 138, 11-14-2007)
5-2-4: SIGNAGE:
Upon or near any land designated the city council as a recreational area or
trail, the city may post one or more signs reasonably calculated to give notice
that motor vehicles are not permitted within the recreational area or trail.
(Ord. 138, 11-14-2007)
5-2-5: INVESTIGATIONS AND COMPLAINTS:
Upon receipt of a complaint alleging the illegal use of a motor vehicle within
a recreational area or on a trail, or the removal, defacing, damaging, or
destroying of a sign, a law enforcement officer is authorized to investigate
the complaint to determine if there has been a violation of this chapter. (Ord.
138, 11-14-2007)
5-2-6: CITATIONS FOR USE OF MOTOR VEHICLE:
Any law enforcement officer observing or determining that a violation of
subsection 5-2-3A of this chapter has occurred shall issue a citation
describing such violation and allowing the person cited to post and forfeit the
sum of: a) three hundred dollars ($300.00) for a first offense, b) four hundred
dollars ($400.00) for a second offense, c) five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a
third offense by paying such amount to the city clerk within thirty (30) days
of issuance of the citation. If such amount is not timely posted and forfeited,
the person charged shall be required to appear in court to answer the charge.
For over three (3) offenses, the person charged shall not be permitted to post
and forfeit bond, and the law enforcement officer shall issue a citation
requiring the person charged with the offense to appear in court in answer to
the citation. (Ord. 138, 11-14-2007)
5-2-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined not more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00), imprisoned not more than thirty (30) days, or both fined
and imprisoned. (Ord. 138, 11-14-2007)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
ROAD NAMES AND ADDRESSES
SECTION:
6-1-1: General Provisions
6-1-2: Implementation And Responsibilities
6-1-3: Performance Standards
6-1-4: Signing
6-1-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.    Authority: This chapter is authorized under the provisions of Idaho
constitution article 12, section 2, and by Idaho Code title 50, chapter 13, and
title 67, chapter 65, as amended or subsequently codified.
   B.    Purpose: This chapter further implements portions of the city
comprehensive plan and supplements the city development code 1 . Its purpose is
to provide the residents of the city with a uniform and standardized system of
road naming and addressing to:
      1.    Minimize future road name and addressing conflicts.
      2.    Provide a database for city and county records and enhanced 911
service.
      3.    Expedite property identification by emergency services.
      4.    Comply with U.S. postal addressing standards.
   C.    Applicability: This chapter shall apply to all property and to all
public and private roads in the city. (Ord. 114, 4-14-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8 of this code.
6-1-2: IMPLEMENTATION AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.    The city code administrator shall have the responsibility of
implementing, enforcing and maintaining the addressing and road naming
standards as defined by this chapter.
   B.    Property owners are responsible for placing alphanumeric
identification and for erecting private road signs in accordance with the
detailed performance standards in section
6-1-4 of this chapter. Posting of addresses and road names must be done within
a twelve (12) month time frame after effective date hereof and all new
developments shall be issued addresses at the time of permit approval. (Ord.
114, 4-14-1999)
6-1-3: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   A.    Address Grid: All addresses will be based upon the countywide quadrant
definitions for compatibility. All addresses in the city are in the northwest
quadrant of Kootenai County. The county is divided into four (4) quadrants with
the division point beginning at the southwest corner of section 13, township 50
north, range 4 west B.M., being approximately the intersection of Northwest
Boulevard and Government Way in the city of Coeur d'Alene. The northwest
quadrant is further defined as to the north, from the point of beginning as
defined above, to the county's north boundary and to the west, from the point
of beginning as defined above down the center of the Spokane River to the
county's west boundary.
   B.    Road Designations: Designation of roads within the city shall be in
accordance with the following guidelines, except in the case of existing and
recorded road designations:
      1.    All named roads that extend from incorporated areas into
unincorporated areas shall retain the same name except in the case of
duplication or noncompliance with this chapter.
      2.    Roads which have a definite north-south directional course shall be
designated as a "street". Roads which have a definite east-west directional
course shall be designated an "avenue".
      3.    Roads which do not have a definite directional course shall be
designated as a "road", "drive", "trail", "way" or "lane".
      4.    A dead end road or cul-de-sac less than one thousand feet (1,000')
in length, when not an extension of an existing road or a continuation of a
proposed road, shall be called a "court".
      5.    A road that has its ingress and egress on the same road shall be
designated a "loop".
      6.    A road that circles back upon itself shall be designated as a
"circle".
      7.    Special scenic routes or park drives may be designated "parkway".
      8.    A newly established road, which has less than a one hundred twenty
five foot (125') centerline alignment offset from an existing road, shall
continue the same road name. A newly established road, which has more than a
one hundred twenty five foot (125') centerline alignment offset from an
existing road, shall adopt a new name.
      9.    Duplicate road names are prohibited. Existing duplicated names
shall be corrected in accordance with these performance standards.
   C.    Addressing Along Roads: Addressing along city roads shall be based on
the quadrant grid as defined in subsection A of this section.
      1.    Address numbers will run consecutively to the north, south, east
and west from the point of beginning.
      2.    From the point of beginning, one thousand six hundred (1,600)
address numbers will be added as each section line is crossed (approximately
1,600 per mile).
      3.    All addresses shall be defined with a direction letter (N, S, E, W)
following the address number, pursuant to the grid defined in subsection A
(example: 16400 N. Hauser Lake Road).
      4.    Even numbers shall appear on the south and east side of roads and
waterways, and odd numbers on the north and west sides.
      5.    If a building or mobile home park has a number of entrances each
serving a separate occupant(s), then each entrance shall be assigned an
address. If whole numbers are exhausted, half numbers shall be utilized.
      6.    Mobile home parks and multi-family dwelling structures with one
main entrance shall be assigned one number with the owner of the park or
structure responsible for the individual numbering of each unit. Addressing of
the individual apartments or mobile homes within the structure shall be based
upon the postal addressing standards, publication 28, dated August 1995.
      7.    Circle and loop road direction designations shall be determined by
the road's predominate direction. Numbering shall start either at its north
intersection point with a north-south primary road, or at its west intersection
point with an east-west primary road and shall continue, according to the grid,
in a clockwise direction, as if the road were straight.
      8.    Properties with structure(s) which are accessed by a driveway shall
be assigned an address at the point where the driveway intersects a road.
      9.    If a road accesses three (3) or more properties, it shall be
assigned a road name and the structures shall be addressed in accordance with
these standards.
      10.    Properties accessed by a common right of way or easement with two
(2) or fewer living units or business structures shall be assigned an address
at the point where the right of way or easement intersects a public or private
road.
   D.    Road Naming Policy: "Roads" are defined as all vehicle paths of travel
serving three (3) or more properties, residences or businesses. Driveways or
other vehicle paths of travel serving less than three (3) properties,
residences or businesses shall not be named, to reduce administrative costs and
potential confusion for emergency service providers. In selecting road names,
consideration shall be given to the following:
      1.    Centerline alignment road name standards of subsection B8 of this
section shall be observed for noncontinuous roads, unless there is no
possibility for extension of the road to make it a continuous through road.
      2.    There shall be no duplication of existing names. Kootenai County
shall assemble, update and maintain an official list of all road names
throughout the county for use by all jurisdictions.
      3.    Names of similar pronunciation and/or spelling shall be prohibited
(example: Briar Lane, Brier Lane).
      4.    Variations of the same name with a different road designation shall
be prohibited within the first word of the two (2) word title or in the road
extension (example: Pine Road, Pine Drive, Pine Lane).
      5.    No road name shall consist of more than two (2) words or contain
more than fourteen (14) letters, excluding the road direction (N, S, E, W) and
extension (street, lane, court, etc.).
      6.    No road shall have more than one name.
      7.    No road name shall contain the words north, south, east or west, or
any combination thereof, within the road name.
   E.    Naming Of New Roads Or Naming Of Existing Unnamed Roads: Any new road
to be established within the city, public or private, or any existing unnamed
road, public or private, shall require a road name approved by the mayor and
city council.
      1.    In the case of plats, road names shall be specified on the final
plat map.
      2.    In the case of other new roads or naming of unnamed roads, the
mayor and city council will assign a road name in accordance with these
standards. Recommendations made by residents of the road and community at large
may be given considerable weight.
   F.    Renaming Of Existing Duplicated Road Names: Where duplicate names
exist, roads shall be immediately renamed by the mayor and city council to
eliminate the duplication. The mayor and city council will decide which roads
shall be renamed with consideration to the following criteria:
      1.    When the road was originally named.
      2.    The number of improved properties served by the road.
      3.    Other factors as deemed appropriate by the city council. When a
road name is duplicated by a road outside the city, the city shall work with
the county to decide which road shall be renamed.
   G.    Renaming Of Roads: In cases where property owners request to change
the name of a road which has an existing city approved name, the property
owners may petition the city to change such road name.
A petition must be presented no later than fifteen (15) days prior to the
regularly scheduled city council hearing, and contain the signatures of at
least fifty one percent (51%) of the property owners abutting the road under
consideration. Changing road names is deemed an administrative function, and
therefore, does not require a public hearing. Road names shall not be changed
more frequently than once every five (5) years. (Ord. 114, 4-14-1999)
6-1-4: SIGNING:
   A.    Physical Address Numbers: Physical address numbers shall be clearly
readable from the roadway, and shall contrast with background color pursuant to
the international fire code 1 . If a structure is more than seventy five feet
(75') from the road, or is otherwise not clearly visible from the road, its
address shall be posted at the intersection of its access road and public or
private road. The address sign shall be no less than four feet (4') nor more
than six feet (6') above the ground on a substantial, maintained support
structure. The view of the address from the road must be unobstructed and
maintained.
   B.    Road Signs: Road signs shall be placed between six (6) and eight feet
(8') above the roadway, clearly visible at intersections. All primary letters,
numbers and symbols shall be a minimum of four inches (4") in height, with a
one-half inch (1/2") stroke, and shall be reflectorized and contrasting with
the background color of the sign in accordance with the manual of uniform
traffic control devices. Public road signs shall be green with white lettering.
Private road signs shall be blue, with white letters. All public and private
road signs shall be constructed and installed to the standards of the city and
shall include the road name and address number derived from the grid.
   C.    Road Sign Installation Standards: Standards for installation of road
signs is guided by the manual for uniform traffic control devices; however,
some additional criteria are needed to define specific circumstances:
      1.    Sign visibility requirements are set at a height of five feet (5')
minimum in rural areas and seven feet (7') in urban areas above the pavement.
      2.    Road signs placed for public roads shall be set by the city and
shall meet the requirements of these standards.
      3.    Road signs may be mounted on the stop or yield sign posts with an
approved bracket and after receiving approval from the city or if applicable,
the Post Falls highway district or Idaho transportation department. (Ord. 114,
4-14-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  7-1-1 of this code.
TITLE 7
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES 1
SECTION:
7-1-1: International Codes Adopted
7-1-2: Issuance Of Permits; Duties Of Permit Applicant
7-1-3: Certification Of Occupancy
7-1-4: Fees For Building Permits And Associated Services
7-1-5: Structure Moving Requirements
7-1-6: Manufactured Home Setting Permits; Requirements
7-1-7: Manufactured Home Setting Permits; Additional Requirements
7-1-8: Appeals From Administrative Rulings
7-1-9: Remedies And Penalties
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 39-4116.
7-1-1: INTERNATIONAL CODES ADOPTED:
The following nationally recognized codes are adopted as the official building
codes of the City of Hauser:
A.   Building Codes:
   1.   2015 International Building Code
   2.   2017 Idaho Residential Code (2012 IRD parts I. II. Ill and IX with
Idaho amendments)
   3.   2017 Idaho Energy Conservation Code (2015 IECC commercial provisions &
2012 IECC residential provisions with Idaho amendments)
   4.   2015 International Existing Building Code
   5.   IDAPA 07.03.01 - RULES OF BUILDING SAFETY.
      a.   Idaho administrative rules containing the amendments to the above
codes, at https://dbs.idaho.gov/rules/2018/2018BuildingStatutesRulespkt.pdf
      b.   Free read only access to the code at https://codes.iccsafe.org/
public/collections/ID
B.   Plumbing Code:
   1.   Idaho State Plumbing Code based on the 2015 Uniform Plumbing Code.
   2.   Free read only access at :http://wwww.iampo.org/Pages/
IdahoPlumbingCode.aspx
   3.   Rules Governing Plumbing Safety IDAPA 07.02.02-07.02.07 https://
dbs.idaho.gov/rules/2017/2017_Plumbing_Statutes_Rules_pkt.pdf
C.   Electrical Code:
   1.   2017 NEC, including amendments as listed in IDAPA 07.01.06.
   2.   IDAPA Electrical Administrative Rules - 07.01.01 - 07.01.11
   https://dbs.idaho.gov/rules/2017/2017_Electrical_Statutes__Rules_pkt.pdf
D.   Mechanical Codes:
   1.   2012 International Mechanical Code - IDAPA rule 07.07.01.004
   2.   2012 International Fuel Gas Codes-IDAPA rule 07.07.01.005
   3.   2012 International Residential Code Parts V & VI - IDAPA rule
07.07.01.006
 
   4.   The rules are located in the following link: https://dbs.idaho.gov/
rules/2017/2017 HVAC  Statutes Rules pkt.pdf
E.   Elevator Code:
   1.   ANSI/ASME A17.1 2010. Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators
   2.   ANSI/ASME A 17.2 2007 Guide for Inspection of Elevators. Escalators, &
Moving Walks.
   3.   ANSI/ASME A17.3 2008 Safety Code for Existing Elevators and Escalators.
   4.   ANSI/ASME A 17.4 1999 Guide for Emergency Personnel.
   5.   ANSI/ASME A17.5 2004 Elevator and Escalator Electrical Equipment.
   6.   ANSI/ASME A 17.6 2010 Standard for Elevator Suspension, and Governor
Systems.
   7.   ANSI/ASME A17.7 2007 Performance-based-Safety Code for Elevators and
Escalators.
   8.   ANSI/ASME A 18.1 2008 Safety Standards for Platform Lifts and
Chairlifts.
   9.   ASME QE - 1 2010 Standard for the Qualification of Elevator Inspectors.
   10.   IDAPA 07.04.02 - Safety Rules for Elevators, and Moving Walks. Idaho
administrative rules amend the above codes see page 2 (marked page 16) at
https://dbs.idaho.gov/rules/2017/2017_Elevator_Statutes_Rules_pkt.pdf
F.   Fire Code (administered by the Idaho State Fire Marshall): 2015 edition
International Fire Code, see http://www.doi.idaho.gov/SFM/ (Ord. 192, 3-10-
2020)
7-1-2: ISSUANCE OF PERMITS; DUTIES OF PERMIT APPLICANT:
An applicant for a building permit or other construction permit as governed by
this chapter shall be responsible, in presenting his/her application for a
permit, for showing that the activity to be carried out pursuant to the
requested permit meets the following standards:
   A.    Complies with this code, northwest energy code, fuel gas installer's
licensing requirements ordinance, and all other applicable ordinances of the
city.
   B.    Complies with the international building and residential code
application requirements.
   C.    Has received final approval on a variance, conditional use permit,
temporary hardship, final subdivision plat, or zone change if one is required.
   D.    Has received necessary water, sewer, and health permits from Panhandle
health district or other relevant agencies.
   E.    Has received an access, approach, or encroachment approval from the
city or the Post Falls highway district (when applicable), and the fire
district (when applicable), providing service to the site upon which the permit
has been requested.
   F.    For mobile manufactured home setting permits, has received approval
from Kootenai County assessor's appraisal division, verifying that appropriate
taxes have been paid.
   G.    For pole barns, log homes, steel structures or other alternate
building systems not tested and approved by the National Evaluation Service,
Inc., or the International Conference Of Building Officials Evaluation Service,
Inc., or the International Code Council Evaluation Service, Inc., have plans
approved and stamped by a design professional licensed in the state of Idaho.
   H.    Commercial, industrial, educational, assembly buildings and their site
plans shall be designed by a licensed Idaho design professional. The site plan
for any of these buildings include, but are not limited to, distances to the
property line and/or other buildings, easements, provisions of site disturbance
requirements, driveways, approaches, and parking. (Ord. 177, 4-10-2013)
7-1-3: CERTIFICATION OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.    Prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy the applicant shall
provide final approval signatures from other agencies also performing
inspection services on that particular project including, but not limited to,
the fire district, the highway district, the Panhandle health district, or
other sewer districts, the state electrical inspector, the state plumbing
inspector, the state building inspector, the Idaho department of health and
welfare, the department of lands, and the U.S army corps of engineers. All
approval signatures from the above mentioned agencies are at the discretion of
the building official. (Ord. 177, 4-10-2013)
7-1-4: FEES FOR BUILDING PERMITS AND ASSOCIATED SERVICES:
Fees for building permits and related building department services shall be set
by resolution by the city council.
Building valuation obtained from the building valuation data, published by the
International Conference Of Building Officials (ICBO) "Building Standards"
magazine each year, shall be used to determine valuation of construction. Such
valuation shall become effective on January 1, of the calendar year following
the ICBO publication. Discontinuance of said publication will result in the use
of the last valuation data and computations of local and national construction
statistics to determine fair market value of fees to be charged. (Ord. 177, 4-
10-2013)
7-1-5: STRUCTURE MOVING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.    Any person desiring to move an existing structure, excluding a
manufactured home, to a location within the incorporated areas of Hauser shall
obtain the following inspections and permits prior to initiating moving
activities.
      1.    Premove Inspection: The person or firm who will be the owner of the
structure when it is placed on its destination site, hereinafter the
destination owner, shall arrange for a code compliance inspection with the
jurisdiction having code enforcement responsibilities at the premove location
of the structure, prior to initiating the move. The results of said inspection
shall be supplied by the owner to the city of Hauser building official. Upon
receipt of the inspection report, the city of Hauser building official shall
inform the person or the firm requesting the premove inspection what
corrections will be necessary before occupancy of the relocated structure will
be allowed. Said requirements may be referred to by an itemized list or by
reference to the inspection report submitted by the premove jurisdiction.
      2.    Moving Permit: Permission to move the structure in question into or
within the city of Hauser may be granted by the building official if the
following conditions have been met satisfactorily:
         a.    An acknowledgment has been received from the destination owner
that code compliance requirements will be met prior to occupancy of the
relocated structure.
         b.    Copies of permits to use public rights of way for movement of
the structures have been obtained from all public agencies having
responsibility for the rights of way to be used in the move. Any bonds or
surety requirements associated with the use of the public right of way for
movement of the structure shall be obtained and submitted to the transportation
agency(ies) responsible for regulation of pertinent rights of way prior to
issuance of the permits required herein. The city of Hauser shall not be
responsible for security of the move in any manner.
         c.    A building permit for all improvements to be installed upon the
destination site shall be obtained prior to initiating the move. Adequate plans
and accessory permits from special purpose districts serving the destination
site shall be provided as same would be required for completely new
construction on the destination site.
         d.    Nothing in the process of permit review for structures to be
moved shall excuse the destination owner from his responsibility to repair any
damage caused by movement of the structure, prior to occupancy.
         e.    Notification of moving date and route shall be made to the fire
protection district(s) and all other emergency services dispatch centers before
and during the move. (Ord. 177, 4-10-2013)
7-1-6: MANUFACTURED HOME SETTING PERMITS; REQUIREMENTS:
Although actual construction standards for manufactured homes are enforced by
the Idaho department of building and safety, a setting permit shall be required
prior to placement of a manufactured home within the incorporated areas of the
city of Hauser. Placement of a manufactured home shall mean the installation of
said structure on a foundation or similar support system and/or its connection
to water or sewer facilities, electricity, gas, telephone, cable television, or
similar services, or initiation of its use as a residence or for a
residentially related purpose. To obtain a setting permit or manufactured home
foundation permit, the applicant shall apply for a class I permit from the city
of Hauser code administrator. (Ord. 177, 4-10-2013)
7-1-7: MANUFACTURED HOME SETTING PERMITS; ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
When the manufacturer requires footings to be installed according to their
direction, such information shall be provided to the building department. A
footing inspection prior to the placement of concrete will be required.
Manufactured homes and mobile homes that are to be converted to real property
shall comply with section 44-2201(2) of the Idaho state code. When the
manufacturer's direction for footings do not meet the minimum requirements of
the Idaho state code for converting manufactured homes and mobile homes to real
property, then Idaho state code will have precedence.
All other footings for manufactured homes and mobile homes that are not
required to be set according to manufacturer's instructions, or that are not to
be converted to real property, will comply with the National Fire Protection
Association (NFPA) 501.A. (Ord. 177, 4-10-2013)
7-1-8: APPEALS FROM ADMINISTRATIVE RULINGS:
Appeals from administrative orders made by the building official may be
appealed in accordance with the procedures contained in the standardized codes
adopted by this chapter and with such additional procedures as may be adopted
by order of the city council. (Ord. 177, 4-10-2013)
7-1-9: REMEDIES AND PENALTIES:
The primary purpose of this chapter shall be to obtain compliance with the
standardized codes adopted to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the
public. To that end, the building official may seek to use the following
remedies as may be appropriate to see that these chapter provisions are
enforced:
   A.    Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter, or of the
standardized codes adopted pursuant to this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   B.    A separate violation is deemed to have occurred with respect to each
building or structure not in compliance with the codes adopted herein.
   C.    The building official, with the consent of the Hauser city council,
may seek equitable relief from a court of competent jurisdiction to restrain
conduct in violation of this chapter or to compel performance of duties
established by this chapter. Said equitable remedies may be sought in addition
to criminal penalties.
   D.    The assessment of investigation fees will be one hundred percent
(100%) of the actual permit fee and will also apply to mobile manufactured home
setting permits.
   E.    Whenever the building official has determined that an applicant has
abandoned the project for which a permit was obtained, or that the applicant
has failed to obtain a certificate of occupancy as required by this chapter, or
if the building official determines that an applicant has failed to comply, or
refuses to comply, with provisions of this chapter, then the building official
may issue a notice and order directed to the record owner of the property
stating the nature of the noncompliance with this chapter. If the record owner
of the property has not provided proof of compliance with this chapter within
the time limit established by this chapter, then the building official may file
in the office of the county recorder a certificate describing the property and
certifying that the property is not in compliance with this chapter and that
the owner has been so notified. The building official shall comply with the
following procedures before recording a notice and order in the office of the
county recorder.
   F.    The building official may elect to use any, or all, or any combination
of, the remedies and penalties set forth in this chapter:
      1.    Notice And Order: The building official may issue a notice and
order to the record owner of the building. The notice and order shall contain
the following information:
         a.    The street address and a legal description sufficient for
identification of the premises upon which the building is located.
         b.    A statement of the building official containing a brief and
concise description of the conditions found to render the building or premises
in violation of this chapter.
         c.    A statement of the action required to be taken, as determined by
the building official, in order to bring the property into compliance with this
chapter.
         d.    A statement by the building official establishing a reasonable
amount of time, not to exceed sixty (60) days from the date of the notice and
order, to allow the record owner of the property to take such steps as are
necessary in order to bring the property into compliance with this chapter.
         e.    The notice shall advise that any person(s) having record title
or legal interest in the building may appeal from the issuance of the notice
and order, in accordance with the procedural provisions set forth in section
7-1-8 of this chapter. The notice shall also indicate that failure to appeal
will constitute a waiver of all rights to an administrative hearing and
determination of the matter, and that an appeal of the building official's
notice and order must be in writing and must be received by the building
official within twenty eight (28) days of the date the notice and order was
served.
      2.    Service Of Notice And Order: The notice and order, and any amended
or supplemental notice and order, shall be served upon the record owner of the
property and posted on the property. The failure of the building official to
serve any person required to be served shall not invalidate any proceedings
under this section as to any other person duly served or relieve any person
from any duty or obligation imposed on him by the provision of this chapter.
      3.    Method Of Service: Service of the notice and order shall be made
upon all persons either personally or by mailing a copy of such notice and
order by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to each
person entitled to notice at his address as it appears on the last equalized
assessment roll of the county or as known to the building official. If no
address of the person so appears or is known to the building official, then a
copy of the notice and order shall be mailed, addressed to the person, at the
address of the building involved in the proceeding. Service by certified mail
in the manner provided by this chapter shall be effective on the date of
mailing.
      4.    Recordation Of Notice And Order: If the building official's notice
and order is not complied with within the time specified, and no appeal has
been properly and timely filed, the building official may file in the office of
the county recorder, a certificate describing the property and certifying that
the building is not in compliance with this chapter and that the record owner
has been notified of the noncompliance. The certificate shall also contain a
brief and concise description of the nature of the noncompliance and shall
include a statement of the actions required which must be taken in order to
bring the building into compliance with this chapter.
      5.    Release Of Notice And Order: Whenever the building official has
determined that the conditions which caused the building to fail to comply with
this chapter have been corrected, the building official shall file a new
certificate with the office of the county recorder certifying that the
previously recorded notice and order shall be released and that all required
corrections have been made so that the property is in compliance with this
chapter. (Ord. 177, 4-10-2013)
CHAPTER 2
BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Board Created; Appointment
7-2-1: BOARD CREATED; APPOINTMENT:
In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions for determinations
made by the building official relative to the applications and interpretations
of this code, there shall be and is hereby created a board of appeals (board)
consisting of members of the planning commission. The building official shall
be an ex officio member and shall act as secretary to said board but shall have
no vote upon any matter before the board. The board of appeals shall be
appointed by the governing body and shall hold office at its pleasure. The
board shall adopt rules of procedure for conducting its business and shall
render all decisions and findings in writing to the appellant, with a duplicate
copy to the building official. Any appeals of decisions made by the board of
appeals shall be heard and processed by the city council. Copies of all rules
or regulations adopted by the board shall be delivered to the building
official, who shall make them freely accessible to the public. (Ord. 154, 7-8-
2009; amd. Ord. 177, 4-10-2013)
TITLE 8
DEVELOPMENT CODE
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Purpose
8-1-2: Authority
8-1-3: Definitions
8-1-4: Transition From Previous Regulations
8-1-5: Interpretations
8-1-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this title shall be to promote the health, safety and general
welfare of the people of the city and the surrounding area of city impact by
fulfilling the purposes and requirements of the local planning act of 1975 1
and implementing the Hauser Lake comprehensive plan. Specific statements of
purpose accompany selected provisions of this title, but the policy basis for
its requirements is found in the comprehensive plan. (Ord. 159, 6-9-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. IC title 67, chapter 65.
8-1-2: AUTHORITY:
This title is adopted pursuant to the authority granted by the local planning
act of 1975, as subsequently amended. It includes the zoning ordinance required
by Idaho Code 67-6511 and the subdivision ordinance required by Idaho Code 67-
6513. It also fulfills other requirements of the local planning act, including
the provision for variances required by Idaho Code 67-6516, the adoption of
procedures for processing permits required by Idaho Code 67-6519, and the
adoption of a hearing procedure required by Idaho Code 67-6534. (Ord. 159, 6-9-
2010)
8-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
Words in the present tense include the future tense; words in the singular
number include the plural, and words in the plural number include the singular;
the word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary, and the word "may" is
permissive.
In interpreting the words contained in this title, terms include both singular
and plural forms; i.e., building includes buildings. Except where otherwise
indicated, terms include their derivatives; i.e., adjacent includes adjoining.
Any dispute about the meaning of a term shall be resolved using the appeals
procedure found in sections
8-10-5 and
8-10-9 of this title.
ACCESSORY: Accessory buildings and uses are those customarily associated with,
and clearly subordinate to, a principal building or use. One single-family
dwelling located on a commercial or industrial property, and occupied by the
owner, a manager or a guard, shall be considered a customary accessory use.
ADJACENT: Includes all lots or parcels that directly border the lot or parcel
on which a development is proposed, and all lots or parcels separated from that
lot or parcel by only a public or private easement or right of way, including
roads, railroads and irrigation canals.
ADMINISTRATOR: The city employee or contractor responsible for the
administration of this title.
AFFECTED PERSON: A person or legal entity having an interest in real property
which may be adversely affected by city action.
AGRICULTURE: Agricultural lands are land uses suitable for farming and
agricultural pursuits. Agriculture pursuits are the tilling of soil,
horticulture, floriculture, forestry, viticulture, raising crops, livestock,
farming, dairying and animal husbandry including all uses customarily accessory
and incidental thereto; but excluding slaughterhouses, fertilizer works, bone
yards and commercial feedlots.
AMENDED PLAT: A plat that has minor corrections or modifications.
BOCC: The Kootenai County board of commissioners, the county's chief elected
officials.
BUFFER: Two (2) different kinds of buffers are required by this title:
Subsection 8-3A-4B of this title requires stream and lakeshore buffers, which
are minimally disturbed areas of a specified width (see subsection 8-3A-4B,
table 1 of this title) along streams or the lakeshore. Section
8-3B-6 of this title requires landscaped buffers, which are landscaped areas of
a specified width (see subsection 8-3B-6B, table 3 of this title) surrounding
certain uses.
BUILDING: As used in this title, refers to any structure.
BUILDING BULK: The bulk of buildings may be measured and compared in terms of
floor area ratio (the ratio of the total area of floors on all levels in the
building to the total area of the lot or parcel on which it is located) and/or
total volume enclosed within the building.
BUILDING HEIGHT: See definition of Height.
CERCLA: The comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability
act, the federal superfund legislation: 42 USC 9601-9675, as amended, and as it
may be amended (includes SARA, the superfund amendment and reauthorization act
of 1986).
CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE: A certificate of compliance is issued upon the
completion of a use or building and any accompanying improvements required by
this title. See subsection 8-10-2H of this title.
CITY COUNCIL: The elected governing board of the city of Hauser.
CLEAN WATER ACT: 33 USC 1251-1387, as amended, and as it may be amended.
CLEAR VISION TRIANGLE: A triangular area in which objects that would block the
vision of drivers at an intersection or driveway are prohibited.
CLUSTER: A pattern of development designed to concentrate building on the most
suitable sites and preserve open space. Buildings concentrated together in
specific areas to minimize infrastructure and development costs while achieving
the allowable density. Allows the preservation of natural open space for
recreation, common open space and preservation of environmentally sensitive
features. See section
8-3E-4 of this title.
COMMERCIAL: The "general commercial zone" is a land use classification for a
district suitable for wholesale and retail sales and services. Any use that
includes an outdoor or only partially enclosed work and/or materials handling
and/or storage yard shall be considered industrial.
COMMERCIAL RESORT: A privately owned, outdoor recreation area operated for
profit. A commercial resort may include permanent facilities for overnight or
seasonal living, camping areas, recreational vehicle parks, and limited
commercial activities associated with convenience goods and services that serve
to enhance the primary recreational use or activity. A commercial resort
requires a class II permit and shall meet the following minimum standards:
   A.    Minimum Contiguous Area: Five (5) acres.
   B.    Permitted Activities: Activities permitted must be compatible with the
recreational activities of a resort and may include outdoor facilities for
swimming, boat launching, boat rentals, fishing, camping, picnicking, skiing,
snowmobiling, lawn tennis, volleyball, badminton, golf, and horseback riding.
Other outdoor activities not specified may be permitted only if the activities
are a part of the operation of a resort.
   C.    Limited Commercial Uses: Limited commercial uses are permitted as
accessory uses and are incidental to the overall operation of the resort.
Limited commercial uses that are permitted in a commercial resort must meet the
class II performance standards. Limited commercial uses permitted may include,
but are limited to, uses that are associated with the operation of the resort:
convenience food store, restaurant, bar, retail fuel service, recreational
vehicle park (see definition of Recreational Vehicle Park Performance Standards
herein), motel, hotel, camping facility, laundry facility, retail sales shops
for sporting equipment, souvenirs, and art and handicraft items associated with
the operation of the resort.
   D.    Prohibited Uses: General commercial wholesale and retail sales and
services not directly associated with the activities of a commercial resort are
prohibited.
   E.    Conditions: The city may attach such reasonable conditions as the
record indicates may be necessary to visually screen, control dust, manage
traffic, buffer adjoining uses, or to mitigate effects on water and air
quality.
COMMISSION: The Hauser planning and zoning commission established by section
8-10-1 of this title.
COMPATIBILITY: Land uses need not be identical to be compatible, but must be
sited, designed, constructed and used in such a way that the normal functions
and operation of neighboring uses do not seriously conflict, and so that their
appearance is harmonious.
COMPLIANCE: For the purposes of this title, "compliance" means that a
development: a) complies with all of the performance standards of chapter 3 of
this title; b) where applicable, meets all conditions imposed on its approval,
or the approval of a larger project of which it was a part; and c) where
applicable, meets all conditions of a development agreement executed as
provided in subsection 8-4-4B of this title.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The Hauser Lake comprehensive plan, as amended, and as it
may be amended.
COVERAGE: This title refers to two (2) types of coverage: impervious coverage
is the percent of a lot or parcel that is covered by rooftops, paved roads and
other surfaces that prevent the direct infiltration of precipitation or runoff
into the soil (see section
8-3E-5, table 5 of this title); lot coverage is the percent of a lot or parcel
covered by structures.
CURRENT DESIGN STANDARDS: For the purposes of this title, the most recent
standards promulgated by the Panhandle district health department and DEQ.
DEQ: The department of environmental quality, Idaho department of health and
welfare.
DEVELOPMENT: Used as a generic term covering any and all activities for which a
permit is required by this title. The "developer" is, by definition, the owner
of the parcel on which a development is proposed, but owners may appoint a
representative for all proceedings required by this title.
DWELLING: A building whose primary use is for residential purposes, including
single-family, two-family, and multi-family structures, but not including
hotels, motels, and boarding houses.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building, or a portion thereof, containing at
least three (3), but not more than four (4), dwelling units.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: See definition of Single-Family Dwelling.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY, OR DUPLEX: A site built structure containing two (2)
dwelling units which have either: a) a common interior wall or b) a common
roofline with a common exterior wall.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms physically arranged so as to create a
habitable housekeeping unit that includes sleeping, eating, and sanitary
facilities for occupancy by one family.
FILL: A solid material which increases the ground surface elevation or the act
of depositing such material by mechanical means.
FINISHED GRADE (FINAL GRADE): The finished surface of the ground after grading
for development is completed.
FLOODPLAIN: This term is synonymous with "special flood hazard area", as
defined in section
8-6-2 of this title.
GRADING: Any movement of earth for the purposes of changing the shape or
topography of the land. Movement of earth includes, but is not limited to,
grading, fill, and redistribution of earth.
GROUP HOMES: For the purpose of any zoning law, ordinance or code, the
classification "single-family dwelling" shall include any group residence in
which eight (8) or fewer unrelated mentally and/or physically handicapped or
elderly persons reside and who are supervised at the group residence in
connection with their handicap or age related infirmity. Resident staff, if
employed, need not be related to each other or to any of the mentally and/or
physically handicapped or elderly persons residing in the group residence. No
more than two (2) of such staff shall reside in the dwelling at any one time.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: As defined in section
8-3A-3 of this title.
HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from the average finish grade of the
building site, as determined from the highest and lowest point of that portion
of the lot covered by the building, to the highest point of the roof, and
subject to all provisions of subsections 8-3C-1C and 8-3C-3B of this title.
HOME OCCUPATION: A commercial activity conducted in a dwelling or a building
accessory to a dwelling. Home occupations, by definition, comply with the
performance standards of section
8-3B-4 of this title.
IBC: The international building codes 1 , published by the International
Conference Of Building Officials.
IDAHO LAKE PROTECTION ACT: Idaho Code 58-1301 et seq.
IDAHO STREAM CHANNEL PROTECTION ACT: Idaho Code 42-3801 et seq.
LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT: A project that will contain thirty (30) or more
residential lots or units.
LIGHT INDUSTRIAL: The "light industrial zone" is a land use classification for
a district suitable for manufacturing and processing of a nonnuisance
character. The purpose of the light industrial zone is to encourage the
development of manufacturing and wholesale business that is clean, quiet, and
free of noise, odor, dust, and smoke. Any use that includes an outdoor or only
partially enclosed work and/or materials handling and/or storage yard shall be
considered industrial. Light industrial uses are allowed in the Rathdrum
Prairie zoning district.
LIVESTOCK: Large livestock are cows, horses, pigs, sheep, goats or other
animals in excess of fifty (50) pounds, with the exception of dogs not bred for
commercial purposes. Small livestock are rabbits, birds and other animals less
than fifteen (15) pounds, with the exception of dogs not bred or boarded for
commercial purposes.
LOT: Used as both a generic term for a development site, and to refer to any
parcel of land created and described by a record of survey or plat.
LOT SPLIT: The creation of any parcel of land of less than one hundred sixty
(160) acres but more than ten (10) acres for the purpose of sale, lease, rental
or development. Incremental and multiple lot splits to avoid subdivision
regulations as defined in subsections 8-3C-6B and C of this title are
prohibited.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A manufactured single-family dwelling located outside of a
mobile home park that shall meet the criteria delineated below:
   A.    The manufactured home shall be multisectional and enclose a space of
not less than one thousand (1,000) square feet;
   B.    The manufactured home shall be placed on an excavated and backfilled
foundation and enclosed at the perimeter such that the home is located not more
than twelve inches (12") above grade, except when placed on a basement
foundation;
   C.    The manufactured home shall have a pitched roof, except that no
standards shall require a slope of greater than a nominal three feet (3') in
height for each twelve feet (12') in width;
   D.    The manufactured home shall have exterior siding and roofing which in
color, material and appearance is similar to the exterior siding and roofing
material commonly used on residential dwellings within the community or which
is comparable to the predominant materials used on surrounding dwellings as
determined by the local permit approval authority;
   E.    The manufactured home shall have a garage or carport constructed of
like materials if zoning development codes would require a newly constructed
nonmanufactured home to have a garage or carport.
MINIMIZE: To demonstrate that no alternative plan for the proposed development
will result in a smaller impact.
MINOR UTILITY INSTALLATION: Includes cable television, electric power and
telephone cables and transmission lines, and natural gas pipelines that serve
the area through which they are routed. Also includes transformer boxes and
other minor appurtenances to those transmission lines or pipelines. Other
utility installations are industrial uses.
MOBILE HOME: A factory assembled structure or structures constructed prior to
June 15, 1976, and equipped with the necessary service connections and made so
as to be readily movable as a unit or units on their own running gear and
designed to be used as a dwelling unit or units with or without a permanent
foundation. Mobile homes are limited to existing mobile home parks and shall
meet current electrical, mechanical and plumbing standards.
MOBILE HOME PARK, EXISTING: A mobile home park that was in existence prior to
July 26, 1993, and has been in continual operation since July 26, 1993. These
parks are defined as any area or site or land upon which two (2) or more mobile
homes or manufactured homes are placed and maintained for dwelling purposes,
either on a permanent or semipermanent basis.
   A.    Agency Approval: All existing and future mobile home parks and
proposed expansions thereto shall have the approval of applicable agencies,
including, but not limited to: Panhandle health district for sewage disposal,
the Hauser fire district for emergency services, access and water availability,
Post Falls highway district for access onto highway district roads, U.S. army
corps of engineers in or adjacent to a designated wetlands, lakeshore or stream
corridor and the department of lands as applicable.
NONCONFORMING: A nonconforming use or building in compliance with the
regulations that existed at the time of its development, but would not comply
with this title if submitted for approval after the effective date hereof. The
degree of nonconformity is the measured extent to which an existing building or
use fails to comply with the requirements of this title. For example, the
degree of nonconformity of a parking lot that has four (4) spaces, but serves a
use requiring nine (9), is five (5) parking spaces. No change in the
nonconforming building could be permitted that would reduce the number of
parking spaces, because that would increase the degree of nonconformity.
NOTICE OF VIOLATION: A notice of the existence of any violation of any
provision of this code to which these rules pertain, issued by the
administrator.
OCCUPANCY: The use of a building or lot.
OPEN SPACE: Undeveloped land left in its natural state with passive
recreational uses as a secondary objective. Open space may be maintained under
the authority of a municipality, nonprofit conservation organization, land
trust, homeowners' association or an individual. Open space shall contain the
following features:
   A.    Areas free from structures.
   B.    Areas that limit the amount of impervious surfaces.
   C.    Areas that shall have native vegetation to encourage wildlife habitat.
   D.    Areas prohibiting motorized activity.
OUTDOOR MATERIAL HANDLING OR STORAGE: Stockpiling, storage, processing or
packaging of materials for any reason (it need not be for commercial use),
including the long term storage of construction materials and inoperative
machinery or vehicles, that is not enclosed in a building and that is visible
from a public street.
PLAT: The legal map describing a subdivision.
PUBLIC SERVICE PROVIDER: A "potentially affected public service provider" is
any local agency, including special districts, that provides any public
facility or service that may possibly be affected by a proposed development.
State law specifically states that school districts are potentially affected
public service providers.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle used for temporary recreational or emergency
living quarters. More specifically, recreational vehicle means a motor home,
fifth wheel, park trailer, travel trailer, truck camper or camping trailer,
with or without motive power, designed for human habitation for recreational or
emergency occupancy. The term recreational vehicle shall not include pickup
hoods, shells, or canopies designed, created or modified for occupational
usage. School buses or van type vehicles which are converted to recreational
use, are defined as recreational vehicles. Specific classes of recreational
vehicles are defined as follows:
   A.    The term "motor home" shall mean a vehicular unit designed to provide
temporary living quarters, built into an integral part of or permanently
attached to a self-propelled motor vehicle chassis. The vehicle must contain
permanently installed independent life support systems which meet the American
National Standards Institute (ANSI) A119.7 standard for recreational vehicles,
and provide at least four (4) of the following facilities: cooking,
refrigeration or icebox, self-contained toilet, heating and/or air
conditioning, a portable water supply system, including a faucet and sink,
separate 110-125 volt electrical power supply and/or LP gas supply.
   B.    The term "travel trailer" shall mean a vehicular unit, mounted on
wheels designed to provide temporary living quarters for recreational, camping,
travel or emergency use and of such size or weight as not to require special
highway movement permits when towed by a motorized vehicle.
   C.    The term "fifth wheel trailer" shall mean a vehicular unit equipped in
the same manner as a travel trailer but constructed with a raised forward
section that allows a bilevel floor plan. This style is designed to be towed by
a vehicle equipped with a device known as a fifth wheel hitch, which is
typically installed in the bed of a pickup truck.
   D.    The term "park trailer" shall mean a trailer designed to be towed by a
motorized vehicle, and of such size and weight as not to require a special
highway movement permit. It is designed for seasonal or temporary living
quarters and may be connected to utilities necessary for operation of installed
fixtures and appliances. It is built on a single permanent chassis and
constructed to permit setup by persons without special skills.
   E.    The term "fold down camping trailer" shall mean a vehicular portable
unit mounted on wheels and constructed with collapsible partial side walls,
which fold for towing by another vehicle and unfold at the campsite to provide
temporary living quarters, for recreational, camping or travel use.
   F.    The term "truck camper" shall mean a portable unit constructed to
provide temporary living quarters for recreational, travel or camping use,
consisting of a roof, floor, and sides, designed to be loaded onto and unloaded
from the bed of a pickup truck, and containing at least one of the following
facilities: stove; refrigerator or icebox; self-contained toilet; heater or air
conditioner; potable water supply including a faucet and sink; separate 110-125
volt electrical power supply; or LP gas supply.
For purposes of this chapter recreational vehicles on private property outside
of a recreational vehicle park shall meet the following standards:
   A.    The recreational vehicles shall have current registration and shall be
in serviceable condition so it can be operated in a safe and lawful manner upon
the roads and highways in the state of Idaho as set forth in the Idaho motor
vehicle laws of the state of Idaho. The RV shall not be set on blocks with the
tires or running gear removed.
   B.    No decks or additions shall be attached to the RV, nor shall the RV be
skirted.
   C.    The RV shall not be used as a dwelling. The owners must have a primary
residence other than the RV. There shall be no mail service to this type of
use. An RV may be used as a dwelling for the owners of the property during
construction of a dwelling on the same property as the RV site. Upon completion
of the residence or expiration of the building permit for the residence, the
use of the RV shall revert to the temporary or intermittent use as allowed
under this provision.
   D.    The RV must be hooked into a sewage disposal system which meets the
requirements of the Panhandle health district, or shall be either totally self-
contained and removed from the site to empty holding tanks at an approved
location as necessary, or have a contract for sewage pumping service to avoid
spills. Unlawful sewage disposal shall result in an infraction that will be
assessed against the property owner.
   E.    The RV shall not be used as a rental property.
   F.    RVs located in floodplains must comply with chapter 6, "Flood Damage
Prevention", of this title.
   G.    A class I permit that may be subject to conditions of approval is
required for recreational vehicles that are temporarily located on private
property that are:
      1.    The second or additional recreational vehicle(s) on the property.
      2.    On the property more than fourteen (14) consecutive days.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: These parks are any area or site or land upon which
two (2) or more recreational vehicles as defined by Idaho Code title 63 are
placed and maintained for dwelling purposes on a temporary recreational or
emergency basis. All recreational vehicle parks shall be required to meet class
II permit procedures and performance standards. Any expansion of an existing
nonconforming park that existed prior to July 26, 1993, shall be required to
meet class II permit procedures and performance standards.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK PERFORMANCE STANDARDS: A. Intent: The intent of these
standards is for temporary, emergency or recreational living quarters and not
permanent or year round housing. Recreational vehicle parks require a class II
permit.
   B.    Accessory Uses: Management headquarters, recreational facilities,
toilets, dumping stations, coin operated laundry facilities, and other
convenience establishments are permitted as accessory uses incidental to the
operation of the recreational vehicle park.
   C.    Separation Requirement: Recreational vehicles shall be separated from
each other and from other structures by at least ten feet (10'). Any accessory
structures, such as attached awnings or carports, shall, for the purpose of
this separation requirement, be considered to be part of the recreational
vehicle.
   D.    Parking Pad Material Requirement: Each recreational vehicle lot/space
shall contain a stabilized vehicular parking pad composed of paving, compacted
crushed gravel, or other all weather material.
   E.    Interior Drives; Approval Required: Interior drives in recreational
vehicle parks which enter and exit onto a public road must be approved by the
city or applicable highway district or state transportation department.
   F.    Screening Required: Fences, walls, or vegetative screening shall be
provided at the property lines of a recreational vehicle park where the park
adjoins adjacent lands that are zoned or used for residential purposes. In
particular, extensive off street parking areas and service areas for loading
and unloading purposes other than for passenger uses and areas for storage and
collection of refuse shall be screened.
   G.    Internal Roads; Parking Service Areas: Internal roads and parking
service areas shall provide safe and convenient access for service and
emergency vehicles and to amenities within the recreational vehicle park.
Internal roads shall not be designed to encourage use by outside traffic to
traverse the recreational vehicle park to adjoining developed areas.
   H.    Off Street Parking: Each recreational vehicle lot shall have one off
street vehicle parking space.
   I.    Wheel Removal Prohibited: Any action toward removal of wheels of a
recreational vehicle, except for temporary purposes of repair or to attach the
recreational vehicle to the grounds for stabilizing purposes, is prohibited.
   J.    Occupancy Limitations: Occupancy of a recreational vehicle park space
by a particular recreational vehicle shall be limited to March 1 through
October 31 not to exceed a maximum of fourteen (14) consecutive days.
Additional rental space usage in the park exceeding fourteen (14) consecutive
days require a class I permit that may be subject to conditions of approval. A
recreational vehicle park owner shall retain records available for inspection
by the city that delineate the license of each vehicle, length of stay and
permanent residency of each park space vehicle other than the recreational
vehicle occupancy compliance. The owner shall also retain records of sewage
pumping for the city and the Panhandle health district and present to the city
upon request.
   K.    Site Plan: A site plan shall be submitted upon application for a
permit with a north arrow and date of drawing, showing uses and structures
which are proposed. Said plan shall include adequate information to clearly
depict existing and proposed structures and their uses, existing and proposed
roads, easements, points of access, recreational vehicle lot dimensions, number
of acres in site, dimensions of property lines, property line setbacks,
reserved or dedicated open space, major landscape features (both natural and
manmade), locations of existing and proposed utility lines, accessory off
street parking and loading facilities, parking space areas, wastewater drain
field area, traffic circulation patterns, refuse and service areas, signs,
outdoor storage, and fences, yards, or wall or vegetative screening.
   L.    Agency Approval: All existing and future recreational vehicle parks
and proposed expansions thereto shall have the approval of applicable agencies,
including, but not limited to: Panhandle health district for sewage disposal,
the Hauser fire district for emergency services, access and water availability,
Post Falls highway district for access onto highway district roads, U.S. army
corps of engineers in or adjacent to a designated wetlands, lakeshore or stream
corridor and the department of lands as applicable.
   M.    Current Registration: The recreational vehicle shall have current
registration and shall be in serviceable condition so it can be operated in a
safe and lawful manner upon the roads and highways in the state of Idaho as set
forth in the Idaho motor vehicle laws of the state of Idaho. The RV shall not
be set on blocks with the tires or running gear removed.
   N.    Attached Additions; Skirting: No decks or additions shall be attached
to the RV, nor shall the RV be skirted.
   O.    Use As Dwelling Prohibited: The RV shall not be used as a dwelling.
The owners must have a primary residence other than the RV. There shall be no
mail service to this type of use.
   P.    Sewage Disposal: The RV must be hooked into a sewage disposal system
which meets the requirements of the Panhandle health district, or shall be
either totally self-contained and removed from the site to empty holding tanks
at an approved location as necessary, or have a contract for sewage pumping
service to avoid spills. Unlawful sewage disposal shall result in an infraction
that will be assessed against the recreational vehicle park owner.
   Q.    Rental Property Use Prohibited: The RV shall not be used as a rental
property.
   R.    Location In Floodplains: RVs located in floodplains must comply with
chapter 6, "Flood Damage Prevention", of this title.
REPLAT: The process by which a previously recorded subdivision plat, or portion
of a plat, is modified.
RUNOFF, EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL PLAN: A runoff, erosion and
sedimentation control plan is prepared by a qualified person or firm with
experience in runoff, erosion and sedimentation control, such as a civil
engineer, landscape architects or certified professional erosion and sediment
control specialists (SEEP). These plans show how the performance standards of
section
8-3A-5 of this title will be met. Specifically, a runoff, erosion and
sedimentation control plan uses maps, plans, drawings and narrative to:
   A.    Identify runoff and erosion hazard areas (slopes, highly erodible
soils, etc.) on the site, and wetlands, watercourses and facilities, both on
the site and downstream, that are vulnerable to damage from accelerated runoff,
erosion and sedimentation;
   B.    Show how the site will be graded, including the timing and sequence or
phasing of the grading;
   C.    Show which vegetative and/or structural techniques for runoff, erosion
and sedimentation control will be used; and
   D.    Show how runoff, erosion and sedimentation control measures will be
maintained.
   E.    A runoff, erosion and sedimentation plan may also be required to
include a monitoring program.
   F.    All maps, plans and drawings included in the runoff, erosion and
sedimentation plan must be coordinated with the site plan 2  for the
development and generally comply with the provisions of impervious coverage
delineated in section
8-3E-5, table 5 of this title, and with the best management plan criteria and
engineering standards of the department of environmental quality.
SENSITIVE AREAS: Includes wetlands, lakeshore and stream corridors, slopes
greater than fifteen percent (15%), and the critical open space areas
identified on the future acquisitions map adopted in subsection 8-2-4A of this
title.
SETBACK: The distance between the property line and the outer wall, at grade,
of the principal building on the same lot. The space within that distance is
called a yard.
   A.    The front setback is measured from the lot line paralleling a public
street to the principal building. Corner lots have two (2) front yards.
   B.    The rear setback is measured from the rear lot line to the principal
building. The rear lot line is parallel, or more or less parallel, to the
street. Corner lots have two (2) rear yards, but may treat either as a side
yard for the purposes of this title.
   C.    The side setback is measured from the side lot line to the principal
building.
SEWERAGE: The entire system (mains, treatment plant, etc.) used to treat sewage
wastes.
SIGN: Any object or structure used to identify, advertise or in any way attract
or direct attention to any use, building, person or product by any means,
including, but not limited to, the use of lettering, words, pictures and other
graphic depictions or symbols. Specific types of signs are defined in chapter 5
of this title.
SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING: A detached building designed for occupancy by one
family. Also includes group homes, as required by Idaho Code 67-6530 et seq.
(See definition of Group Homes.) Recreational vehicles and travel trailers are
not single-family dwellings, and shall not be used as such.
SITE PLAN: A scaled drawing, or a series of such drawings, that illustrates all
those details of a proposed development needed to demonstrate compliance with
this title, including the location of prominent natural features on and
adjacent to the site; existing and proposed property lines; existing and
proposed easements; existing and proposed utilities; the location and exterior
dimensions of existing and proposed buildings; the location, size and
circulation pattern in existing and proposed parking areas; existing and
proposed roads and trails; proposed buffers, including a grading and planting
plan for any proposed landscaping; and all other features of the site and
proposed development that are relevant to compliance with this title. Where an
erosion and stormwater runoff control plan is required, the site plan must be
prepared on a detailed topographic base.
SKYLINING: A building is "skylined" if it is constructed on a ridgeline or
hilltop where it is visible, from the critical perspective (i.e., from Hauser
Lake or a public road) against a background of only the sky.
STREAM: Any watercourse with a defined channel, perennial or intermittent.
First order streams are those which are unbranched, i.e., which are not
downstream from any other tributary stream. Second order streams are the
combination of two (2) or more first order streams, and third order streams are
the combination of two (2) or more second order streams, and so on.
STREAM CORRIDOR: Area to be left undeveloped on either side of a stream. See
subsection 8-3A-4B of this title for dimensions and exceptions. This title also
establishes lakeshore corridors.
STRUCTURE: Any object, including mobile objects, constructed or installed by
man, including, but not limited to, buildings, towers, cranes, smokestacks,
earth formations, liquid storage tanks, fences and overhead transmission lines.
For the purposes of this title, this definition is synonymous with "building".
SUBDIVISION: Division of a parcel into two (2) or more lots, parcels or
development sites for the purpose of sale, lease, rent or development for which
a permit is required by this title. Lot splits, as defined by this section, are
allowed for properties over ten (10) acres.
USE: See definition of Occupancy.
VARIANCE: According to Idaho Code 67-6516, a variance is a modification of the
requirements of the development code as to lot size, lot coverage, width,
depth, front yard, side yard, rear yard, setbacks, parking space, height of
buildings, or other development code provisions affecting the size or shape of
a structure or the placement of the structure upon lots, or the size of lots.
Land use cannot, by definition, be varied.
VEGETATIVE FILTER STRIP: A densely vegetated area that lies between a source of
runoff and a drainageway (artificial or natural), stream, or lake, and that
has, due to its slope, vegetative cover and width, the capacity to serve as a
"sink" for sediment and other potential pollutants.
VIEW: The range of vision from a residence whose loss or curtailment would
result in the reduction of economic value of a residence according to generally
accepted real estate appraisal practices.
WELLHEAD PROTECTION: An area surrounding wells, springs and wetted recharge
areas, as defined by the department of environmental quality.
WETLANDS: As defined in the current federal manual for identifying and
delineating jurisdictional wetlands.
WETTED RECHARGE AREAS: An area where a stream, like the Hauser Lake outfall,
debouches onto the Rathdrum Prairie and its flow is infiltrated into the
Rathdrum Prairie Aquifer. (IDAPA 58.01.11.200.1, as amended.) (Ord. 159, 6-9-
2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  7-1-1 of this code.
2 1. See definition of Site Plan in this section.
8-1-4: TRANSITION FROM PREVIOUS REGULATIONS:
   A.    Conflicting Ordinances: All prior ordinances are repealed to the full
extent of their inconsistency with this title.
   B.    Vested Rights: Vested rights insulate developments from the
potentially adverse impacts of changing regulations.
      1.    A vested right to proceed with development initiated prior to the
adoption of this title may be established by:
         a.    Having obtained a building permit in compliance with all
provisions of the previous regulations (such vested rights expire with the
permit or, where construction has not been diligently pursued, 2 years after
the effective date hereof); or
         b.    Having recorded a final plat or obtained final approval of a
preliminary plat in compliance with all provisions of the previous regulations.
Prior recording of a final plat establishes a vested right to develop and sell
lots precisely as they are described on that plat. The development or
subsequent division of the lots must comply with this title. Prior approval of
a preliminary plat establishes a vested right to proceed with final platting
and development of the subdivision precisely as it was approved. Such vested
rights expire with the preliminary plat approval or, if a final plat has not
been recorded, two (2) years after the effective date hereof. The development
or subsequent division of the lots must comply with this title.
      2.    Vested rights to proceed with development initiated in compliance
with this title (which may, of course, be amended) may be established only by
obtaining a class I or class II permit in compliance with its requirements.
Such vested rights expire with the permit or, where such an agreement is
approved, the development agreement. Vested rights are established for a
development precisely as it was approved. Any change from the approved plans
must be in compliance with the current version of this title.
   C.    Private Agreements: Adoption of this title does not nullify easements,
covenants, and similar private agreements, but where any such agreement imposes
requirements less restrictive than those adopted herein, the requirements of
this title shall apply. (Ord. 159, 6-9-2010)
8-1-5: INTERPRETATIONS:
   A.    Most Restrictive Standards: If future ordinances, or state or federal
law, impose additional requirements on activities governed by this title, the
most restrictive shall apply.
   B.    Burden Of Proof: The burden of demonstrating compliance with this
title rests with the developer.
   C.    Minimum Requirements: All requirements of this title shall be
interpreted as the minimum necessary to protect the public health, safety and
general welfare, and implement the local planning act and the Hauser Lake
comprehensive plan. This title is designed for consistency with the
comprehensive plan and should be liberally construed to achieve the purposes
and intent of that plan. (Ord. 159, 6-9-2010)
CHAPTER 2
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
8-2-1: Zoning Districts Established
8-2-2: Zoning Map
8-2-3: Interpretation Of District Boundaries
8-2-4: Future Acquisitions Map
8-2-1: ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
The following zoning districts and their boundaries, as shown on the zoning map
of the Hauser Lake planning area, are hereby established:
      Upper watershed zoning district
      Lake Village zoning district
      Hauser Hills zoning district
      Highway corridor zoning district
      Rathdrum prairie zoning district
(Ord. 97, 7-26-1993)
8-2-2: ZONING MAP:
The zoning map of the Hauser Lake planning area is hereby adopted, by
reference, as part of this title. A copy of that map shall be maintained for
public inspection at the office of the administrator. (Ord. 97, 7-26-1993)
8-2-3: INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
Any person who disputes the location of a zoning district boundary, as
interpreted by the administrator, may appeal the administrator's decision using
the procedure set out in subsection 8-10-5A of this title. (Ord. 97, 7-26-1993)
8-2-4: FUTURE ACQUISITIONS MAP:
   A.    Future Acquisitions Map Adopted: Idaho Code 67-6517 authorizes cities
and counties to adopt a future acquisitions map and specifically authorizes the
use of such a map to facilitate acquisition of proposed parks or other open
spaces. Given that authority, the future acquisitions map of the Hauser Lake
planning area is hereby adopted, by reference, as part of this title. A copy of
that map shall be maintained for public inspection at the office of the
administrator. (Ord. 97, 7-26-1993)
   B.    Effect Of Future Acquisitions Map: Before an application for a permit
to develop a parcel included on the future acquisitions map of the Hauser Lake
planning area is processed, the city shall have sixty (60) days (from the date
of the filing of the application) to negotiate with the owner for the purchase
of an option on the property or the property itself. If the city is unable to
reach an agreement with the owner within sixty (60) days, the application shall
be processed as provided by this title. (Ord. 97, 7-26-1993; amd. Ord. 149, 10-
22-2008)
CHAPTER 3
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS 1
SECTION:
8-3-1: Compliance Required; Exceptions
8-3-2: Applicability To Zoning Districts
8-3-3: Continual Compliance Required
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-1-3 of this title for recreational vehicle park performance standards.
8-3-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.    Compliance Required: Performance standards require or prohibit certain
kinds of performance in developments. Failure to comply with any one
performance standard shall result in rejection of the application for a permit,
except as provided in subsection B of this section.
   B.    Exceptions: The only exceptions to the requirement for compliance with
all performance standards shall be those specifically provided in this title
and those allowed by variance. The variance procedure is explained in
subsection 8-10-5B of this title. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
8-3-2: APPLICABILITY TO ZONING DISTRICTS:
Some of the performance standards adopted in this chapter apply in all zoning
districts, while others apply only in one or more zoning districts. (Ord. 149,
10-22-2008)
8-3-3: CONTINUAL COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
A development must continue to comply with the applicable performance standards
throughout its existence. All permit applications shall be reviewed for
compliance with these standards, the nature of which is explained in this
chapter. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
CHAPTER 3
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
ARTICLE A. NATURAL ASSETS AND NATURAL HAZARDS
SECTION:
8-3A-1: Air Quality Standards
8-3A-2: Water Quality Standards
8-3A-3: Critical And Hazardous Materials
8-3A-4: Sensitive Areas
8-3A-5: Runoff, Erosion And Sedimentation Control
8-3A-6: Rathdrum Prairie Aquifer
8-3A-7: Wildfire Hazards
8-3A-1: AIR QUALITY STANDARDS:
All developments shall comply with state and federal air quality standards.
Developments for which a state or federal air quality permit is required shall:
a) demonstrate compliance with this performance standard by submitting the
approved permit with the application for a permit required by this title; or b)
show that a complete application for the permit has been filed, and accept its
approval as a condition of compliance with this title. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
8-3A-2: WATER QUALITY STANDARDS:
All developments shall comply with state and federal water quality standards.
Developments for which a state or federal permit to discharge is required
shall: a) demonstrate compliance with this performance standard by submitting
the approved permit with the application for a permit required by this title;
or b) show that a complete application for the permit has been filed, and
accept its approval as a condition of compliance with this title. (Ord. 149,
10-22-2008)
8-3A-3: CRITICAL AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS:
For the purposes of these performance standards, the terms "critical" and
"hazardous" materials are defined by the Idaho department of environmental
quality and the Panhandle health district.
   A.    No development that handles, stores, generates or disposes of critical
and/or hazardous materials in the quantities regulated by DEQ or the Panhandle
health district, or state or federal law or regulation, or that may reasonably
be expected to do so, shall be located in the city limits or the area of
impact, except motor vehicles in quantities no greater than five hundred (500)
gallons per development.
   B.    No motor vehicle fuel shall be allowed:
      1.    Within any lakeshore or stream corridor established by this title;
      2.    Surrounding any well, spring or wetted recharge area. Manufacture
of critical and/or hazardous materials and hazardous waste disposal are
prohibited in the city and its area of impact. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
8-3A-4: SENSITIVE AREAS:
   A.    Wetlands: All developments shall comply with state and federal
wetlands protection standards. Developments for which a permit is required by
the Idaho lake or stream channel protection acts and/or the clean water act
(404 permits) shall:
      1.    Demonstrate compliance with this performance standard by submitting
the approved permit with the application for a permit required by this title;
or
      2.    Show that a complete application for the permit has been filed, and
accept approval of that permit as a condition of compliance with this title.
   B.    Lakeshore And Stream Corridors: The lakeshore or stream corridor
includes the 100-year floodplain or special flood hazard area, all wetlands
adjacent to the lake or stream, and the additional buffer area required by
table 1 of this subsection as follows:
   TABLE 1
   STREAM AND LAKESHORE BUFFER WIDTH REQUIREMENTS
   REQUIRED BUFFER WIDTH (IN FEET)
Hauser Lake; Direct Tributaries To The       All Other Streams (Perennial And
Lake; Hauser Lake Outlet                      Intermittent)
Vegetative Cover
                                                      
                Dense                  Other  Dense      Other
Slope To Stream Forest,                Ground Forest,    Ground
                Wet Meadow             Cover  Wet Meadow Cover
                                                       
1.0%            100                    200    50         100
2.0%            141                    282    71         141
3.0%            173                    346    87         173
4.0%            200                    400    100        200
5.0%            224                    447    112        224
6.0%            245                    490    122        245
7.0%            265                    529    132        265
8.0%            285                    566    141        283
9.0%            300                    600    150        300
10.0%           316                    632    158        316
11.0%           332                    663    166        332
12.0%           346                    693    173        346
13.0%           361                    721    180        361
14.0%           374                    748    187        374
15.0%           387                    775    194        387
Required buffer widths for wetted recharge areas are 300 feet.   Notes:1.   The
buffers required by this table begin at: a) the outer boundary of the special
flood hazard area, where one is delineated; b) the outer edge of any wetlands
associated with the lake or stream; c) the high water mark; or d) the outer
boundary of the wetted recharge area. The beginning point of the buffer must be
whichever of these points provides the widest buffer. 2.   No slope greater
than 15 percent may be included in a buffer required by the table. No
impervious surface may be included in a buffer required by this table. For
example, if a buffer is interrupted by a 24 foot wide paved road, the required
buffer width will be increased by 24 feet.3.   A buffer of dense forest cover
has heavy ground litter and numerous interruptions to overland flow (exposed
roots, cradle knolls, etc.). A wet meadow has a dense cover of tall grasses and
forbs that are cut infrequently, if at all, and an uneven surface.4.   The
calculation of the required buffer width in areas where there is not a
relatively uniform slope and/or vegetative cover is illustrated by the
following example: Imagine a situation in the upper watershed where an indirect
tributary to the lake has a narrow floodplain (but no special flood hazard
area) of 30 feet, with a dense vegetative cover, and a slope of 2 percent. It
would take 70 feet of this land type to comprise the required buffer, so 43
percent of the required buffer is provided there. Above the floodplain, imagine
a thinly wooded slope of 12 percent. It would take 346 feet of that land type
alone to provide the required buffer, but 43 percent of the buffer was provided
in narrow floodplain. Only the remaining 57 percent, or 197 feet, needs to be
provided on the slope. The total required buffer width would be 227
feet.5.   Any developer who wishes to dispute the administrator's or
commission's determination of the required buffer width may use the appeal
procedure of subsection 8-10-5A of this title.1. Lakeshore and stream corridors
shall be left in, or restored to, wetlands, riparian or forest vegetation
capable of serving as an effective vegetative filter strip, or left as or
planted to meadow grasses capable of serving as an effective vegetative filter
strip. The only exceptions to this requirement shall be:a. Clearing and grading
to prepare for plantings and other activities required to restore or enhance
wetlands and riparian areas shall be permitted;b. Roads and utility lines may
cross lakeshore and stream corridors, with the number and width of such
crossings being minimized;c. Existing irrigation works (dams, headgates,
ditches, etc.), may be repaired or replaced;d. Boat ramps, piers and docks may
be installed in the lakeshore corridor. Such structures shall disturb no more
than ten percent (10%) or twenty four feet (24'), whichever is less, of the
lake frontage on any lot or site;e. Pedestrian, bicycle and equestrian trails
of a maximum ten feet (10') in width shall be permitted in lakeshore and stream
corridors; andf. No permit shall be approved for any activity listed in
subsections B1a through B1d of this section except where the developer
demonstrates: 1) that all permits required for compliance with the Idaho lake
or stream channel protection acts and/or the clean water act have been
approved; or 2) that complete applications for all such permits have been
filed, and approval of those permits is an accepted condition of compliance
with this title.2. No grazing, feeding or keeping of livestock shall be
permitted within the lakeshore or stream corridor portion of a residential lot
or parcel.3. Developments in special flood hazard areas shall comply with the
detailed performance standards of chapter 6 of this title.4. The restoration
and open space use of lakeshore and stream corridors shall be encouraged.C.
Slopes: The open space use of fifteen percent (15%) to thirty percent (30%)
slopes shall be encouraged. The development of slopes over thirty percent (30%)
has been essentially eliminated, see section
8-3E-5, table 5, of this chapter. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
8-3A-5: RUNOFF, EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL:This performance standard is
substantially revised and supplemented by a detailed definition in chapter 1 of
this title.A. A professionally prepared runoff, erosion and sedimentation
control plan which will completely fulfill its purpose shall be implemented by:
1. All developments in the lake village zoning district within one hundred
fifty feet (150') of a lakeshore, wetlands or stream corridor; and2.
Developments in other zoning districts that: a) disturb, or may reasonably be
expected to result in the disturbance of, a cumulative total of more than one
acre of land with a slope greater than eight percent (8%), or with a high
erosion hazard; b) include one thousand (1,000) or more linear feet of road
crossing a slope greater than eight percent (8%), or with a high erosion
hazard; or c) create a cumulative total of more than ten thousand (10,000)
contiguous square feet of impervious coverage.B. The purpose of the runoff,
erosion and sedimentation control plan shall be to:1. Minimize land disturbance
and maximize the retention of existing vegetation;2. Minimize the area
disturbed by construction at any one time, protect vegetation that is to be
retained from damage by construction activities, and temporarily control
erosion from areas disturbed during construction;3. Promptly, permanently
stabilize all areas disturbed, using revegetation or structural techniques
(vegetative techniques are encouraged: see subsection D of this section);4.
Minimize runoff velocities and prepare on site drainageways to handle the
accelerated rate and increased volume of runoff without increasing channel
erosion;5. Retain the additional volume of runoff generated by development on
site until it can be evaporated, absorbed through an adequate filtering layer
of vegetation and soil and/or released at a rate that does not exceed the
predevelopment rate of release or the capacity of downstream drainageways to
accommodate flow without increasing channel erosion, whichever is less;6.
Protect water quality using detention basins, filter strips and similar
techniques;7. This performance standard also provides for the future
maintenance of runoff, erosion and sedimentation control measures (including
earthwork, plantings and structures), as required by section
8-4-8 of this title. The commission may, with the advice of the DEQ, require a
development to institute a program of monitoring the performance of its runoff,
erosion and sedimentation control measures; and8. Runoff, erosion and
sedimentation control plans, and the design, construction, installation,
planting and maintenance of the measures they propose, shall generally follow
the BMPs (best management practices) of the department of environmental
quality, except that sizing of any grassed infiltration areas to provide for
the infiltration of the first one-half inch (1/2") runoff from all impervious
surfaces on the site shall be expanded to one inch (1").C. The use of dry
wells, injection wells and similar techniques for runoff control shall be
minimized.D. The use of vegetative, as opposed to structural, runoff control
and soil stabilization techniques shall be encouraged. Vegetated runoff control
areas (detention basins, filter strips, etc.) may be integrated into landscaped
buffers required by section
8-3B-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
8-3A-6: RATHDRUM PRAIRIE AQUIFER:The performance standards of sections
8-3A-2,
8-3A-3,
8-3A-4, and
8-3A-5 of this article limit the potential for contamination of the Rathdrum
Prairie aquifer by regulating certain land uses and protecting related
resources, like lakeshore and stream corridors. Performance standards that are
specifically designed for aquifer protection are adopted herein.A. For the
purposes of this title, feedlots and similar livestock feeding operations
(poultry farms, dairies, etc.) are classified as industrial rather than
agricultural uses. This removes those operations from the exemption for
agriculture in the Rathdrum Prairie zoning district (see subsection 8-10-2B of
this title), and enables this title to prohibit new feedlots and similar
livestock feeding operations.B. Underground storage tanks for motor vehicle
fuel, or storage tanks subject to DEQ and Panhandle health district shall not
be permitted in any zoning district. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
8-3A-7: WILDFIRE HAZARDS:These performance standards apply in the upper
watershed, Lake Village and Hauser Hills zoning districts.A. Individual homes
and other principal structures shall provide a fire defensible space of at
least thirty feet (30') surrounding the home or structure. A defensible space
is one in which woody brush is removed or substantially thinned and dead fuel
is removed. Fire hazards shall not be permitted within the defensible space.
Maintenance of defensible space is a requirement for continuing compliance with
this title.B. Subdivisions and other multiple occupancy developments shall
implement a wildfire prevention plan. Such plans shall be prepared with the
assistance of a professional forester and shall:1. Show how special wildfire
hazard areas, including natural fire chimneys will remain undeveloped, or how
the wildfire hazard in those areas will be mitigated;2. Show how the wildfire
hazard within the development will be reduced prior to occupancy by thinning
and similar techniques, including clearing or, preferably, thinning of road
rights of way and removal of all combustible slash resulting from road
construction from a strip at least one hundred feet (100') on either side of
all roads;3. Show how adequate access for firefighting equipment and the
evacuation of the development will be provided;4. Show how an effective system
of perimeter and internal fuel breaks will be designed, constructed, and
maintained; and5. Show whether (and if so, how) a water supply adequate for
wildfire fighting purposes will be provided. Provision of such a water supply
is encouraged by subsection 8-3D-1D of this chapter. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
ARTICLE B. LAND USE CONFLICTS
SECTION:
8-3B-1: Nuisances
8-3B-2: Livestock On Residential Lots
8-3B-3: Outdoor Storage On Residential Lots
8-3B-4: Home Occupations
8-3B-5: Irrigation Systems
8-3B-6: Landscaped Buffers
8-3B-1: NUISANCES:
As established by section
8-3-3 of this chapter, compliance with these performance standards is a
continuing condition of compliance with this title.
   A.    No development that creates excessive levels of sound beyond its
property line shall be permitted. Excessive sound, measured at the property
line of the receiving use, exceeds the standards of table 2 of this subsection,
as follows:
   TABLE 2
   DETAILED PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR NOISE
 
Zoning District       Maximum Sound Level
Upper watershed, Lake 60 dBA, 7:00 A.M. to 10:00 P.M.
Village, Hauser Hills 50 dBA, 10:00 P.M. to 7:00 A.M.
Highway corridor,     70 dBA, any time
Rathdrum prairie
Note: "dBA" is the measure of sound levels in A-weighted decibels.1. This
performance standard applies to sounds generated by the occupancy or operation
of a development, including sound generated by the operation of trains, motor
vehicles, and heavy equipment on the site. It does not apply to the movement of
trains on existing railroad rights of way, the movement of motor vehicles on
public roads, the operation of farm machinery, the operation of watercraft, or
other sources of noise that are not attributable to a particular development.2.
The maximum sound levels of table 2 of this subsection may be exceeded by
temporary construction and maintenance activities, but in the upper watershed,
Lake Village and Hauser Hills zoning districts, any excessive noise generated
by such activities shall be restricted to the hours between seven o'clock (7:
00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.B. No development in any zoning district
that directs excessive light, glare, or heat beyond its property line shall be
permitted.C. No development that will create, or may reasonably be expected to
create, electrical interference on other properties shall be permitted.D. Solid
waste shall be stored in an enclosed building or approved containers, and
handled in a manner that does not: 1) attract bears, rodents, flies or other
animals; 2) generate odors perceptible beyond the property line or liquid
runoff; or 3) permit the blowing of paper and other lightweight waste.E.
Commercial and industrial solid waste handling and storage areas shall be
effectively screened from public view by enclosure in a building, location on
the property, a fence or wall or a densely planted landscaped buffer.F. No
development that will generate dust, smoke, odors or other airborne pollutants
that have an adverse impact on neighboring properties or the enjoyment of
public spaces shall be permitted. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
8-3B-2: LIVESTOCK ON RESIDENTIAL LOTS:For the purposes of this performance
standard, a "residential lot" is any lot or parcel under forty (40) acres in
size.Comment: The right to farm act 1  assures commercial farmers that their
operations will not become nuisances as residential and other development
begins to surround them. The local planning act 2  allows municipalities to
define what is agricultural land to be provided this protection. This is a
tradeoff between the rights of farmers, and the rights of residential
landowners to be protected from offensive odors and property devaluation
resulting from agricultural "type" of activity conducted on land which is not
large enough to provide primary or meaningful supplemental income from such
activity.The tradeoff was chosen to be forty (40) acres. On parcels larger than
forty (40) acres, agricultural activity is not regulated by the Hauser
development code. On parcels smaller than forty (40) acres, these activities
are regulated, but not banned. Livestock is still allowed on parcels smaller
than forty (40) acres and larger than one acre, but the placement of the
livestock and their manure is regulated to protect water quality.A. No
livestock may be kept within a lakeshore or stream corridor established by this
title, or surrounding any well, spring or wetted recharge area.B. Large
livestock is prohibited on property zoned or in actual use for five (5) homes
per acre or higher density. Small livestock is limited to five (5) animals per
lot, and shall be kept in such a manner as to avoid any nuisance to neighboring
properties, including noise or smell. Large livestock are not allowed in Hauser
Lake and, in wetland areas defined in the comprehensive plan, are restricted to
such ground that has sufficiently dried up to allow large animals to graze and
that has adequate vegetation, grass three inches (3") high or higher, to take
up the nutrients from the manure that otherwise would find its way into the
lake. It should be noted that large livestock require substantially drier
ground than people and caution should be taken to ensure firm ground. Large
livestock are restricted to three (3) per parcel from two (2) acres to five (5)
acres in size, or one animal on parcels under two (2) acres. If machinery is
used in these areas, refueling should be done out of the wetland area.C.
Surface runoff from all corrals, pens and other areas within which stock are
confined shall be directed to a densely vegetated on site retention area or
filter strip.D. Manure shall be removed from all corrals, pens, and other areas
within which stock are confined at least twice each year, and more frequently
if the administrator determines, based on the presence of odor, flies, etc.,
affecting neighboring properties, that the accumulation of manure is creating a
nuisance. No manure shall be spread in a lakeshore or stream corridor
established by this title, or surrounding any well, spring, or wetted recharge
area. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §§ 22-4501 - 22-4504.
2 2. IC § 67-6529.
8-3B-3: OUTDOOR STORAGE ON RESIDENTIAL LOTS:Outdoor storage shall be permitted
in rear yards, but there shall be no outdoor storage in front yards or required
side yards (note that this permits storage to the side of a dwelling where the
side yard is larger than required) on residential lots or parcels, except as
permitted below:A. Construction equipment and materials may be stored in a
required side or front yard during the course of construction for which a
permit has been approved in compliance with this title or the international
building code. This exception expires with the permit, or upon the issuance of
a certificate of compliance.B. Vehicles and watercraft that have current
licenses or registrations may be parked in front and side yards, but note that
parking is not permitted within the clear vision triangles this title
establishes at points of access to public roads.C. Outdoor storage on
residential lots or parcels shall not create a fire, health or safety hazard,
or constitute an attractive nuisance. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
8-3B-4: HOME OCCUPATIONS:Home occupations shall be permitted in all zoning
districts, but only in compliance with the following performance standards:A.
Home occupations may be located within dwellings or accessory buildings, but
shall not occupy a floor area larger than that of the dwelling to which they
are accessory.B. No home occupation shall have more than one full time
equivalent on premises employee who is not a member of the resident family.C.
Home occupations shall provide off street parking in compliance with the
requirements of section
8-3D-5 of this chapter.D. The storage of any materials and/or solid waste
associated with a home occupation shall be within an enclosed structure or
effectively screened from view from neighboring residences and public ways by
location on the property, a fence or wall or a densely planted landscaped
buffer.E. Home occupations shall display only the following signs:1. One
nonilluminated wall sign of no more than four (4) square feet; and2. One
nonilluminated, on site directional sign of no more than four (4) square feet.
(Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
8-3B-5: IRRIGATION SYSTEMS:All developments including or adjoining irrigated
lands, or including or adjoining irrigation works (headgates, canals, pumps,
drains, etc.) shall be reviewed by the responsible irrigation entity. No
development shall be permitted to adversely impact the operation of an
irrigation system.A. All subdivisions shall demonstrate compliance with Idaho
Code 31-3805, as amended, which provides for the approval of subdivisions by
irrigation entities. Compliance shall be attained by the transfer of water
rights or installation of a central irrigation system maintained by a community
association. Irrigation systems installed to comply with Idaho Code 31-3805 are
subject to the requirements for required improvements; see chapter 4 of this
title.B. No development shall channel storm or melt water runoff into an
irrigation system without the written consent of the responsible irrigation
entity. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
8-3B-6: LANDSCAPED BUFFERS:A. The installation of landscaped buffers between
potentially incompatible uses and along public roads in accordance with table 3
of this section and the detailed performance standards of chapter 7 of this
title shall be required. Buffers along lakes and streams are required by
subsection 8-3A-4B of this chapter.B. A plan to provide for the retention of
existing vegetation to serve buffering functions is required and shall be
submitted prior to permit application.   TABLE 3   LANDSCAPE BUFFER
REQUIREMENTS
Zoning           Situation                             Buffer Width Height
District                                               (Feet)       Adjustment
Highway corridor Commercial use > boundary with Hauser 50           0.25:1
                 Hills
                 Commercial use > Idaho Highway 53     20           none
                 Cloverleaf and Hauser                 20           none
                 Lake Roads
                 Commercial use > any other
                 property line
Rathdrum prairie Industrial use > any property line,   50           0.25:1
                 including road frontages
Note: The basic buffer width given in this table is for a level or nearly level
buffer area with a lawn or other low ground cover and a minimum of 4 major
trees in each 100 linear feet of buffer. The height adjustment is added to the
basic buffer width when the use being buffered has buildings over 35 feet in
height. The height adjustment ratio indicates how many feet of buffer width
must be added for each foot of building height over 35 feet. See chapter 7 of
this title for detailed performance standards for the construction of
landscaped buffers.(Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
ARTICLE C. LAND USE COMPATIBILITY AND DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
8-3C-1: Land Use Compatibility Factors
8-3C-2: Compatibility Within Districts
8-3C-3: Visual Resources
8-3C-4: Community Image
8-3C-5: Large Scale Developments
8-3C-6: Land Divisions
8-3C-1: LAND USE COMPATIBILITY FACTORS:
Compatibility with neighboring land uses shall be assessed using the following
factors:
   A.    The proposed lot coverage shall be compatible with neighboring uses.
For single-family dwellings, subject to class I permit review only, it shall be
assumed that the proposed lot coverage is compatible if: 1) the setbacks of
table 4 of this subsection are maintained from all property lines; and 2) the
minimum lot size is as specified by section
8-3E-2 of this chapter.
   TABLE 4
   SPECIFICATION STANDARDS FOR SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS
   AND ACCESSORY BUILDINGS
Dwelling Setbacks
Zoning District      Yard                            Setback (In Feet)
Upper watershed      Front yard, arterial roads      50
                    Front yard, all other roads     30
                    Rear yard                       30
                    Side yard                       10
All other zoning     Front yard, arterial roads      50
districts            Front yard, all other roads     25
                    Rear yard                       10
                    Side yard                       10
Accessory Building Setbacks
Zoning District      Yard                            Setback (In Feet)
                                                    
All zoning districts Front yard, garages             25
                    Front yard, all other accessory 50
                     buildings
                    Rear yard                       15
                    Side yard                       10
Note: All setbacks are measured at right angles, from the property line to the
outer edge of the nearest part of the foundation or any above grade projection
of the structure (like eaves) that extends more than 3 feet beyond the outer
edge of the nearest part of the foundation. For definitions of the various
types of yards, see section
8-1-3 of this title.B. The administrator may permit an exception from the
presumptive setbacks of subsection A of this section for single-family
dwellings that are in a substantially developed area where existing dwellings
have reasonably consistent setbacks that are less than those required by table
4 of this section. It is the responsibility of the developer to provide the
evidence needed to show that this exception is applicable. This exception may
not be used to: 1) reduce the setback from an arterial road; or 2) to reduce
any setback below the minimum separation required by the international building
code. Fire district and Panhandle health district approval is required.C. All
single-family dwellings in any residential district shall have a building
height of not more than thirty five feet (35'). Height is measured at natural
grade level.D. Any development that exceeds ten (10) lots shall be designed to
share functional connections with adjoining developments (existing and
anticipated), including the logical extension of roads, shared access to
arterials, shared parking and service access, integrated buffers and open
space, and shared pedestrian circulation. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
8-3C-2: COMPATIBILITY WITHIN DISTRICTS:All development within the zoning
districts shall be consistent with and compatible with the comprehensive plan
future land use designations, goals and policies. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
8-3C-3: VISUAL RESOURCES:A. Signs: All signs shall comply with the detailed
performance standards of chapter 5 of this title.B. Hauser Lake Views; Building
Height: No building in any residential district shall be more than thirty five
feet (35') in height. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
8-3C-4: COMMUNITY IMAGE:Site planning shall place roads along the contours,
avoid skylining buildings, provide for view corridors, and minimize clearing,
grading, and other land disturbing activities. Large, interconnected blocks of
open space shall be required in large scale developments. (Ord. 149, 10-22-
2008)
8-3C-5: LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENTS:A large scale development will contain thirty
(30) or more residential lots or units.A. Large scale developments shall
provide additional public facilities necessitated by their development. Such
facilities shall be provided in compliance with all requirements of this title
and state and federal law, and may include: off site runoff control measures;
central sewerage systems; off site road improvements, including additional
lanes, signs or signals, bridges or culverts; solid waste transfer stations;
emergency services buildings and apparatus, including fire engines and
ambulances; school bus stops; and neighborhood parks at a rate of two (2) acres
per one thousand (1,000) potential population. Also see section
8-3D-1 of this chapter for water system requirements.B. The need, if any, for
provision of these facilities shall be determined through a fact finding
process conducted by the commission, at the expense of the developer. The
commission may retain professional planners and engineers to conduct this
study, the purpose of which shall be to determine what new facilities needs may
be attributed to the proposed development. The study process shall be conducted
as follows:1. The administrator shall determine whether a proposed development
is a large scale development;2. The administrator will not schedule a hearing
on an application determined to be for a large scale development, but shall
place initiation of a large scale development study on the agenda of the next
regular commission meeting; and3. The commission shall review the application
at that meeting. If it confirms the administrator's determination, the
commission shall direct the administrator to initiate a large scale development
study.4. When a large scale development study is required, the developer shall
place a deposit with the city, as provided in the resolution establishing fees
for the administration of this title. The administrator shall retain
appropriate professional assistance for the study, first drawing against the
required deposit, then requesting additional payments from the developer as
necessary, and as provided in the resolution establishing fees for the
administration of this title. Unused funds shall be returned to the developer
upon completion of the study.5. An application shall be considered complete and
a hearing scheduled only after completion of the large scale development study.
(Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
8-3C-6: LAND DIVISIONS:A. Plat Or Record Of Survey Required: A record of survey
or plat shall be required for all land divisions that are not exempted by
subsection 8-10-2C of this title, and for all areas to be annexed. Records of
survey and plats shall meet all requirements of Idaho Code 50-1301 et seq., and
chapter 9 of this title.B. Lot Splits: A lot split is the creation of any
parcel of land of less than one hundred sixty (160) acres, but more than ten
(10) acres for the purpose of sale, lease, rental or development. Lot splits
require a class I permit, but applications for lot splits can, where
appropriate (i.e., where a parcel is being created for a proposed commercial
use that will require a class II permit), be combined with applications for
class II permits. Multiple lot splits shall not be used as a means to evade the
requirements of this title for subdivisions; see subsection C of this section 1
.C. Incremental Subdivision: Any application for a subdivision that does not
provide a master plan for development of the entire contiguous holdings of the
developer/owner shall be rejected. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. Note: The acreage change above, which is consistent with the need to track
  development rights on all parcels of 160 acres or less.
ARTICLE D. PUBLIC FACILITIES AND SERVICES
SECTION:
8-3D-1: Water
8-3D-2: Sewerage
8-3D-3: Access To Utilities
8-3D-4: Addresses
8-3D-5: Off Street Parking And Loading
8-3D-6: Roads
8-3D-7: Public Access
8-3D-8: Community Trail Systems
8-3D-9: Fire Protection
8-3D-1: WATER:
   A.    Where reliance on an individual water supply is proposed, evidence
shall be provided that an adequate quantity and quality of water is available
for the proposed development. The required evidence may be in the form of
documented experience with existing wells at geologically similar neighboring
sites or records of on site well tests.
   B.    Where one is available within three hundred thirty feet (330') of the
proposed development, connection to a state approved water system shall be
required. The costs of water main extension to the site and the provision of
water mains, valves, fire hydrants, etc., within the development, in compliance
with state standards, shall be the responsibility of the developer. Large scale
developments may be required to provide or participate in the cost of providing
additional water system capacity; see section
8-3C-5 of this chapter.
   C.    Where a central water system is not available, and ten (10) or more
lots are proposed, the provision of a community or public system, in compliance
with state design and construction requirements, shall be required.
   D.    Access to or provision of a water supply system that meets the fire
flow requirements of the Hauser Lake fire protection district are required.
(Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
8-3D-2: SEWERAGE:
   A.    Sewage disposal systems shall be sited, designed and constructed in
compliance with the state standards administered by the Panhandle health
district and DEQ.
   B.    Community sewage systems or public systems are required for any
development that proposes ten (10) or more lots.
   C.    Cluster developments over ten (10) lots are required to have a
community sewerage system that meets state and federal design and construction
requirements. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
8-3D-3: ACCESS TO UTILITIES:
   A.    Power and telephone service shall be provided, at the expense of the
developer, to all developments, and all lots in all developments.
   B.    Adequate rights of way or easements for utilities service shall be
provided. Developments for which a class II permit is required shall obtain a
written statement of compliance with this performance standard from each
utility.
   C.    No building shall be placed in a utility easement, public or private.
Wire, rail or wood fences with a gate or easily removable section across the
easement may be constructed across utility easements. Note: Some utilities may
impose rules that are more stringent than this performance standard.
   D.    Provision of underground power and telephone utilities shall be
required. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
8-3D-4: ADDRESSES:
   A.    Each development, and each lot or principal structure in a
development, shall be assigned an address at the time an application for a
permit required by this title is filed. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
8-3D-5: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Off street parking and loading areas shall be provided in compliance with the
detailed performance standards of chapter 8 of this title. Snow storage shall
not be permitted to reduce the size of any required off street parking or
loading area. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
8-3D-6: ROADS:
   A.    Roads Provided: Safe all weather road access shall be provided, at the
expense of the developer, to all developments, and all lots in all developments
(for the purposes of this performance standard, "all weather" includes properly
designed and constructed gravel roads). The design and construction of roads
shall be in compliance with the detailed performance standards of subsection C
of this section. Large scale developments may be required to provide or
participate in the cost of providing additional road network capacity; see
section
8-3C-5 of this chapter.
   B.    Access To Public Roads:
      1.    Points of access to public roads shall be constructed in compliance
with the standards of subsection C of this section and chapter 8 of this title.
Developments with points of access to a state or federal highway shall also
obtain approval from the Idaho transportation department.
      2.    Developments containing twenty (20) or more dwellings, or with a
distance of more than one thousand feet (1,000') from a public road that is
maintained on a year round basis, shall provide a minimum of two (2) points of
ingress and egress from public roads or highways. "Loop" systems that return to
a single point of access to a public road or highway may be acceptable for
relatively small developments (30 or fewer dwellings).
      3.    No commercial or industrial development shall have its principal
access through a residential area.
   C.    Performance Standards; Purpose: The purpose of this subsection is to
provide performance standards for the design and construction of new roads and
improvement of existing roads in the Hauser Lake planning area.
      1.    Private Roads: For developments of one to nine (9) lots, roads/
driveways shall meet the associated fire district standards for access and have
at a minimum an all weather driving surface. Design shall consist of removing
all topsoil and duff, putting down eight inches (8") of compacted ballast (pit
run material), then a minimum of four inches (4") of compacted base material
(crushed aggregate). Roads/driveways shall be maintained by plowing, grading,
and regraveling.
         a.    Minimum common driveway and private road width of twenty feet
(20'); minimum driveway width of fourteen feet (14').
         b.    A minimum turning radius for all corners shall be twenty feet
(20'), as measured to the inside of the corner.
         c.    A minimum distance between switchbacks shall be seventy five
feet (75'), as measured along the centerline between curves.
         d.    Turnarounds with a minimum radius of fifty feet (50') at the end
of any roadway or driveway longer than one hundred fifty feet (150'), or as
approved by the applicable fire district.
         e.    Minimum unobstructed overhead clearance shall be fourteen feet
(14').
         f.    No private road or driveway shall have greater than twelve
percent (12%) grade. Grades of ten percent (10%) or greater shall not exceed
one hundred feet (100') in length.
         g.    All private roadways shall enter public roadways at a right
angle and meet the radius requirements listed above; all driveways shall enter
public or private roads at a right angle and meet the radius requirements
listed above.
      2.    Public Roads: Public roads are required for developments of ten
(10) lots or more. All roads shall meet the associated highway district
standards for public roads.
         a.    Road construction shall meet all of the standards in this
development code for site disturbance, buffering and water quality.
         b.    If the road will be privately maintained, a road maintenance
agreement shall be submitted with the development agreement (section
8-4-4 of this title).
      3.    Approach And Access: Approach and access onto a public road shall
meet the associated highway district standards for approach. (Ord. 149, 10-22-
2008)
8-3D-7: PUBLIC ACCESS:
No development shall eliminate historically existing public access through
private lands to public lands or water. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
8-3D-8: COMMUNITY TRAIL SYSTEMS:
Dedication of rights of way that will result in substantial approved community
trail systems and greenbelts shall be encouraged. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
8-3D-9: FIRE PROTECTION:
Developments that are not presently in a fire protection district shall
petition for addition to the appropriate district, as provided by Idaho Code
31-1401 et seq. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
ARTICLE E. DEVELOPMENT INTENSITY
SECTION:
8-3E-1: Maximum Impervious Coverage
8-3E-2: Minimum Lot Or Parcel Size
8-3E-3: Residential Development Rights
8-3E-4: Cluster Development Criteria
8-3E-5: Development Intensity
8-3E-1: MAXIMUM IMPERVIOUS COVERAGE:
No development (residential, commercial or industrial) shall exceed the maximum
impervious coverage limitation imposed by table 5 of this article. (Ord. 149,
10-22-2008)
8-3E-2: MINIMUM LOT OR PARCEL SIZE:
   A.    No dwelling shall be developed on a lot or parcel smaller than the
minimum lot size established in section
8-3E-5, table 5, of this article unless granted a variance from lot size or
meets the definition and criteria for vested nonconforming uses found in
chapter 10 of this title.
   B.    The minimum lot or parcel size needed for a commercial or industrial
development to comply with this title will be a function of the maximum
impervious coverage permitted by section
8-3E-1 of this article, the size of the off street parking and loading areas
required by section
8-3D-5 of this chapter, the extent of the buffers required by section
8-3B-6 and/or subsection 8-3A-4B of this chapter, and other performance
standards, but a minimum of one acre shall be required for all commercial or
industrial developments, except home occupations. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
8-3E-3: RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS:
   A.    Assignment: Development rights are assigned to all undeveloped lands,
as shown in section
8-3E-5, table 5, of this article. A development right is the right to construct
one dwelling unit.
      1.    The unused portions of platted subdivision lots are not undeveloped
lands, and have no development rights.
      2.    The destruction or demolition of a nonconforming dwelling does not
create a development right that may be transferred. The replacement of
nonconforming dwellings is provided for by section
8-10-4 of this title.
   B.    Exceptions: One development right shall also be assigned to any
undeveloped, nonconforming lot or parcel that was in existence on the effective
date of this title, regardless of its size. The acceptable proof of the prior
existence of a lot or parcel shall be actual separate ownership, as shown by
recorded deeds or other instruments of conveyance. No separate parcels exist
within contiguous lands held by a single owner, regardless of how those lands
are or have been described for other purposes (which means that multiple
subdivision lots held by a single owner are a single parcel for the purposes of
this title). Development of a dwelling on a nonconforming lot or parcel must
comply with all requirements of this title except the requirements of section
8-3E-5, table 5, of this article. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
8-3E-4: CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT CRITERIA:
Cluster developments protect open space and limit conversion of sensitive areas
to suburban use by concentrating development into a small portion of the
available site. To qualify as a cluster for the purposes of this title, a
development must obtain a class II permit and meet the criteria listed below:
   A.    Cluster developments do not place homes in sensitive areas, but such
areas may be included as: 1) meet the definition of open space; or 2) part of a
lot or lots on which building is confined to a particular envelope. Building
lots (see section
8-3E-5, table 5, of this article) or building envelopes shall appear in the
application for a class II permit.
   B.    A cluster is a pattern of development designed to concentrate building
on the most suitable sites and preserve open space. Buildings concentrated
together in specific areas to minimize infrastructure and development costs
while achieving the allowable density. Allows the preservation of natural open
space for recreation, common open space and preservation of environmentally
sensitive features. Cluster developments are served by a central water system
and, generally, by a community sewerage system. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
8-3E-5: DEVELOPMENT INTENSITY:
   TABLE 5
   DEVELOPMENT INTENSITY
 
Zoning       Overall    Minimum Lot Cluster Size Impervious Coverage Standards
District     Density    Size
Upper        1:20 acres 20 acres    0.5
watershed                                        0 – 8% = 35% lot coverage
Hauser Hills 1:5 acres  5 acres     0.5          9 – 20% = 25% lot coverage
                                                 21 – 30% = 15% lot coverage
Lake Village 1:1 acres  1 acre      0.5          30%+ = 0%

Highway      No limit               
corridor                                         0 – 8% = 60% lot coverage
Rathdrum                                         Stream corridors = 0% lot
prairie      No limit                          coverage
 
Notes:
Impervious coverage includes rooftops, paved, graveled and otherwise compacted
roads, parking areas, sidewalks and all other surfaces that effectively prevent
infiltration into the ground or significantly accelerate runoff.
   1.   There are minor exceptions to the prohibition of impervious coverage in
lakeshore and stream corridors. See subsection 8-3A-4B1 of this chapter.
   2.   For a definition of cluster development, see section
8-1-3 of this title and section
8-3E-4 of this article.
(Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
CHAPTER 4
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Definition
8-4-2: Installation At Developer's Expense
8-4-3: Standards For Required Improvements
8-4-4: Installation Of Improvements; Development Agreements
8-4-5: Guarantees
8-4-6: Inspection And Acceptance Of Improvements
8-4-7: Warranty Of Improvements
8-4-8: Continuing Maintenance Required
8-4-1: DEFINITION:
A "required improvement" is any improvement required for compliance with this
title. Required improvements include, but are not limited to: improvements
required to protect water quality, including the vegetative and structural
measures needed to implement an approved runoff and erosion control plan;
improvements required to mitigate potential nuisances, including landscaped
buffers; utilities, including any extension of lines required to serve the
development; off street parking and loading areas, roads; and any other
improvement required for compliance with any performance standard of this
title. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
8-4-2: INSTALLATION AT DEVELOPER'S EXPENSE:
The installation of all required improvements shall be at the developer's
expense. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
8-4-3: STANDARDS FOR REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS:
All required improvements shall be installed in compliance with this title and
any design and engineering standards separately adopted by the city or other
agencies responsible for providing services to the development. (Ord. 149, 10-
22-2008)
8-4-4: INSTALLATION OF IMPROVEMENTS; DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS:
   A.    Prior To Final Plat Recording: All required improvements may be
installed before a final plat is recorded or the development is offered for
lease or sale, leased, sold, or occupied; or
   B.    Phasing; Development Agreements: Developers may elect to record final
plats of the development in phases or to offer phases of the development for
lease, sale or occupancy before all required improvements are installed.
Phasing shall be permitted pursuant to a development agreement that:
      1.    Incorporates the site plan used as a basis for permit approval and
a detailed site plan and construction drawings of the initial phase;
      2.    Identifies all required improvements in the initial phase(s) and
establishes their estimated cost;
      3.    Sets a schedule for the completion of the required improvements in
the initial phase and an anticipated schedule for future phases;
      4.    Guarantees completion and three hundred sixty five (365) days'
maintenance of all required improvements in the initial phase(s) using one of
the methods listed in section
8-4-5 of this chapter, and provides a process for the submission of detailed
plans, cost estimates, and the guarantee of improvements in future phases;
      5.    Provides a process by which the city may, if necessary, complete
required improvements using the guarantee provided;
      6.    Provides a process by which either party may request renegotiation
of the development agreement;
      7.    Provides a process by which the development agreement may be
transferred, with city approval, to the developer's successors; and
      8.    Provides that the development agreement and any vested rights it
confers shall be void if the city is required to call a guarantee to complete
required improvements, or if the anticipated schedule is not met or
renegotiated. The developer shall have the right to renegotiate the anticipated
schedule without losing vested rights, provided that such negotiations are
initiated, by the developer, within ninety (90) days after failure to initiate
or complete a phase as scheduled.
   C.    Effect Of Development Agreements: The effect of a development
agreement shall be to create vested rights in the site plan, as it was
approved. Such rights expire with the development agreement. Development
agreements do not insulate developments from changes in state or federal
regulations, or changes in building and fire codes. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
8-4-5: GUARANTEES:
Completion of the improvements identified in a development agreement shall be
guaranteed by one of the following methods:
   A.    The developer may place an amount equal to one hundred fifty percent
(150%) of the estimated cost of the required improvements in escrow, with that
amount and accumulated interest being released only after the city has
inspected and accepted the required improvements. A development agreement may
provide for the phased release of a portion of the escrowed funds as work
proceeds, but at least twenty five percent (25%) of the amount in escrow shall
be retained until all required improvements are installed, inspected, and
accepted. If required improvements are not completed as provided in the
development agreement, the city shall use as much as necessary of the escrow
account to complete those improvements, then return any remaining balance to
the developer.
   B.    The developer may provide an irrevocable or standing letter of credit
for an amount equal to one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated cost
of the required improvements. The letter of credit shall be released only after
the city has inspected and accepted the required improvements. If any required
improvements are not completed as provided in the development agreement, the
city shall use as much as necessary of the credit available to complete those
improvements, then return any remaining balance to the developer. (Ord. 149,
10-22-2008)
8-4-6: INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.    Fees for the inspection of required improvements shall be set by
resolution of the city council. Inspection fees must be paid before a
certificate of compliance is issued.
   B.    Required improvements shall be inspected by the administrator before
acceptance. Acceptance of required improvements shall be by action of the city
council, following submission of the developer's written request for acceptance
and receipt of the administrator's report that all improvements have been
inspected and are in compliance with this title.
   C.    Reproducible as built drawings of all subdivision improvements shall
be provided to the city, at the developer's expense, before a certificate of
compliance is issued. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
8-4-7: WARRANTY OF IMPROVEMENTS:
Required improvements shall be warranted by the developer for both materials
and workmanship for one year after their acceptance. Such a warranty provision
shall be included in all development agreements. Where all required
improvements will be completed before a final plat is approved and the
development is offered for lease, sale or occupancy, a warranty agreement shall
be submitted for approval. Enforcement of the warranty shall be assured by:
   A.    Retention of ten percent (10%) of an escrow account established to
comply with section
8-4-5 of this chapter;
   B.    A continuing letter of credit, as provided in section
8-4-5 of this chapter, but for ten percent (10%) of the cost of the required
improvements; or
   C.    Opening a new escrow account, in which an amount equal to ten percent
(10%) of the cost of all required improvements is deposited, and which shall be
released only upon expiration of the warranty. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
8-4-8: CONTINUING MAINTENANCE REQUIRED:
The continuing maintenance of any improvement required for compliance with this
title shall be required. Failure to maintain a required improvement shall be a
violation of this title.
   A.    Any development subject to the continuing maintenance requirement
established herein that results, or may reasonably be expected to result, in
the creation of multiple ownerships shall create a community association or
other mechanism to assure continuing maintenance. The developer shall submit
the proposed declaration of covenants, articles of incorporation and bylaws for
the community association with the application for a permit and these documents
shall have been recorded before a certificate of compliance is issued.
   B.    The maintenance of any open space area required for compliance with
this title shall include fencing, where required; prompt and effective control
of noxious weeds; litter removal; and wildfire suppression. Maintenance
activities shall not diminish the open space values (wetlands, slopes, etc.)
being protected.
   C.    Maintenance of landscaped areas required by this title includes
installation and maintenance of an irrigation system and timely irrigation,
where necessary; weed and pest control; and all other activities required to
maintain the function of the landscaped areas. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
CHAPTER 5
SIGNS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Purpose
8-5-2: Definitions
8-5-3: Permit Requirements
8-5-4: Performance Standards
8-5-5: Penalty For Non-Compliance
8-5-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter establishes regulations for the location, type and size of signs
permitted in the Hauser Lake planning area. Any sign not expressly permitted
shall be prohibited. (Ord. 159, 6-9-2010; amd. Ord. 206, 12-12-2023)
8-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
ARCADE:        A covered passageway with shops and stalls on either side.
               The total square footage of a sign face shall be measured so as to include
               the entire area within a continuous perimeter enclosing the extreme limits
AREA:          of the sign, including the background on which the lettering is placed. Such
               perimeter shall not include any structural elements which lie outside the
               limits of the sign and which do not form an integral part of the display.
AWNING:        A plastic or fabric shelter supported by a noncombustible rigid framework
               attached to a building.
               A flexible material on which a sign is displayed. It may be anchored to the
BANNER SIGN:   outside of a building or other structure, affixed to windows, or otherwise
               displaced on exterior surfaces. Banner signs shall be considered temporary
               and fall under the same standard time limit of event signs.
               No sign or display shall be permitted at the intersection of a road, alley
               or driveway, in a manner that obstructs the clear vision of any part of the
               road. If a sign is placed at the intersection of two (2) roads, the sign
               must not interfere with the fifty foot (50') comer visibility triangle. For
CORNER         signs located near a driveway entrance onto a road, a sight triangle based
VISIBILITY:    on the speed of traffic is used. At a point fifteen feet (15') back from the
               edge of the road surface or curb, no sign may block the line of vision to a
               point equal to the speed limit times ten (10). For example, if the speed
               limit if thirty-five (35) miler per hour, the exiting driver must be able to
               see the road and vehicles up to three hundred fifty feet (350') away.
DIRECTIONAL    Signs used to identify points of access, the direction of travel, the
SIGNS:         location of handicapped parking spaces, and similar information in off
               street parking and loading areas. These signs bear no advertising copy.
               A sign that advertises an occurrence of commercial importance that happens
EVENT SIGNS,   at a specific date and time. These event signs are limited to the Highway
BUSINESS:      Corridor zoning district. Existing nonconforming commercial uses within the
               Lake Village shall be permitted to utilize business event signage in the
               Highway Corridor zoning district.
               A sign that advertises an occurrence of community importance that happens at
EVENT SIGNS,   a specific date and time. These event signs are limited to organizations
COMMUNITY:     that have established IRS 501© status or are a municipal corporation. These
               event signs are allowed in all zoning districts.
               A sign that advertises an occurrence of personal or social importance that
EVENT SIGNS,   happens at a specific date and time on a residential property. These event
RESIDENTIAL:   signs are limited to Hauser Hills, Lake Village and Upper Watershed zoning
               districts.
EXISTING
NONCONFORMING  Commercial uses that were established prior to July 26, 1993.
COMMERCIAL
USES:
GROUND SIGNS:  Freestanding signs that do not exceed eight feet (8') above grade in height.
HOME
OCCUPATION     See section 8-3B-4 of this title.
SIGNS:
NAMEPLATES:    Small wall signs that identify the occupants and address a building.
NONTRADITIONAL A sign that is typically three-dimensional and includes inflatable signs.
SIGNS:         Nontraditional signs are temporary and shall be considered under the
               standards of events and banner signs.
MONUMENT       A large, free-standing, weather resistant sign that sits close to ground
SIGNS:         level. They generally have little or no open space between the sign and the
               ground and are constructed to be solid and stand the test of time.
               Any sign that advertises or gives notice of any business or activity not
OFF PREMISES   located on the same parcel as the signs, or any sign that advertises or
SIGN:          gives notice of any commodity or service not sold or offered upon the same
               parcel as the sign.
POLE SIGNS:    Freestanding signs that exceed eight feet (8') in height above grade.
PORTABLE SIGN: A sign designed or constructed in such a maimer that it can be moved or
               relocated without involving any structural or support changes.
               Signs attached to the wall of a building and project away from that wall.
PROJECTING     Projecting signs may extend no more than seven feet (7') from the building
SIGNS:         wall, and may not extend to within two feet (2') of the near curb line.
               Projecting signs do not extend more than three feet (3') above the roofline
               of the building to which they are attached.
               Any object or structure used to identify, advertise or in any way attract or
               direct attention to any use, building, person or product by any means,
SIGN:          including, but not limited to, the use of lettering, words, pictures, and
               other graphic depictions or symbols. Specific types of signs are defined in
               this chapter.
               The height of a sign shall be measured from the natural grade adjacent to
SIGN HEIGHT:   the sign, to the top of the sign, or to the highest point of the sign
               structure or frame, whichever is greater. On slopes, the height of the sign
               is measured at the midpoint of the sign.
SUSPENDED      Signs attached to the ceiling of an arcade or canopy and hang over a
SIGNS:         sidewalk with a vertical clearance at least eight feet (8').
               Include construction, real estate, and political signs displayed for a
               specific time delimited purpose. Construction signs shall be removed within
               two (2) days of a certificate of occupancy or final permit inspection.
TEMPORARY      Political signs that are incidental to an election held pursuant to law are
SIGNS:         permitted provided they are put up no sooner than sixty (60) days before an
               election and taken down no later than two (2) days after the election, and
               are not placed on public property. Real estate signs shall be located on the
               advertised property and shall not be permitted off premises.
TRAFFIC        Include standard regulatory signs: stop and yield signs, speed limit signs,
CONTROL SIGNS: etc.
               Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be
VEHICLE:       transported or drawn upon a public or private street, excepting devices used
               exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
               Signs attached to the wall of a building, and parallel with the wall to
WALL SIGNS:    which they are attached. Attached wall signs shall extend no more than one
               foot (1') nor extend above the building roofline from the building wall to
               which they are attached.
               Signs which appear within the frame of, and are affixed directly to, a
WINDOW SIGNS:  window. Window displays of merchandise are not signs, provided that no part
               of the display is affixed to the window. (Ord. 159, 6-9-2010; amd. Ord. 206,
               12-12-2024)
 
8-5-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required:
      1.   A Class I permit shall be required for all signs, unless
specifically delineated under exceptions to permit requirements. A replacement
sign is a new sign. A permit is not required for the temporary removal of an
existing sign for repair. All sign permit applications located adjacent to
public right of way shall receive written approval from any applicable affected
transportation agency or emergency service provider.
      2.   For all Class II permits, the location, type and size of all
proposed signs shall be included in applications for Class II permits. These
uses are approved exactly as proposed, and a new Class II permit will be
required for any change in number, location, type and size of signs.
   B.   Exceptions to Permit Requirements: The signs listed herein are not
exempt from any requirement of this title, except the requirement for permit.
No permit shall be required for placement or installation of:
      1.   Residential nameplates;
      2.   Temporary signs, including construction, real estates and political
signs;
      3.   Window signs;
      4.   Traffic control signs or public notices; and
      5.   City signage that includes local businesses indicating directions/
access/mileage to various locations within the City. (Ord. 159, 6-9-2010; amd.
Ord. 206, 12-12-2023)
8-5-4: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   Placement of signs: No sign shall be placed:
      1.   In or over a public right of way with the exception of authorized
municipal or traffic control signs;
      2.   On a tree, cliff or other natural feature;
      3.   On a utility pole;
      4.   On a vehicle or trailer parked in a visible location for the primary
purpose of displaying the sign; or
      5.   Where it creates a traffic safety hazard by obscuring traffic
control signs or signals, or obstructing vision at intersections.
   B.   Allowed Signs:
      1.   Upper Watershed, Lake Village and Hauser Hills Zoning Districts: The
following signs shall be allowed in the Upper Watershed, Lake Village and
Hauser Hills zoning districts with tine appropriate permits:
         a.   Traffic Control: Traffic control signs or public notices placed
by public agencies;
         b.   Nameplates: One nameplate of no more than four (4) square feet
for each dwelling.
         c.   Temporary: Temporary signs (construction, political or real
estate) of no more than four (4) square feet each;
         d.   Home Occupation: The home occupation signs permitted by section
8-3B-4 of this title.
         e.   Identification: Service uses (churches, government officers,
nonprofit service organizations and parks) in these zoning districts may
display identification signs of no more than thirty-two (32) square feet on one
parcel and no more than four (4) on site directional, and traffic control signs
of no more than four (4) square feet each.
         f.   Existing nonconforming Commercial Uses: Existing, legally
established nonconforming commercial uses in the Lake Village zoning district
may retain existing signage under subsection E of this section. signage shall
conform to the standards provided in this title. For purposes of this standard,
contiguous parcels under the same ownership shall be determined as one
nonconforming parcel.
         g.   Event, Nontraditional And Banner: Event, nontraditional or banner
signs are permitted for up to seven (7) days per event. As part of the permit
process, property owner authorization, a calendar of erection dates and a site
plan with locations shall be submitted for review and approval. No more than
three (3) signs are allowed for the event, one of which shall be on the
premises of the event.
         h.   Off Premises Signage: Existing, legally established nonconforming
commercial uses in the Lake Village zoning district may erect one sign in the
Highway Corridor district, however the off premises sign shall meet all
standards under this title and the permit applicant shall have authorization
from the property owner in the Highway Corridor zoning district. Additional off
premises signage shall require a Class II permit in any other zoning districts.
         i.   In the residential zones where a business is located, if the
speed limit is twenty-five (25) miles per hour or lower, a twenty-five (25)
square foot Monument sign face is allowed per each business, with a height of
twelve (12) feet.
         j.   In the residential zones where a business is located, if the
speed limit is thirty-five (35) miles per hour, a thirty-two (32) square foot
Monument sign face is allowed per each business, with a max height of twenty
(20) feet.
      2.   Highway Corridor Zoning Districts: The following signs shall be
allowed in the Highway Corridor zoning districts:
         a.   Traffic Control: Traffic Control signs or public notices placed
by public agencies;
         b.   For Dwellings: The same signs allowed by subsection Bl of this
section;
         c.   For Commercial and Industrial Uses:
         (1)   On site directional and traffic control signs of nor more than
four (4) square feet each;
         (2)   Window signs that cumulatively occupy no more than twenty
percent (20%) of the area within the frame of any window;
         (3)   Any combination of the following types of signs, provided that
the total sign area does not exceed ten percent (10%) of the area of the
building facade facing the road frontage, or thirty-two (32) square feet,
whichever is less: Awnings, wall signs and ground signs.
         (4)   Buildings with arcades may also have one suspended sign, of no
more than two (2) square feet, for each use or occupancy with access from the
arcade. The sign shall be hung at the entrance to the use;
         (5)   Temporary signs for construction, political or real estate of no
more than four (4) square feet each.
         (6)   In highway corridor commercial zone, if the speed limit is (50-
55) miles per hour or higher, a max of two hundred fifty (250) square foot of
sign face is allowed on a pole sign, with a height of forty feet (40') only
allowed to face highway 53 and have highway 53 frontage. Please refer to the
table provided in this title.
         (7)   In highway corridor commercial zone that does not have highway
53 frontage, monument signs will be allowed. Please refer to the table provided
in tins title.
         d.   Event, Nontraditionai and Banner: Event, nontraditional or banner
signs, for up to seven (7) days per event. As part of the permit process,
property owner authorization, a calendar of erection dates and a site plan with
locations shall be submitted for review and approval; and
         e.   Off Premises Signage: One off premises sign on each parcel not to
exceed thirty-two (32) square feet. Additional off premises signage shall
require a Class II permit.
   C.   Prohibited Signs: The following signs and displays are prohibited in
all zoning districts:
      1.   Signs that create a hazard or dangerous distraction to vehicular
traffic; that may be confused with or interfere with authorized railroad or
traffic signs, signals or devices; that impair the vision of drivers or
pedestrians; or that otherwise interfere with traffic visibility.
      2.   Signs that are not structurally sound or pose a hazard to people or
property.
      3.   Roof Signs.
      4.   Revolving signs or signs with moving parts.
      5.   Signs with audible devices.
      6.   Signs advertising activities that are illegal.
      7.   Signs that are obscene as defined in Idaho Code title 18, chapter
41.
      8.   Signs not specifically permitted by this title.
   D.   Illuminated Signs: Signs are permitted for commercial activities only
provided they are not illuminated between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00
a.m.; and, tire time restrictions shall not apply to commercial activities
along the Highway 53 Corridor; and, illuminated signs posted within the road
right-of-way by a municipal governmental organization for traffic control
purposes are specifically allowed.
   E.   Maintenance: Signs shall be maintained so as not to create health or
safety hazards. Any sign that is structurally unsound, is rusted, peeling paint
or missing letters or no longer serves to inform or attract, shall be
considered abandoned, and its removal required.
   F.   Abandoned Signs: Abandoned signs shall be removed within sixty (60)
days of the adoption of this title, or within sixty (60) days of the
abandonment of the use to which the sign is appurtenant.
   G.   Nonconforming Signs: No permit shall be issued for any new conforming
sign on a lot or parcel where there is an existing nonconforming sign.
   H.   International Building Code: Signs shall be constructed in conformance
with the currently adopted edition of the international building code. If the
building permit is not required, no other permit is necessary, however the sign
or display must meet the requirements of this title.
 
TABLE
MAXIMUM SIGN SIZE AND HEIGHT IN ALL ZONES.
SPEED LIMIT         NUMBER OF TRAFFIC MAXIMUM AREA OF SIGN MAXIMUM SIGN HEIGHT
                    LANES             FACE
25 mph or lower     2-3               25 sq ft.            12 feet
30-35 mph           2-3               32 sq ft             20 feet
40-45 mph           2-4               90 sq ft             35 feet
50-55 mph or higher 2-4               250 sq ft            40 feet
 
(Ord. 159, 6-9-2010; amd. Ord. 191, 1-14-2020; amd. Ord. 206, 12-12-2023)
8-5-5: PENALTY FOR NON-COMPLIANCE:
Any non-compliance shall be considered an infraction as delineated in Section
1-4-1 of this code. Any legal fees associated with the interpretation,
administration or enforcement of the Code shall be paid by the property owner
where the event is held. (Ord. 206, 12-12-2023)
CHAPTER 6
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
8-6-1: Statutory Authorization, Findings Of Fact, Purpose, And Objectives
8-6-2: Definitions
8-6-3: General Provisions
8-6-4: Administration
8-6-5: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
8-6-6: Variance And Appeal Procedures
8-6-7: Penalties For Violation
8-6-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE, AND OBJECTIVES:
   A.    Statutory Authority: The legislature of the state of Idaho in Idaho
Code 46-1020 through 46-1024, authorized local government units to adopt a
floodplain map and floodplain management ordinance that identifies floodplains
and that sets forth minimum development requirements in floodplains that are
designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of its
citizens.
   B.    Findings Of Fact: The flood hazard areas of Hauser are subject to
periodic inundation that results in loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures for flood relief and protection, and impairment of the tax
base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare.
      1.    These flood losses are caused by structures in flood hazard areas,
which are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or otherwise unprotected from
flood damages, and by the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains
causing increases in flood heights and velocities.
      2.    Local government units have the primary responsibility for
planning, adoption and enforcement of land use regulations to accomplish proper
floodplain management.
   C.    Statement Of Purpose: It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      1.    Require that development that is vulnerable to floods, including
structures and facilities necessary for the general health, safety and welfare
of citizens, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      2.    Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or which increase flood heights,
velocities, or erosion;
      3.    Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage or erosion;
      4.    Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or that may increase flood hazards to other
lands;
      5.    Preserve and restore natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which carry and store floodwaters.
   D.    Objectives: The objectives of this chapter are to:
      1.    Protect human life, health and property;
      2.    Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
purification and sewage treatment plants, water and gas mains, electric,
telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in floodplains;
      3.    Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas;
      4.    Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      5.    Minimize the need for rescue and emergency services associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      6.    Minimize prolonged business interruptions. (Ord. 176, 2-13-2013)
8-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined in this section, words or phrases used in this
chapter shall be interpreted according to the meaning they have in common
usage.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A structure on the same lot or parcel as a principal
structure, the use of which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
structure. An insurable building should not be classified as an accessory or
appurtenant structure.
APPEAL: A request for review of the floodplain administrator's interpretation
of provisions of this chapter or request for a variance.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO or AH zone on a community's flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet (3'),
and/or where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of
flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be
evident.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
Zone designations on FIRMs include the letters A, AE, V, also known as the
special flood hazard area (SFHA).
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded each year.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The water surface elevation during the base flood
in relation to a specified datum. The base flood elevation (BFE) is depicted on
the FIRM to the nearest foot and in the FIS to the nearest 0.1 foot. The
community has adopted a base flood elevation of 2,190.0 1988 NAVD.
BASEMENT: The portion of a structure including crawl space with its floor
subgrade (below ground level) on all sides.
BUILDING: See definition of Structure.
CRITICAL FACILITY: A facility that is critical for the health and welfare of
the population and is especially important following hazard events. Critical
facilities include essential facilities, transportation systems, lifeline
utility systems, high potential loss facilities and hazardous material
facilities.
DATUM: The vertical datum is a base measurement point (or set of points) from
which all elevations are determined. Historically, that common set of points
has been the national geodetic vertical datum of 1929 (NGVD29). The vertical
datum currently adopted by the federal government as a basis for measuring
heights is the North American vertical datum of 1988 (NAVD88).
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, the construction of buildings, structures or
accessory structures, or the construction of additions or substantial
improvements to buildings, structures or accessory structures; the placement of
mobile homes; mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or
drilling operations; and the deposition or extraction of materials;
specifically including the construction of dikes, berms and levees. The term
"development" does not include the operation, cleaning, maintenance or repair
of any ditch, canal, lateral, drain, diversion structure or other irrigation or
drainage works that is performed or authorized by the owner thereof pursuant to
lawful rights and obligations.
DIGITAL FIRM (DFIRM): Digital flood insurance rate map. It depicts flood risk
and zones and flood risk information. The DFIRM presents the flood risk
information in a format suitable for electronic mapping applications.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: A structure for which the "start of construction"
commenced before May 3, 2010.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision where the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and final site grading
or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before May 3, 2010.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed, including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads.
FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA): The agency with the overall
responsibility for administering the national flood insurance program.
FLOOD FRINGE: The portion of the floodplain outside of the floodway covered by
floodwaters during the regulatory flood.
FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM): An official map of a community, issued by the
federal insurance administration or U.S. department of housing and urban
development, where the boundaries of areas of special flood hazard have been
designated as zone A. The FHBM usually is the initial flood hazard map.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community, issued by the
federal insurance administration, delineating the areas of special flood hazard
and/or risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS): The official report by the federal insurance
administration evaluating flood hazards and containing flood profiles, floodway
boundaries and water surface elevations of the base flood.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.    The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
   B.    The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): An elevation that corresponds to the
elevation of the one percent (1%) chance annual flood (base flood), plus any
increase in flood elevation due to floodway encroachment plus one foot (1') of
freeboard.
FLOODPLAIN 1 : The land that has been or may be covered by floodwaters, or is
surrounded by floodwater and inaccessible, during the occurrence of the
regulatory flood. The riverine floodplain includes the floodway and the flood
fringe.
FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY): The channel of a river or other watercourse and
the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
FREEBOARD: A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for
the purposes of floodplain management. Freeboard tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, obstructed bridge openings, debris and ice jams and the hydrologic
effects of urbanization in a watershed.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY: A facility that cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to
water, such as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and
unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair facilities. The
term does not include long term storage, manufacture, sales, or service
facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG): The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction, adjacent to the proposed walls of a structure.
Refer to the elevation certificate, FEMA form 81-31, for HAG related to
building elevation information.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: A structure that is:
   A.    Listed individually in the national register of historic places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. department of the interior) or preliminarily
determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the national register.
   B.    Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or to a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify
as a registered historic district.
   C.    Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places and
determined as eligible by states with historic preservation programs which have
been approved by the secretary of the interior, or
   D.    Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places and
determined as eligible by communities with historic preservation programs that
have been certified either:
      1.    By an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the
interior; or
      2.    Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without
approved programs.
LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC): An official FEMA determination, by letter, to
amend or revise effective flood insurance rate maps, flood boundary and
floodway maps, and flood insurance studies. LOMCs are issued in the following
categories:
   A.    Letter Of Map Amendment (LOMA): A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated special flood
hazard area. An LOMA amends the current effective flood insurance rate map and
establishes that a specific property is not located in a special flood hazard
area.
   B.    Letter Of Map Revision (LOMR): A revision based on technical data
showing, usually due to manmade changes, changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features. One
common type of LOMR, an LOMR-F, is a determination that a structure or parcel
has been elevated by fill above the base flood elevation and is excluded from
the special flood hazard area.
   C.    Conditional Letter Of Map Revision (CLOMR): A formal review and
comment by FEMA as to whether a proposed project complies with the minimum
national flood insurance program floodplain management criteria. A CLOMR does
not amend or revise effective flood insurance rate maps, flood boundary and
floodway maps, or flood insurance studies.
LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed according to sound engineering practices, to contain, control, or
divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG): The lowest point of the ground level next to the
structure. Refer to the elevation certificate, FEMA form 81-31, for LAG related
to building elevation information.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement)
used for living purposes, which includes working, storage, cooking and eating,
or recreation, or any combination thereof. This includes any floor that could
be converted to such a use including a basement or crawl space. An unfinished
or flood resistant enclosure, used solely for parking of vehicles, building
access, or storage, in an area other than a basement, is not considered a
structure's lowest floor. The lowest floor is a determinant for the flood
insurance premium for a building, home or business.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, built on
a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term "manufactured
home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the
national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community's FIRM are referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: A structure for which the "start of construction" commenced
after May 3, 2010, and includes subsequent improvements to the structure.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A place where the construction of
facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be
affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the
construction of streets, and final site grading or the pouring of concrete
pads) is completed on or after May 3, 2010.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle that is:
   A.    Built on a single chassis,
   B.    Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection,
   C.    Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towed by a light duty
truck, and
   D.    Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally aboveground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of its market value before the damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before the "start of construction"
of the improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred
"repetitive loss" or "substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair work
performed. The market value of the structure should be: a) the appraised value
of the structure prior to the start of the initial repair or improvement, or b)
in the case of damage, the value of the structure prior to the damage
occurring. This term includes structures which have incurred "substantial
damage", regardless of the actual amount of repair work performed. The term
does not include either:
   A.    A project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications,
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
   B.    Alteration of a historic structure, provided that the alteration will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief by the governing body from a requirement of this
chapter.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the North American vertical
datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other specified datum) of floods of various magnitudes
and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine areas. (Ord. 176, 2-
13-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. IC 46-1021.
8-6-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.    Lands To Which This Chapter Applies: This chapter shall apply to all
special flood hazard areas within the jurisdiction of the city of Hauser.
Nothing in this chapter is intended to allow uses or structures that are
otherwise prohibited by the zoning ordinance.
   B.    Basis For Area Of Special Flood Hazard: The special flood hazard areas
identified by the federal emergency management agency in its flood insurance
study (FIS) for Kootenai County dated May 3, 2010, with accompanying flood
insurance rate maps (FIRM) or digital flood insurance rate maps (DFIRM), and
other supporting data, are adopted by reference and declared a part of this
chapter. The FIS and the FIRM are on file at the office of the city clerk.
   C.    Establishment Of Floodplain Development Permit: A site disturbance
permit shall be required prior to development activities in special flood
hazard areas established in subsection B of this section.
   D.    Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this chapter
all provisions shall be:
      1.    Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.    Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      3.    Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   E.    Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and
will occur. Flood heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This
chapter does not imply that land outside the special flood hazard areas or uses
permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This
chapter shall not create liability on the part of the city of Hauser or by any
officer or employee thereof for flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or an administrative decision lawfully made hereunder. (Ord. 176, 2-13-
2013)
8-6-4: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.    Designation Of Floodplain Ordinance Administrator: The code
administrator is hereby appointed as the floodplain administrator who is
responsible for administering and implementing the provisions of this chapter.
   B.    Permit Procedures: Application for a floodplain development permit
shall be made to the floodplain administrator on forms furnished by the
administrator or the administrator's designee prior to starting development
activities. Specifically, the following information is required:
      1.    Application Stage:
         a.    Plans in duplicate drawn to scale with elevations of the project
area and the nature, location, dimensions of existing and proposed structures,
earthen fill placement, storage of materials or equipment and drainage
facilities;
         b.    Elevation in relation to the flood protection elevation, or
highest adjacent grade, of the lowest floor level, including crawl spaces or
basement, of all proposed structures;
         c.    Elevation to which any nonresidential structure will be
floodproofed;
         d.    Design certification from a registered professional engineer or
architect that any proposed nonresidential floodproofed structure will meet the
floodproofing criteria in subsection 8-6-5G2 of this chapter; and
         e.    Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of a proposed development.
      2.    Construction Stage:
         a.    For all new construction and substantial improvements, the
permit holder shall provide to the floodplain administrator an as built
certification of the floor elevation or floodproofing level, using appropriate
FEMA elevation or floodproofing certificate, immediately after the lowest floor
or floodproofing is completed. When floodproofing is utilized for
nonresidential structures, the certification shall be prepared by or under the
direct supervision of a professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor and
certified by same.
         b.    Certificate deficiencies identified by the floodplain
administrator shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to
work proceeding. Failure to submit certification or failure to make the
corrections shall be cause for the floodplain administrator to issue a stop
work order for the project.
      3.    Technical Review: If the city of Hauser does not have the expertise
to evaluate the technical data that is part of the application, the community
may contract for an independent engineering review or require a review by FEMA
through the letter of map revision process. The applicant will pay the costs of
an independent technical review.
      4.    Expiration Of Floodplain Development Permit: All floodplain
development permits shall be conditional upon the commencement of work within
one year. A floodplain development permit shall expire one year after issuance
unless the permitted activity has been substantially begun and thereafter is
pursued to completion.
   C.    Duties And Responsibilities Of The Administrator: Duties of the
floodplain administrator shall include, but shall not be limited to:
      1.    Review all floodplain development permit applications to assure
that the permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
      2.    Review proposed development to assure that necessary permits have
been received from governmental agencies from which approval is required by
federal or state law, including section 404 of the federal water pollution
control act amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334; the endangered species act of
1973, 16 USC 1531-1544; and state of Idaho stream channel alteration permits,
Idaho Code title 42 chapter 38 require that copies of such permits be provided
and maintained on file.
      3.    When base flood elevation data or floodway data are not available,
then the floodplain administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize
any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state or
other source in order to administer the provisions of this chapter.
      4.    When base flood elevations or other current engineering data are
not available, the floodplain administrator shall take into account the flood
hazards, to the extent they are known, to determine whether a proposed building
site will be reasonably safe from flooding.
      5.    Obtain, verify and record the actual elevation in relation to the
vertical datum on the effective FIRM, or highest adjacent grade, of the lowest
floor level, including basement, of all new construction or substantially
improved structures.
      6.    Obtain, verify and record the actual elevation, in relation to the
vertical datum on the effective FIRM to which any new or substantially improved
structures have been floodproofed.
      7.    When floodproofing is utilized for a structure, the floodplain
administrator shall obtain certification of design criteria from a registered
professional engineer, architect or land surveyor.
      8.    Where interpretation is needed of the exact location of boundaries
of the areas of special flood hazard including regulatory floodway (for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions) the floodplain administrator shall make the
interpretation. Any person contesting the location of the boundary shall be
given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in this
chapter.
      9.    All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall be
maintained in the office of the city/county clerk or his/her designee and shall
be open for public inspection. (Ord. 176, 2-13-2013)
8-6-5: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
   A.    Subdivision Standards:
      1.    All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
      2.    All subdivision preliminary plats/development plans shall include
the mapped flood hazard zones from the effective FIRM.
      3.    Base flood elevation data shall be generated and/or provided for
subdivision proposals and all other proposed development, including
manufactured home parks and subdivisions, greater than fifty (50) lots or five
(5) acres, whichever is less.
      4.    All subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electric and water systems located and constructed to minimize
flood damage.
      5.    All subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce
exposure to flood hazards.
   B.    Construction Standards: In all areas of special flood hazard the
following provisions are required:
      1.    New construction and substantial improvements of an existing
structure shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement
of the structure.
      2.    New construction and substantial improvements of an existing
structure shall be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant
to flood damage.
      3.    New construction or substantial improvements of an existing
structure shall be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood
damage.
      4.    All new construction or substantial improvements of an existing
structure that includes a fully enclosed area located below the lowest floor
formed by the foundation and other exterior walls shall be designed to be an
unfinished or flood resistant enclosure. The enclosure shall be designed to
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the
automatic entry and exit of floodwater. Designs for complying with this
requirement must be certified by a licensed professional engineer or architect
or meet the following minimum criteria:
         a.    Provide a minimum of two (2) openings meeting the following
criteria:
            (1)    A total net area of not less than one square inch for every
square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
            (2)    The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
(1') above the higher of the exterior or interior grade or floor immediately
below the opening;
            (3)    Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of
floodwater in both directions without manual intervention.
         b.    To comply with the "lowest floor" criteria of this chapter, the
unfinished or flood resistant enclosure shall only be used for parking of
vehicles, limited storage of maintenance equipment used in connection with the
premises, or entry to the elevated area.
         c.    The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms.
         d.    For crawl space foundation types, construction must follow the
guidelines in FEMA TB 11-01, crawl space construction for structures located in
special flood hazard areas: national flood insurance program interim guidance,
specifically:
            (1)    Below grade crawl spaces are prohibited at sites where the
velocity of floodwaters exceeds five feet (5') per second;
            (2)    Interior grade of the crawl space below the BFE must not be
more than two feet (2') below the lowest adjacent exterior grade (LAG);
            (3)    Height of the below grade crawl space, measured from the
lowest interior grade of the crawl space to the bottom of the floor joist must
not exceed four feet (4') at any point;
            (4)    Contain an adequate drainage system that removes floodwaters
from the interior area of the crawl space.
      5.    All heating and air conditioning equipment and components, all
electrical, ventilation, plumbing, and other facilities shall be designed and/
or elevated to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during flooding.
      6.    New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or to eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
      7.    New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or to eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      8.    On site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid functional impairment, or contamination from them, during flooding.
      9.    Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvement to a
structure that is not compliant with the provisions of this chapter, shall be
undertaken only if the nonconformity is minimal in order to meet health and
safety standards.
   C.    Manufactured Home Standards: In all areas of special flood hazard
where the flood protection elevation is established, these standards for
manufactured homes and recreational vehicles that are an allowed use under the
zoning ordinance shall apply:
      1.    Manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in an existing
manufactured home park, individual lots or parcels or in a subdivision may be
elevated so that either:
         a.    The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated to the
flood protection elevation or one foot (1') above the level of the base flood
elevation, whichever is higher.
         b.    The manufactured home chassis is elevated and supported by
reinforced piers (or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent
strength) of no less than thirty six inches (36") above the highest adjacent
grade.
      2.    Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not
limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard
shall be in addition to, and consistent with, applicable state requirements.
      3.    Manufactured homes placed on solid perimeter walls shall meet the
flood vent requirements in subsection B4 of this section.
   D.    Accessory Structures: Relief from the elevation or dry floodproofing
standards may be granted for an accessory structure containing no more than two
hundred (200) square feet. Such a structure must meet the following standards:
      1.    It shall not be used for human habitation;
      2.    It shall be constructed of flood resistant materials;
      3.    It shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      4.    It shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
      5.    Services such as electrical and heating equipment shall be elevated
or floodproofed to or above the flood protection elevation;
      6.    It shall meet the opening requirements of subsection B4 of this
section.
   E.    Recreational Vehicle Standards: In all areas of special flood hazard,
recreational vehicles, that are an allowed use or structure under the zoning
ordinance, must either:
      1.    Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, on its wheels or
jacking system, attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
and security devices, have no permanently attached structures or additions, and
can not be occupied longer than six (6) months; or
      2.    The recreational vehicle must meet all the requirements for "new
construction", including the anchoring and elevation requirements.
   F.    Floodway Standards: The following provisions shall apply in a
floodway:
      1.    A project in the regulatory floodway must undergo an encroachment
review to determine its effect on flood flows. An encroachment analysis must
include:
         a.    Determination and documentation that the filling, grading or
construction of a structure will not obstruct flood flows and will not cause an
increase in flood heights upstream or adjacent to the project site;
         b.    Determination and documentation that grading, excavation,
channel improvements, bridge and culvert replacements that remove an
obstruction, do not cause increases in downstream flood flows;
         c.    Certification and documentation by a licensed professional
engineer that the project will not result in a rise in flood heights;
         d.    The administrator may make the encroachment determination for
minor projects.
      2.    An encroachment in the floodway or floodplain that will cause an
increase in the base flood elevation in excess of the allowable level must have
a conditional letter of map revision granted by FEMA before it will be
permitted.
   G.    Standards For Zones With Base Flood Elevations: In special flood
hazard areas designated A1-30, AE, AH, A (with estimated BFE at 2,190.0 NAVD
1988), the following provisions are required:
      1.    New Construction And Substantial Improvements: Where base flood
elevation data are available, new construction or substantial improvement of
any structure or manufactured home shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, constructed at one foot (1') above the community's flood protection
elevation. If solid foundation perimeter walls are used to elevate a structure,
openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement of floodwaters shall
be provided in accordance with the construction standards in subsection B4 of
this section.
      2.    Nonresidential Construction: New construction or the substantial
improvement of any nonresidential structure located in zones A1-30, AE, or AH
must be floodproofed if the new construction or improvement is not elevated.
The structure and attendant utility and sanitary facilities, must be designed
to be watertight to the flood protection elevation or to one foot (1') above
the base flood elevation, whichever is higher, with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water, and structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of
buoyancy. A licensed professional engineer or architect must certify that the
design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted standards of
practice for meeting these provisions, and shall provide certification to the
administrator.
      3.    Cumulative Effect Of Proposed Developments: Where the floodway has
not been determined, applicants of proposed projects that increase the base
flood elevation more than one foot (1') are required to obtain and submit to
the floodplain administrator, a conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR)
preconstruction.
      4.    Flood Hazard Map Changes: Postconstruction, the applicant must
apply to FEMA for a letter of map revision for changes to the flood hazard map
proposed in the CLOMR.
      5.    Drainage Paths: In AH zones, drainage paths shall be provided to
guide floodwater around and away from proposed and existing structures.
   H.    Standards For Zones Without Base Flood Elevations And/Or Floodway (A
Zones): These standards apply in special flood hazard areas where streams exist
but no base flood elevation data have been provided (A zones), or where base
flood data have been provided but a floodway has not been delineated.
      1.    When base flood elevation or floodway data have not been identified
by FEMA in a flood insurance study and/or flood insurance rate maps, then the
floodplain administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably utilize
scientific or historic base flood elevation and floodway data available from a
federal, state, or other source, in order to administer this chapter. If data
is not available from any source, only then subsections H2 and H3 of this
section shall apply.
         a.    Where the floodplain administrator has obtained base flood
elevation data, applicants of proposed projects that increase the base flood
elevation more than one foot (1') shall obtain a conditional letter of map
revision preconstruction and a letter of map revision postconstruction.
      2.    No encroachments, including structures or fill, shall be located
within an area equal to the width of the stream or fifty feet (50'), whichever
is greater, measured from the ordinary high water mark, unless certification by
a licensed professional engineer documents that the encroachment will not
result in any increase in flood levels during the base flood.
      3.    In special flood hazard areas without base flood elevation data,
new construction and substantial improvements of existing structures shall have
the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement or crawl
space) elevated no less than two feet (2') above the highest adjacent grade at
the building site. Openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the construction standards in
subsection B4 of this section.
   I.    Standards For Areas Of Shallow Flooding (AO Zones): Shallow flooding
areas designated AO zones, are areas of special flood hazard that have base
flood depths of one to three feet (3'), with no clearly defined channel. The
following provisions apply:
      1.    All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
and nonresidential structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated above the adjacent grade at least as high as the flood depth number
specified in feet on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM). If no flood depth
number is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be elevated at
least two feet (2') above the highest adjacent grade. Openings sufficient to
facilitate the unimpeded movement of floodwaters shall be provided in
accordance with the construction standards in subsection B4 of this section.
      2.    New construction or the substantial improvement of a nonresidential
structure may be floodproofed in lieu of elevation. The structure and attendant
utility and sanitary facilities must be designed to be watertight to the
specified base flood level or at least two feet (2') above highest adjacent
grade, with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, and
structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. A registered professional
engineer or architect shall certify that the design and methods of construction
are in accordance with accepted standards of practice for meeting these
provisions, and shall provide certification to the floodplain administrator.
      3.    Drainage paths shall be provided to guide floodwater around and
away from all proposed and existing structures.
   J.    Alteration Of A Watercourse: A watercourse is considered altered when
any change occurs within its banks.
      1.    The bank full flood carrying capacity of the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse shall not be diminished. Prior to issuance of a
floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a description of the
extent to which any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of the
proposed development and submit certification by a registered professional
engineer that the bank full flood carrying capacity of the watercourse will not
be diminished.
      2.    Adjacent communities, the U.S. army corps of engineers and the
Idaho department of water resources stream channel alteration program must be
notified prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse. Evidence of
notification must be submitted to the floodplain administrator and to the
federal emergency management agency.
      3.    The applicant shall be responsible for providing the necessary
maintenance for the altered or relocated portion of the watercourse so that the
flood carrying capacity will not be diminished.
      4.    The applicant shall meet the requirements to submit technical data
in subsections K1 and K2 of this section when an alteration of a watercourse
results in the relocation or elimination of the special flood hazard area,
including the placement of culverts.
   K.    Requirement To Submit New Technical Data:
      1.    For all development proposals that impact floodway delineations or
base flood elevations, the community shall ensure that technical data
reflecting such changes be submitted to FEMA within six (6) months of the date
such information becomes available. These development proposals include:
         a.    Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevations or alter floodway boundaries;
         b.    Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed structures
where the applicant desires to remove the site from the special flood hazard
area;
         c.    Alteration of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts;
         d.    Subdivision or large scale development proposals requiring
establishment of base flood elevations according to subsection A3 of this
section.
      2.    It is the responsibility of the applicant to have technical data
prepared in a format required for a conditional letter of map revision or
letter of map revision and submitted to FEMA. Submittal and processing fees for
these map revisions shall be the responsibility of the applicant. (Ord. 176, 2-
13-2013)
8-6-6: VARIANCE AND APPEAL PROCEDURES:
   A.    Variance: An application for a variance must be submitted to the code
administrator on the form provided by the city of Hauser and include, at a
minimum, the same information required for a development permit and an
explanation for the basis for the variance request. Upon receipt of a completed
application for a variance, the variance request will be set for public hearing
at the next available Hauser planning commission meeting. Prior to the public
hearing, notice of the hearing will be published in the official newspaper of
the city at least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing. In addition to the
newspaper publication, written notice shall be provided to all adjoining
property owners. The burden to show that the variance is warranted and meets
the criteria set out herein is on the applicant.
   B.    Criteria For Variances:
      1.    Generally, the only condition under which a variance from the
elevation standard may be issued is for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a small or irregularly shaped lot contiguous to
and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level. As the lot size increases the technical justification required for
issuing the variance increases.
      2.    Variances shall not be issued within a designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      3.    Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      4.    Variances may be issued upon:
         a.    A showing by the applicant of good and sufficient cause;
         b.    A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws and ordinances.
      5.    Variances pertain to a physical piece of property; they are not
personal in nature and do not pertain to the structure, its inhabitants,
economic or financial circumstances. They primarily address small lots in
densely populated residential neighborhoods.
      6.    Variances should be issued for nonresidential buildings in very
limited circumstances.
   C.    Variance Decision: The decision to either grant or deny a variance
shall be in writing and shall set forth the reasons for such approval and
denial. If the variance is granted, the property owner shall be put on notice
along with the written decision that the permitted building will have its
lowest floor below the flood protection elevation and that the cost of flood
insurance likely will be commensurate with the increased flood damage risk.
   D.    Appeals: The city council shall hear and decide appeals from the
interpretations of the administrator.
      1.    An appeal must be filed with the city clerk within fourteen (14)
days of the date of any permit denial or interpretation of the administrator.
Failure to timely file an appeal shall be considered a failure to exhaust the
administrative remedies. The appeal must set out the interpretation of the
administrator and a narrative setting forth the facts relied upon by the
appellant and the appellant's claim regarding the error in the interpretation.
      2.    Upon receipt of a completed appeal, the appeal will be scheduled
for the next available planning commission meeting to be heard. The planning
commission shall consider the following in ruling on an appeal:
         a.    All technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards
specified in other sections of this chapter, including:
            (1)    The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to
the injury of others;
            (2)    The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
            (3)    The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents
to flood damage and the effects of such damage on the individual landowner;
            (4)    The importance of the services provided by the proposed
facility to the community;
            (5)    The necessity of the facility to a waterfront location,
where applicable;
            (6)    The availability of alternative locations for the proposed
use which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
            (7)    The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
            (8)    The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive
plan and floodplain management program for that area;
            (9)    The safety of access to the property in times of flooding
for ordinary and emergency vehicles;
            (10)    The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
            (11)    The cost of providing government services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   E.    Decision: The planning commission's decision on appeal shall be in
writing and set out the facts, technical information and the legal basis for
the decision. The city council will hear any appeals from the planning
commission decisions. (Ord. 176, 2-13-2013)
8-6-7: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION:
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or altered
unless in full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable
regulations.
Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisoned for not more than one hundred eighty
(180) days, or both. Each day the violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city of Hauser
from taking such other lawful actions as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation. (Ord. 176, 2-13-2013)
CHAPTER 7
LANDSCAPE BUFFERING
SECTION:
8-7-1: Purpose
8-7-2: Minimum Buffer Requirements
8-7-3: Performance Standards
8-7-4: Buffer Width Reductions
8-7-5: Plant Material Specifications
8-7-1: PURPOSE:
Landscaping requirements are an essential element in mitigating potential land
use conflicts and enhancing the visual appeal of the city. The purpose of this
chapter is to assure that the landscaped buffers required by this title fulfill
those goals. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
8-7-2: MINIMUM BUFFER REQUIREMENTS:
The width of required buffers shall vary with the nature of the uses being
separated, the height of the buildings buffered, and the design of the buffer.
Subsection 8-3B-6B, table 3, of this title shows the minimum width required
where the buffer consists of a level or gently sloping area of sod or ground
cover and at least four (4) major trees in each one hundred (100) linear feet
of buffer. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
8-7-3: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   A.    Height Adjustment: The minimum buffer width shall be increased by the
height adjustment factor, where one is established. That factor is a ratio
expressing the number of feet that must be added to minimum buffer width for
each foot in height over thirty five feet (35') of the building being buffered.
   B.    Minimum Buffer Width: No required buffer shall be less than half the
minimum buffer width or less than ten feet (10') in width, regardless of any
reductions permitted by subsections 8-7-4A and B of this chapter.
   C.    Buffer Crossings/Inclusions: Buffers may be crossed by access
driveways, utility lines, sidewalks and pedestrian trails. A sidewalk or
pedestrian trail may run along the length of a buffer, with its width, up to a
maximum ten feet (10'), included in the required buffer width. Buffers may also
include permitted signs. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
8-7-4: BUFFER WIDTH REDUCTIONS:
   A.    Berms: The minimum buffer width requirements in subsection 8-3B-6B,
table 3, of this title may be reduced where a berm is included in the buffer.
The width reduction shall be twice the height of the berm, but the maximum
permitted reduction shall be ten feet (10'). No berm shall have a slope of more
than three to one (3:1), except where it incorporates a retaining wall. Such
walls may be used only on the side opposite the use or public way being
buffered.
   B.    Additional Plantings: The minimum width requirements may be reduced
where a greater density and diversity of plantings is included in the buffer.
The buffer width reductions permitted by this section are cumulative and may
result in a total reduction of thirty percent (30%). The buffer width
reductions permitted by subsection 8-7-3B of this chapter are also cumulative
with those permitted herein:
      1.    Major Trees: The required buffer width shall be reduced by ten
percent (10%) where five (5) or more major trees are planted or retained in
each one hundred (100) linear feet of buffer.
      2.    Understory Trees: The required buffer width shall be reduced by ten
percent (10%) where five (5) or more understory trees are planted or retained
in each one hundred (100) linear feet of buffer.
      3.    Shrubs: The required buffer width shall be reduced by ten percent
(10%) where twenty (20) or more shrubs per one hundred (100) linear feet are
planted or retained. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
8-7-5: PLANT MATERIAL SPECIFICATIONS:
Plant materials installed in required buffers shall meet the following
specifications:
   A.    All trees, major and understory, shall be containerized or bagged and
burlapped stock in good condition with a caliper of at least one and one-half
inches (1.5") (measured 1 foot above grade) for deciduous trees and a height of
at least six feet (6') for coniferous trees; and
   B.    All shrubs shall be minimum one gallon containerized stock in good
condition. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
CHAPTER 8
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
8-8-1: Purpose
8-8-2: Off Street Parking Required
8-8-3: Location And Circulation Of Parking Areas
8-8-4: Minimum Parking Space Standards
8-8-5: Off Street Loading Requirements
8-8-6: Access To Off Street Parking And Loading Areas
8-8-1: PURPOSE:
The performance standards set out in this chapter are intended to prevent
traffic congestion by requiring provision of adequate off street parking and
loading areas. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
8-8-2: OFF STREET PARKING REQUIRED:
All buildings and uses shall provide the minimum number of off street parking
spaces required by section
8-8-4 of this chapter. Parking spaces shall have graded and drained gravel or
paved surfaces. The classification of uses and the off street parking
requirements for uses shall be determined by the administrator. Any person who
disputes a decision of the administrator may request a review of that decision
using the appeals procedure of subsection 8-10-5A of this title. (Ord. 149, 10-
22-2008)
8-8-3: LOCATION AND CIRCULATION OF PARKING AREAS:
   A.    Location Of Off Street Parking: Off street parking shall be provided
on the same lot or parcel and under the same ownership as the use it serves,
but two (2) or more uses may share parking where:
      1.    The total number of spaces provided is not less than the sum of
spaces required for all buildings or uses served; and
      2.    A contract providing for shared parking for a period of at least
twenty (20) years is executed before approval of a permit, and recorded before
issuance of a certificate of compliance;
      3.    Required off street parking spaces shall be within six hundred feet
(600') of a main entrance of the building or use served, except for spaces
serving a dwelling, which shall be within one hundred feet (100') of the
dwelling unit served.
      4.    Shared access and parking that reduces the number of points of
access to public roads is encouraged by subsection 8-3C-1D of this title.
   B.    Circulation Within Off Street Parking Areas: The pattern of
circulation within parking areas shall be designed to provide safe and
efficient access to individual parking spaces, protect pedestrians moving
through the parking area, and facilitate safe access to public streets:
      1.    Minimum aisle widths shall be:
 
Two-way circulation and 90° parking      24 feet
One-way circulation and 60° angle parking18 feet
One-way circulation and 45° angle parking15 feet
One-way circulation and 30° angle parking13 feet
 
      2.    Where one-way circulation is used, directional signs shall be
installed at all access points to the parking area.
      3.    No parking area shall be designed so that circulation from one
portion of the area to another relies on a public street.
      4.    There shall be safe pedestrian access around or through all parking
and loading areas. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
8-8-4: MINIMUM PARKING SPACE STANDARDS:
   A.    All residential dwellings shall have at least two (2) spaces per
dwelling unit of off street parking.
   B.    All commercial and industrial spaces shall have one space for every
two hundred fifty (250) square feet of finished floor space. (Ord. 149, 10-22-
2008)
8-8-5: OFF STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.    Passenger Loading Areas: Daycare centers, schools and places for
public assembly located on arterial roads shall provide at least one safe,
properly signed, off street passenger loading area.
   B.    Freight Loading Areas: Commercial and industrial buildings and uses
shall provide one safe, properly signed, off street freight loading area for
each ten thousand (10,000) square feet of gross floor area. Off street freight
loading areas shall be on the same lot or parcel and under the same ownership
as the building or use they serve, be designed to accommodate the largest
vehicle that may reasonably be anticipated, and have the following minimum
dimensions:
 
Vertical clearance 14 feet
Width              12 feet
Depth or length    35 feet
 
No vehicle parked in an off street freight loading area shall extend into a
public right of way. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
8-8-6: ACCESS TO OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING AREAS:
Graded and drained gravel or paved driveways shall be provided for safe access
to off street parking and loading areas, including the off street parking for
single-family dwellings.
   A.    No parking or loading area shall create a situation in which vehicles
are required to back onto a public road. Parking areas for single-family
dwellings with access to local roads are exempt from this requirement.
   B.    Continuous curb cuts are prohibited. Access to public roads shall be
via driveways that comply with these performance standards.
   C.    Driveways accessing Idaho Highway 53 shall be at least two hundred
feet (200') from any other point of access (other driveways or intersections).
Driveways to roads intersecting with Idaho Highway 53 shall be located at least
one hundred fifty feet (150') from the highway or, where that distance cannot
be attained, at the property line most distant from the highway.
   D.    Driveways to Cloverleaf and Hauser Lake Roads shall be one hundred
fifty feet (150') apart, or where that distance cannot be attained, at the most
distant point on the property. Driveways to roads intersecting Cloverleaf and
Hauser Lake Roads shall be at least forty feet (40') from those roads.
   E.    Clear vision triangles shall be provided on both sides of driveways. A
"clear vision triangle" is defined by extending a line between two (2) points:
point 1 shall be thirty feet (30') from the outer edge of the driveway on the
lot line paralleling the road the driveway enters; and point 2 shall be thirty
feet (30') back from the property line on the outer edge of the driveway. For
driveways accessing Idaho Highway 53, the minimum sight distance provided must
be four hundred feet (400'), and the clear vision triangle shall be extended,
if necessary, to provide that distance.
   F.    No parking, and no solid fence or wall, planter, hedge, shrub or other
visual obstruction more than three feet (3') in height above grade shall be
permitted in a clear vision triangle. Trees may be permitted in clear vision
triangles, but where all branches are pruned to a height of at least seven feet
(7') above grade.
   G.    Driveways for single-family dwellings shall be a minimum of ten feet
(10') wide, with a minimum curb radius of five feet (5'), and a maximum grade
of three percent (3%) for at least twenty feet (20') before the driveway
intersects the road. Driveways for other uses shall be designed to accommodate
the reasonably anticipated level of use.
   H.    Where required for drainage, driveways shall be constructed over a
minimum twelve inch (12") culvert capable of supporting a load of forty
thousand (40,000) pounds. (Ord. 149, 10-22-2008)
CHAPTER 9
SUBDIVISION PLATTING
SECTION:
8-9-1: Purpose
8-9-2: Preliminary Plats
8-9-3: Final Plats
8-9-4: Minor Replats And Amendments
8-9-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter establishes technical standards for the form and content of
subdivision plats. The requirements it imposes are in addition to the
requirements of state law. (Ord. 153, 5-27-2009)
8-9-2: PRELIMINARY PLATS:
   A.    Preliminary Plat Part Of Application: A preliminary plat is one part
of the application for a class II permit to subdivide and shall be accompanied
by the official application form and all other materials required for a
complete application. The required site plan and the preliminary plat may be
combined or separate.
   B.    Preliminary Plats To Be Comprehensive: Preliminary plats shall cover
the entire area to be developed by one owner or a group of related or
associated owners, even when it is anticipated that development will be phased
or occur in the form of multiple subdivisions over several years. See
subsection 8-3C-6C of this title.
   C.    Contents Of Preliminary Plats: Preliminary plats shall include:
      1.    A title block showing the name of the proposed subdivision and its
location by quarter-quarter section, section, township, range, principal
meridian, city, county and state;
      2.    The name, address, telephone number and registration number of the
engineer or land surveyor who prepared the preliminary plat;
      3.    A north point, and both graphic and written scales;
      4.    A vicinity map that locates the proposed subdivision within the
Hauser Lake planning area and the section, shows major roads and watercourses
adjacent to or near the subdivision, and shows the boundaries and names of all
adjacent or nearby subdivisions;
      5.    The location, nature and boundaries of all existing public ways and
public or private easements in or adjacent to the proposed subdivision,
including the county book and page number references to the instruments
establishing those ways or easements;
      6.    The location and size of all existing utility lines in or adjacent
to the proposed subdivision;
      7.    The exterior boundaries of the proposed subdivision;
      8.    The location, exterior dimensions, and number of proposed lots and
blocks, or other parcels created by the subdivision;
      9.    The acreage of each proposed lot, and a table showing the total
acreage of the area proposed for subdivision, the total acreage in lots, the
total acreage in streets, and the total acreage of parcels proposed for
dedication to public use or to be held in common by the lot owners;
      10.    Where they are proposed, and for cluster developments, the
location and dimensions of building envelopes or building lots (see section
8-3E-5, table 5, of this title), and a prominent notice that building is
permitted in the envelopes or designated building lots only;
      11.    The names of all proposed roads and widths and boundaries of all
proposed road rights of way and utility easements;
      12.    The location of all irrigation structures, watercourses, and
wetlands within or adjacent to the proposed subdivision;
      13.    The location of any floodplain and floodway boundaries, as
established by the federal emergency management agency, and any lakeshore or
stream corridor setback lines established by this title;
      14.    Topographic elevations: Contours shown at vertical intervals of
not more than five feet (5') and identifying the following slope zones:
0 through 8 percent
9 through 20 percent
21 through 30 percent
Over 30 percent
      15.    Any other information required for compliance with this title.
   D.    Scale And Dimensions: Preliminary plats shall be prepared at a scale
of one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') with all dimensions shown in
feet and decimals thereof. Plats of large areas may be prepared on multiple,
serially numbered sheets with match lines and a sheet index map, which may be
combined with the vicinity map. The vicinity and index maps shall appear on the
first of the serially numbered sheets. (Ord. 153, 5-27-2009)
8-9-3: FINAL PLATS:
   A.    Contents Of Final Plats: All final plats submitted shall be prepared
in compliance with Idaho Code title 50, chapter 13, and shall include all
information listed below:
      1.    A title block showing the name of the proposed subdivision and its
location by quarter-quarter section, section, township, range, principal
meridian, city, county and state;
      2.    The name, address, telephone number, and registration number of the
engineer or land surveyor who prepared the final plat;
      3.    A north point, and both graphic and written scales;
      4.    A vicinity map that locates the proposed subdivision within the
Hauser Lake planning area and the section, shows major roads and watercourses
adjacent to or near the subdivision, and shows the boundaries of and recorded
names of all adjacent or nearby subdivisions;
      5.    The location, nature and boundaries of all existing public ways and
public or private easements in or adjacent to the proposed subdivision,
including the county book and page number references to the instruments
establishing those ways or easements;
      6.    The point of beginning for the subdivision survey, which shall be a
section or quarter section corner, and the location and a description of all
existing monuments found during the course of the survey;
      7.    The location, nature and boundaries, with bearings and distances,
of all existing public ways and public or private easements in or adjacent to
the subdivision, including the county book and page number references of the
instruments establishing those ways or easements;
      8.    The location, exterior dimensions, and number of all lots and
blocks, or other parcels created by the subdivision, including bearings and
distances and curve data for curving boundaries;
      9.    The acreage of each lot, and a table showing the total acreage of
the subdivided area, the total acreage in lots, the total acreage in streets,
and the total acreage of any parcels dedicated to public use or held in common
by the lot owners;
      10.    The names of all streets and widths and boundaries of all street
rights of way and utility easements, including bearings and distances and curve
data for curving boundaries;
      11.    The location and a description of all monuments established during
the course of the survey;
      12.    The location of any floodplain and floodway boundaries, as
established by the federal emergency management agency, and any lakeshore or
stream corridor setback lines established by this title;
      13.    A signed and dated owner's certificate which includes a complete
legal description of the parcel being subdivided, and in which the owners of
record dedicate all public ways and other public spaces to public use;
      14.    A public notary's acknowledgment of the owner's certificate;
      15.    A signed and dated certificate of consent in which all mortgagors,
lien holders and other parties with any real property interest, including the
holders of mineral rights, in the property consent to its subdivision;
      16.    A public notary's acknowledgment of the certificate of consent;
      17.    Certificates for plat approval by the commission and city council
or board of county commissioners;
      18.    A statement of sanitary restriction, as required by Idaho Code 50-
1326;
      19.    A certificate for use by the county recorder in recording the plat
after its approval; and
      20.    Any other information required for compliance with this title.
   B.    Scale And Dimensions: Final plats shall be prepared at the scale of
one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') with all dimensions shown in feet
and decimals thereof. Plats of large areas may be prepared on multiple,
serially numbered sheets with match lines and a sheet index map, which may be
combined with the vicinity map. All required certificates and the vicinity and
index maps shall appear on the first of the serially numbered sheets.
   C.    Copy: The developer shall also provide the city with one reproducible
copy of the final plat suitable for photographic reproduction and reduction.
(Ord. 153, 5-27-2009)
8-9-4: MINOR REPLATS AND AMENDMENTS:
This section outlines the requirements for making minor modifications to a
previously recorded subdivision plat or portion of a plat when the modification
cannot be accomplished as a lot line adjustment in accordance with this title.
Minor modifications for up to four (4) platted lots include insignificant
changes in wording, corrections, consolidations, lot line and building envelope
adjustments and relocations where no additional lots are created and no
material changes in the conditions of approval are made. Substantial
modifications to a plat, such as those that would affect the location of roads,
driveway approaches, septic systems, building sites, easements or utilities,
buffers from water bodies, setbacks from property lines, or any modification
that would create additional lots, or modifications that would affect more than
four (4) lots; or significant changes in verbiage that might affect a property
owner's use of their land, or of commonly held land or easements, shall go
through the subdivision process.
   A.    Application Requirements: The following items constitute a complete
application for approval of a minor replat or amendment. The applicant is
required to submit one complete application packet to the city, plus additional
packets for each agency/organization reviewing the proposal, as determined by
the code administrator. Incomplete applications will not be processed nor
vested under current ordinances.
      1.    Application: A completed application form signed by the property
owners whose land is included in the amended plat or replat, or a notarized
letter of authorization from them that references the fee resolution title and
date of the original plat.
      2.    Fees: Fees as adopted by council resolution.
      3.    Current Title Report: Current title report for the affected lots.
      4.    Plat: Meeting the final plat requirements of this title and Idaho
Code title 50, chapter 13 (2 copies).
      5.    Narrative: Explaining the proposed modifications to the plat and
responding to any questions from the city. The title of the proposed amended
plat shall state that it is a replat or amendment of the subdivision, or of the
particular lots within the subdivision, and shall include reference to the
original plat's recording date and instrument number if so recorded.
   B.    Approval Process And Requirements: The steps for gaining approval of a
minor replat or amendment are as follows:
      1.    Application: The applicant submits complete application packets for
the city and other reviewing agencies as determined by the code administrator.
Incomplete applications will not be processed.
      2.    Agency Review: If the application is complete, the city forwards
application packets to the affected agencies for their review and approval. If
the number of lots will be reduced, approval letters are required from water
and/or sewer purveyors serving the subdivision. Some agencies have their own
fees and forms and after the city mails the packets, the applicant should
contact each agency and meet their requirements.
      3.    Order Of Decision: After agency letters are received, the code
administrator reviews the relevant evidence in the record and issues an order
of decision. The order shall cite the applicable legal standards; state the
evidence and conclusions on which the decision was based; explain relevant
contested facts and provide evaluation of these facts; and the actions, if any,
the applicant could take to gain approval if the decision is a denial. To
approve a minor replat or amendment, the code administrator must make a finding
that the proposed corrections or modifications and the proposed plat are in
compliance with Idaho Code title 50, chapter 13 and with requirements of the
city and other agencies; that the proposed modifications are not substantial in
nature; and that there will be no negative effects on public agencies and
private corporations that provide services and facilities for the subdivision.
Unless otherwise approved by the applicant, the code administrator shall make a
decision within five (5) weeks of the receipt of a complete application. The
code administrator's decision may be appealed in accordance with this title.
   C.    Recordation: Within one hundred twenty (120) days of approval, the
Mylar plat must be submitted in a form ready to record. The applicant obtains
all signatures on the plat with the exception of the city. All property owners
whose land is included in the amended plat or replat must sign the owner's
certificate on the plat. All signatures and stamps must be in reproducible,
quick drying, permanent, indelible black ink. A current title report, or
similar document verifying ownership, must also be submitted. The department
obtains city signatures and, with the applicant, records the plat. If the plat
is not submitted for recordation within one hundred twenty (120) days, and an
extension is not granted by the code administrator, approval is null and void
and a new application must be submitted. The code administrator may grant an
extension for cause. (Ord. 153, 5-27-2009)
CHAPTER 10
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
8-10-1: Planning And Zoning Commission And Administrator
8-10-2: Permits Required
8-10-3: Permit Procedures
8-10-4: Nonconforming Uses And Buildings
8-10-5: Appeals And Variances
8-10-6: Amendments
8-10-7: Vacation Of Subdivisions
8-10-8: Hearing Procedures
8-10-9: Appeal Hearing Procedures
8-10-10: Enforcement
8-10-1: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION AND ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.    Planning And Zoning Commission:
      1.    Established: A planning and zoning commission is established, as
authorized by Idaho Code 67-6504. Idaho Code 67-6504(a) requires that all
commission members shall have resided in Kootenai County, Idaho, for at least
two (2) years prior to their appointment.
         a.    The city planning and zoning commission shall consist of five
(5) members, four (4) members of which shall reside in the city, appointed by
the mayor and confirmed by the city council, with a fifth member residing
within the area of city impact (ACI). The joint planning commission, as
required by Idaho Code 67-6526(g) and the adopted area of city impact agreement
(ordinance 119), shall be composed of seven (7) members, three (3) of which
reside in the ACI, two (2) of which reside elsewhere in Kootenai County and are
seated on the Kootenai County planning commission, and two (2) of which reside
within the city. The joint planning commission shall evaluate and make
recommendations to the county on applications, plans, or ordinance amendments
for lands within the area of city impact.
         b.    City commission members shall serve staggered terms of three (3)
years, in order to provide for the annual appointment of at least one member.
      2.    Duties: The five (5) member city planning and zoning commission
shall act with the full authority of the council as delineated in this title,
excluding the authority to adopt the city comprehensive plan, ordinances, or to
approve final land subdivisions. The joint planning commission shall act as
delineated in this title and ordinance 119 as a recommending body to the board
of county commissioners within the area of city impact.
   B.    Administrator: The mayor shall, with the consent of the city council,
appoint a planning and zoning administrator, who shall perform the following
duties:
      1.    Assist members of the public in understanding the applicability and
requirements of this title;
      2.    Receive applications for permits required by this title, accepting
only complete applications, as required by section
8-10-2 of this chapter;
      3.    Review applications for class I permits for compliance with this
title and approve or disapprove such applications following the procedure
established in subsection 8-10-3A of this chapter;
      4.    Prepare reports on, or arrange for the professional review of,
applications for class II permits, following the procedure established by
subsection 8-10-3B of this chapter;
      5.    Assist the commission, city council and board of county
commissioners in setting meeting agendas and provide proper notice of all
public hearings required by this title;
      6.    Issue certificates of compliance, based on site inspections,
enforce the provisions of development agreements and investigate possible
violations of this title;
      7.    Properly account for all fees collected in the administration of
this title and prepare monthly and annual reports of development activity in
the Hauser Lake planning area; and
      8.    Perform all other duties assigned by this title, and assist the
commission in the execution of its duties.
   C.    Individual Liability: No commission or city council member, the mayor
or any city employee or contractor who acts in good faith and without malice in
a role established by this title shall be held liable for errors or omissions
in its administration. Any suit brought against such an individual shall be
defended by the city, and any judgment resulting from such a suit shall be a
liability of the city. (Ord. 159, 6-9-2010)
8-10-2: PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A.    Permit Required: A permit shall be required for any division of land;
any clearing, filling, grading, construction, reconstruction, development or
redevelopment; and any change in land use, except as specifically exempted by
subsections B, C and D of this section.
      1.    A class I permit shall be required for:
         a.    Any lot split or land division not exempted by subsection C of
this section;
         b.    The construction of a single-family dwelling, or placement of a
mobile or manufactured home;
         c.    The establishment of a home occupation;
         d.    The construction or installation of any accessory building or
fence not exempted by subsection D of this section;
         e.    Any minor change of use in an existing commercial or industrial
site or building;
         f.    Any other development activity that is not exempted by
subsection B, C or D of this section, but does not require a class II permit;
or
         g.    Any clearing, grading or excavation in preparation for any of
the activities listed in subsections A1a through A1f of this section. The class
I permit procedure is found at subsection 8-10-3A of this chapter.
      2.    A class I permit shall also be required for certain activities that
would otherwise be exempted by subsection D of this section, but are located
within a lakeshore or stream corridor established by this title. See
subsections D6 and D7 of this section.
      3.    A class II permit shall be required for:
         a.    Any division of land not exempted by subsection C of this
section;
         b.    Any modification of a stream or lakeshore corridor established
by this title, except those limited modifications that are exempt, or for which
a class I permit is acceptable (see subsection A2 of this section), including
any clearing, grading or excavation, and shoreline or channel stabilization;
         c.    The construction of any high density residential development,
including attached dwellings and manufactured home parks;
         d.    The construction or establishment of any commercial or
industrial development, including any major change in use in an existing
commercial or industrial site or structure; or
         e.    Any clearing, filling, grading or excavation in preparation for
any of the activities listed in subsections A3a through A3d of this section and
this subsection A3e. The class II permit procedure is found at subsection 8-10-
3B of this chapter.
   B.    Statutory Exemptions:
      1.    As provided by Idaho Code 38-1302(3), forest practices are exempt
from the requirements of this title.
      2.    As provided by Idaho Code 67-6529, the production of crops and
livestock on agricultural lands in the area of city impact is exempt from the
requirements of this title. As also provided by Idaho Code 67-6529, the term
"agricultural lands" shall be defined to encompass all lands in the Rathdrum
Prairie zoning district established in section
8-2-1 of this title. The comprehensive plan encourages continued agricultural
production in that zoning district.
   C.    Exemptions For Land Divisions: Exemption of a land division does not
exempt the development of the parcel created from compliance with this title.
No permit shall be required for:
      1.    Land divisions resulting from condemnation proceedings, voluntary
sales or gifts of land for a public purpose, or court decrees ordering the
creation of a specific parcel, if the recorded or court stamped final orders of
such proceeding, sale, gift, or decree are submitted to the city within one
year of such event creating the parcel. Court decrees do not guarantee that a
lot or parcel is buildable;
      2.    Any land division in which all resulting parcels are one hundred
sixty (160) or more acres in size;
      3.    Adjustments to platted lot lines providing: a) no additional lots
or parcels are created, b) the total area of a lot or parcel is changed less
than twenty percent (20%) from the original platted lot size, c) the resulting
lot meets the minimum size for the zone and is otherwise in conformance with
all ordinances, d) the lot line adjustment does not result in a lot separated
by a right of way or road, and e) a statement is included on the deed of
conveyance indicating that the instrument is being recorded for lot line
adjustment purposes, and that the property being transferred is not a separate
lot. Lot line adjustments that do not meet these requirements must go through
the replat or minor replat process;
      4.    Boundary line adjustments to legally created, unplatted parcels,
providing: a) no additional parcels are created, b) the resulting parcels meet
the minimum size for the zone and are otherwise in conformance with all
ordinances, and c) the boundary line adjustment does not result in lots
separated by a right of way or road. A parcel of land that is not buildable
because it does not conform to ordinances, or was created improperly, cannot be
converted to a buildable parcel through a boundary line adjustment;
      5.    Lot and boundary line adjustments are accomplished by recording a
deed of conveyance for the property that will be transferred, and then, for the
receiving parcel, recording a second deed describing the new, exterior parcel
boundaries (so that an additional parcel of land is not inadvertently created).
   D.    Exemptions For Development Activity: The activities listed herein are
not exempt from any applicable requirement of this title, except the
requirement for a permit. No permit shall be required for:
      1.    The production of agricultural commodities (subsection B2 of this
section exempts agricultural production from all requirements of this title in
a portion of the area of city impact);
      2.    Clearing, grading or excavation for the installation or maintenance
of residential grounds and gardens;
      3.    Repairs or remodeling that does not alter the exterior dimensions
of the structure involved by more than six inches (6"). (Note: The
international building code and/or state electrical and plumbing codes may
require a permit for such activities.);
      4.    The construction or installation of fences of eight feet (8') or
less in height. (Note: Fences must comply with the requirements of this title
for clear sight triangles at points of access to public roads.);
      5.    Certain signs, as provided in chapter 5 of this title;
      6.    The construction or installation of accessory buildings that are
exempt from review for compliance with the international building code and
agricultural outbuildings, including silos, granaries and similar farm
structures, except where such buildings or structures are within a lakeshore or
stream corridor established by this title; and
      7.    Minor utility installations, except where such installations are
within a lakeshore or stream corridor established by this title.
A demolition permit may be required at the discretion of the international
building code compliance official in accordance with the standards of the
international building code 1 .
   E.    Application Forms: Applications for permits shall be submitted on
forms provided by the city, and all applications shall include a site plan (see
section
8-1-3 of this title for the contents of a site plan). All information,
including the site plan, and other maps, plans, drawings, tabulations and
calculations, and all agency and government signatures called for on those
forms shall be required for a complete application, and no incomplete
application shall be accepted. The administrator may require submission of
multiple copies of application forms and supporting materials.
   F.    Application Fees: Application fees for each type of permit established
by this title shall be established by resolution of the city council.
   G.    Site Inspection: The filing of an application for a permit constitutes
permission for the city to conduct inspections of the proposed development site
during its consideration of the application. The administrator may delay
consideration of any application when inclement weather or a snowpack prevents
a useful site inspection.
   H.    Certificate Of Compliance: A certificate of compliance is issued when
a site inspection finds that the development, parcel, lot or site complies with
this title and any conditions imposed upon its approval. Issuance of a
certificate of compliance shall not be construed as approval of any violation
of this title that was not discovered during the inspection.
      1.    A certificate of compliance shall be issued before any land
division is offered for sale, lease or occupancy; sold, leased or occupied; or
occupied in any way. Offering lots for sale, lease or occupancy, or selling,
leasing or occupying a lot or building without a certificate of compliance
shall be a violation of this title.
      2.    A temporary certificate of compliance may be issued to permit
temporary use of a building when weather prevents the completion of landscaping
or similar improvements. No temporary certificate of compliance shall be valid
for more than one hundred eighty (180) days. (Ord. 159, 6-9-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  7-1-1 of this code.
8-10-3: PERMIT PROCEDURES:
   A.    Class I Permit Procedures: The class I permit procedure provides for
the prompt review of minor developments, while ensuring that they have no
significant adverse impact on environmental quality, neighboring uses, or
public facilities and services. The class I permit procedure shall be as
follows:
      1.    The developer shall file a properly completed permit application
form, the required supporting materials, and the required application fee with
the administrator.
      2.    The administrator shall determine whether the proposed development
is in compliance with this title. If the proposed development complies, the
application for a permit shall be approved. Conditions may be attached to the
approval of any permit, as provided in subsection C of this section. If the
proposed development does not comply, the application for a permit shall be
rejected. Where the proposed development is part of a larger development for
which a class II permit was previously approved, the administrator shall also
determine whether it is in compliance with the previously approved development
plan and all conditions attached to that plan's approval.
      3.    The administrator shall notify the developer of the decision within
twenty eight (28) days.
      4.    The administrator's decision may be appealed to the commission
using the procedure of section
8-10-9 of this chapter. To initiate appeal proceedings, a notice of appeal must
be filed with the administrator within twenty eight (28) days after notice of
the decision has been issued. Developers proceed at their own risk during the
appeal period.
   B.    Class II Permit Procedure: The purpose of the class II permit
procedure is to assure effective regulation of developments that could have
significant impacts on environmental quality, neighboring uses or public
facilities and services. The class II permit procedure, which incorporates both
the special use permit procedures authorized by Idaho Code 67-6512 and the
review of proposed subdivisions authorized by Idaho Code 67-6513, shall be as
follows:
      1.    The developer shall first file a request for a preapplication
conference with the administrator. Prior to any application submittal, a
preapplication conference shall be conducted.
      2.    The developer shall file a properly completed application form, the
required supporting materials, and the required application fee with the
administrator.
      3.    The administrator shall place a hearing on the application on the
agenda of the next regular commission meeting for which the notice requirements
can be met, and at which time will permit its proper review.
      4.    The administrator may contract for professional review of the
application, with the cost of that review to be paid by the developer in
addition to the application fee. Such reviews shall be prepared in the form of
a written report submitted to the administrator for use at the hearing. The
administrator shall, upon its receipt, provide a copy of this report to the
developer and place it on file for public review with the other application
materials.
      5.    The commission shall conduct a hearing on the application following
the procedure established in section
8-10-8 of this chapter. No application shall be reviewed if the developer or a
representative is not present.
      6.    The commission shall determine whether the proposed development is
in compliance with the comprehensive plan and this title. If the proposed
development complies, the application for a permit shall be approved.
Conditions may be attached to the approval of any permit, as provided in
subsection C of this section. If the proposed development does not comply, the
application for a permit shall be rejected. Where the proposed development is
part of a larger development for which another class II permit was previously
approved, the commission shall also determine whether it is in compliance with
the previously approved development plan and all conditions attached to that
plan's approval.
      7.    The administrator shall notify the developer and interested parties
of the commission's decision within twenty eight (28) days.
      8.    The commission's decision may be appealed as follows:
         a.    Within the city limits, to the city council, using the appeals
procedure of section
8-10-9 of this chapter; or
         b.    Within the area of city impact, to the entity or entities
designated in a negotiated and duly adopted area of city impact development
code, using the appeals procedure delineated within the Hauser-Kootenai County
area of city impact agreement ordinance of Kootenai County.
         c.    To initiate appeal proceedings, a notice of appeal must be filed
with the administrator within twenty eight (28) days after notice of the
decision has been issued. Developers proceed at their own risk during the
appeal period.
      9.    The developer of a subdivision may file a final plat with the
administrator at any time after the class II permit is approved. Phased final
platting may be permitted by a development agreement. See chapter 4 of this
title.
         a.    The administrator shall place the final plat on the agenda of
the next commission meeting.
         b.    No public notice or hearing is required before approval of a
final plat, but no final plat shall be reviewed if the developer or a
representative is not present.
         c.    The commission shall review the final plat and determine whether
it is in compliance with the class II permit, the comprehensive plan, and this
title. If it finds that the final plat complies, the commission shall recommend
that it be approved by the council. If it finds that the final plat fails to
comply, it shall recommend that it not be approved by the city council. For
subdivisions located within an area of city impact whose boundaries were
negotiated with Kootenai County and adopted by the development code, the
recommendations shall be made to the entity or entities designated in the area
of city impact development code.
         d.    Unless it is withdrawn by the developer, the administrator shall
place review of the final plat on the agenda of the next regular council
meeting at which time will allow its proper consideration.
         e.    The city council shall take due notice of the commission's
recommendation in determining whether the final plat is in compliance with the
class II permit, the comprehensive plan, and this title. If the city council
finds that the final plat complies, it shall approve that plat. Conditions may
be attached to approval of a final plat, as provided in subsection C of this
section. If the city council finds that the final plat fails to comply, it
shall reject that plat.
         f.    The administrator shall notify the developer and interested
parties of the city council's decision within twenty eight (28) days.
   C.    Conditions: Conditions may be imposed on the approval of any permit or
variance, provided that:
      1.    Those conditions are clearly designed to assure compliance with one
or more specific requirements of this title; and
      2.    A list of the conditions imposed is provided to the developer with
notification of the decision. That list shall specifically identify the
provision of this title the condition is designed to implement.
   D.    Time Approvals Valid: Class I permits shall be valid as prescribed in
the current edition of the international building code or, if there is no
provision therein for the particular permit issued, for one hundred eighty
(180) days from the date of approval, with one maximum one hundred eighty (180)
day extension available for commencement of development at the discretion of
the code administrator, and additional extension available for completion of
development timely commenced upon a showing of good cause for inability to
complete. All preliminary subdivision plats and conditions of approval on class
II permits unless specifically delineated in the order of decision approved in
compliance to this code expire three hundred sixty five (365) days from the
date of approval. An applicant may request a single twelve (12) month extension
to an approved permit to the code administrator. Subsequent extensions shall be
reviewed and approved through the applicable Hauser planning and zoning
commission or within the Hauser area of city impact joint planning commission
pursuant to section
8-10-1 of this chapter. The commission shall hold a public hearing at its next
regular meeting if time for adequate review is available and lawful notice can
be given, pursuant to the procedures established in section
8-10-8 of this chapter, or at a later time in less than sixty (60) days that
will allow for proper legal notice and adequate time to review the request. An
applicant must provide a showing of good cause for the permit to be extended.
(Ord. 159, 6-9-2010)
8-10-4: NONCONFORMING USES AND BUILDINGS:
A nonconforming use or building complied with the regulations that existed at
the time of its development, but would not comply with this title if submitted
for approval after the effective date hereof. Nonconforming uses and buildings
may continue subject to the requirements established herein:
   A.    There shall be no limit on the maintenance and repair of nonconforming
uses or buildings, provided that no such activity increases the degree of
nonconformity. No repair or maintenance activity that has the potential to
increase sewage flows will be permitted until the existing sewage disposal
facilities are brought into compliance with current design standards.
   B.    The use of a nonconforming commercial or industrial building or site
may be changed, but only where:
      1.    The new use is no more intense (with intensity measured by
anticipated traffic generation, anticipated noise generation, the number of
parking spaces required, the number and size of signs proposed and similar
factors) than the existing;
      2.    The degree of nonconformity is in no way increased; and
      3.    The existing sewage disposal facilities are brought into compliance
with current design standards.
Requests for changes in nonconforming uses shall be processed as applications
for class II permits, with compliance with this subsection B added to the
determinations made on the class II permit checklist.
   C.    Nonconforming buildings may be replaced, but only where:
      1.    The degree of nonconformity is in no way increased; and
      2.    The existing sewage disposal facilities are in compliance with
applicable Panhandle health district and DEQ regulations and policies.
Nonconforming buildings that have been destroyed by fire or other catastrophe
may be replaced upon approval of a class I permit, with compliance with
subsections A and B of this section added to the determinations made by the
administrator in determining whether or not to approve the application for such
a permit. Other requests for the replacement of nonconforming buildings shall
be processed as applications for class II permits, with compliance with
subsections A and B of this section added to the determinations made on the
class II permit checklist. Any repair, rehabilitation, replacement or
demolition must meet the requirements of all other adopted codes and
development codes. (Ord. 159, 6-9-2010)
8-10-5: APPEALS AND VARIANCES:
   A.    Appeals: Any decision of the administrator or commission may be
appealed using the procedure described herein. Appeals from decisions of the
administrator are heard by the commission. Appeals from decisions of the
commission are heard by the city council. Appeal procedures are delineated in
section
8-10-9 of this chapter. Appeals concerning development which is located within
an area of city impact negotiated with Kootenai County shall be in accordance
with the negotiated and duly adopted area of city impact development code.
   B.    Variances: Variances provide relief for owners who, due to some unique
physical limitation on the use of their land, would have no beneficial use of
that property if the provisions of this title are strictly applied. A variance
is a modification of the bulk and placement requirements of the ordinance as to
lot size, lot coverage, width, depth, front yard, side yard, rear yard,
setbacks, parking space, height of buildings, or other ordinance provision
affecting the size or shape of a structure or the placement of the structure
upon lots, or the size of lots. A variance shall not be considered a right or
special privilege, but may be granted to an applicant only upon a showing of
undue hardship because of characteristics of the site and that the variance is
not in conflict with the public interest. Applications for variances shall
follow the procedure described herein. Applications for variances may be
combined and processed with applications for class II permits, with the items
included in subsection B4 of this section added to the list of determinations
on the class II permit checklist. Where such a combination is made, the hearing
notice must describe the proposed variance and cite the section of this title
from which the variance is requested.
      1.    The developer shall file a properly completed application form, the
required supporting materials, and the required application fee with the
administrator. The administrator may contract for professional review of the
application, with the cost of that review to be paid by the developer in
addition to the application fee.
      2.    The administrator shall place a hearing on the variance on the
agenda of the next regular commission meeting for which the notice requirements
can be met and at which time will allow its proper consideration. Notice
requirements for a variance hearing shall be the same as for a class II permit
hearing.
      3.    The commission shall conduct a hearing on the proposed variance
following the procedure established in section
8-10-8 of this chapter. No application for a variance shall be reviewed if the
developer or a representative is not present.
      4.    The commission may approve a variance upon finding that:
         a.    The need for the variance results from undue hardship because of
characteristics of the site;
         b.    Failure to approve the variance will result in undue hardship
because reasonable use of the lot or parcel will not be possible without a
variance;
         c.    Approval of the variance will be in the public interest and not
create a nuisance, harm adjoining properties of the neighborhood, or have an
adverse effect on implementation of the comprehensive plan; and
         d.    The variance approved is the minimum relief from the
requirements of this title necessary to permit a reasonable use.
         e.    Conditions may be attached to the approval of a variance, as
provided in subsection 8-10-3C of this chapter.
      5.    The administrator shall notify the developer and interested parties
of the commission's decision within twenty eight (28) days.
      6.    The commission's decision may be appealed to the city council using
the procedure of section
8-10-9 of this chapter, or, within an area of city impact that has been
negotiated with Kootenai County, in accordance with the duly adopted area of
impact development code. To initiate appeal proceedings, a notice of appeal
shall be filed with the administrator within twenty eight (28) days after
notice of the decision has been issued. Developers proceed at their own risk
during the appeal period. (Ord. 159, 6-9-2010)
8-10-6: AMENDMENTS:
Any person may petition for the amendment of the comprehensive plan or this
title. Amendment proceedings may also be initiated by the commission, on its
own motion, or at the direction of the city council. The amendment procedure
shall be as herein described:
   A.    The developer shall file a properly completed application form, the
required supporting materials, and the required application fee with the
administrator.
   B.    The administrator shall place a hearing on the application on the
agenda of the next regular commission meeting for which the notice requirements
can be met and at which time will allow its proper consideration. Notice
requirements shall be as follows:
      1.    For amendments to the text of the comprehensive plan or this title,
as required by Idaho Code 67-6509; and
      2.    For zoning map amendments, the same as for a class II permit (see
subsection 8-10-3B of this chapter).
   C.    The administrator may contract for professional review of the
application, with the cost of that review to be borne by the developer in
addition to the application fee. Such reviews shall be prepared in the form of
a written report submitted to the administrator for use at the hearing. The
administrator shall, upon its receipt, provide a copy of this report to the
developer and place it on file for public review with the other application
materials.
   D.    The commission shall conduct a hearing on the proposed amendment
following the procedure established in section
8-10-8 of this chapter. No application for an amendment shall be reviewed if
the developer or a representative is not present. At the hearing:
      1.    For comprehensive plan amendments, the commission shall determine
whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the public interest, and
recommend that the city council and board of county commissioners approve or
disapprove it accordingly; or
      2.    For amendments of this title, the commission shall determine
whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the comprehensive plan, and
recommend that the city council, or entities as specified in a negotiated and
duly adopted area of city impact development code, approve or disapprove it
accordingly.
   E.    The administrator shall convey the commission's recommendation to the
city council and, unless the application is withdrawn, place a hearing on the
application on the agenda of the next regular city council meeting for which
the notice requirements can be met and at which time will allow its proper
consideration. Notice shall be provided in the same manner as for the hearing
before the commission.
   F.    The city council shall conduct a hearing on the proposed amendment
following the procedure established in section
8-10-8 of this chapter. No application for an amendment shall be reviewed if
the developer or a representative is not present. At the hearing, the city
council shall take due notice of the commission's recommendations and:
      1.    For comprehensive plan amendments, determine whether the proposed
amendment is consistent with the public interest and approve or disapprove it
accordingly; and
      2.    For amendments to this title, determine whether the proposed
amendment is consistent with the comprehensive plan and approve or disapprove
it accordingly.
   G.    The administrator shall notify the developer and interested parties of
the city council's decision within twenty eight (28) days, but no amendment to
this title becomes effective until it has been adopted and published, as
required by law.
   H.    Amendments affecting, or potentially affecting, the area of city
impact, must be approved following the procedure established in subsections E,
F and G of this section, or as specified in a negotiated and duly adopted area
of city impact development code. (Ord. 159, 6-9-2010)
8-10-7: VACATION OF SUBDIVISIONS:
Requests for the vacation of subdivision plats shall follow the procedure
provided in Idaho Code 50-1306A, except that, prior to conducting the required
public hearing, the city council or board of county commissioners shall refer
the proposed vacation to the commission for its review and recommendation.
(Ord. 159, 6-9-2010)
8-10-8: HEARING PROCEDURES:
   A.    Notices Of Hearings: Notice of public hearings shall be provided as
follows:
      1.    Notice Of Meetings: In addition to the public notice provisions of
this chapter, notices of regular and special meetings, including the posting of
agendas, shall be given in accordance with Idaho Code section 67-2343.
      2.    Content: The content of notices for public hearings shall conform
to the requirements of Idaho Code title 67, chapter 65, and shall include the
time and place of the hearing, a summary of the application or request, and a
statement that written comments on an application must be submitted at least
fourteen (14) days prior to the hearing, or at the hearing. If a city hearing
body has issued recommendations on the application, or has made or recommended
material significant changes to a proposal, the notice shall also include a
summary of those recommendations and/or changes.
      3.    Newspaper, Other Media, Political Subdivisions: At least twenty
eight (28) days prior to a public hearing, a copy of the notice shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in city of Hauser, and shall be
made available to other newspapers, radio and television stations. At least
twenty eight (28) days prior to the hearing the notice shall also be mailed to
all political subdivisions providing services within city of Hauser, including
school districts.
      4.    Property Owners: When notice of adjacent and nearby property owners
is required by law, hearing notices shall be mailed, certified, at least
fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing. The notice shall be mailed to property
owners or purchasers of record within the land being considered, and within
three hundred feet (300') of the exterior boundaries of that site, including
any contiguous properties under the same ownership. The city of Hauser may also
require that notice be provided to other areas that may be affected by the
proposed change. Additional procedures for notification of property owners may
be established by the city.
      5.    Site Posting: Where on site posting of a hearing notice is required
by law, the notice shall be posted on the premises that are the subject of the
application at least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing. If the site is
inaccessible, the access driveway to the site shall be posted where it adjoins
a public or private road.
      6.    Alternate Forms Of Notice: When notice is required to two hundred
(200) or more property owners or purchasers of record, notice may be provided
through a display advertisement at least four inches (4") by two (2) columns in
size, in the official newspaper of city of Hauser, published at least fifteen
(15) days prior to the hearing. Notices of the hearing must also be posted at
the external boundaries of the site adjoining public or private roads. If the
site is not located on a road, the access driveway(s) to the site shall be
posted where it adjoins public or private roads.
   B.    Changes Or Additions To Applications: Once hearing notices have been
distributed to agencies mailed and/or published, the applicant may not modify
the content of the application, or submit additional items, except in response
to a recommendation made by a hearing body until the hearing. Any modifications
to an application or additional items in support of an application, to be
submitted in response to a request made by a hearing body must be submitted no
later than fourteen (14) days after the date of the request. The applicant may,
however, withdraw an application no later than fourteen (14) days prior to the
hearing, and may resubmit a new application at any time after the new or
modified items are submitted. If withdrawn, the application shall not be
rescheduled for a public hearing until the additional items have been received.
If a withdrawal of an application is not received in a timely manner, the
application shall proceed to hearing before the appropriate hearing body.
   C.    Agency And Public Comments: Written comments from agencies and the
public must be received at least fourteen (14) days prior to the hearing, or
must be submitted at the hearing. Written information shall not be accepted
during the fourteen (14) days preceding a hearing, nor shall written
information be accepted at the hearing.
   D.    Types Of Hearings: For the purposes of this section:
LEGISLATIVE HEARING: A hearing held for applications or proposals of a general
nature, such as comprehensive plans, ordinances, areas of city impact, or
changes in zoning of citywide or area wide scope those affecting citywide
ordinances or plans.
QUASI-JUDICIAL HEARING: A hearing held for situation or site specific requests,
including site specific applications for class II permits, zone changes,
preliminary subdivisions variances, and appeals of decisions or
interpretations.
   E.    Mandatory Procedures For All Hearings: In every legislative or quasi-
judicial hearing to which this title applies, the hearing body (including the
planning commission, city council) shall:
      1.    Receive a report from staff, including an evaluation of the
request, proposed findings of fact, and, if applicable, recommended conditions;
      2.    Require that every person wishing to testify properly identify
themselves for the record;
      3.    Mark every exhibit and enter it into the record;
      4.    Maintain a transcribable record in accordance with Idaho Code 67-
6536;
      5.    Accept written information into the record during the public
hearing;
      6.    Accept no additional written information or testimony into the
record after the close of the public hearing;
      7.    Provide decisions and recommendations in writing in accordance with
Idaho Code 67-6519 or 67-6520, and 67-6535; and
      8.    Base decisions and recommendations on the standards and criteria
set forth in federal and state laws and regulations and the city of Hauser
comprehensive plan, applicable city ordinances, Idaho Code, and federal law in
a manner consistent with the goals and policies of the city of Hauser
comprehensive plan.
   F.    Discretionary Procedures For All Hearings: In every legislative or
quasi-judicial hearing to which this chapter applies, the hearing body may:
      1.    Require witnesses to state their position in writing before the
hearing;
      2.    Limit the time that each witness may speak;
      3.    Take notice of its own knowledge and experience as to a particular
issue;
      4.    Require that witnesses be sworn;
      5.    Continue a hearing to allow time for submission and/or review of
new information.
   G.    Mandatory Procedures For Quasi-Judicial Hearings: In every quasi-
judicial hearing to which this chapter applies, the hearing body shall:
      1.    Require that its members declare any potential conflicts, or
economic interests in the proposed action, in accordance with Idaho Code
section 67-6506. A member with a conflict may not deliberate on, nor
participate in the proceeding or action;
      2.    Allow the applicant to present the application or request;
      3.    Receive public information, recommendations and testimony from
witnesses. As a general rule, the following order of presentation should be
observed:
         a.    Those in favor of the application;
         b.    Those neutral with respect to the application;
         c.    Those opposed to the application;
      4.    Allow rebuttal testimony from the applicant;
      5.    Make a decision on the proposal based only on the information in
the official record. Once a hearing is closed, the hearing body shall only
allow new testimony, including written information testimony, by reopening the
hearing. The public shall have an opportunity to review and testify on any new
information that is received, and the applicant shall have an opportunity for
rebuttal to respond to new information and rebut new testimony;
      6.    Provide decisions and recommendations in writing in accordance with
Idaho Code 67-6519 or 67-6520, and 67-6535;
      7.    Unless otherwise approved by the applicant, make a recommendation
and/or decision within thirty five (35) days of the close of the public
hearing, or in the case of the council, within thirty five (35) days of the
receipt of a hearing body recommendation. If the council chooses to hold a
public hearing on an application, the council shall make a decision within
thirty five (35) days of the close of the final public hearing. In the event a
hearing body fails to carry out its responsibilities according to these
regulations, the council shall assume their duties.
   H.    Deliberations: The hearing body may discuss and vote on an application
or issue at the same meeting at which testimony is taken, or at a later
meeting.
   I.    Conflicting Requirements: In instances of conflict between the
provisions of this section and Idaho Code state law, the provisions of Idaho
Code shall rule. (Ord. 159, 6-9-2010)
8-10-9: APPEAL HEARING PROCEDURES:
   A.    Notice Of Appeal: A person who is aggrieved by action may appeal the
action as provided in the applicable provisions of this code. Such appeal shall
be made by serving a written notice of appeal specifically setting forth the
grounds of appeal. The aggrieved person shall appeal any action within twenty
eight (28) days of the official action or signed order of decision to be in
compliance with this title.
   B.    Setting Date Of Hearing; Notice: Upon receipt of the notice of appeal,
the code administrator shall inform the appropriate hearing body of the appeal
and set a date for a hearing on the appeal. They shall provide written notice
of the time and place of the hearing to the hearing body, to the appellant, and
to any persons who have lodged verbal or written complaints in the matter who
have indicated that they wished to receive such notice at least twenty eight
(28) days prior to the hearing.
   C.    Standard Of Review; Burden Of Proof: Appeals shall be based upon the
grounds set forth in the written notice of appeal and shall be heard and acted
upon by the hearing body in a de novo proceeding. The burden of proof shall
fall upon the appellant to establish, by a preponderance of the evidence, that
the action was erroneous.
   D.    Conduct Of Hearing: The following rules shall govern the conduct of
all hearings of appeals of an administrative decision or the issuance of a
notice of violation:
      1.    Appeal hearings shall be open to the public according to the
provisions of the Idaho open meetings law, Idaho Code section 67-2340 et seq.,
but shall not be considered "public hearings" under the local land use planning
act, Idaho Code section 67-6501 et seq., and this chapter.
      2.    The appeal hearing shall be informal and the Idaho rules of
evidence shall not apply. The appellant may be represented by counsel and
present testimony and evidence at the hearing, except that submission of new
evidence not presented during the application process shall be admitted only at
the discretion of the appeals body. The planning commission or mayor shall
regulate the course of the proceedings to assure that there is a full
disclosure of known relevant facts and issues.
      3.    Testimony and submission of evidence shall be limited to the
appellant, representatives of the appellant, and other affected persons as
defined in section
8-1-3 of this title. As a general rule, the following order of presentation
should be observed:
         a.    Introduction of appeal by staff;
         b.    Appellant's case in chief;
         c.    Testimony and/or evidence in support of the appellant;
         d.    City's case in chief;
         e.    Testimony and/or evidence in support of the city;
         f.    Affected persons' case in chief; and
         g.    Appellant's rebuttal.
      4.    A transcribable record of the appeal hearing in its entirety shall
be made by mechanical, electronic or other means. Any party may cause
additional recordings to be made during the hearing if the making of the
additional recording does not cause distraction or disruption. Any party may
request preparation of a transcript of the hearing. Any transcript prepared at
the request of the council or the planning commission shall be at city expense.
Any transcript prepared at the request of any other party shall be at that
party's expense. Expenses for any transcript prepared for purposes of judicial
review shall be paid in accordance with rule 84 of the Idaho rules of civil
procedure.
      5.    At the close of the appeal hearing, the hearing body may take
action on the appeal, or may take the appeal under advisement for a period not
to exceed fourteen (14) days. If the appeal is taken under advisement by the
planning commission, the planning commission shall issue a written
recommendation to the council within fourteen (14) days after the conclusion of
the hearing. If the appeal is taken under advisement by the council, the
council shall issue a written decision within fourteen (14) days after the
conclusion of the hearing.
   E.    Action On Appeal:
      1.    The planning commission may recommend that the action be affirmed,
reversed or modified based on substantial and competent evidence presented at
the hearing.
      2.    After receiving a recommendation from the planning commission, the
final decision on the appeal shall be made by the council. The council may
summarily issue a final decision approving the recommendation from the planning
commission after conducting deliberations on the matter, or may conduct an
additional de novo appeal hearing prior to making a final decision.
      3.    If an additional hearing is held before the council, the council
may affirm, reverse or modify the action based on substantial and competent
evidence presented at the hearings held before the planning commission and the
council. In the event the council finds that the action was erroneous, it may
reverse or modify the action, or it may remand the matter to the code
administrator or planning commission for further proceedings, as may be
appropriate.
      4.    The recommendation to the council by the planning commission, and
the decision of the council on appeal, shall be in writing, shall include a
concise and explicit statement of the underlying facts of record, and shall
include a reasoned statement in support of the decision. All parties to the
appeal shall be provided with a copy of the recommendation and/or decision.
      5.    The decision of the council on appeal shall be binding upon the
applicant/appellant. If the action is reversed, the code administrator shall
comply with the decision of the council upon expiration of the time for filing
of a petition for judicial review with the district court, or such longer
period as the council may permit.
      6.    If the council remands the matter to the code administrator or
planning commission for further proceedings, the decision of the council shall
specify the actions to be taken by the code administrator or planning
commission on remand. (Ord. 159, 6-9-2010)
8-10-10: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.    Administrator Duty: It shall be the duty of the administrator or duly
authorized agents to enforce this title and other city ordinances. The
administrator shall not issue permits unless existing and intended structures,
the parcel of land, and uses of the buildings and land, conform in all respects
with the provisions of this title and other city ordinances.
   B.    Failure To Obtain Permit: When the administrator becomes aware of an
activity for which a permit is required by this title, but for which no permit
has been approved, he shall order the occupant (and owner, if they are not the
same) to immediately cease the unpermitted activity. Notice of this order shall
be given by delivery to the site and/or U.S. first class prepaid certified
mail. If the unpermitted activity does not cease, the administrator shall
direct the city attorney to take action, as authorized by Idaho Code 67-6527,
to end the unpermitted activity and, if a permit is not subsequently issued, to
require restoration of the site to its original condition. Required restoration
shall include restoration of vegetative cover where sites have been cleared or
graded in violation of this title.
   C.    Notice Of Zoning Ordinance Violation Issued: Whenever any
construction, site work, specific conditions of approval, or other related
laws, ordinances or requirements fail to meet the requirements of this title,
the administrator may issue a notice of zoning ordinance violation and order
any work stopped by written notice. Such notice of zoning ordinance violation
or stop work notice shall be served on any persons engaged in doing or causing
such work to be done, and persons shall forthwith stop such work until
authorized by the administrator to proceed. In the event that a notice of
zoning ordinance violation is issued, the administrator shall additionally
prepare and mail, via certified mail, a notice of zoning ordinance violation.
The notification shall include:
      1.    The property owner and the legal description of the parcel.
      2.    The nature of the violation.
      3.    The remedial action that must be undertaken to resolve the
violation.
      4.    The length of time allotted to resolve the violation.
   D.    Resolution Of Violation: The property owner shall have thirty (30)
days from the date the notice of zoning ordinance violation was mailed to
resolve the violation. If resolution does not occur within those thirty (30)
days, the notice of zoning ordinance violation shall be filed in the county
recorder's office and a copy mailed to the owner, via certified mail.
   E.    Appeal: The notice of zoning ordinance violation shall also advise the
owner of the notice of zoning ordinance violation appeal process. The
administrator may consider a written appeal, submitted by the property owner,
and received no later than thirty (30) days after the notice of violation was
mailed. The appeal shall be heard by the city council of the city of Hauser on
a day specified by the council. If the appeal is denied, the council shall
specify an exact number of days to gain compliance with this title before the
notice of violation is recorded. If the appeal is approved, the council will
specify actions to be taken by the administrator to release the violation. The
council may elect to add or remove conditions of remedial action.
   F.    Compliance: Any person who receives a notice of violation may request
inspection by the administrator to show that compliance has been attained
within the thirty (30) days allowed or file a written request with the
administrator for an extension of time to attain compliance, with such
extensions limited to a maximum of sixty (60) days and culminated by an
inspection to show that compliance has been attained.
   G.    Fee; Release: At such time the violation is resolved, the owner shall
pay the fee specified in the current adopted fee schedule and the administrator
shall file in the office of the county recorder a release of notice of
violation. The release shall contain all of the information contained in the
notice of violation, as well as the corrective action taken to resolve the
violation. A copy of the release shall be mailed to the owner, via U.S. first
class prepaid certified mail.
   H.    Legal Action For Violations Not Resolved: If the violation is not
resolved, the administrator, after city council approval, shall direct the city
attorney to commence legal action, as authorized by Idaho Code 67-6527, against
any occupant or owner who fails to attain compliance within the specified time,
or to show, on appeal, that a violation has not occurred.
   I.    Compliance With Chapter: Appeals of notice of violation and/or stop
work orders shall comply with provisions of section
8-10-9 of this chapter.
   J.    Complaints: Whenever a violation of this title occurs, or is alleged
to have occurred, any person may file a written complaint. Such complaint,
stating fully the causes and basis thereof, shall be filed with the
administrator. The administrator shall properly record such complaint,
immediately investigate, and take action thereon as provided by this title.
   K.    Public Endangerment: The enforcement procedure provided by this
section may be accelerated when the administrator finds that public health and
safety are potentially endangered by a violation. In such cases, the
administrator shall direct the city attorney to take immediate action to end
the danger to public health and safety.
   L.    General Penalty: Any person convicted of a violation of any section or
provision of this title, where no other penalty is set forth, shall be punished
as follows: Violations of the development code may be considered a criminal
misdemeanor or an infraction and are punishable with fines or imprisonment.
Each day the violation occurs shall be considered a separate violation. The
city may also take civil actions or other methods delineated below to compel
compliance or performance.
   M.    Punishment For Misdemeanor: Every offense declared to be a misdemeanor
is punishable by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding six (6) months, or
by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by both. The city
may also take civil action to compel compliance of requirements or performance
and completion of, or maintenance of, improvements installed pursuant to this
title.
   N.    Punishment For Infraction: Every offense declared to be an infraction
is punishable only by a penalty not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) and
no imprisonment. The city may also take civil action to compel compliance of
requirements or performance and completion of, or maintenance of, improvements
installed pursuant to this title. (Ord. 159, 6-9-2010)
