CITY CODE
of
HAYDEN LAKE, IDAHO
2004
Code current through:
Ord. 315, passed 11-7-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the City of Hayden Lake, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance 315, passed November 7, 2024. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ORDINANCE NO. 318
 
 
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF HAYDEN LAKE, IDAHO, AMENDING SECTIONS 9-1-4, 9-1-5,
9-3-3, 9-9-3 and 11-2-4 OF THE CITY CODE AND ADDING SECTION 9-1-7 TO THE CITY
CODE; PROVIDING FOR SEVERABILITY, PREEMPTION AND PRECEDENCE, PROV-IDING FOR THE
REPEAL OF ALL CONFLICTING ORDINANCES; PROVIDING AN EFFECTIVE DATE; PROVIDING
FOR SUSPENSION OF THE RULES AND PROVIDING FOR OTHER MATTERS PROPERLY RELATED
THERETO.
 
 
CITY OF HAYDEN LAKE
KOOTENAI COUNTY, IDAHO
 
WHEREAS, Article XII, Section 2 of the Idaho Constitution states that a
municipality “may make and enforce, within its limits, all such local police,
sanitary and other regulations as are not in conflict with its charter or with
the general laws.”
WHEREAS, the Legislature of the State of Idaho allows municipalities to enact
ordinances to “maintain the peace, good government and welfare of the
corporation and its trade, commerce and industry”. Idaho Code § 50-302(1).
WHEREAS, such regulations must bear a reasonable relationship to the public
health, safety, morals or general welfare. Johnston v. City of Boise, 87 Idaho
44 (1964).
WHEREAS, The Amendments will help maintain the peace, good government and
welfare of the City and its trade, commerce and industry. The Amendments also
bear at the very least a reasonable relationship to the public health, safety,
morals or general welfare.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
HAYDEN LAKE, KOOTENAI COUNTY, IDAHO, as follows:
 
SECTION ONE: AMENDMENTS TO SECTIONS 9-1-4, 9-1-5, 9-3-3, 9-9-3 and 11-2-4 OF
THE CITY CODE AND ADDING SECTION 9-1-7 TO THE CITY CODE
 
For the reasons set forth above, the following amendments to the City Code are
hereby adopted:
 
9-1-4: ZONING DESIGNATIONS:
 
A.   Entire City: All lands situated within the boundaries of the city are
hereby classified and shall be and are hereby zoned as a residential zone and
shall be used only for residential purposes and for purposes allowed in any
overlay zoning districts, and the boundaries of the residential area hereby so
zoned shall be the entire area within the boundaries of the city.
B.   Overlay District: Certain properties identified as follows are hereby
classified as an overlay zoning district:
Kootenai County Tax Number Location
3476                       1677 East Miles Avenue
3980                       1683 East Miles Avenue
3981                       1680 East Miles Avenue
4111                       1658 East Miles Avenue
V-0000-018-6300            1800 2362 East Bozanta Drive
V-0000-018-5600            1800 2362 East Bozanta Drive
V-6300-000-00A-0           1800 2362 East Bozanta Drive
 
9-1-5: SETBACK REGULATIONS:
All setback requirements, as defined in section 9-2-1 of this title, shall be
measured from the outside wall of the structure to the property line or paved
area of any adjoining street, when applicable. Eaves shall be allowed to
project into the setback area up to twenty four inches (24").
A.   Residential District:
1.   Front Yard Setback: No building or structure shall be closer than twenty
feet (20') from the property line when the property line for the front yard
does not include any right of way for a street. When the front yard property
line includes a roadway easement (explicit or prescriptive) or road right of
way, the setback shall be measured by taking the average setback of the front
of the structure from the paved area of the road of the two (2) adjoining
structures on each side of the proposed structure and applying this average
setback to the proposed structure. If the road is unpaved, the average setback
of the adjoining structures shall be measured from the centerline of the
unpaved road. However, in no event shall the front of a garage be located less
than twenty feet (20') from the edge of the pavement.
2.   Side Yard Setback: No structure shall be located so that any part shall be
closer than ten feet (10') from adjoining lot lines of separate parcels or
alley, except as provided in this section.
3.   Back Yard Setback: No structure shall be located so that any part shall be
closer than ten feet (10') from the "rear lot line" as that term is defined in
section 8-3-1 of this Code. However, approval of a proposed structure that will
violate this subsection may be obtained from the City Council so long as the
property owner first obtains the written consent of Northern Lakes Fire
District and the proposed structure otherwise fully complies with this Code and
Idaho law. The property owner shall submit an administrative permit to the City
Clerk with the written consent of Northern Lakes Fire District attached thereto
before the Council considers the matter. The Council shall consider such
structures as administrative items on its agenda. No public hearing shall be
required.
9-1-7:   MEDIATION PROCEDURES:
A.   Title and Purpose: The provisions of this article shall be known as
the MEDIATION PROCEDURES. The purpose of these regulations is to allow the
option of mediation as part of the planning and zoning public hearing process.
B.   Mediation Authorized: In accordance with Idaho Code Section 67-6510, the
option of mediation is provided for as part of the planning and zoning public
hearing process of the City of Hayden Lake. Any zoning, development or special
permit application governed by title 10 of this code and this title are subject
to this mediation option.
C.   Mediation Procedures: A person requesting mediation shall follow the
procedures established in Idaho Code 67-6510.
9-3-3: PROHIBITED USES:
A.   Recreational Vehicles: There shall be no recreational vehicles permitted,
occupied or otherwise permitted to locate in the city when intended for human
occupancy for more than seven (7) calendar days. Violations of this subsection
shall be subject to the general civil penalty set forth in City Code § 1-4-1.
9-9-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
A.   An applicant for a short-term rental permit must be the owner of the
residential dwelling to be offered for rent. No person with less than a fee
ownership interest may apply for a short-term rental permit.
1.   A short-term rental permit is valid only for the residential dwelling
identified in the application. An applicant shall file a separate application
and obtain a separate permit for each residential dwelling to be used as a
short-term rental.
2.   A short-term rental permit is non-transferable.
3.   A short-term rental permit shall not be issued if the subject property
and/or dwelling(s) are in violation of this code.
11-2-4: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall be applicable in the following circumstances:
A.   Development of every new subdivision of land within the jurisdiction of
the city.
B.   All public projects within the jurisdiction of the city including, but not
limited to, street construction or reconstruction (modification of the cross
section, not to include resurfacing), park development, building development or
other public works construction or development. Except as necessary to maintain
the continuity of existing stormwater handling systems, all new construction as
outlined in this subsection, shall employ the methods for stormwater management
required by this chapter and shall otherwise be designed to minimize adverse
impacts upon surface and groundwater quality; or
C.   Every lot or every building permit or land development permit where land
disturbing activity is to occur on any part of the site with a slope greater
than fifteen percent (15%) or on sites less than five hundred feet (500')
distant horizontally from, and located vertically above, any surface water in
the form of a perennial or intermittent stream, river, pond, lake, wetland or
similar surface water feature which can be determined from USGS seven and one-
half (7.5) minute quadrangle topographic maps. Stormwater management plans may
not be necessary for individual building sites if runoff from the site has been
accommodated by an approved stormwater management plan for the subdivision in
which the site is located. However, detailed erosion control plans may still be
required. The city engineer may allow a building permit to be issued for minor
additions to existing improvements without the preparation of a stormwater
management plan if, in using his professional judgment, the requirements of
this chapter can be met by existing site conditions. All projects in which (1)
land disturbing activity is to occur on any part of the site with a slope
greater than fifteen percent (15%), (2) any additional impervious surface area
is added, existing ground elevations, grades, or drainage patterns are
modified, or (3) the site is less than five hundred feet (500') distant
horizontally from, and located vertically above, any surface water in the form
of a perennial or intermittent stream, river, pond, lake, wetland, or similar
surface water feature which can be determined from USGS seven and one-half
(7.5) minute quadrangle topographic maps. Stormwater management plans may not
be necessary for individual building sites if runoff from the site has been
accommodated by an approved stormwater management plan for the subdivision in
which the site is located. However, detailed erosion control plans may still be
required. The city engineer may allow a building permit to be issued for minor
additions to existing improvements without the preparation of a stormwater
management plan if, in using their professional judgment, the requirements of
this chapter can be met by existing site conditions.
 
SECTION TWO: SEVERABILITY, PREEMPTION AND PRECEDENCE
This Ordinance is hereby declared to be severable. Should any portion of this
Ordinance be declared invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
remaining provisions shall continue in full force and effect and shall be read
to carry out the purpose(s) of the Ordinance before the declaration of partial
invalidity. In the event that federal or state laws, rules or regulations
preempt a provision or limit the enforceability of a provision of this
Ordinance, then the provision shall be read to be preempted to the extent and
for the time required by law. In the event such federal or state law, rule or
regulation is subsequently repealed, rescinded, amended or otherwise changed so
that the provision hereof that had been preempted is no longer preempted, such
provision shall thereupon return to full force and effect, and shall thereafter
be binding without the requirement of further action by the City, and any
amendments to this Ordinance as a result of such provision being preempted
shall no longer be of any force or effect with respect to that provision.
SECTION THREE: REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES
   All Ordinances and parts of Ordinances in conflict with the provisions of
this Ordinance to the extent of such conflict are hereby repealed.
 
SECTION FOUR: EFFECTIVE DATE
   This Ordinance shall take effect and be in full force from and after its
passage, approval and publication.
 
SECTION FIVE: SUSPENSION OF THE RULES
Passed under suspension of the rules at a regular meeting of the City Council
of the City of Hayden Lake, Kootenai County, Idaho, held on the 14 th day of
October, 2025, on which a roll call vote was duly taken and duly enacted.
DATED this 14th day of October, 2025.
 
CITY OF HAYDEN LAKE
Kootenai County, Idaho
 
By: _____________________________
Lee Zink, Mayor
 
Councilmember Thompson voted      ___________
Councilmember Baker voted         ___________
Councilmember Morris         ___________
Councilmember Weinstein voted      ___________
 
ATTEST:
 
__________________________
Tina West, City Clerk
 
( S E A L )
 
 
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 319
 
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF HAYDEN LAKE, IDAHO, A MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF THE
STATE OF IDAHO, AMENDING CITY CODE SECTIONS 1-4-1 AND 8-1-3 AND ADDING A NEW
SECTION 7-1-4, SETTING FORTH AUTHORITY FOR SUCH ACTION, FINDINGS OF FACT AND
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW; PROVIDING FOR SEVERABILITY, PREEMPTION AND PRECEDENCE;
PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES; PROVIDING AN EFFECTIVE
DATE; AND PROVIDING FOR SUSPENSION OF THE RULES.
 
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and City Council of the City of
Hayden Lake, Idaho (“City Council”) as follows:
 
SECTION ONE: CITY CODE AMENDMENTS AND ADDITIONS
 
   A.   Authority
 
Article XII, Section 2 of the Idaho Constitution states that a municipality
“may make and enforce, within its limits, all such local police, sanitary and
other regulations as are not in conflict with its charter or with the general
laws.” The Legislature of the State of Idaho allows municipalities to enact
ordinances to “maintain the peace, good government and welfare of the
corporation and its trade, commerce and industry”. Idaho Code § 50-302(1). Such
regulations must bear a reasonable relationship to the public health, safety,
morals or general welfare. Johnston v. City of Boise, 87 Idaho 44 (1964).
 
The Legislature of the State of Idaho in the Idaho Building Code Act (Idaho
Code Sections 39-4101 – 39-4129 et seq.) authorizes municipalities to regulate
the construction of buildings and other structures within their boundaries.
Also, cities may amend Parts I – III and Part IX of the International
Residential Code (IRC) by ordinance to reflect local concerns provided such
amendments establish at least an equivalent level of protection to that of the
IRC . Idaho Code § 39-4119(4).
   
   B.   Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law
 
    City Code § 1-4-1 sets the infraction penalty amount for general violations
of the City Code at $300.00. Although this is the maximum amount allowed for
infractions pursuant to Idaho Code § 18-113A, a lesser amount for first and
second offenses seems more reasonable. Currently, City Code § 8-1-3 allows for
multiple extensions of building permits. This Section needs to be amended as
the recently adopted City Fee Schedule contemplates only one such extension.
Finally, although the City has allowed special events such as marathons and
triathlons to utilize City streets for years, no application for such events is
required by City Code which would enable the City to fully regulate the same.
Therefore, the following amendments to the City Code are hereby adopted.
 
 
 
   C.      Amendments
 
   For the reasons set forth above, the following amendments to the City Code
are hereby adopted:
 
   1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
 
Unless otherwise specified in this Code or the Idaho Code, a violation of any
of the provisions of this Code is an infraction punishable by a fine of three
hundredseventy-five dollars ($30075.00) for a first offense, one hundred and
fifty dollars ($150.00) for a second offense and three hundred dollars
($300.00) for subsequent offenses. Alternatively, any person found by the City
Council to have violated any of the provisions of this Code is subject to a
civil penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00), which shall be assessed solely
by the City without any criminal prosecution being commenced.
 
   8-1-3: BUILDING PERMITS:
 
A.   All permits for construction, demolition, repair or alteration, including
fences, shall become invalid if the work authorized on the site by such permit
is suspended or abandoned for a period of one hundred eighty (180) days after
the time the work is commenced, or if such work is not completed within one
year (365 days) of the date that the permit is issued. The Code Enforcement
Officer is authorized to grant one extension of time for a period of one
hundred eighty (180) days. The extension shall be requested in writing before
the subject time period expires and justifiable cause must be demonstrated. A
late extension request may be submitted in writing within thirty (30) days from
the permit expiration date. These late extension requests shall only be granted
by the Code Enforcement Officer after justifiable cause is demonstrated.
Additional extensions beyond a first granted extension may be requested in
writing and granted by the City Council upon an additional showing of
justifiable cause. Fees for all extensions shall be required and set by future
resolution of the City Council. All extension requests that must be granted by
the City Council shall be considered by the City Council as an administrative
item at a regular or special meeting of the Council. No public hearing shall be
required. If a building permit or extension thereof is allowed to expire before
a certificate of occupancy is issued, or for projects that do not require a
certificate of occupancy, before a final inspection has been performed, and no
request for renewal of the permit or an extension thereof has been submitted in
writing before the permit or a previously granted extension expires, the Code
Enforcement Officer shall implement the code enforcement procedures set forth
in subsection 1-11-4A of this Code, which shall include the issuance of a "stop
work order" in accordance with subsection 1-11-4A1 of this Code. Such stop work
order shall not be removed or obstructed in any manner without the
authorization of the Code Enforcement Officer. Should the thirty (30) day
compliance period referenced in subsections 1-11-4A2, A3 and 1-11-5C of this
Code expire without compliance being achieved to the satisfaction of the Code
Enforcement Officer and without an appeal being timely filed in accordance with
section 1-11-5 of this Code, the notice of violation referenced in
subsection 1-11-4A1 of this Code shall be recorded in the records of Kootenai
County. A copy of the recorded notice shall be mailed to the property owner via
certified mail. If an appeal of the notice of violation is timely filed
pursuant to section 1-11-5 of this Code, the notice of violation shall not be
recorded unless such action is required in the decision issued by the City
Council pursuant to subsection 1-11-5F of this Code. In addition to the other
requirements of subsection 1-11-5F of this Code, the decision of the City
Council shall also address what applicable fees, if any, the appellant shall be
required to pay. If a notice of violation is recorded in accordance with this
section, a release shall be recorded by the Code Enforcement Officer upon
compliance being achieved to the satisfaction of the Code Enforcement Officer,
or if a timely appeal is filed and heard pursuant to section 1-11-5 of this
Code, upon full compliance with the decision of the City Council. Any violation
of this section is subject to the general civil penalty of one hundred dollars
($100.00) for each day that the violation continues pursuant to sections 1-4-
1 and 1-4-2 of this Code.
 
   7-1-4:   SPECIAL EVENTS:
 
All special events such as marathons, triathlons and similar events that seek
to utilize City streets or other City property as part of their event location
and/or route shall first submit an application to the City Clerk, who upon
deeming the application complete shall set consideration of such application
for the next available and appropriate City Council meeting. The fee for such
application shall be set by resolution of the City Council. If the Council
approves the application, a permit shall be issued therefore. Any violation of
this section or the conditions imposed by the permit shall be subject to the
general penalty prescribed by City Code § 1-4-1.
 
SECTION TWO: SEVERABILITY, PREEMPTION AND PRECEDENCE
 
This Ordinance is hereby declared to be severable. Should any portion of this
Ordinance be declared invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
remaining provisions shall continue in full force and effect and shall be read
to carry out the purpose(s) of the Ordinance before the declaration of partial
invalidity. In the event that federal or state laws, rules or regulations
preempt a provision or limit the enforceability of a provision of this
Ordinance, then the provision shall be read to be preempted to the extent and
for the time required by law. In the event such federal or state law, rule or
regulation is subsequently repealed, rescinded, amended or otherwise changed so
that the provision hereof that had been preempted is no longer preempted, such
provision shall thereupon return to full force and effect, and shall thereafter
be binding without the requirement of further action by the City, and any
amendments to this Ordinance as a result of such provision being preempted
shall no longer be of any force or effect with respect to that provision.
 
SECTION THREE: REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES
All Ordinances and parts of Ordinances in conflict with the provisions of this
Ordinance to the extent of such conflict are hereby repealed.
 
 
 
SECTION FOUR: EFFECTIVE DATE
This Ordinance shall take effect and be in full force from and after its
passage, approval and publication.
 
SECTION FIVE: SUSPENSION OF THE RULES
Passed under suspension of the rules at a regular meeting of the City Council
of the City of Hayden Lake, Kootenai County, Idaho, held on the 14 th day of
October, 2025, on which a roll call vote was duly taken and duly enacted.
DATED this 14 th day of October, 2025.
 
 
CITY OF HAYDEN LAKE
Kootenai County, Idaho
 
 
By: _____________________________
Lee Zink, Mayor
 
 
Councilmember Thompson voted      ___________
Councilmember Baker voted         ___________
Councilmember Morris voted         ___________
Councilmember Weinstein voted      ___________
 
 
ATTEST:
 
__________________________
Tina West, City Clerk
 
( S E A L )
 
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
CHAPTER 1
HAYDEN LAKE CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the mayor and city council, this code is hereby declared
to be and shall hereafter constitute the official code of the city 1 . This
city code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the HAYDEN LAKE CITY CODE
and it is hereby published by authority of the mayor and city council and shall
be kept up to date as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal document. (2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-903.
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The city code, as hereby presented in published form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in all administrative
tribunals of this state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent
effect, except the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2004 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be forwarded to the codifiers and
the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in the proper place
in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be properly
identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code. (2004
Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
mayor and city council. The city clerk shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the city
clerk. Any person having in his custody an official copy of this code shall
make every effort to maintain said code in an up to date and efficient manner.
He shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such
are delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the city
clerk. Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and shall be
returned to the office of the city clerk when directed to do so by order of the
mayor and city council. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; ordinances relating to the transfer or
acceptance of real estate by or from the city; ordinances authorizing a zone
change; ordinances authorizing a bond issue; and all special ordinances. (2004
Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, services or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case this code shall be considered as amending such ordinance
or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2004 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party affected, applied to
any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the city herein repealed
and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this code shall be
deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
city under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this city code. (2004 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this code, or any part thereof. The mayor and city council hereby declare that
they would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph,
sentence, clause or phrase hereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases
be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Tense; Gender: Whenever any word in any section of this Code importing
the plural number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or
persons, any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included,
although distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter,
party or person is referred to in this Code by words importing the singular
number only, or the masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and
females as well as males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included;
provided, that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section
of this Code which contains any express provision excluding such construction
or where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the City
has been changed in the content of this Code to "title", "chapter", "section"
and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the City's ordinances is not meant
to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances.
   C.   Shall/May: When used in this Code, the word "shall" is mandatory and
the word "may" is permissive. (2004 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
CITY: The City of Hayden Lake, County of Kootenai, State of Idaho.
CITY COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the elected City Council of the City.
CODE: The City Code of Hayden Lake, Idaho, and amendments thereto.
COUNTY: The County of Kootenai, State of Idaho.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words, "of the City of
Hayden Lake".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the City for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal year of the City shall begin on October 1 of each year
and end on September 30 1 .
INFRACTION: A civil public offense, not constituting a crime, which is
punishable only by a penalty not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00) and
for which no period of incarceration may be imposed.
LICENSE: The permission granted for automobiles, domestic pets or the carrying
on of a business, profession or occupation.
MAYOR: The elected Mayor of the City of Hayden Lake.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense not constituting a felony or infraction 2 .
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the City, or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a hazard
to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or to the
community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the City of
Hayden Lake".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small quantities
direct to the consumer.
STATE: The State of Idaho.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such buildings or land, whether alone or with others.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his proper
mark. (2004 Code; amd. Ord. 290, 2-19-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-1001.
2 2. IC §§ 18-111, 18-113.
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Unless otherwise specified in this Code or the Idaho Code, a violation of any
of the provisions of this Code is an infraction punishable by a fine of three
hundred dollars ($300.00). Alternatively, any person found by the City Council
to have violated any of the provisions of this Code is subject to a civil
penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00), which shall be assessed solely by the
City without any criminal prosecution being commenced. (Ord. 290, 2-19-2019)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty Provisions:
      1.   The penalties provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this Code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
such violation continues unless otherwise specifically provided in this Code.
      2.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this Code, and there shall
be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of
this chapter shall apply.
   B.   One Recovery For Same Offense: In all cases where the same offense is
made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this code,
the prosecuting officer, or the City Council when a civil penalty is to be
imposed, may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall
be had against the same person for the same offense; provided, that the
revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty
so as to bar any other penalty being enforced. (Ord. 234, 12-1-2009)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty unless the intention of
the City Council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (2004
Code)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Mayor
1-5-2: Compensation
1-5-3: Meetings
1-5-4: Hearing Procedures
1-5-5: Election Of City Council
1-5-1: MAYOR:
   A.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   General: The mayor shall devote so much of his time to the duties of
his office as an efficient and faithful discharge thereof may require. He
shall, from time to time, give the city council such information and recommend
such measures as he may deem beneficial to the city; he shall examine the
grounds of all complaints against any of the officers of the city to determine
existence of a violation or neglect of duty and report the evidence thereof, if
deemed sufficient for the removal of said officer, to the city council. He
shall require that every officer, on the expiration of his term of office or
resignation or removal from the same, deliver to his successor all monies,
books, papers, maps, plats, furniture, fixtures, apparatus, machinery, tools
and instruments and appurtenances belonging to such office.
      2.   Contracts; Borrow Money: The mayor is authorized and empowered to
sign his name officially for and on behalf of the city on all contracts,
including deeds, bonds, bills, notes, obligations and other agreements,
documents and papers to which the city is a party, and to require that the
conditions in the said instruments are faithfully performed, and to borrow
money on the credit of the city when authorized by the city council.
      3.   Accounts And Reports Of Officers: The mayor shall have the power,
when he deems it necessary, to require any officer of the city to exhibit his
accounts or other papers and to make reports to the city council in writing,
touching any subject or matter he may require pertaining to his office.
      4.   Require Aid: The mayor is hereby authorized to call on every
inhabitant in the city over the age of twenty-one (21) years, to aid in
enforcing the laws of the city.
      5.   Additional Powers: The mayor shall have all other powers granted by
the laws of the state.
   B.   Police Powers, Jurisdiction 1 : The mayor shall have such jurisdiction
as may be vested in him by ordinance over all places within five (5) miles of
the corporate limits of the city for the enforcement of any health or
quarantine ordinance and regulation thereof, and shall have jurisdiction in all
matters vested in him by ordinance, except taxation, within one mile of the
corporate limits of the city and over such properties as may be owned by the
city outside of the corporate limits.
   C.   Term Of Office: The term of mayor shall be four (4) years. (2004 Code;
amd. Ord. 315, 11-7-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-606.
1-5-2: COMPENSATION:
Commencing January 1, 2024, the annual salary of the Mayor shall be $7,200.00
while the annual salary of each Councilperson shall be $2,400.00. (Ord. 171, 8-
7-2001; amd. Ord. 309, 8-1-2023)
1-5-3: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: Regular meetings of the city council shall be held on
the first Tuesday of every month at five o'clock (5:00) P.M. in Hayden Lake
City Hall.
   B.   Open Meetings: All meetings of the city council shall be open to the
public, except as provided in Idaho Code 74-206 et seq. (Ord. 272, 7-7-2015;
amd. Ord. 313, 7-2-2024)
1-5-4: HEARING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Conduct Of Public Hearings: All public hearings conducted pursuant to
Idaho Code title 67, chapter 65, shall comply with the standards set forth in
this section.
   B.   Notice Required: Prior to the conduct of a public hearing as specified
herein proper notice of said public hearing shall be given as required by Idaho
Code title 67, chapter 65.
   C.   Order And Rules:
      1.   Order Of Events: Public hearings shall follow the order of events
set forth below:
         a.   Explanation of subject of hearing;
         b.   Presentation by applicant;
         c.   Testimony from audience in favor of and/or against proposal;
         d.   Closure of oral testimony from applicant and audience;
         e.   Discussion of hearing subject among city council or commission
members. Questions may also be directed to city staff during this period;
         f.   Conclusion of hearing process.
      2.   Oral Testimony:
         a.   Time Limitations: The presiding officer may limit the time
allotted to presentation of oral testimony at a public hearing. Any such
allocation of time shall provide for a reasonable opportunity for proponents
and opponents of an issue to be heard.
         b.   Standards For Oral Testimony: Oral testimony made at a public
hearing shall comply with the following standards:
            (1)   Testimony should directly address the subject at hand.
            (2)   Testimony should not be personally malicious.
            (3)   Testimony shall comply with any time restrictions established
by the presiding officer.
      If oral testimony fails to comply with the aforementioned standards, the
presiding officer may declare such testimony to be out of order and require it
to cease.
      3.   Standards For Written Testimony: Written testimony submitted for
inclusion in the record of any public hearing shall comply with the following
standards:
         a.   Written testimony must be submitted to the city clerk no less
than the day on which the public hearing is scheduled.
         b.   Written testimony shall include the signature and address of the
submitter.
         c.   Written testimony should address the issue at hand.
         d.   Written testimony should not be personally malicious.
         e.   If written testimony fails to comply with the aforementioned
standards, the presiding officer may declare such testimony inadmissible.
      4.   Rules By Presiding Officer: All rulings shall be decided by the
presiding officer of any board conducting a public hearing with right of appeal
to the city council by any member present.
      5.   Robert's Rules Of Order: "Robert's Rules Of Order" shall govern the
conduct of all public hearings in which the rules are applicable, and in which
they are not inconsistent with the bylaws, special rules of order of the city
council or of any board or commission or the laws of the state of Idaho.
   D.   Records Maintained: The respective clerks of the city council and
planning and zoning commission holding public hearings pursuant to Idaho Code
title 67, chapter 65 shall maintain records of the proceedings in the following
manner:
      1.   Transcribable, verbatim recordings of the proceedings shall be
maintained for six (6) months from the date of the hearing.
      2.   Originals of written exhibits to the hearing record and copies of
applications shall be maintained for three (3) years from the date of the
hearing.
      3.   Minutes which catalog the occurrences of the public hearing shall be
maintained as required by pertinent sections of the Idaho Code.
   E.   Copies Of Official Records: Copies of materials submitted for inclusion
in the official record of a public hearing shall be available to interested
parties upon payment of the normal charges for research and copying made by the
city. (Ord. 135, 1-3-1995; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 315, 11-7-2024)
1-5-5: ELECTION OF CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Membership: The city council shall consist of four (4) members, one-
half (1/2) of whom shall be elected at each general city election.
   B.   Assignment And Designation Of Council Seats:
      1.   Pursuant to subsection A of this section, two (2) council members
are to be elected at each biennial election for a term of four (4) years.
Beginning with the city council election in November 2013, each council seat
shall be numbered as allowed by Idaho Code section 50-707. The city clerk shall
assign the following numbers to each seat: seat 1, seat 2, seat 3 and seat 4.
      2.   Any candidate seeking election to the city council shall designate
the seat he/she is seeking on his/her petition for candidacy or upon filing for
candidacy for one, and only one, council seat. The candidate shall meet all
other requirements for the office of city council member as required by law.
The candidate receiving the most votes for an assigned seat shall be deemed
elected.
      3.   Commencing at the general election to be held on the first Tuesday
following the first Monday in November 2013, seats 2 and 4 shall be the council
seats for which city council candidates may file. Commencing at the general
election held on the first Tuesday following the first Monday in November 2015,
seats 1 and 3 shall be elected. Henceforth, the even numbered council seats and
the odd numbered council seats shall be elected in alternate general city
elections in the same rotation pattern. (Ord. 259, 5-7-2013)
CHAPTER 6
MUNICIPAL OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Official Bonds
1-6-2: City Clerk
1-6-3: City Treasurer
1-6-4: City Attorney
1-6-1: OFFICIAL BONDS:
In the event the several offices herein named are not covered under the city's
public entity multiline insurance policy's errors and omissions liability, then
the several officers herein named shall give bonds to the city with two (2) or
more sufficient sureties in the penal sums as follows; provided, an official's
bond may be furnished at the expense of the city in lieu of personal bonds:
 
City clerk        $50,000.00
City treasurer    50,000.00
Deputy city clerk 50,000.00
 
(2004 Code)
1-6-2: CITY CLERK:
In addition to those duties set forth in Idaho Code 50-207 and this code, the
city clerk shall have the following duties:
   A.   Custodian Of Seal And City Records: The city clerk shall be custodian
of the city seal and affix the same to documents as required. The city clerk
shall also be the custodian of all public records, ordinances, resolutions and
orders of the city council, and such other papers and documents as may be
delivered into his custody.
   B.   Attend City Council Meetings; Ordinance Duties: The city clerk shall
attend all sessions of the city council, keep a correct journal and shall keep
in a separate book a record of ordinances passed by the city council and of the
titles of such ordinances. All ordinances not published in book form shall be
carefully and alphabetically indexed. The city clerk shall see that each
ordinance is published as required by law, and he shall keep on file the proof
of such publication.
   C.   Reports: The city clerk shall:
      1.   Monthly Report: Prepare and present to the city council at its
regular meeting each month a full and complete statement of the financial
transactions of his office during the preceding month, which said statement
shall set forth all receipts for licenses issued, money received with
applications for licenses which are to come before the city council; and all
other funds received by him as city clerk. Said report shall give a detailed
explanation of disbursements, including a statement of the aggregate of
warrants of each fund issued, of warrants redeemed during the month and of
warrants outstanding against each fund at the close of each month.
      2.   Annual Report: At the close of each fiscal year, present to the city
council an annual report covering the operations for the entire year.
      3.   Additional Reports: Make such additional reports and furnish such
other data from the records and files of his office as may be requested by the
mayor or city council.
   D.   Books, Records And Warrants: The city clerk shall keep such books and
permanent records of the transactions and business of his office as may be
necessary to accurately disclose all transactions and business of his office.
He shall also countersign all warrants and keep a warrant register and abstract
of expenditures showing the numbers and amounts of warrants issued and the
person to whom issued, the date redeemed, the interest paid and the several
funds against which each of said warrants are drawn.
   E.   Claims Against City: The city clerk shall file and audit all claims
against the city and shall submit the same to the city council at its next
regular meeting or when ordered by the city council so to do. (2004 Code)
   F.   Issue Licenses: The city clerk shall issue all licenses, a duplicate of
which shall be kept on file, but no license shall be issued to any person
unless the fees and charges fixed by ordinance or resolution shall have first
been paid, for which payment the city clerk shall issue a receipt in duplicate.
The city clerk shall endorse upon the receipt and duplicate receipt the number
of the license issued and the number of the application for license. The
duplicate of such receipt so issued shall be kept on file with the duplicate
license. (Ord. 262, 7-16-2013)
   G.   Bonds: The city clerk shall keep a record of outstanding bonds of the
city, showing the number and amount of each and for what and to whom said bonds
were issued, and when any of said bonds are purchased or paid or canceled with
said records shall show the fact. In his report at the close of each fiscal
year, he shall describe in particularity the bonds issued and sold during the
year and the terms of sale and shall itemize each and every expense thereof.
   H.   Copies Of City Records, Fee: It shall be the duty of the city clerk to
furnish any city officer with a certified copy of any record, paper or public
document on file in his office, or in his custody, for the use of such officer
in the discharge of his official duties. He shall also furnish a certified copy
of any such record, paper or document to any person not an officer of the city
upon the payment in advance of reasonable copying charges as established from
time to time by resolution of the city council. (2004 Code)
1-6-3: CITY TREASURER:
In addition to the duties set forth in Idaho Code 50-208 and 50- 1011 and this
code, the city treasurer shall have the following duties:
   A.   Collect And Deposit Funds: It shall be the duty of the city treasurer
to:
      1.   Receive and safely keep in designated depositories, as required by
law, all monies or funds belonging to the city which may come into his hands
and to disburse the same upon an appropriation by ordinance or resolution of
the city council after audit and allowance by the city council of claims
therefor and upon warrant of the mayor, countersigned by the city clerk, and
not otherwise. Securities belonging to the city, incapable of deposit in a
checking account, shall be kept by the city treasurer in a safety deposit box
in a financial institution designated by the city council. All bonds or
securities delivered to the city treasurer by a designated depository of city
funds as security for such funds shall be deposited with the county auditor or
other public official as may be provided by law.
      2.   Receive and all officers or other persons shall forthwith pay to the
city treasurer, except as otherwise provided by ordinance, all monies due the
city on any account whatsoever.
   B.   Receipts For Money Received: The city treasurer shall execute and
deliver to every city officer or other person paying money or funds, other than
water rentals, into the city treasury, a receipt therefor, specifying the date
of payment, the amount thereof and upon what fund or account the same is
received. The city treasurer shall issue such receipts from blank books, which
books shall contain a duplicate of the receipt delivered to the person making
payment, and such duplicate shall be delivered to the city clerk.
   C.   Books And Accounts: The city treasurer shall keep in a suitable book or
books, a full and accurate account of city monies and funds received by him,
showing the date of the receipt thereof, the person from who received and on
what account and to what fund the same is credited, with the date of
disbursement, the person to whom disbursed, on what account and against what
fund is debited.
   D.   Delivery Of Warrants, Vouchers: All warrants or orders paid and
redeemed and all vouchers shall be delivered to the city clerk immediately upon
payment or redemption and such redeemed warrants shall have written or stamped
on the face thereof the word "paid".
   E.   Reports To City Council:
      1.   The city treasurer shall at the end of each and every month, and at
other times when required by the mayor or city council, render an account under
oath, showing the condition of the city treasury at the date of such account,
including in said statement the balance of money in the city treasury with a
detailed statement of the specified amount in each designated depository and of
the amount and class of security held to guarantee each deposit. Such account
shall also contain a statement of receipts and disbursements and of all
warrants redeemed and paid by him, which said warrants, with all vouchers held
by him, shall be filed with said accounts in the city clerk's office. The mayor
or any member of the city council shall have free access to any and all books
or papers in the office of the city treasurer for the purpose of inspection and
examination.
      2.   It shall be the duty of the city treasurer to cause to be published
for at least one insertion in the official newspaper of the city, during the
months of January, April, July and October of each and every year, a full
statement of the receipts and expenditures of the city, giving the source from
whence received, to what purpose applied and to whom paid.
   F.   Books And Papers To Successor: The city treasurer shall deliver to his
successor in office all books, monies, papers and other property pertaining to
his office. (2004 Code)
1-6-4: CITY ATTORNEY:
In addition to the specific duties set forth in Idaho Code 50-204 and this
code, it shall be the duty of the city attorney:
   A.   To prosecute and defend in all courts all actions on behalf of the city
on account of official acts.
   B.   To take appeals or sue outright of error on behalf of the city or any
office aforesaid, with the consent and approval of the mayor, and make the
necessary bonds in the name of the city.
   C.   To advise the city council, or its committees or any city officer, on
such legal questions as may arise in relation to the business of the city.
   D.   To attend the meetings of the city council. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 7
MUNICIPAL FINANCES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Official Depositories
1-7-2: Official Newspaper
1-7-1: OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES:
Pursuant to the provisions of Idaho Code 50-1013, the City Treasurer shall
deposit all monies coming into his official custody in the following financial
institutions:
Bankcda
Idaho Central Credit Union
Mountain West Bank
U.S. Bank
Wells Fargo Bank
First Interstate Bank
(Ord. 292, 3-19-2019; amd. Ord. 315, 11-7-2024)
1-7-2: OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER:
Pursuant to the provisions of Idaho Code 50-213, the "Coeur d'Alene Press" is
hereby designated as the official newspaper of the City, and such ordinances,
notices and requiring publication, shall be published in said Coeur d'Alene
Press. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 8
MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Election Hours
1-8-2: Initiative And Referendum
1-8-1: ELECTION HOURS:
The polls for all general and special city elections held within the city shall
be open at twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and shall remain open until all
registered voters of that precinct have voted, or until eight o'clock (8:00)
P.M. of the same day, whichever comes first. (Ord. 145, 9-2-1997)
1-8-2: INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM:
   A.   Creation Of Right: The people of this city shall have the right to
enact ordinances through the initiative process, and to repeal ordinances
through the referendum process, according to the procedures set forth herein.
   B.   Petitions:
      1.   Requirements For Signature, Verification, Printing And Time Limits:
Referendum and initiative petitions shall conform with the requirements for
signature, verification of valid petitions, printing of petitions and time
limits, except as expressly modified to meet the purposes of initiative and
referendum to be as nearly as practicable as provided in Idaho Code 34-1701
through 34-1705.
      2.   Number Of Petitioners Required: To enact an ordinance by initiative
or to repeal an ordinance by referendum, there shall be attached or appended to
the petition the signatures of the legal voters of the city equal to at least
twenty percent (20%) of the total number of voters registered to vote at the
last general election in the city.
      3.   Time For Filing Petitions: Referendum petitions with the requisite
number of signatures attached shall be filed with the city clerk not less than
sixty (60) days following the final adoption of the ordinance to be subject to
referendum.
   C.   Time For Election: A special election for initiative or referendum
shall be provided not more than ninety (90) days following the certification of
the petition, provided that in the event a municipal election will occur within
ninety (90) days, the initiative and referendum shall be submitted at the time
of the municipal election. (Ord. 72, 1-6-1981)
CHAPTER 9
AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
1-9-1: Area Defined; Map
1-9-2: Area Regulations
1-9-3: Renegotiation
1-9-1: AREA DEFINED; MAP:
The city of Hayden Lake area of city impact within the unincorporated area of
Kootenai County is particularly described in exhibit A which is attached to the
ordinance codified herein and by reference made a part hereof, and also set
forth on the map set forth in exhibit B which is attached to the ordinance
codified herein and by reference made a part hereof which map shall remain in
effect until amended or modified as allowed by law. (Ord. 215, 9-18-2006)
1-9-2: AREA REGULATIONS:
The application of ordinances and regulations within the city's area of city
impact will be adopted, and when adopted shall be intended to be an integral
part of this chapter. (Ord. 128, 8-3-1994)
1-9-3: RENEGOTIATION:
In accordance with Idaho Code section 67-6526(d), the city or county may
request, in writing, renegotiation of any provisions of this chapter at any
time. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of such request by either party, a
meeting between the two (2) jurisdictions shall occur. While renegotiation is
occurring, all provisions of this chapter shall remain in effect until this
chapter is amended or a substitute ordinance is adopted by the city and
Kootenai County, in accordance with the notice and hearing procedures provided
in title 67, chapter 65, of the Idaho Code, or until a declaratory judgment in
district court is final. (Ord. 215, 9-18-2006)
CHAPTER 10
MUNICIPAL DOCUMENTS
SECTION:
1-10-1: Comprehensive Plan
1-10-1: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
The comprehensive plan entitled CITY OF HAYDEN LAKE, KOOTENAI COUNTY, IDAHO,
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN, be and the same is hereby adopted as the official
comprehensive plan of the city, on file in the office of the city clerk. (Ord.
127, 8-3-1994)
CHAPTER 11
CODE ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
1-11-1: Uniform Enforcement
1-11-2: Code Enforcement Officer
1-11-3: Right Of Entry
1-11-4: Code Enforcement Procedures
1-11-5: Appeal Process
1-11-1: UNIFORM ENFORCEMENT:
It is the intention of the City Council to provide uniform enforcement of all
of the laws of the City, specifically including the City Building Codes, Zoning
Code and subdivision ordinance, by providing better awareness of City
regulations, routine code enforcement review and code enforcement procedures.
(Res. 55, 10-2-2001)
1-11-2: CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
There is hereby created the position of Code Enforcement Officer, which office
may be filled at the discretion of the Mayor. The duties of the Code
Enforcement Officer shall include:
   A.   Providing information to the citizens of the City about the laws, rules
and regulations of the City.
   B.   Review of all building plans, variance requests and other special
permit requests submitted to the City for review to assure that the information
submitted is accurate.
   C.   Review and inspection of all construction activities within the City to
assure that such construction complies with all City codes.
   D.   Inspect all signs, temporary and permanent, within the City to assure
that such signs comply with all City codes.
   E.   Complete other duties as assigned by the Mayor. (Res. 55, 10-2-2001)
1-11-3: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any ordinance or
resolution, or whenever there is reasonable cause to believe there exists an
ordinance or resolution violation in any building or upon any premises within
the jurisdiction of the City, the Code Enforcement Officer, or any other
authorized official, may, upon presentation of proper credentials, enter such
building or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or to perform
any duty imposed upon him by ordinance or resolution; provided, that except in
emergency situations or when consent of the owner and/or occupant to the
inspection has been otherwise obtained, he shall give the owner and/or
occupant, if they can be located after reasonable effort, twenty four (24)
hours' written notice of the authorized official's intention to inspect. The
notice transmitted to the owner and/or occupant shall state that the property
owner has the right to refuse entry and that in the event such entry is
refused, inspection may be made only upon issuance of a search warrant by a
duly authorized magistrate. In the event the owner and/or occupant refuses
entry after such request has been made, the official is empowered to seek
assistance from any court of competent jurisdiction in obtaining such entry.
(Res. 55, 10-2-2001)
1-11-4: CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   General: Code enforcement procedures shall be flexible in order to
assure that every person that may be in violation of City codes receives
appropriate notice of the violation and an appropriate time in which to come
into compliance. However, it is the intention of the City Council that
continuing violations be prosecuted to the full extent of the law. Section
1-4-1 of this title provides that any violation of any law of the City is an
infraction and is subject to the fine set out in section
1-4-1 of this title, and that each day is considered a separate offense.
Compliance with City ordinances may also be secured through civil lawsuits
seeking injunctions, damages and other remedies. To the extent possible, it is
the intention of the City Council to secure compliance by its citizens through
education and voluntary compliance. Whenever, in the determination of the Code
Enforcement Officer, a person has received notice of a violation of the laws of
the City and fails to bring such activity into compliance, then the Code
Enforcement Officer shall formally begin compliance procedures to prosecute the
continuing violation. Such procedures shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
      1.   The Code Enforcement Officer shall begin a formal compliance period
by delivering to the violator and/or occupant a written notice identifying the
violation, the relevant City law, regulation and/or code section and the
penalty provision. The notice shall also specify the appeal process as provided
herein. When a violation includes any structure under construction or a
violation of any of the provisions of this Code that does not fall under the
International Building Code and which shall place public safety or water
quality in jeopardy, the Code Enforcement Officer is additionally authorized to
stop all construction activities on the structure or activity and post the
premises that all construction or other activity shall stop until the violation
is remedied to the satisfaction of the Code Enforcement Officer as evidenced in
writing filed with the City Clerk's Office.
      2.   The notice may be served by personal service on the person in
control of the premises and/or by registered mail mailed to the record owner of
the property at the address shown in the records of the Kootenai County
Recorder and to the resident (if different from the owner) at the address of
record with the City Clerk. The notice shall state that the property owner and
resident have no more than thirty (30) days to bring the violation into
compliance. Notice shall be deemed delivered five (5) days after such notice is
mailed. Notice of the violation shall also be posted on the property. The
notice shall not be removed or obstructed from view unless authorized by code
enforcement.
      3.   At the end of thirty (30) days, if the violation continues, another
written notice will be sent as set forth above stating that the City Attorney
is authorized to bring criminal charges and/or civil remedies against the
violating party.
      4.   In addition to bringing charges and/or pursuing civil remedies to
abate the violation, the Code Enforcement Officer may take action to remove the
violation as appropriate. The cost of the work shall be transmitted to the City
Council, who shall use the same to be paid and levy a special assessment
against the property to the extent permitted by the laws of the State and may
be collected in any manner permitted or hereafter permitted by law.
   B.   Temporary Real Estate Signs: In addition to the procedures set forth in
subsection A of this section, when the Code Enforcement Officer finds any
"temporary real estate sign" (as defined in section
8-4-3 of this Code) on property and the sign violates the provisions of this
Code, the Code Enforcement Officer may, at his discretion, take the following
actions to bring the property into compliance:
      1.   The Code Enforcement Officer or other City agent shall begin the
compliance process by delivering to a resident of the property at least
eighteen (18) years of age, the advertising agency listed on the sign or to the
record owner of the property a written notice stating that the sign is in
violation, that the sign will be removed if the violation persists and that the
sign will be destroyed within thirty (30) days from the date the sign is
removed and not reclaimed from the City. The notice shall also cite the
relevant law, regulation and/or code section, the penalty provisions thereof,
and shall also specify the appeal process as provided herein.
      2.   The notice shall be delivered by personal service on a resident of
the property at least eighteen (18) years of age, or by regular mail addressed
to the advertising agency listed on the sign or the record owner of the
property. The notice shall also state that the property owner, advertising
agency or resident have no more than five (5) days from receipt of the notice
to remove the sign or bring the sign into compliance. Notice shall be deemed
delivered on the same day it is personally served and two (2) days after such
notice is mailed.
      3.   At the end of five (5) days, if the violation persists, the Code
Enforcement Officer or other City agent may enter onto the property and remove
the sign. The Code Enforcement Officer shall store the sign in a safe place
until the sign is reclaimed from the City or destroyed. If the sign is not
reclaimed from the City within thirty (30) days from the date that the sign is
removed, it shall be destroyed.
      4.   In addition to the process set forth herein, if the violation
reoccurs on the same property on more than three (3) separate occasions in any
six (6) month period, notice will be sent as set forth above stating that the
City Attorney is authorized to bring criminal charges and/or seek civil
remedies against the violating parties, including the property owner, resident
and/or any of the advertising agencies that have placed or have been
responsible for placing the signs upon the property. (Res. 55, 10-2-2001; amd.
Res. 74, 11-1-2005; Ord. 242, 11-16-2010; Ord. 290, 2-19-2019; Ord. 315, 11-7-
2024)
1-11-5: APPEAL PROCESS:
Any violating party receiving written notice as set forth in this chapter may
request an opportunity to appeal the code enforcement officer's determination
that a violation exists to the city council. The appeal shall be made using the
following procedures:
   A.   All affected persons shall be entitled to be heard and participate in
the appeal meeting held by the city council.
   B.   A fee is required for each separate appeal as set forth in the City Fee
Schedule. The fee is payable to the city clerk upon filing an appeal.
   C.   At any time during the thirty (30) day compliance period, a person
wanting to appeal shall make a written application upon a form prescribed by
the city clerk. The application shall contain a legal description of the
property, a general description of the basis of the appeal and be accompanied
by such other information as may be required by the city clerk.
   D.   The city clerk shall set the appeal as an administrative item on the
next appropriate city council meeting agenda.
   E.   The appellant may submit information for the city council to consider
in writing. The appellant may provide oral comment and opinions of other
witnesses at the time set for the appeal.
   F.   The city council shall hear and consider all evidence provided during
the meeting on the appeal as well as all evidence in the files maintained by
the city and all other relevant information available to the members of the
city council. The city council shall render a decision in writing no later than
thirty (30) days after the meeting. Such decision shall be provided to the
appellant by personal delivery, regular mail or electronic means. When sent by
electronic means, the appellant shall be deemed to have received the decision
on the date it was sent. When sent by regular mail, the appellant shall be
deemed to have received the decision three (3) days after the date of mailing.
The appellant or an affected person may seek reconsideration of the decision by
filing a written request with the city clerk no later than fourteen (14) days
after receiving the decision. Such request must identify specific deficiencies
in the decision for which reconsideration is sought. Upon reconsideration, the
decision may be affirmed, reversed or modified. A written decision on the
request for reconsideration shall be provided to the appellant or affected
person in the manner set forth above within sixty (60) days of receipt of the
request for reconsideration or the request is deemed denied. The decision of
the city council on the appeal, or if reconsideration is requested, the
decision of the city council regarding the same, is final and if the appeal or
request for reconsideration is not successful, the city council shall specify
in writing a time certain in which the violation must be brought into
compliance, such time not to exceed fourteen (14) days from the date of the
decision unless the city council specifically finds through extenuating
circumstances that additional time is appropriate. In the event of a violation
of any of the provisions of the zoning ordinance, or in the event of a failure
to comply with any prescribed condition of approval of any zoning decision,
annexation agreement, variance or special use permit, the city council may
revoke the zoning, annexation, variance and/or special use permit.
   G.   At the end of the time allowed by the city council, if the violation
continues, another written notice will be sent stating that the city attorney
is authorized to bring criminal charges and/or pursue civil remedies against
the violating party. (Res. 55, 10-2-2001; amd. Ord. 276, 1-5-2016; Ord. 307,
10-18-2022; Ord. 315, 11-7-2024)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Commission Created
2-1-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
Those members duly constituted as councilmembers of the city council shall
exercise and be charged with all rights, obligations and duties as set forth in
Idaho Code title 67, chapter 65, relating to planning and zoning affecting the
city. Said city council shall exercise all of the powers required and
authorized by Idaho Code 67-6504, in lieu of the appointment of a planning and
zoning commission. (Ord. 64, 9-2-1975)
CHAPTER 2
CODE REVIEW COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-2-1: Committee Established; Membership
2-2-2: Officers; Meetings
2-2-3: Duties And Responsibilities
2-2-1: COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Established: There is hereby established a code review committee in the
city, which may consist of up to six (6) members. Members of the committee
shall receive no salary. However, reasonable and necessary expenses of the
committee and its members incurred in connection with the committee's meetings,
including, but not limited to, any associated legal fees, shall be paid by the
city.
   B.   Membership:
      1.   Members of the committee shall be partially comprised of one city
resident and up to two (2) members of the city council, who shall be appointed
by the mayor with the advice and approval of the council. The mayor and council
shall designate a council member as the chairperson of the committee, with the
other council member to serve as vice chairperson if two (2) council members
are appointed to the committee. The city resident member shall be appointed
following an application process, the extent of which shall be determined by
the mayor with the advice and approval of the council. The other three (3)
members of the committee shall be the city clerk, the city attorney and the
city code enforcement officer, all of whom shall serve on the committee for so
long as they are employed/retained by the city. The one member of the committee
appointed from the community shall serve a one year term commencing on the date
of appointment and approval, however, such term may be extended by the mayor
with the advice and approval of the council. This member shall attend at least
one regular meeting of the city council each month to stay informed of city
issues. The committee members who are also members of the city council shall
serve one year terms on the committee commencing on the first day of the
calendar year for which he/she is appointed to serve. These persons shall serve
as coliaisons to the council and as the council's spokespersons.
      2.   In the case of a vacancy in an appointed committee membership
position, the mayor shall appoint a replacement with the advice and approval of
the council, who shall serve during the remainder of the unexpired portion of
the respective term. Other vacancies shall be filled by the respective
successor(s) to the city clerk, city attorney and/or code enforcement officer.
(Ord. 235, 1-19-2010; amd. Ord. 315, 11-7-2024)
2-2-2: OFFICERS; MEETINGS:
   A.   Prior to each meeting of the committee, the city code enforcement
officer shall provide an agenda of topics to be discussed at the meeting to
each committee member.
   B.   The committee shall meet when the mayor and council deem it necessary,
when called for by the city clerk, or when called for by a majority of the
committee. At any meeting, a quorum shall consist of a majority of the full
membership. Written minutes shall be kept of all meetings by a person
designated to do so by the committee. A copy of the minutes shall be approved
by the city council as part of its consent agenda and kept on file at city
hall. (Ord. 235, 1-19-2010)
2-2-3: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   The primary duty of the committee shall be to act as an advisory
committee to the mayor and council regarding any task assigned to it by the
council, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Reviewing, evaluating and making recommendations regarding existing
city code provisions, along with proposed revisions or additions to the same.
      2.   Reviewing, evaluating and making recommendations regarding all
requests for variances, lot line adjustments, annexations or any other matters
relating to building or zoning.
      3.   Preparing and publishing newsletters and other information to be
sent to city residents.
   B.   The committee shall not be deemed to be anything other than an advisory
committee, having only the authority expressly conferred to it by the mayor and
council. (Ord. 235, 1-19-2010)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-1-1: Licenses Required
3-1-2: Application For License
3-1-3: Conditions Of License
3-1-4: License Revocation, Suspension Or Denial
3-1-5: Record Of Proceedings
3-1-1: LICENSES REQUIRED:
From and after the passage and approval of the provisions of this chapter, it
shall be lawful for any person to sell liquor by the drink, beer and wine for
consumption on the licensed premises within the corporate limits of the city
after having first procured a license as hereinafter provided. (Ord. 258, 4-2-
2013)
3-1-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Forms; Time Of Granting: Each applicant shall make application to the
city clerk on an application form provided therefor. The city clerk shall grant
or deny the application within thirty (30) days of the time it is filed and
accepted as complete by the city clerk.
   B.   Investigation Of Applicant: No license shall be granted hereunder until
there has been an investigation by the police department of all applicants
hereunder. After investigation, the applications will be returned to the city
clerk with a recommendation from the chief of police. If the chief of police
recommends that an application be denied, he shall state in writing the
following:
      1.   The statutes, ordinances and standards used in evaluating the
application;
      2.   The reason for the denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain the
license, transfer or renewal thereof. (Ord. 258, 4-2-2013)
3-1-3: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   State License Required: No license shall be granted to any person who
has not received a license therefor approved by the state of Idaho.
   B.   Term: All licenses and renewals thereof approved by the city shall be
for a period of one year beginning March 1 and ending on the last day of
February of the following calendar year.
   C.   Fees: The annual license fee imposed and collected shall be in an
amount as set forth in the City Fee Schedule.
   D.   License Transfers And Renewals: Licenses granted under the provisions
of this chapter may be renewed or transferred once the license holder has
filled out an application provided by the city clerk, the police department has
completed the investigation provided for herein and the renewal or transfer has
been approved by the city clerk. The procedure for granting or denying an
application for renewal or transfer of a license shall be the same as for
issuing or denying a license. (Ord. 258, 4-2-2013; amd. Ord. 315, 11-7-2024)
3-1-4: LICENSE REVOCATION, SUSPENSION OR DENIAL:
Prior to any revocation or suspension of a license granted hereunder, the
licensee shall be afforded a hearing before the city council utilizing the
procedure set forth herein for appeals. Any person denied a license or a
transfer or renewal of the same shall have the right to appeal the decision to
the city council by submitting in writing to the city clerk a request to have
the denial heard on appeal by the city council. Such written request must be
received by the city clerk no later than thirty (30) days after the date of the
decision of the city clerk to deny the license. The hearing date shall be set
by the city clerk and written notice of the date and time set for the hearing
shall be sent to the applicant no less than ten (10) days before the hearing.
At the hearing, the applicant shall be given the opportunity to present
evidence and testimony in support of the issuance, renewal or transfer of the
license. Whenever the city council revokes or suspends a license granted
hereunder or affirms the denial of a license application, transfer or renewal
on appeal, or whenever the city clerk denies a license application, transfer or
renewal, they shall specify in writing the following:
   A.   The statutes, ordinances and standards used in evaluating the
application;
   B.   The reason for the denial; and
   C.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain the
license, transfer or renewal thereof.
Pursuant to Idaho Code sections 23-933B and 23-1042, the determination of the
city to revoke, suspend or deny a license or deny a transfer or renewal of the
same shall be upon the same grounds as those set forth in Idaho Code section
23-933 and 23-1037. (Ord. 258, 4-2-2013)
3-1-5: RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS:
In all cases where the city council is considering the revocation or suspension
of a license, or an appeal concerning the denial of a license or denial of a
transfer or renewal thereof, a transcribable verbatim record of the proceedings
shall be made. Such record of the proceedings shall be kept for a period of not
less than six (6) months after the final decision on the matter, which shall be
the date upon which the written decision of the city council is transmitted.
Upon written request and within the time period provided for retention of the
record, any person may have the record transcribed at his expense. The city
council shall also provide for the keeping of the minutes of the proceedings.
Minutes shall be retained indefinitely or as otherwise provided by law. (Ord.
258, 4-2-2013)
CHAPTER 2
SOLICITORS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Applicability Of Provisions
3-2-2: Registration Required
3-2-3: Nuisances Prohibited
3-2-1: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
This chapter applies throughout the city. Unless exempt by state and federal
law, every person soliciting door to door is responsible for compliance with
its terms. Fundraising activities for students from Coeur d'Alene school
district 271 and Lakeland school district are exempt from these requirements.
(Ord. 196, 10-20-2003)
3-2-2: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
   A.   Required: Unless exempt by state and federal law, it is unlawful for
any person to solicit door to door without first registering with the city.
"Door to door solicitation" shall mean any unsolicited contact by a person with
any person at a residence or dwelling in the city for the purpose of selling
any product or service, or soliciting orders for any product or service. (Ord.
196, 10-20-2003)
   B.   Registration Fee: A registration fee to be set by resolution of the
city council shall be tendered at the time of submitting a registration
application. (Ord. 262, 7-16-2013)
   C.   Application: Persons registering with the city clerk must have and
shall present a current government issued photo identification and shall fill
out a registration application to be provided by the city clerk, which
application shall give the following information:
      1.   Name and permanent home address of the applicant.
      2.   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods or
services to be sold or provided, including a copy of all information to be
presented to the resident.
      3.   Name and address of the person's employer, together with an
explanation of the exact relationship between the person and the employer.
      4.   Length of time for which the door to door solicitation will occur.
      5.   A statement as to whether or not the person has been convicted of
any crime or violation of any municipal ordinance, the nature of the offense
and where the offense was committed.
   D.   Term: A new registration application shall be filed with the city clerk
every one hundred twenty (120) days for solicitation of sales of the same
product or service by the same person. A new registration shall be required
when a person who has previously registered within the last one hundred twenty
(120) days desires to sell door to door any products or services not listed on
the original registration application. (Ord. 196, 10-20-2003)
3-2-3: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
No person, registered or not, shall solicit business at any home or business
when such location has clearly posted any sign indicating that solicitation or
peddling is prohibited. No person, registered or not, shall continue with door
to door solicitation at any home or business when requested to leave by the
owner, authorized agent of the owner or any other person that resides or works
on the premises. (Ord. 196, 10-20-2003)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
PUBLIC NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Purpose
4-1-2: Nuisances Declared
4-1-3: Abandoned Or Wrecked Vehicles
4-1-4: Specific Nuisances
4-1-5: Enforcement
4-1-6: Other Remedies
4-1-1: PURPOSE:
It is the intent and purpose of this chapter to prevent, reduce or eliminate
the maintenance of any defined public nuisance in the city including vacant
buildings and abandoned vehicles. (Ord. 178, 2-19-2002)
4-1-2: NUISANCES DECLARED:
It is hereby determined that the uses, structures and activities described
herein, if allowed to exist, will result in blighted and undesirable
neighborhoods as to menace the public health or safety of persons and property,
will reduce the value of surrounding private property in the vicinity, will
promote deterioration of neighborhoods, will create fire hazards and constitute
an attractive nuisance creating a hazard to the health and safety of the
public, provide conditions that are a harborage for rodents and insects
injurious to health, safety and general welfare of the public and such
activities are, therefore, a public nuisance within the meaning of Idaho Code
50-334. (Ord. 178, 2-19-2002; amd. Ord. 315, 11-7-2024)
4-1-3: ABANDONED OR WRECKED VEHICLES:
The accumulation and storage of abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative
vehicles or parts thereof on private or public property are hereby determined
to be a public nuisance.
   A.   Vehicles: "Vehicles" are defined as any device designed to move or
propel persons or property or to be drawn upon a highway not including a device
designed to be propelled or moved by human power, such as wagons, tricycles,
bicycles, or to be used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   B.   Exceptions: Vehicles which are exceptions to this chapter are vehicles
or parts thereof which are completely enclosed within a building; vehicles or
parts thereof which are stored or parked in a lawful manner on private property
and are in the process of being repaired or restored within a reasonable time
not to exceed three (3) months.
   C.   Abandoned Vehicles: Abandoned vehicles include, but are not limited to,
vehicles or parts thereof which are not currently licensed for use upon the
highways of the state; vehicles which are unusable or inoperable; vehicles
which lack parts or have defective component parts; vehicles which are unusable
or inoperable because of damage from collision, deterioration, or having been
cannibalized; vehicles which are not intended for future use as a motor
vehicle; and/or vehicles or parts thereof being restrained on the property for
possible use as salvageable parts. (Ord. 178, 2-19-2002)
4-1-4: SPECIFIC NUISANCES:
   A.   Junk, Trash, Rubbish Or Refuse Of Any Kind:
      1.   The storage or accumulation of junk, trash, rubbish or refuse of any
kind is hereby determined to be a public nuisance. Junk includes, but is not
limited to, unused stoves or other appliances not stored in a tight and proper
building, as defined herein, remnants of wood, decayed weathered or broken
construction materials no longer suitable or safe for construction; approved
building materials, metal or any other material or other castoff material of
any kind not currently being used for construction on site and whether or not
the same could be put to any reasonable use.
      2.   A tight and proper building means a building enclosed in such a way
as to restrict the entrance of mice, rats or other vermin, and children and
which prevents such junk in the building from being visible to persons on other
private or public property, streets or sidewalks.
   B.   Accumulation Of Manure Or Garbage: No pile or deposit of manure, offal,
garbage or accumulation of any offensive or nauseous substance shall be made
within the limits of the city. It is unlawful for any person to unload,
discharge or put upon or along any public thoroughfare or public place within
the city any manure, offal, garbage or other offensive or nauseous substance.
   C.   Dead Animals Or Excrement: It is unlawful for any person to deposit or
leave in place in any part of the city any dead animal, any animal or vegetable
excrement or other substance which is offensive or which by progress of
decomposition may become offensive. No person shall throw or deposit offal or
any offensive matter, or the carcass of any animal, in the waters of Hayden
Lake or in any pond, spring, well, stream, street, alley, sewer or public
street or highway except for the placement of garbage placed in appropriate
containers on public streets for the purpose of collection by a garbage
collection contractor. Such placement of garbage shall not take place more than
twenty four (24) hours prior to the prescheduled garbage collection date. (Ord.
178, 2-19-2002)
   D.   Littering: It is unlawful for any person to dispose of, throw away or
leave any empty container or other litter on any public property, public park,
public street or highway within the city; provided, however, that empty
containers or other litter may be deposited in receptacles provided especially
for that purpose. A violation of this subsection shall constitute an infraction
unless otherwise provided by Idaho Code sections 18-3906, 18-7031 or any
successor statutes. (Ord. 273, 8-4-2015)
   E.   Scattering Handbills And Paper Posting Of Notices: No person shall
scatter or throw, distribute or affix upon any public street or highway or
public property, or in or on any vehicle while parked on such public street or
highway or public property, any handbills, posters, advertisement fliers,
litter or paper. The provisions of this subsection do not interfere or prevent
the posting of notices required by law to be posted.
   F.   Structures Or Vacant Buildings: Any structure or part of any structure
which, because of fire, wind or other natural disaster or physical
deterioration is no longer habitable as a dwelling, not useful for any other
purpose for which it may have been intended, is hereby determined to be a
public nuisance. The existence of any vacant dwelling, garage or other building
is a public nuisance unless such buildings are kept securely locked, windows
are glazed or neatly boarded up and otherwise protected to prevent entrance
thereto.
   G.   Secondhand Articles: It is unlawful for any person or any secondhand
dealer to store or keep any old articles or materials which may be classed as
junk in any part of the city without first providing tight and proper buildings
for the storage of the same. (Ord. 178, 2-19-2002)
   H.   Dead Or Diseased Trees: No person shall allow a dead or diseased tree
to remain on their property after such determination has been made by an
arborist or other qualified expert retained by the city to make such a
determination. If the expert recommends a course of treatment for a diseased
tree that is capable of being returned to a healthy state, the respective
property owner shall fully comply with the same or remove the subject tree.
(Ord. 231, 9-21-2009)
4-1-5: ENFORCEMENT:
This chapter shall be enforced by persons employed or otherwise engaged by the
city. In addition to the code enforcement procedures set forth in title 1,
chapter 11 of this code, such person may enter upon private or public property
to examine the nuisances described herein, to obtain information as to the
identity of a vehicle or to remove or cause to be removed the nuisances
described herein.
   A.   Removal Hearing: If the nuisance has not been abated as provided in
title 1, chapter 11 of this code, any of the persons enforcing this chapter
shall notify the mayor of the nuisance, and the mayor shall set a time for an
additional public hearing before the city council on the question of whether or
not the nuisance should be removed by the city. Notice of the hearing and
procedures at the hearing shall be as provided in said title 1, chapter 11 of
this code. If the city council determines that the city shall remove the
nuisance, the city council shall set a time limit of not less than ten (10)
days wherein the owner can remove the nuisance or the owner will thereby
forfeit all right, title and interest therein. The persons enforcing this
chapter shall thereafter cause the abatement of the nuisance by the removal of
the same by city employees or by a contractor hired by the city.
   B.   Removal; Costs; Nonpayment; Collection: The costs of removal plus
administrative costs of one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be paid by the
owner of the property where the nuisance has been caused and/or maintained
within thirty (30) days of receipt of a bill from the city setting forth the
costs of such removal. If the costs are not paid within thirty (30) days, the
costs shall be levied as a special assessment against such property and
certified to the tax collector of the county by the city clerk, as provided by
Idaho Code 50-1008. Whether or not the costs are levied as a special
assessment, the city council, in its discretion, may order such costs to be
collected by civil action or any other remedy allowed at law.
   C.   Notice To Law Enforcement Department: Within five (5) days after the
abandonment of any vehicle, notice shall be given to the Idaho department of
law enforcement identifying the vehicle, or part thereof removed, as fully as
possible. At the same time, any registration certificate or license plates
found shall be transmitted to the Idaho department of law enforcement. (Ord.
178, 2-19-2002)
4-1-6: OTHER REMEDIES:
This chapter shall not be deemed to be the exclusive method of abating public
nuisances, but shall be supplemental to and be in addition to other ordinances
and resolutions of the city council and statutes of the state. (Ord. 178, 2-19-
2002)
CHAPTER 2
FEEDING DEER
SECTION:
4-2-1: Purpose
4-2-2: Definitions
4-2-3: Conduct Declared Unlawful
4-2-4: Investigations And Complaints
4-2-5: Citations And Penalties
4-2-1: PURPOSE:
The city hereby determines that an increasing population of deer within the
city poses a threat to public safety by increasing the likelihood of deer-
vehicle collisions, direct deer-human and deer-pet conflicts, the risk of
attracting increased predator populations, potential transmission of disease to
humans from deer; poses a threat of damage to ornamental plants and gardens,
and over browsing of limited existing natural habitat. This chapter is intended
to reduce these threats by restricting supplemental and intentional feeding of
deer, which results in unnatural concentrations of deer and can affect the
normal movement of deer within the community. (Ord. 281, 11-1-2016)
4-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise indicates, the following
terms shall have these meanings:
ATTRACTANT(S): Any substance, including, but not limited to, food, garbage, or
salt lick, which draws deer to a particular location.
FEED: A substance composed of grain, mineral, salt, fruit, vegetable, hay, or
any other food material or combination of these materials, whether natural or
manufactured, that may attract deer.
FEEDING: The intentional depositing, distributing, or tending of feed in an
area frequented by deer. (Ord. 281, 11-1-2016)
4-2-3: CONDUCT DECLARED UNLAWFUL:
   A.   No person shall purposely, knowingly or intentionally provide access to
"feed" (as defined in section
4-2-2 of this chapter) to any deer in the city, on lands either publicly or
privately owned.
   B.   It is unlawful to intentionally feed, provide feed or other
attractants, excluding fruit trees, ornamental plants, vegetable gardens and
properly hung bird feeders, to deer within the city limits. No person shall
purposely or knowingly leave or store any refuse, garbage, food product, pet
food, forage product or supplement, salt, seed or birdseed, fruit, or grain in
a manner that would constitute an attractant to any deer.
   C.   Nothing in this section shall apply to any agent of the city authorized
to implement an alternative control method set forth in any approved community
based deer management plan endorsed by the state of Idaho department of fish
and game in accordance with the provisions of Idaho Code on wildlife. (Ord.
281, 11-1-2016)
4-2-4: INVESTIGATIONS AND COMPLAINTS:
Upon receipt of a complaint alleging the illegal feeding of deer, the city
shall investigate the complaint to determine if there has been a violation of
this chapter. (Ord. 281, 11-1-2016)
4-2-5: CITATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any city representative or law enforcement officer observing or upon
investigation, determining that a violation of this chapter has occurred:
   A.   On the first substantiated violation, the property owner may be cited
by the city for a violation with a warning that subsequent violations will
incur a monetary penalty.
   B.   On the second separate violation and any subsequent substantiated
violations, a city law enforcement officer shall issue an infraction citation
describing such violation and allowing the person cited to post and forfeit the
sum of seventy two dollars ($72.00). (Ord. 281, 11-1-2016; amd. Ord. 315, 11-7-
2024)
CHAPTER 3
PUBLIC HEALTH HAZARD
SECTION:
4-3-1: Public Health Hazard Authority
4-3-2: Definitions
4-3-3: Public Health Hazard Orders
4-3-4: Process For Enacting Public Health Hazard Orders
4-3-5: Penalty
4-3-1: PUBLIC HEALTH HAZARD AUTHORITY:
   A.   Purpose: By this chapter, the City Council of the City of Hayden Lake,
authorizes the Mayor and City staff assigned by the Mayor to quickly implement
measures necessary to protect the public health, safety and welfare in the rare
event of a foreseeable, imminent, or present public health hazard, pursuant to
the authority vested in the Mayor by Idaho Code section 50-606.
   B.   Exclusions: Unless otherwise specifically prohibited by a Public Health
Hazard Order duly enacted by the Mayor, the following activities shall be
exempt from the scope of such order:
      1.   Any and all expressive and associative activity that is protected by
the United States and Idaho Constitutions, including speech, press, assembly,
and/or religious activity.
      2.   Educational institutions, which shall follow the duly adopted
policies of their respective governing bodies.
      3.   Activities necessary to operate critical infrastructure and
utilities.
      4.   Activities necessary to operate and use medical facilities and
services.
      5.   Activities necessary to buy, sell, or otherwise deliver food and
necessities.
   C.   Force majeure. In the context of this chapter, a public health hazard
is a force majeure. No person shall be entitled to recover from the City of
Hayden Lake any costs incurred or profits lost as may be alleged to be
attributed to the enactment of a Public Health Hazard Order. (Ord. 295, 3-24-
2020; amd. Ord. 315, 11-7-2024)
4-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
ISOLATION: The separation, confinement, or restriction of movement of an
individual with an infectious disease or individual who has been exposed to an
infectious agent.
PUBLIC HEALTH HAZARD: Any pathogen, agent, vector, or environmental condition
which does or may cause illness or injury to humans.
PUBLIC HEALTH HAZARD ORDER: An advisory, social distancing, or isolation order
enacted by the Mayor.
SOCIAL DISTANCING: Actions taken to maintain distance from other people,
including avoiding or canceling congregate settings and mass gatherings. (Ord.
295, 3-24-2020)
4-3-3: PUBLIC HEALTH HAZARD ORDERS:
The Mayor, being duly authorized by Idaho Code section 50-606, may issue the
following orders, as deemed appropriate by the Mayor following consultation
with or review of information issued by local, regional, statewide, and/or
nationwide public health authorities.
   A.   Advisory Order: Where a public health hazard is foreseeable, the Mayor
may enact an advisory order, which order may provide information and
recommended guidelines for preventing, detecting, and/or mitigating the onset
or spread of a public health hazard.
   B.   Social Distancing Order: Where a public health hazard is imminent, the
Mayor may summarily enact a social distancing order, which order may establish
any or all of the following:
      1.   Appropriate restrictions regarding the operation or occurrence of
planned or foreseeable commercial, recreational, or expressive gatherings or
events.
      2.   Restrictions on travel through or visitation within the community.
      3.   Postponement or cancellation of public meetings and hearings.
      4.   A limit on the number of persons who may gather in one location and
may apply to indoor or outdoor venues.
      5.   Measures to be taken in order to prevent, avoid, detect, address, or
mitigate a foreseeable, imminent, or present public health hazard.
   A social distancing order shall include an effective date and an anticipated
expiration date, no later than thirty (30) days following enactment, which may
be extended with the approval of City Council. A social distancing order shall
apply within Hayden Lake city limits, and five (5) miles outside Hayden Lake
city limits.
   C.   Isolation Order: Where a health hazard is present, and poses a clear
danger to the public health, the Mayor may summarily enact an isolation order,
which order may establish any or all of the following:
      1.   A directive that infected and/or exposed individuals isolate
themselves from other persons.
      2.   Geographical or other areas of restricted or no access.
      3.   Other measures necessary to avoid, address, or mitigate an imminent
public health hazard.
      4.   The scope and manner of delivery of services, materials, or supplies
to be provided by the City, if any.
      5.   Measures to be taken in order to prevent, avoid, detect, address, or
mitigate a foreseeable, imminent, or present public health hazard.
      6.   Conditions of the isolation.
   An isolation order shall include an effective date and an anticipated
expiration date, no later than thirty (30) days following enactment, which may
be extended with the approval of City Council. An isolation order shall be
effective only when and for so long as the public health hazard is present, and
when no less restrictive alternative exists. Any person shall be entitled to
appeal an isolation order, or to request a modification of any provision of
such order by filing a written appeal with the City Clerk. Such appeal shall be
heard by City Council at their next meeting, or, if no meeting is scheduled
during the term of the isolation order, the Police Chief or designee shall
review such appeal and issue a written decision. The Police Chief's decision
shall be final. (Ord. 295, 3-24-2020)
4-3-4: PROCESS FOR ENACTING PUBLIC HEALTH HAZARD ORDERS:
   A.   Enactment: Where summarily enacting a Public Health Hazard Order, the
Mayor shall prepare a written order and publish it pursuant to this section.
   B.   Publication of Public Health Hazard Order: As possible and prudent
under the circumstances, the Mayor shall cause a Public Health Hazard Order to
be published:
      1.   Posting the order in a prominent place at Hayden Lake City Hall;
      2.   Posting the order on the City's website;
      3.   E-mailing the order to all persons subscribed to City e-mail
notification services;
      4.   Posting the order to all City social media accounts;
      5.   Providing the order to local television and radio broadcast outlets;
and
      6.   Notifying other government agencies and other municipalities.
   Except as may be specifically stated in the Public Health Hazard Order, such
order shall be effective upon posting at Hayden Lake City Hall. (Ord. 295, 3-
24-2020)
4-3-5: PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful to violate any provision or directive of a duly enacted
social distancing order or isolation order while such order is in effect. The
violation of any provision or directive of a social distancing order or
isolation order shall be a misdemeanor. (Ord. 295, 3-24-2020)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-1-1: Adoption Of Kootenai County Code
5-1-1: ADOPTION OF KOOTENAI COUNTY CODE:
Title 5, chapter 1 of the Kootenai County code is hereby adopted by the city in
its entirety to allow Kootenai County to fully enforce the provisions of such
chapter within the boundaries of the city, with the following modifications:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor, keep, maintain or
possess within the city any of the following animals:
      1.   Mammals:
         a.   All members of the family Felidae (cat family) except
domesticated cats.
         b.   All members of the family Canidae (dog family) except
domesticated dogs.
         c.   All nonhuman primates.
         d.   All members of the order Insectivora except hedgehogs.
         e.   All rodents except domestic mice, guinea pigs, hamsters, gerbils
and squirrels not otherwise restricted by federal law.
         f.   All marine animals, including, but not limited to, whales,
dolphins and seals.
         g.   All animals from the order Xenarthra, including giant anteaters,
sloths, tamanduas, armadillos and pangolins.
         h.   All members of the family Procyonidae, except the raccoon native
to Idaho (Procyon lotor).
         i.   All members of the family Mustelidae except domestic ferrets
(Mustela putorious).
         j.   All civets, meerkats and members of the family Viverridae.
         k.   All marsupials except Virginia opossum, sugar gliders and
bettongs.
         l.   All members of the family Hyaenidae, including, but not limited
to, hyenas and aardwolves.
         m.   All members of the order Tubulidentata (aardvarks).
         n.   All members of the order Hyracoidae (hyraxes).
         o.   All hoofed animals belonging to the orders Perrisodactyla and
Artiodactyla except domesticated farm or pack animals.
      2.   Birds:
         a.   Ostriches.
         b.   Cassowaries.
         c.   Penguins of any kind.
         d.   Cranes of any kind.
         e.   Flamingos.
         f.   Hornbills.
         g.   Herons and their relatives from the order Ciconiiformes.
         h.   All birds of prey from the order Falconiformes.
         i.   All owls from the order Strigiformes.
         j.   All poultry including, but not limited to, chickens, ducks,
turkeys and geese.
      3.   Reptiles:
         a.   Sea turtles of any kind.
         b.   Aldabra or Galapagos tortoises.
         c.   Komodo dragons.
         d.   All members of the order Crocodilia.
         e.   Wild caught Gila monsters and bearded lizards.
         f.   Elapids (family of venomous snakes) except North American
species, such as coral snakes, that are housed under state guidelines.
         g.   Viperids (family of venomous snakes) except North American
species, including, but not limited to, rattlesnakes, cotton mouths and
copperheads that are housed under state guidelines.
         h.   Tuataras.
         i.   Anacondas.
      4.   Insects: All insects listed as agricultural pests by the USDA and
Idaho department of agriculture.
      5.   Other animals: All animals listed as threatened or endangered on
either a state or federal level and all illegally imported animals shall be
prohibited in the same manner as those listed above.
   B.   All of the above modifications made to title 5, chapter 1 of the
Kootenai County code shall be enforced solely by the city. Any violations
thereof shall be subject to the general penalty provisions found in sections
1-4-1 and
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 255, 9-4-2012)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Firearms
5-2-2: Injure Or Obstruct Public Ways
5-2-3: Public Assemblies
5-2-4: Fireworks
5-2-5: Noise Control
5-2-6: Disruptive Parties, Gatherings And Events On Private Property
5-2-1: FIREARMS:
   A.   Definitions:
    FIREARMS: Any instrument used in the propulsion of shot, shell or bullets,
or other harmful objects, by the action of gunpowder within it, or by the
action of compressed air within it, or by the power of springs and including
what are commonly known as air guns or BB guns. (Ord. 32, 2-5-1968)
   B.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any
firearm, slingshot, zipgun or bow and arrow within the limits of the City
unless the same occurs in lawful defense of person or persons or property.
(Ord. 270, 10-7-2014)
5-2-2: INJURE OR OBSTRUCT PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Injury Or Destruction: Every person who maliciously digs up, cuts,
removes, displaces, breaks or otherwise injures or destroys any public highway
or street within the boundaries of the City, or whoever obstructs said highway
or street or diverts any watercourse thereon is punishable as provided in the
general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 36, 7-7-1969; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Deposit Of Snow, Rock Or Debris: It is unlawful for any person to
deposit, or cause to be deposited, thrown upon or moved onto any public street,
sidewalk, thoroughfare or other public property, any snow, ice, dirt, soil,
rocks or debris which has accumulated on any private property. (Ord. 116, 6-1-
1993)
5-2-3: PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to regulate the assemblages
of large numbers of people in excess of those which the normal health,
sanitary, fire and police services provided in the City would adequately
accommodate in order that the health, safety and welfare of all persons in the
City, residents and visitors alike, may be protected. (Ord. 42, 6-7-1971)
   B.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to allow, conduct,
permit, advertise or cause to be allowed, conducted, permitted or advertised
any entertainment, religious, educational or amusement activity or activities
within one thousand feet (1,000') of any schoolhouse, church or any other place
of human habitation within the City limits when said activity or activities
will or can reasonably be expected to attract an outdoor gathering or assembly
of five hundred (500) or more persons at any one time and which continues or
can reasonably be expected to continue for eight (8) or more consecutive hours.
(Ord. 42, 6-7-1971; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Violation; Penalty: Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with
any of the provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of an infraction,
and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in the general
penalty in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 290, 2-19-2019)
5-2-4: FIREWORKS:
   A.   Provisions Adopted: There are hereby adopted by reference the rules and
regulations for the storage, sale, use and display of fireworks, including
penalties therefor, as set forth in title 5, chapter 5 of the Kootenai County
Code, a copy of which is on file in the Office of the City Clerk and by this
reference made a part hereof. However, notwithstanding any provision of this
section, the penalties provided for in title 5, chapter 5 of the Kootenai
County code shall not exceed those provided for in Idaho Code sections 39-2609,
39-2613 or any successor statutes.
   B.   References: All references to Kootenai County and the elected officials
and employees set out in title 5, chapter 5 of the Kootenai County code shall
be and the same are hereby changed to mean the city and the elected officials
and employees thereof.
   C.   Interpretation: The city council reserves unto itself the
interpretation and intent of title 5, chapter 5 of the Kootenai County code to
carry out the principles thereof. (Ord. 273, 8-4-2015)
5-2-5: NOISE CONTROL:
It is unlawful to play, use or operate for any purpose whatsoever any equipment
or device including, but not limited to, loudspeakers or sound amplifiers,
radios or phonographs or any other instrument of any kind or character which
emits loud noises, the use of which creates a noise level for residentially
zoned property, or allow a dog to bark in excess of the following criteria
measured by an approved and properly calibrated decibel meter:
 
Daytime level (7:00 A.M. to 8:00 P.M.) 65 dB
Nighttime level                        55 dB
 
Such decibel measurements shall be taken from the edge of the property from
which the noise is created or when the sound is emitted from public property,
the decibel shall be calibrated from ten feet (10') from the person or object
creating the noise. (Ord. 116, 6-1-1993; amd. Ord. 315, 11-7-2024)
5-2-6: DISRUPTIVE PARTIES, GATHERINGS AND EVENTS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   Disruptive Events Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person or
persons to host a party, gathering or event on private property located within
the city's residential zoning district (excluding private property that is
located in the city's overlay zoning district) which is disruptive to the
public peace, health, safety or welfare due to the magnitude of the crowd, loud
music or other noise, disturbances, unruly behavior by those attending the
party, excessive traffic or destruction of property.
   B.   Definitions:
    DISRUPTIVE TO THE PUBLIC PEACE, HEALTH, SAFETY OR WELFARE: Music or any
other noises in excess of five (5) decibels (dB) above background level as
measured from any property line of the subject property, along with crowds,
disturbances, behavior, traffic or property destruction which a reasonable
person in the same or similar position as a neighbor in the same vicinity as
the subject property would find disruptive or disturbing.
   PARTY: A party, gathering or event or other assembly of persons for a social
occasion or activity.
   PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PARTY: 1. The person or persons in charge of the
premises where the party takes place;
      2.   The person or persons authorizing the use of the premises for the
party; and/or
      3.   The person or persons who organized the party.
   PREMISES: Any home, apartment, condominium or other dwelling unit or meeting
room or hall, including the yard and cartilage of such premises which are
owned, rented, leased or under the control of the person or persons responsible
for the party, regardless of whether such premises is occupied on a permanent
or temporary basis, or merely occupied as a premises for a social function.
   C.   Restitution: The court may order restitution to be paid by the person
or persons responsible for a party or gathering that requires a subsequent law
enforcement or emergency response. Such restitution, if ordered, would include
the actual costs for law enforcement or other emergency services incurred for
the purpose of abating any of the conditions or violations described in
subsection A of this section.
   D.   Penalty: First and second violations of this section shall be subject
to the general civil penalty set forth in City Code §
1-4-1. Additional violations shall be infractions under City Code §
1-4-1. (Ord. 257, 2-19-2013; amd. Ord. 315, 11-7-2024)
CHAPTER 3
MINORS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Curfew
5-3-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Curfew Hours: It shall be unlawful for any child under eighteen (18)
years of age, to be upon, loiter or stroll on public thoroughfares or other
public places within the city, between the hours of ten thirty o'clock (10:30)
P.M. and five thirty o'clock (5:30) A.M., Sunday through Thursday of each week,
and from twelve thirty o'clock (12:30) A.M. until five thirty o'clock (5:30)
A.M., Friday and Saturday of each week, unless said child be accompanied by a
parent, legal guardian or any other adult person lawfully and properly
accompanying said minor person.
   B.   Parental Responsibility: It shall be unlawful for any parent or legal
guardian of any child under eighteen (18) years of age to allow or permit said
minor child to be upon, loiter or stroll on public thoroughfares or other
public places between the hours of ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. and five
thirty o'clock (5:30) A.M., Sunday through Thursday of each week, and from
twelve thirty o'clock (12:30) A.M. until five thirty o'clock (5:30) A.M.,
Friday and Saturday of each week, unless accompanied by said parent, legal
guardian or any other adult person lawfully and properly accompanying said
minor person.
   C.   Duty Of Police: Police officers may only detain a violator of
subsection A of this section in accordance with Idaho Code section 20-549 or
any successor statute.
   D.   Penalty: Persons violating any of the provisions of this section shall
be deemed guilty of an infraction. (Ord. 273, 8-4-2015)
CHAPTER 4
WATERWAYS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Adoption Of Kootenai County Code
5-4-1: ADOPTION OF KOOTENAI COUNTY CODE:
Title 6, chapter 2 of the Kootenai County Code is hereby adopted by the City in
its entirety to allow Kootenai County to fully enforce the provisions of such
chapter on that portion of Hayden Lake where the City has extended its
boundaries. (Ord. 293, 7-2-2019)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: State Laws Adopted
6-1-2: Speed Limits
6-1-3: Restricted Stopping, Standing Or Parking
6-1-4: Commercial Vehicles
6-1-1: STATE LAWS ADOPTED:
It is hereby declared to be the intent of the city to aid and assist, by
whatever means possible, for the utmost consistency in traffic regulation among
and between agencies of Idaho having such jurisdiction. Toward that end,
adoption of the Idaho motor vehicle laws by the cities of Idaho is a necessary
means of assuring maximum uniformity within the state.
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing rules and regulations
for the use of all streets and public thoroughfares of the city, that certain
code, identified as the Idaho motor vehicle laws, more particularly Idaho Code
title 49, published by the department of law enforcement, and as the same may
hereafter be revised by the Idaho legislature, or amended by the city, and the
same is hereby adopted and incorporated as an ordinance of the city as fully as
though set forth at length herein. (Ord. 88, 1-8-1985; amd. 2004 Code)
6-1-2: SPEED LIMITS:
   A.   General Citywide Limits: It shall be unlawful to operate a motor
vehicle upon any of the public thoroughfares or roads within the corporate
limits of the city presently existing or as may be hereafter established, at a
speed in excess of twenty five (25) miles per hour except that upon the
following designated streets the maximum rate of speed shall be fifteen (15)
miles per hour:
      Evergreen Drive as it extends from Lakeview Drive to its terminus
      Fairway Road as it extends from Evergreen Drive to Bozanta Drive
      Fir Lane as it extends from Evergreen Drive to Bozanta Drive
      Morris Avenue as it extends from Cramp Avenue to Miles Avenue
      Pine Road as it extends from Evergreen Drive to Bozanta Drive
      Tobacco Road as it extends from Bozanta Drive to its terminus
      Any speed in excess of the limit specified in this section shall be prima
facie evidence that the speed is not reasonable or prudent and that it is
unlawful.
   B.   Special Zones: It shall be unlawful to operate any such vehicle in any
school, church or special zone at a rate of speed greater than that prescribed
by the mayor and city council when appropriate signs are placed at such zones.
(Ord. 61, 5-6-1975)
6-1-3: RESTRICTED STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING:
   A.   Restrictions: No person shall stop, park or leave standing any
"vehicle", defined as every device in, upon or by which any person or property
is or may be transported or drawn upon a street except devices moved by human
power, whether attended or unattended, upon the paved or main traveled part of
any city street. However, parking upon the paved or main traveled portion of
any city street is allowed for those providing professional services to an
adjacent property owner so long as associated vehicles do not remain parked
thereon for a period exceeding two (2) hours and do not inhibit the current
pattern of traffic on such street. Those providing professional services may
park their vehicles on the paved or main traveled portion of a city street for
longer than two (2) hours if advance permission is obtained from the City
Police Department. No person shall park a vehicle in front of a mailbox in a
manner that would prevent or impede the distribution and delivery of mail by
the United States Postal Service. Postal carriers must be able to drive into
and out of the delivery area without backing up.
   B.   Removal Of Vehicles: Whenever any police officer employed by or on
behalf of the city finds a vehicle standing upon a street in violation of any
of the provisions of this section, such officer is hereby authorized to provide
for the removal of such vehicle to the nearest available garage or other place
of safety. All costs and expenses of taking and keeping any such vehicle,
including the cost and expense of towing, keeping and storing, shall be paid by
the owner of such vehicle.
   C.   Exceptions: This section shall not apply to the driver of any vehicle
which is disabled while within a city right of way in such manner and to such
extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and temporarily leaving such
disabled vehicle in such position.
   D.   Penalty: Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall
be punished as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 62, 7-1-1975; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 300, 12-1-2020;
Ord. 315, 11-7-2024)
6-1-4: COMMERCIAL VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a commercial vehicle as defined
in Idaho Code section 49-123(2)(c) upon the following streets and roads in the
city of Hayden Lake: Strahorn Road, Lakeview Drive and Hayden Avenue.
Commercial vehicles making deliveries or transacting other business at property
located within the municipal boundaries of the city or property located within
five hundred feet (500') of the municipal boundaries of the city are exempt
from this regulation. (Ord. 252, 12-6-2011)
CHAPTER 2
GOLF CARTS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Definition
6-2-2: Equipment; Places Of Operation
6-2-3: Golf Cart Operation Regulations
6-2-4: Penalty
6-2-1: DEFINITION:
The term "golf cart" shall mean every self-propelled vehicle upon three (3) or
more wheels, in, upon or by which, any person or property, particularly golf
clubs or golf equipment, may be carried or transported. (Ord. 264, 8-20-2013)
6-2-2: EQUIPMENT; PLACES OF OPERATION:
   A.   Equipment: No golf cart shall be operated in the city unless it is
equipped with the following:
      1.   Brake: At least one brake which may be operated by hand or foot and
at least one parking brake. Such brakes may be controlled by one mechanism but
if in one mechanism, the brake must be capable of being locked on for parking
purposes.
      2.   Muffler: If the golf cart is propelled by an internal combustion
engine, it must have a muffler in good working order and in constant operation
to prevent excessive or unusual noise and annoying smoke; no person shall use a
muffler cutout, bypass or similar device.
   B.   Places Of Operation: Golf carts may be operated on the streets of the
city, except golf carts may not be operated or be driven in any area that has
been posted by the city with a notice that prohibits such operation at the
location described in the notice. (Ord. 264, 8-20-2013)
6-2-3: GOLF CART OPERATION REGULATIONS:
   A.   Speed: It shall be unlawful to operate a golf cart at a speed in excess
of the posted speed limit.
   B.   Careless Driving: It shall be unlawful to operate a golf cart
carelessly or heedlessly, or without due caution and circumspection or at a
speed or in a manner as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or
property.
   C.   Conformance With Traffic Controls: All golf carts shall conform to all
vehicular traffic controls.
   D.   Abide By Traffic Laws: All golf carts shall abide by all traffic laws,
rules and regulations.
   E.   Headlights And Taillights: Every golf cart upon a city street at any
time from sunset to sunrise and at any other time when there is not sufficient
light to render clearly discernible persons and vehicles on a city street at a
distance of five hundred feet (500') ahead shall display lighted headlights and
taillights. (Ord. 264, 8-20-2013)
6-2-4: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be guilty of an
infraction, punishable by a fine determined by the most recently adopted
version of the Idaho Supreme Court Infraction Penalty Schedule. (Ord. 264, 8-
20-2013; amd. Ord. 315, 11-7-2024)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PROPERTIES
SECTION:
7-1-1: Maintenance Requirements
7-1-2: Public Parks And Playgrounds
7-1-3: Traffic Calming Methods
7-1-1: MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Snow And Debris:
      1.   Sidewalks Kept Clear: Every owner or occupant of any house or other
building, or of any vacant lot within the City limits, during the winter season
and during the time snow continues on the ground, shall clear the sidewalks in
front of such lot or block from snow and ice, and shall keep them conveniently
free therefrom, or shall, in the case of snow or ice so congealed that it
cannot be removed without injury to the sidewalk, cause sand or some other
substance that will not harm the sidewalks to be scattered upon the snow and
ice to provide traction and to cause the snow and ice to melt. Every owner or
occupant shall also, at all times, keep the sidewalks clear of limbs, debris
and rubbish that would tend to impede the free passage of pedestrian traffic
upon the sidewalks. Failure to comply with the provisions of this section shall
constitute an offense, punishable as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
      2.   Placing Snow On Public Property: It is unlawful for any operator of
snow removal equipment or the owner of any private land upon which snow removal
equipment is operated, to place or otherwise permit, sanction, approve or cause
the placement of any fallen snow onto public property or rights-of-way upon its
removal from privately owned land.
   B.   Sidewalk Repair And Maintenance: It shall be the duty of the owner of
property within the City limits to maintain sidewalks abutting the owner's
property at all times in a safe and proper condition and to repair all damage
to sidewalks whether or not the owner has received notice from the City to do
so.
   C.   Grass Infiltration Systems: Every owner or occupant of any house or
other building, or of any vacant lot within the City which has upon the private
property any grass infiltration system designed and installed for the purpose
of treatment of storm drainage or abuts any such grass infiltration system on
public property, shall be responsible to maintain the system and keep it free
of debris so as to maintain the functionality of such system.
   D.   Assessment And Lien: If it becomes necessary for the City to clean or
repair the sidewalks or grass infiltration systems abutting any private
property, the City may assess the cost thereof against the private property and
place a lien against the abutting property, as provided by Idaho Code title 50.
(Ord. 285, 10-3-2017)
7-1-2: PUBLIC PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, in any public park, playfield or
playground, to:
   A.   Violate any posted regulations.
   B.   Fail to obey the lawful directives and/or orders from any law
enforcement officer or other designated City official.
   C.   Take or allow any domestic or farm animal which that person owns or
harbors upon the premises, except for animals trained and used for the aid of
individuals that are sensory impaired. Special exceptions to this prohibition
in the form of organized animal shows or competitions may be granted by express
written authority of the City Council when the use or activity is of general
community benefit or of particular benefit to the City. Notwithstanding the
provisions of this subsection and in accordance with the City's adoption of the
Kootenai County Code relating to animal control (see section
5-1-1 of this Code), dogs shall be allowed to enter and remain in McCall Park
so long as the dog is maintained on a leash no longer than five feet (5') in
length and of sufficient strength to restrain the animal, and is in control of
a person of sufficient age and physical character to restrain and control the
dog. However, a leash shall not be required for:
      1.   Dogs being lawfully used in connection with law enforcement
activities, so long as under adequate voice or other control of an authorized
law enforcement officer.
      2.   Dogs being lawfully used for search and rescue operations, under
such conditions as may be reasonably necessary in the particular circumstances.
   D.   Cause to be deposited on the premises any glass container, pop top
style metal container or the opening tag off of the containers, except in
designated trash receptacles. However, the dumping of trash in such receptacles
generated from activities conducted outside of the Park is not allowed.
   E.   Be in possession of open containers or receptacles of beer,
intoxicating liquor or wine, or to consume such beverages on the premises.
   F.   Park a motor vehicle, use any equipment, facilities, accessories or
appliances for camping purposes, sleeping or preparing meals, between the hours
of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. Special exceptions to
this prohibition in the form of overnight camping permission or meal
preparation authorization may be granted by express written authority of the
City Council when the use or activity is of general community benefit or of
particular benefit to the City.
   G.   Be in a public park, playfield or playground between ten o'clock (10:
00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
   H.   Operate any motorized vehicle or bicycle on such property except for
within designated entrances, exits and parking areas. (Ord. 291, 3-19-2019;
amd. Ord. 315, 11-7-2024)
7-1-3: TRAFFIC CALMING METHODS:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose and intent of this section to enhance
vehicular, pedestrian, golf cart and bicycle safety by implementing traffic
calming methods, providing and constructing pedestrian, golf cart and bicycle
paths and separating where possible bicycle and golf cart traffic from
vehicular and pedestrian areas while, at the same time, maintaining the narrow,
rural nature of the existing streets and roads in the City.
   B.   Placement And Maintenance: The City Engineer shall cause to be placed
such traffic, pedestrian and bicycle safety devices including signs, signals,
markings, street alignments, paths, barriers upon streets, public parks,
easements, public parking lots and other public and City owned property as the
City Engineer may deem necessary to implement and carry out the provisions of
this title and the "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices" as adopted
pursuant to Idaho Code sections 49-201 and 49-202 and other appropriate uniform
standards all of which standards may be modified by the City Engineer to meet
the conditions and restrictions of the site. Such devices shall regulate, warn
or guide vehicular, pedestrian and bicycle traffic. It is unlawful for any
person to fail or refuse to comply with any such traffic control signs,
signals, markings and devices.
   C.   Obedience Required: It is unlawful for any driver of a vehicle,
including golf carts, to fail to obey any sign, signal, or traffic control
measure erected or maintained by any law, ordinance or resolution of the City
Council, including signs governing parking. It is also unlawful for any
pedestrian or bicyclist to fail to obey any sign or signal erected or
maintained pursuant to State law, City ordinance or resolution of the City
Council, unless otherwise directed by a police or traffic officer, or when
necessary to avoid a collision, or in case of emergency.
   D.   Traffic Calming Methods: Common types of traffic calming methods that
are hereby authorized to be constructed in the City include, but are not
limited to:
      1.   Implementation of traffic circles including circular raised islands
centered within intersections.
      2.   Implementation of chicanes which are alternately placed curb
extensions into the street that force motorists to drive in a serpentine
pattern.
      3.   Implementation of curb bulb-outs, chokers or neckdowns which are
curb extensions placed at midblock locations or intersections which narrow the
street to provide visual distinction and reduce pedestrian crossing distances.
      4.   Implementation of signs and neighborhood gateways that identify
neighborhood districts.
      5.   Implementation of special paving such as brick, colored concrete or
special pavers to break up the visual expanse of the pavement and define areas
of pedestrian travel.
      6.   Retaining narrow streets with trees or on street parking that limit
the expanse of pavement visible to the driver.
      7.   Implementation of speed humps and tables that slow cars as they
drive streets.
   E.   Bikeways, Golf Cart And Pedestrian Paths: Common types of methods used
to separate bikes, golf carts and pedestrians from vehicular traffic that are
hereby authorized to be constructed in the City include, but are not limited
to:
      1.   Shared use pathways that are marked and adjoin the existing street,
designed wide enough to accommodate and still separate bike, golf cart and
pedestrian use through the use of curbs, rumble strips, or some other visual or
physical barrier.
      2.   Bike and golf cart lanes that adjoin streets and separated
pedestrian paths.
      3.   Designated bike, golf cart and pedestrian paths located on either
side of the existing streets.
      4.   Designated bike, golf cart and pedestrian paths that are located
along designated routes outside of the existing street system. (Ord. 285, 10-3-
2017)
CHAPTER 2
WATER SYSTEM REGULATIONS
(Rep. by Ord. 266, 5-21-2014)
CHAPTER 3
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
(Rep. by Ord. 266, 5-21-2014)
CHAPTER 4
ENCROACHMENTS UPON PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY AND PLACES
SECTION:
7-4-1: Title And Purpose
7-4-2: General Scope
7-4-3: Applicability
7-4-4: Administration
7-4-5: Regulations Mandatory
7-4-6: Permit Required
7-4-7: Fees
7-4-8: Insurance And Bond Requirements
7-4-9: Major Landscaping
7-4-10: Permit Issuance
7-4-11: Utility Companies
7-4-12: Standards And Specifications
7-4-13: Safety Requirements
7-4-14: Performance Standards
7-4-15: Earthwork And Drainage
7-4-16: Surface Restoration
7-4-17: Temporary Surfacing
7-4-18: Time Of Completion
7-4-19: Notice Requirements
7-4-20: Guaranty
7-4-21: Authority And Rights Of City
7-4-22: Indemnification
7-4-23: Failure To Comply
7-4-24: Revocation Of Permit
7-4-25: Suspension Of Permit
7-4-26: Penalty
7-4-1: TITLE AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Title: This chapter shall be known and cited as the HAYDEN LAKE RIGHT
OF WAY ENCROACHMENT ORDINANCE.
   B.   Purpose: The provisions contained in this chapter are necessary to
regulate all work of any kind or nature performed within public rights of way
or other public places contained within the corporate limits of the city and to
promote the public health, safety and general welfare in accordance with
approved standards. (Ord. 210, 10-4-2005)
7-4-2: GENERAL SCOPE:
Work to be performed within public rights of way or other public places shall
be authorized by a right of way encroachment permit and shall be covered by a
guaranty in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 210, 10-4-
2005)
7-4-3: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Specified: All physical change, damage or work to be performed within
the public right of way or other public place that affects or may affect any of
the existing natural and/or manmade features contained therein, as a result of
any activity, including, but not limited to, utility installation, approach
construction, major landscaping, erecting fixed objects, drainage improvements
and all other improvement work and maintenance, shall proceed in compliance
with this chapter. However, notwithstanding any other provision of this
chapter, the requirements governing the placement of backfill and compaction of
materials set forth herein shall not apply to excavations that are conducted
wholly outside of the prism of city streets. This "street prism" includes the
entire paved surface of a city street, along with an area of three (3) linear
feet measured from the edge of all sides of such pavement. (Ord. 246, 5-3-2011)
   B.   Exemptions: The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the
following:
      1.   The city.
      2.   Contractors who are under contract to the city and who are covered
by a performance bond or appropriate security equal in value to the amount of
work to be performed within the public right of way or other public place.
      3.   Minor landscaping, including, but not limited to, the planting of
grass, flowers and shrubs. Property owners shall be liable for any costs
incurred by the city to remove any such landscaping from the public right of
way. (Ord. 216, 10-16-2006)
      4.   Mailbox structures and temporary real estate signs (as defined in
section
8-4-3 of this code) comprised of wooden materials. Property owners shall be
liable for any costs incurred by the city to remove any such structures from
the public right of way. (Ord. 242, 11-16-2010)
      5.   Any work performed pursuant to any law of the state of Idaho which
specifically provides for such work.
      6.   In the discretion of the city, water or sewer main or service
breaks, gas and electric main or service breaks or leaks and similar emergency
repairs.
      7.   Other reasonable exceptions that may be made by the city council.
(Ord. 216, 10-16-2006)
7-4-4: ADMINISTRATION:
The city is vested with the duty of administering this chapter and may, in
consultation with authorized engineering and legal representatives, require
such additional information which is deemed necessary to fulfill the provisions
thereof. (Ord. 210, 10-4-2005)
7-4-5: REGULATIONS MANDATORY:
No person not specifically exempted as hereinabove stated shall initiate or
maintain any activity or work within the public right of way or other public
place without first having been issued a permit from the city clerk. (Ord. 210,
10-4-2005)
7-4-6: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person, unless specifically exempted by this chapter, to
injure or damage any features or perform work within the public right of way or
other public place or maintain any structure, object or major landscaping
without first obtaining a right of way encroachment permit from the city clerk.
Activities requiring permits include, but are not limited to: grading and
drainage required for approaches; trenching and backfilling required for buried
utilities; modifications, repairs and maintenance of existing facilities; major
landscaping, including, but not limited to, the planting, cutting, removal or
trimming of trees; erecting fences, or other fixed objects; constructing curbs,
sidewalks, drives and drainage structures; constructing detours and/or closing
streets. Before issuing such permit, the city shall require the following:
   A.   Permit Form: For each project or segment thereof, a completed right of
way encroachment permit application form.
   B.   Plans And Details: Three (3) copies of plans and details illustrating
all natural and manmade features, the work to be performed, all utility
locations, the limits of work, the area of any required pavement replacement,
the areas requiring surface restoration and the traffic control measures that
may be required, all within the public right of way or other public place.
Plans shall be accurately reproduced to a standard scale.
   C.   Specifications: Three (3) copies of written specifications for each
item of work to be performed within the public right of way or other public
place. Specifications shall include methods of construction, installation and
erection, and shall include performance criteria along with standards for
acceptance/rejection. Items of particular importance are grading, trench
excavation and backfill, utility installation, surface restoration, drainage
facilities, pavement replacement and testing, and traffic control as may be
applicable to the permit.
   D.   Additional Information As Required: Additional information as may be
required by the city or by an authorized representative of the city.
   E.   As Constructed Conditions: As constructed conditions illustrating the
following measurements shall be marked on the plans in red and submitted to the
city within two (2) business days following completion of the work:
      1.   Horizontal measurements and/or coordinates;
         a.   Preexisting utility locations.
         b.   New utility locations, including, for buried installations, the
point of intersection with the right of way line and the points of connection
to the preexisting utility and to the building or to the front building line as
extended.
         c.   New surface restoration and pavement replacement locations.
         d.   Locations of all new aboveground appurtenances and fixed objects
of every character.
      2.   Vertical measurements and/or elevations;
         a.   Preexisting buried utilities.
         b.   New buried utilities at the point of intersection with the right
of way line and at the points of connection to the preexisting utility and to
the building or to the front building line as extended.
         c.   The base and top of new aboveground appurtenances and fixed
objects.
   F.   Emergencies: In the case of an emergency requiring physical change or
damage to features or work to be performed within the public right of way or
other public place, an application for a right of way encroachment permit shall
be made on the next business day following the beginning of construction.
   G.   State Of Idaho Or Lakes Highway District Jurisdiction: No work within
the right of way of roads and highways under the jurisdiction of either the
state of Idaho or the Lakes highway district shall be performed without first
obtaining a permit from the respective entity having jurisdiction.
   H.   Sewer Connections: If the permit application is for a sewer connection,
the applicant shall obtain a plumbing permit from the state of Idaho and a
permit from the Hayden Lake recreational water and sewer district and shall
attach copies of the same to the right of way encroachment permit.
   I.   Review And Approval By Authorized Representative: The city may request
review and approval of the permit application by the city engineer before
issuing the permit.
   J.   Inspection: All work performed under permit shall be subject to
inspection by the city engineer or the city code enforcement officer. Specific
items requiring inspection shall be indicated on the application form. The
permittee shall bear the cost of all such inspections, excluding visits to the
work site upon completion as described in section
7-4-19 of this chapter. (Ord. 232, 9-21-2009)
7-4-7: FEES:
   A.   Permit Fees: The city shall require the permittee to pay certain fees
at the time of application and before issuing a permit. Fees charged in
accordance with this chapter shall be set by resolution.
   B.   Reparations: In addition to the permit application fee, all permittees
that cut the asphalt in the public right of way shall pay to the city, prior to
the cut being made, the reasonable cost to the city of the damage to the
integrity and longevity of the street surface resulting from the cut. The
amount of the cost shall be determined by the city engineer. (Ord. 210, 10-4-
2005)
7-4-8: INSURANCE AND BOND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Insurance: The city shall require the permittee to produce evidence of
insurance from an insurer, certifying to the amount of coverage and to the
period of coverage prior to issuing the permit. The insurer shall list the
names of the insured, the type and amount of coverage, the location and
operations to which the insurance applies and the date of expiration.
      1.   Public Liability Insurance: Coverage in an amount not less than five
hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for bodily or personal injury, death, or
property damage or loss as the result of any one occurrence or accident,
regardless of the number of persons injured or the number of claimants, plus
any additional amount of coverage required by Idaho Code section 6-924 as may
be amended from time to time.
      2.   Workers' Compensation: The permittee shall submit acceptable
evidence that all workers or employees at the site are covered in accordance
with applicable laws pertaining to workers' compensation and shall defend and
protect the city from and against all claims resulting from failure of the
permittee to maintain such insurance.
      3.   Builders' Risk: The permittee shall secure all-risk type of
builders' risk insurance covering all work performed, materials, equipment or
other items incorporated therein and within the public right of way or other
public place. The policy shall name the city, its officials, employees and
agents as additional insureds.
   B.   Bond: The city shall require the permittee to obtain a bond or other
form of surety, as deemed appropriate by the city, in an amount equal to one
hundred fifty percent (150%) of the cost of restoring the area within the
public right of way or other public place, including the cost of pavement
replacement and all other restoration work required by this chapter.
      1.   If the permittee is an individual property owner or a contractor for
an individual property owner and the restoration work involved is estimated to
cost less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), the city may accept a
cashier's check, a letter of credit or other form of surety.
      2.   If the permittee is an individual property owner or is a contractor
for an individual property owner or more than one property owner and the
restoration work involved is estimated to cost more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00), the permittee shall secure either a license bond or a compliance
bond in favor of the city in an amount determined by the city to cover the cost
of the restoration work.
      3.   If the permittee is the owner of a utility or irrigation system, or
a contractor to the owner of a utility or irrigation system, and the
restoration work involved is estimated to cost less than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00), the permittee shall secure a compliance bond in favor of the city
in an amount determined by the city to cover the cost of the restoration work.
If the estimated cost of restoration work exceeds five thousand dollars
($5,000.00), the city may require the permittee to secure payment and
performance bonds in favor of the city in such reasonable amounts as shall be
determined by the city.
      4.   All primary and general contractors directly under contract to the
city shall be required to provide performance and payment bonds in favor of the
city in an amount equal to the contract amount.
      5.   A license bond and/or a compliance bond shall be issued by a surety
company licensed in the state of Idaho with an A rating. Performance and
payment bonds shall be issued by a surety company licensed in the state of
Idaho with an A+ rating. (Ord. 210, 10-4-2005)
7-4-9: MAJOR LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Major landscaping includes, but is not limited to, the construction
and/or maintenance of any plant, mailbox, lighting structure or other solid
object which due to its size and/or material, is rigid, hard or inflexible. Any
object constructed of or composed of cement, concrete, stone, brick or stiff
metal shall be considered major landscaping.
   B.   In the city council's sole discretion, major landscaping may be
permitted upon public rights of way and public places so long as the following
conditions are met:
      1.   A completed right of way encroachment permit application form is
filed with the city clerk pursuant to section
7-4-6 of this chapter, which shall include a professionally licensed survey of
the subject area showing the location of the subject property owner's property
boundaries and those of adjacent city property, along with a description and
location of the proposed major landscaping;
      2.   The applicant otherwise complies with all other applicable
provisions of this chapter, including, but not limited to, the payment of any
applicable fees;
      3.   The applicant signs, records in the records of the Kootenai County
recorder and returns to the city clerk a copy of the letter of agreement,
attached to the ordinance codified herein as exhibit A, at the time he/she/it
submits the completed encroachment permit application form; and
      4.   The applicant submits with the completed encroachment permit
application form a statement describing to the satisfaction of the city council
why the encroachment is in and not detrimental to the public interest.
   C.   The city council shall consider right of way encroachment permit
applications for major landscaping as administrative items at its next
available regular meeting following submittal of the completed application,
letter of agreement and public interest statement. The city council shall
approve or disapprove such applications by a majority vote. (Ord. 212, 6-6-
2006)
7-4-10: PERMIT ISSUANCE:
   A.   Conditions: The issuance of the permit is subject to the following:
      1.   The city clerk shall issue the permit only after all application
items have been completed or satisfactorily addressed, all reviews have been
completed and all fees have been paid.
      2.   Permits must be secured at least two (2) business days before work
commences.
      3.   Permits are not transferable.
      4.   The permittee shall notify the appropriate law enforcement agency,
the fire department, the school district and the utility companies at least two
(2) business days before work commences when so indicated on the permit.
      5.   The permit shall include the date when the work shall be completed.
      6.   The permit shall be void on the date following the date of
completion.
      7.   The permittee shall submit a written request for an extension of
time within two (2) business days before the date of completion, if the work is
not expected to be completed on time. The request shall state the cause of
delay. Upon receiving such a request, the city clerk shall grant a onetime
extension of seven (7) days in which the work must be completed. No other
extensions of time are allowed. In the event that no work is commenced by the
permittee within thirty (30) days of the date that the permit was issued, the
permit shall automatically become void.
   B.   Conflicting Provisions: Every permit shall be issued subject to any
prior rights or provisions of the city or of any other person, corporation or
utility company entitled thereto to use the public right of way or public place
for any lawful purpose. (Ord. 210, 10-4-2005)
7-4-11: UTILITY COMPANIES:
   A.   Plan Submission:
      1.   The owner of the utility company responsible for installing and/or
constructing any aboveground or buried system of cables, conduits, pipes,
ducts, tunnels or any appurtenances within the public right of way or other
public place for the purpose of supplying or conveying oil, gas, electricity,
communications, water, sewer, storm water in, to or from the city, or to or
from any parcel of land within the city shall submit three (3) copies of plans
and specifications to the city clerk at least fifteen (15) business days before
commencing work. Plans shall clearly illustrate, by coordinates, distances and
bearings, the exact location, size, descriptions and elevations of all pipes,
conduits, ducts, cables, tunnels or appurtenances to be installed or
constructed within the public right of way or other public places. Plans shall
be accurately reproduced to a standard scale.
      2.   The owner of the utility company shall, within ten (10) business
days following the completion of work, submit an as constructed plan or set of
plans showing all corrections and changes marked clearly in red and shall
indicate the date of installation, including the date of service connections.
      3.   The owner of the utility company which is responsible for any
existing aboveground and/or buried systems of cables, conduits, pipes, ducts,
tunnels or any appurtenances shall submit a plan or set of plans showing the
location and description of the system components within thirty (30) days
following notice by the city clerk.
   B.   Protection Of Utilities: The owner of any utilities within the public
right of way or other public place shall bear all costs of relocating,
removing, shoring, supporting or protecting the utility in the event it becomes
necessary for the city or any authorized contractors to perform work under,
above, across or adjacent to the utility within the public right of way or
other public place.
   C.   Conflict With Franchise Agreements: The provisions of this section are
subject to the terms of any existing franchise agreements entered into between
the city and a utility company. In the event of a conflict between the terms of
such agreements and this section, the terms of the franchise agreements
control. (Ord. 210, 10-4-2005)
7-4-12: STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
All materials to be incorporated in the work regulated by this chapter and the
quality of workmanship shall meet or exceed the current minimum acceptable
requirements of all of the applicable laws, codes and industry standards. The
city may request that any plans and specifications required of the permit be
stamped by a professional engineer licensed by the state of Idaho. Standards
and specifications that have been adopted or may become adopted by the city
shall have precedence. (Ord. 210, 10-4-2005)
7-4-13: SAFETY REQUIREMENTS:
The city may require the permittee to submit a traffic control plan,
illustrating the safety devices proposed for the work area prior to issuing a
permit. The permittee shall provide and maintain fences, barricades, signs,
lights, watchmen and flaggers as required by laws and regulations and as deemed
necessary by the city engineer to ensure full safety to the general public. The
permittee shall obey and enforce all lawful safety orders, rules and
recommendations of the state of Idaho and all local laws, codes and
regulations. (Ord. 210, 10-4-2005)
7-4-14: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
Requirements to be met subsequent to issuing the permit include the following:
   A.   Utility Location: The permittee shall be responsible for ascertaining
the location of all underground utilities and other facilities which may affect
the work prior to beginning excavation.
   B.   Traffic Interference Minimized: Work shall be scheduled as to cause a
minimum of interference with pedestrian, bicycle and vehicular traffic and a
minimum of inconvenience to the general public and to the adjacent property
owners. All equipment, materials, excavated soil, and any other items related
to the work shall be confined within the work area.
   C.   Access Unobstructed: Access to mailboxes and driveways shall not be
obstructed unnecessarily. Emergency vehicles shall be permitted to pass at all
times. Fire hydrants and valves shall be accessible at all times.
   D.   Water Flow Unobstructed: Stormwater facilities shall be kept open so as
to permit the free and unobstructed flow of water.
   E.   Detours: Temporary detours for vehicles and pedestrians shall be
constructed where deemed required by the city engineer.
   F.   Excavation: Trench excavation and backfilling operations shall be
coordinated such that the length of open trench is never over two hundred feet
(200'). There shall not be any unattended open trenches. By dusk, all
backfilling and compaction shall be completed.
   G.   Surplus Materials Removed: By dusk of each workday, the work area shall
be cleaned of all debris, materials, equipment, etc., except traffic control
devices. After completion of the work, the work area must be maintained in a
clean and safe condition until the permanent patch is placed.
   H.   Material Stockpiled: Material excavated from trenches shall be
temporarily stockpiled adjacent to the trench in such manner as to provide a
safe working environment and as to cause as little inconvenience as possible to
the general public.
   I.   Monuments: The city shall require the permittee to preserve, protect
and/or perpetuate any land monuments or reference points of whatever material
set for the purpose of defining the limits of property or establishing land
lines, boundaries or elevations. All such monuments that may become damaged or
destroyed shall be referenced and reestablished by a professional land
surveyor, licensed by the state of Idaho, at the expense of the permittee.
   J.   Street Cuts: Where street surfacing has been in service three (3) years
or less, the contractor must bore crossings. Street cuts parallel to centerline
must be approved by the city engineer and will require resurfacing using a
paving machine. Crossings of major collector streets and arterials may require
boring at the direction of the city engineer.
   K.   Backfill: Backfill at subgrade shall not show visible deflection under
four thousand (4,000) pounds' wheel load. Backfill shall be placed in
accordance with standard drawing M-11 shown in exhibit B attached to the
ordinance codified herein. It shall be mechanically compacted with tamping
rollers, sheepsfoot rollers, vibrating rollers or other mechanical tampers.
Backfill material shall be placed in layers of thickness compatible to the type
of compaction equipment being used. Each layer shall be evenly spread and
compacted until the specified relative compaction has been attained.
   L.   Street Patches: Street patches shall be constructed in accordance with
current city standards shown in exhibit B attached to the ordinance codified
herein. All permanent patches shall be hot mix asphalt concrete with a minimum
asphalt thickness of two inches (2").
   M.   Work Hours: All work will be performed between the hours of seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. and sunset, Monday through Friday, unless otherwise
authorized by the city. (Ord. 216, 10-16-2006)
7-4-15: EARTHWORK AND DRAINAGE:
   A.   Performed According To Plans: Trench excavating and backfill, as well
as all grading, including roadway excavation and embankment, shall be performed
by the permittee in accordance with the lines and dimensions shown on the plans
and in accordance with the specifications, which together describe the work to
be performed under the permit. (Ord. 210, 10-4-2005)
   B.   Compaction Testing: The city shall require that compaction testing by
an independent consultant be performed during backfill and grading operations.
The cost of such testing shall be borne by the permittee, unless the permittee
is an entity that has been granted a utility franchise by the city, in which
case the city shall bear the cost of compaction testing. (Ord. 243, 12-20-2010)
   C.   Drainage: All earthwork operations shall be scheduled so as not to
disrupt the flow of drainage. Temporary ditches and grading may be required to
maintain normal drainage flows. (Ord. 210, 10-4-2005)
7-4-16: SURFACE RESTORATION:
   A.   Required: The permittee shall be required to restore all injured and/or
damaged surfaces within the public right of way and other public places in
accordance with the lines and dimensions shown on the plans and in accordance
with the specifications which together describe the work to be performed under
the permit.
   B.   Unpaved Surfaces: Restoration of unpaved surfaces shall include, but
shall not be limited to, grading, placement of topsoil, seeding, fertilizing,
watering, sodding, protecting, repairing and maintaining the area between the
edge of the traveled way and the right of way line.
   C.   Gravel, Concrete And Asphalt Surfaces: Restoration of gravel, concrete
and asphalt surfaces shall include, but not be limited to, grading, compaction
and placement of crushed rock, repair and/or replacement of concrete curbs,
walks, driveways and the repair and/or replacement of asphalt surfaces.
   D.   Cutting Surfaces: All concrete and asphalt surfaces requiring repair or
replacement shall first be cut with a power saw to form neat perpendicular and/
or parallel lines to the right of way lines.
   E.   Full Width Restoration: Where fifty percent (50%) or more of the
surface area of pavement has been removed or damaged, full width restoration
shall be required. Any strip of remaining pavement less than two feet (2') in
width along curb and gutter or pavement edge shall be removed and replaced.
   F.   Cold Joint Surface Tacking: All cold joint surfaces shall be tacked
with emulsion which has been properly applied and cured prior to the patching.
   G.   Deviation From Existing Surface: Completed patch shall not deviate from
existing surface more than 0.03 feet/10 feet in profile or 0.05 feet/10 feet in
cross section when measured with a ten foot (10') straightedge.
   H.   Water Ponding Prohibited: Completed patches shall not pond water.
   I.   Compaction: Backfill, subgrade, ballast and base course shall be
compacted to a minimum of ninety five percent (95%) of the maximum dry density
as determined by AASHTO 7-99 (standard proctor). Asphalt shall be compacted to
a minimum of ninety five percent (95%) of the Marshall density (55 blow
method).
   J.   Standards: Materials and constructions of structural repair shall
conform to the standards set by the city.
   K.   Trimming: Street surfacing shall be trimmed to a neat straight line
with the edges free of dust, moisture or loose material. (Ord. 210, 10-4-2005)
7-4-17: TEMPORARY SURFACING:
The permittee may be required by the city to place and compact a temporary
asphalt surface on the same day that each section of trench backfilling has
been completed or within twenty four (24) hours thereafter. Replacement of the
temporary asphalt surface with final pavement shall be completed within ten
(10) days of the date when all backfilling has been completed. Work shall be
scheduled such that final pavement will be completed prior to October 31 of the
same year. (Ord. 210, 10-4-2005)
7-4-18: TIME OF COMPLETION:
The permittee shall diligently and continuously prosecute the work without
interruption until it is satisfactorily completed, including the preparation of
as constructed plans, within the time allowed in the permit. (Ord. 210, 10-4-
2005)
7-4-19: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Completion: The permittee shall submit a written notice of completion
to the city clerk within two (2) business days following completion of the work
within the public right of way or other public places.
   B.   Compliance: Within five (5) business days following receipt by the city
of the notice of completion, the city engineer of the city shall visit the work
site to ascertain if the work performed by the permittee is in compliance with
the permit and with the provisions of this chapter and shall issue a notice of
compliance stating therein any conditions thereof and advising the permittee as
to the effective date of the guaranty period. (Ord. 210, 10-4-2005)
7-4-20: GUARANTY:
   A.   Required: Except for major landscaping, the permittee shall guarantee
all work for two (2) years after the date of final acceptance. If the
permittee, after receiving notice, fails within ten (10) days to comply with
the terms of the guaranty, the city may correct any defects at the expense of
the permittee. The city may require such surety as it deems reasonably
necessary to ensure compliance with this provision.
   B.   Repairs Under Guaranty:
      1.   For a period of one year following completion of work under the
permit, the permittee shall be responsible for immediately repairing and making
good, upon notice by the City, all changes or damages to any and all features
within the public right-of-way or other public place that occur as a result of
work performed under the permit and which would not have occurred had such work
not been performed.
      2.   In the event that the repairs are not promptly made by the
permittee, the City shall have the authority, upon written notice to the
permittee, to make such repairs. The actual cost of such work by the City, plus
fifteen percent (15%) as an overhead charge, shall be charged to and paid for
by the permittee. (Ord. 210, 10-4-2005)
7-4-21: AUTHORITY AND RIGHTS OF CITY:
   A.   Work By City: If the work is unduly delayed by the permittee, and if
the public interest reasonably so demands, the City shall have the authority,
upon written notice to the permittee, to complete the work or any portion
thereof. The actual cost of such work by the City, plus fifteen percent (15%)
as an overhead charge, shall be charged to and paid for by the permittee.
   B.   Use By City: At all times during the performance of the work, the City
shall have the right to use all or any part of the area occupied by the
permittee under the permit.
   C.   Observation: The City Engineer shall observe the operations of the
permittee with respect to trenching, grading, drainage, surface restoration and
pavement replacement to ensure that all work complies with the requirements of
this chapter. The permittee shall notify the City at least two (2) business
days (48 hours) in advance of work requiring inspection. (Ord. 210, 10-4-2005)
7-4-22: INDEMNIFICATION:
The permittee shall be responsible for all claims and liabilities arising out
of work performed under the permit or arising out of the permittee's failure to
perform the obligations with respect to this chapter. The permittee shall, and
by acceptance of the permit, agree to defend, indemnify, save and hold harmless
the City, its officials, employees and agents from and against any and all
suits, claims or actions brought by any person for or on account of any bodily
injuries, disease or illness or damage to persons and/or property sustained or
arising in the construction of the work performed under the permit or in
consequence of permittee's failure to perform the obligation with respect to
this chapter. (Ord. 210, 10-4-2005)
7-4-23: FAILURE TO COMPLY:
Should the permittee fail to complete the work for which the permit was issued
within the time limit specified in the permit, the City, at its sole option,
shall proceed to complete the same and shall hold the owner and surety, if any,
jointly and severally responsible for the same. (Ord. 210, 10-4-2005)
7-4-24: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
The City may revoke any permit for noncompliance with any of the provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 210, 10-4-2005)
7-4-25: SUSPENSION OF PERMIT:
The Mayor or the Mayor's designee has the authority to suspend the issuance of
permits for street cuts when he deems it is appropriate based upon the
condition of the street, the weather or the availability of materials to make
the repairs. (Ord. 210, 10-4-2005)
7-4-26: PENALTY:
Any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall result in a fine in the
amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each violation and each day that
the violation occurs. Multiple violations and/or violations that span several
days shall also constitute an infraction and be prosecuted as such in the
City's discretion, thereby subjecting such person to the penalties provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 290, 2-19-2019)
CHAPTER 5
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
7-5-1: Title And Purpose
7-5-2: Definitions
7-5-3: Application
7-5-4: Collection Of Impact Fee
7-5-5: Capital/System Improvement Projects
7-5-6: Calculation Of Impact Fee
7-5-7: General Methodology For Calculation
7-5-8: Administration Of Impact Fee
7-5-9: Credits, Reimbursement And Waivers
7-5-10: Refunds
7-5-11: Appeals
7-5-12: Extraordinary Impacts
7-5-13: Addendum A
7-5-14: Bonding
7-5-15: Effect Of Impact Fee On Zoning And Subdivision Regulations
7-5-16: Other Powers And Rights Not Affected
7-5-1: TITLE AND PURPOSE:
The provisions of this chapter shall be known as the CITY OF HAYDEN LAKE
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE ORDINANCE. The purpose of these regulations is to
prescribe the procedure whereby developers of land shall pay an impact fee as
set forth in this chapter for the purpose of providing the public facilities
and system improvements needed to serve future residents and users of such
development. It is further the purpose of this chapter to:
   A.   Ensure that adequate facilities are available to serve new growth and
development;
   B.   Promote orderly growth and development by establishing uniform
standards by which the city may require that those who benefit from new public
facilities need to serve new growth and development;
   C.   Ensure that those who benefit from new growth and development are
required to pay no more than their proportionate share of the cost of public
facilities needed to serve new growth and development and to prevent duplicate
and ad hoc development requirements;
   D.   Collect and expend development impact fees pursuant to the enabling
powers granted by the provisions of the Idaho development impact fee act, title
67, chapter 82, Idaho Code;
   E.   Provide the legal and procedural basis for the implementation of
development impact fees within the city; and
   F.   Ensure that any capital improvement funded wholly or in part with
impact fee revenue shall first be included in an approved capital improvements
plan that lists the capital improvements that may be funded with impact fee
revenues as well as the estimated costs and projected timing for each
improvement. (Ord. 211, 4-4-2006)
7-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the following
meanings, unless another meaning is plainly intended:
BUILDING PERMIT: The permit required for construction, alteration and/or use of
any structure pursuant to this code. Such permit is also required by this code
for the placement of manufactured/mobile homes within the city.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS: Improvements with a useful life of ten (10) years or
more, by new construction or other action, which increase the service capacity
of a public facility.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PLAN: The plan adopted and amended by the city pursuant to
the provisions of the Idaho development impact fee act, title 67, chapter 82,
Idaho Code, that identifies capital improvements for which development impact
fees may be used as a funding source.
CITY: The city of Hayden Lake, a municipal corporation duly organized pursuant
to the laws of the state of Idaho.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Hayden Lake.
CLERK: The city clerk, or her designated agent, as appointed by the mayor and/
or city council.
DEVELOPER: Any person or legal entity undertaking development, including a
party that undertakes the subdivision of property pursuant to sections 50-1301
through 50-1334, Idaho Code.
DEVELOPMENT: Any construction or installation of a building or structure, or
any change in use of a building or structure, or any change in the use,
character or appearance of land, which creates additional demand and need for
public facilities or the subdivision of property that would permit any change
in the use, character or appearance of land.
DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL: Any written duly authorized document from the city which
authorizes the commencement of a development.
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE: A payment of money imposed as a condition of
development approval to pay for a proportionate share of the cost of system
improvements needed to serve development. This term is also referred to as an
impact fee in this chapter. This term does not include the following:
   A.   A charge or fee to pay the administrative, plan review, or inspection
cost associated with permits required for development;
   B.   Connection or hookup charges;
   C.   Charges for drainage, sewer, water, or transportation facilities
provided directly to the development;
   D.   Amounts collected from a developer in a transaction in which the city
has incurred expenses in constructing capital improvements for the development
if the owner or developer has agreed to be financially responsible for the
construction or installation of the capital improvements, unless a written
agreement is made pursuant to section 67-8209(4), Idaho Code, for credit or
reimbursement; or
   E.   Charges made for extraordinary impacts as provided herein.
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE ADVISORY COMMITTEE: The mayor and city council, acting
as the city's planning and zoning commission, shall act in this capacity,
performing all statutory responsibilities of this committee.
DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENT: A requirement attached to a developmental approval or
other governmental action approving or authorizing a particular development
project which requirement compels the payment, dedication or contribution of
goods, services, land, or money as a condition of approval.
EXTRAORDINARY COSTS: Those costs incurred as a result of an extraordinary
impact.
EXTRAORDINARY IMPACT: An impact which is reasonably determined by the city to:
   A.   Result in the need for system improvements, the cost of which will
significantly exceed the sum of the development impact fees to be generated
from the project or the sum agreed to be paid pursuant to a development
agreement as allowed by section 67-8214(2), Idaho Code;
   B.   Result in the need for system improvements which are not identified in
the capital improvements plan; or
   C.   Have an impact which results in a lower than acceptable level of
service.
FEE PAYER: That person who pays or is required to pay a developmental impact
fee.
GROSS FLOOR AREA: The sum of the areas of the several floors of the building or
structure, including areas used for human occupancy or required for the conduct
of business or use, as measured from the exterior faces of the walls. It does
not include cellars; unenclosed porches; or attics when not used for human
occupancy; nor any floor space in an accessory building intended or designed
for the parking of motor vehicles; nor nonresidential facilities; arcades;
porticoes and similar open areas which are located at or near street level,
which are accessible to the general public, and which are not designed or used
as sales, display, storage, service, or production areas.
IMPACT FEE: See definition of Development Impact Fee.
LAND USE ASSUMPTIONS: A description of the projections of land uses, densities,
intensities, and population within the city over at least a twenty (20) year
period.
LEVEL OF SERVICE: A measure of the relationship between service capacity and
service demand for public facilities.
MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME: A structure, constructed according to HUD/FHA mobile
home construction and safety standards, transportable in one or more sections,
which, in the traveling mode, is eight feet (8') or more in width or is forty
(40) body feet or more in length, or, when erected on site, is three hundred
twenty (320) or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and
designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when
connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air
conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein, except that such term
shall include any structure which meets all the requirements of this definition
except the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer
voluntarily files a certification required by the secretary of housing and
urban development and complies with the standards established under 42 USC 5401
et seq.
MODULAR BUILDING: Any building or building component, other than a
manufactured/mobile home, which is constructed according to standards contained
in the uniform building code, as adopted or any amendments thereto, which is of
closed construction and is either entirely or substantially prefabricated or
assembled at a place other than the building site.
PRESENT VALUE: The total current monetary value of past, present, or future
payments, contributions, or dedications of goods, services, materials,
construction or money.
PROJECT: A particular development on an identified parcel of land.
PROJECT IMPROVEMENTS: In contrast to system improvements, project improvements
are site improvements and facilities that are planned and designed to provide
service for a particular development project and are necessary for the use and
the convenience of the occupants or users of the project.
PROPORTIONATE SHARE: That portion of the cost of system improvements determined
pursuant to section 67-8207, Idaho Code, which reasonably relates to the
service demands and needs of the project.
PUBLIC FACILITIES: Those types of improvements described in Idaho Code 50-1703,
including, but not limited to, the following:
   A.   Streets, intersections, including rights of way, traffic signals,
landscaping and any local component of a state or federal highway;
   B.   Parks, open space and recreation areas, and related capital
improvements; and
   C.   Public safety facilities, including law enforcement related buildings.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicular type unit primarily designed as temporary
quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, which either has its own
motive power or is mounted on or drawn by another vehicle.
REPORT: The report entitled "City Of Hayden Lake Development Impact Fee
Program/Capital Improvement Plan" dated March 2006, the entirety of which is
attached as addendum A to the ordinance codified herein.
SERVICE AREA: Any defined geographic area identified by a governmental entity
or by intergovernmental agreement in which specific public facilities provide
service to development within the area defined, on the basis of sound planning
or engineering principles or both.
SERVICE UNIT: A standardized measure of consumption, use, generation, or
discharge attributable to an individual unit of development calculated in
accordance with generally accepted engineering or planning standards for a
particular category of capital improvements.
SPECIAL USE PERMIT: The permit required for certain changes in use of real
property pursuant to this code.
SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS: In contrast to project improvements, means capital
improvements to public facilities which are designed to provide service to an
area including, without limitation, the type of improvements described in
section 50-1703, Idaho Code.
SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS COSTS: Costs incurred for construction or reconstruction of
system improvements, including design, acquisition, engineering and other costs
attributable thereto, and also including, without limitation, the type of costs
described in section 50-1702(h), Idaho Code, to provide additional public
facilities needed to service new growth and development. For clarification,
system improvements costs do not include:
   A.   Construction, acquisition or expansion of public facilities other than
capital improvements identified in the capital improvements plan;
   B.   Repair, operation or maintenance of existing or new capital
improvements;
   C.   Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing capital
improvements to serve existing development in order to meet stricter safety,
efficiency, environmental or regulatory standards;
   D.   Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing capital
improvements to provide better service to existing development;
   E.   Administration and operating costs of the city unless such costs are
attributable to development of the capital improvements plan, as provided in
section 67-8208, Idaho Code; or
   F.   Principal payments and interest or other finance charges on bonds or
other indebtedness except financial obligations issued by or on behalf of the
city to finance capital improvements identified in the capital improvements
plan.
UNITS OF DEVELOPMENT: A quantifiable increment of development activity measured
in terms of dwelling units, square footage or other appropriate measurements
contained in the report. (Ord. 211, 4-4-2006)
7-5-3: APPLICATION:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter shall apply uniformly to those who
benefit from new growth and development except as provided below.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following:
      1.   Rebuilding the same amount of floor space of a structure which was
destroyed by fire or other catastrophe, providing the structure is rebuilt and
ready for occupancy within two (2) years of its destruction;
      2.   Remodeling or repairing a structure which does not increase the
number of service units;
      3.   Replacing a residential unit, including a modular building or
manufactured/mobile home, with another residential unit on the same lot,
provided that the number of service units does not increase;
      4.   Placing a temporary construction trailer or office on a lot;
      5.   Constructing an addition on a residential structure which does not
increase the number of service units;
      6.   Adding uses that are typically accessory to residential uses, such
as tennis courts, a private clubhouse, or accessory buildings in a residential
zone, unless it can be clearly demonstrated that the use creates a significant
impact on the capacity of system improvements;
      7.   Upon demonstration by fee payer by documentation such as utility
bills and tax records, the installation of a modular building, manufactured/
mobile home or recreational vehicle on that same lot or space for which a
development impact fee has been paid previously, and as long as there is no
increase in service units.
   C.   An exemption must be claimed by the fee payer upon application for a
building permit or special use permit. Any exemption not so claimed shall be
deemed waived by the fee payer. Applications for exemption shall be submitted
to and determined by the city clerk, or her duly designated agent, within
ninety (90) days. Appeals of the city clerk's, or her duly designated agent's,
determination shall be made under the provisions of section
7-5-11 of this chapter. (Ord. 211, 4-4-2006)
7-5-4: COLLECTION OF IMPACT FEE:
   A.   The development impact fee shall be paid and collected at the time of
issuance of a building permit, or at such time as there is a change of use to a
different use which requires a larger impact fee (under such circumstance, the
difference in the impact fees will be collected).
   B.   No building permit or special use permit shall be issued for
"development" as herein defined unless the impact fee is paid pursuant to this
chapter.
   C.   A manufactured/mobile home unit may not locate on a manufactured/mobile
home site unless the impact fee is paid pursuant to this chapter or has been
paid on a previous manufactured/mobile home unit on the same site, except
manufactured/mobile home sites that have been occupied by a unit within the
year prior to the effective date of this chapter.
   D.   When it is determined that a project will have extraordinary impacts,
the additional fee shall be paid, or bonded for, prior to commencement of
construction.
   E.   In the event payment is dishonored, the city shall have all lawful
remedies including, but not necessarily limited to, the withholding of utility
services, the imposition of liens pursuant to title 45, chapter 5, Idaho Code,
the withholding of other city approvals required for the development of other
properties owned by the fee payer, the issuance of "stop work" orders, and the
revocation or suspension of the building permit or special use permit. (Ord.
211, 4-4-2006)
7-5-5: CAPITAL/SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS:
The capital/system improvement projects to be financed by the impact fees are
those as listed in the report, incorporated herein by reference along with all
footnotes, exhibits, appendices, and other attachments referenced therein
including, but not limited to, the city of Hayden Lake capital improvements
plan, as part of addendum A, attached to the ordinance codified herein. These
capital/system improvement projects having been updated by the city on May 3,
2011, with the adoption of resolution 102, such updated projects are hereby
incorporated herein as the current capital/system improvement projects for the
city. (Ord. 247, 6-7-2011)
7-5-6: CALCULATION OF IMPACT FEE:
   A.   Procedure: The city clerk shall calculate the amount of the impact fee
due for each building permit or special use permit by the procedure set forth
in the report within thirty (30) days of submittal of complete permit plans for
residential development and within sixty (60) days of submittal of complete
permit plans for commercial development.
   B.   Validity: The calculation of a development impact fee shall be in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A development impact
fee shall not be deemed invalid because payment of the fee may result in
incidental benefit to owners or developers within the city, other than the
person paying the fee.
   C.   Basis; Public Facilities: A development impact fee shall be calculated
on the basis of levels of service for public facilities adopted in this chapter
and in the report that are applicable to existing development as well as new
growth and development. The construction, improvement, expansion or enlargement
of new or existing public facilities for which a development impact fee is
imposed must be attributable to the capacity demands generated by the new
development.
   D.   Mixed Uses: If the development contains a mix of uses, the impact fee
will be calculated for each type of development or use.
   E.   Certification: Prior to making an application for a building permit or
special use permit, a prospective applicant may request in writing a written
certification of the development impact fee for so long as there is no material
change to the particular project or the impact fee schedule. The certification
shall include an explanation of factors considered under section 67-8207, Idaho
Code, and shall specify the system improvements for which the impact fee is
intended to be used.
   F.   Individual Assessment: Individual assessment of impact fees is
permitted in situations where the fee payer can demonstrate by clear and
convincing evidence that the established impact fee is inappropriate.
      1.   Application: Individual assessments of development impact fees may
be made by application to the city clerk, prior to receiving building permits
or special use permits or other necessary approvals from the city. The city
clerk shall evaluate such individual assessments under the guidelines provided
for in subsection F4 of this section. If the guidelines are met, the individual
assessments shall be approved by the city clerk and forwarded to the city
council for their information.
      2.   Late Applications: Late applications for individual assessments may
be submitted within thirty (30) days after the receipt of a building permit or
special use permit only if the fee payer makes a showing that the facts
supporting such application were not known or discoverable prior to receipt of
a permit and that undue hardship would result if said application is not
considered.
      3.   Decision: The city clerk shall render a written decision regarding
the individual assessment and forward it to the city council within thirty (30)
days of the date a complete application is submitted. Such decision shall
include an explanation of the calculation of the impact fee, including an
explanation of factors considered under section 67-8207, Idaho Code, and shall
specify the system improvement(s) for which the impact fee is intended to be
used. The decision of the city clerk, or her duly designated agent, shall
establish the impact fee for the project in question for so long as there is no
material change to the particular project or the impact fee schedule. After the
decision is issued, certification of the individual assessment shall be allowed
in accordance with subsection E of this section.
      4.   Conditions To Be Met: The city clerk, or her duly designated agent,
shall evaluate an application for individual assessment and may approve the
same if the fee payer has shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
established impact fee is inappropriate and that the following facts and
conditions exist:
         a.   Exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or conditions apply to
the development that do not apply generally to other properties in the vicinity
of the development.
         b.   An individual assessment is necessary for the reasonable and
acceptable development of the property.
         c.   The approval of the individual assessment will not be materially
detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to property in the vicinity in
which the development is located.
         d.   The approval of the individual assessment will not adversely
affect the capital improvements plan of the city.
      5.   Appeal Of The City Clerk's Decision: Determinations of an individual
assessment shall be appealed to the city council pursuant to section
7-5-11 of this chapter.
   G.   Modification/Inflation: The impact fee schedule contained in the report
may be modified by the city council by resolution as allowed by law. Such
schedule shall be automatically adjusted annually to account for inflation
based on an engineering construction index supplied by the city engineer. (Ord.
211, 4-4-2006)
7-5-7: GENERAL METHODOLOGY FOR CALCULATION:
   A.   Methodology: The amount of the impact fee shall be calculated using the
methodology contained in the report attached as addendum A to the ordinance
codified herein.
   B.   Basis; System Improvements Costs: A development impact fee shall not
exceed a proportionate share of the cost of system improvements determined in
accordance with section 67-8207, Idaho Code. Development impact fees shall be
based on actual system improvements costs or reasonable estimates of such
costs.
   C.   Fee Schedule: A developer shall have the right to elect to pay a
project's proportionate share of system improvements costs by payment of
development impact fees according to the fee schedule as full and complete
payment of the development project's proportionate share of system improvements
costs, except as provided in section 67-8214(3), Idaho Code. The schedule of
development impact fees for various land users per unit of development shall be
as set forth in the report's "Impact Fee Summary", or per any addenda to that
report.
   D.   Proportionate Share Determination:
      1.   All development impact fees shall be based on a reasonable and fair
formula or method under which the development impact fee imposed does not
exceed a proportionate share of the costs incurred or to be incurred by the
city in the provision of system improvements to serve the new development. The
formula for assessment of impact fees is set forth in the report. The
proportionate share is the costs attributable to the new development after the
city considers the following:
         a.   Any appropriate credit, offset or contribution of money,
dedication of land, or construction of system improvements;
         b.   Payments reasonably anticipated to be made by or as a result of a
new development in the form of user fees, debt service payments, or taxes which
are dedicated for system improvements for which development impact fees would
otherwise be imposed; and
         c.   All other available sources of funding such system improvements.
      2.   In determining the proportionate share of the cost of system
improvements to be paid by the developer, the following factors shall be
considered by the city:
         a.   The cost of existing system improvements within the city;
         b.   The means by which existing system improvements have been
financed;
         c.   The extent to which the new development will contribute to the
cost of system improvements through taxation, assessments, or developer or
landowner contributions, or has previously contributed to the cost of system
improvements through developer or landowner contributions;
         d.   The extent to which the new development is required to contribute
to the cost of existing system improvements in the future;
         e.   The extent to which the new development should be credited for
providing system improvements, without charge to other properties within the
city;
         f.   Extraordinary costs, if any, incurred in serving the new
development;
         g.   The time and price differential inherent in a fair comparison of
fees paid at different times; and
         h.   The availability of other sources of funding system improvements
including, but not limited to, user charges, general tax levies,
intergovernmental transfers, and special taxation. The city shall develop a
plan for alternative sources of revenue, which shall include, but not
necessarily be limited to, plans generated during the city's annual budget
process, lobbying efforts, tax increment financing and implementation of user
fees. (Ord. 211, 4-4-2006)
7-5-8: ADMINISTRATION OF IMPACT FEE:
   A.   Transfer Of Funds By City Clerk: Upon receipt of impact fees, the city
clerk shall be responsible for placement of such funds into separate accounts
as hereinafter specified. All such funds shall be deposited in interest bearing
accounts, within the capital project fund, in a bank authorized to receive
deposits of city funds. Interest earned by each account shall be credited to
that account and shall be used solely for the purposes specified for funds of
such account.
   B.   Establishment And Maintenance Of Accounts: The city clerk shall
establish separate accounts and maintain records for each such account.
   C.   Maintenance Of Records: The city clerk shall maintain and keep accurate
financial records for each such account that shall show the source and
disbursement of all revenues; that shall account for all monies received; that
shall ensure that the disbursement of funds from each account shall be used
solely and exclusively for the provision of projects specified in the capital
improvements plan; and that shall provide an annual accounting for each impact
fee account showing the source and amount of all funds collected and the
projects that were funded.
   D.   Spending: Development impact fees shall only be spent for the category
of system improvements for which the fees are collected.
   E.   Review And Modification: Unless the city council deems some other time
period is appropriate, the city shall at least once every five (5) years
commencing from the date of the original adoption of the capital improvements
plan, review the development potential of the city and update the capital
improvements plan in accordance with the procedures set forth in section 67-
8206, Idaho Code. The city may make any updates as are deemed necessary as a
result of: 1) development occurring in the prior year; 2) capital improvements
actually constructed; 3) changing facility needs; 4) inflation; 5) revised cost
estimates for capital improvements; 6) changes in the availability of other
funding projects; and 7) such other factors as may be relevant.
   F.   Capital Budget: The city shall annually adopt a capital budget.
   G.   Annual Report: As part of its annual audit process, the city shall
prepare an annual report describing the amount of all development impact fees
collected, appropriated, or spent during the preceding year by category of
public facility and service area.
   H.   Earmarking And Expenditure: All other requirements of section 67-8210,
Idaho Code, regarding earmarking and expenditure of collected development
impact fees, shall apply. (Ord. 211, 4-4-2006)
7-5-9: CREDITS, REIMBURSEMENT AND WAIVERS:
   A.   In the calculation of development impact fees for a particular project,
a credit or reimbursement shall be given for the present value of construction
of system improvements or contribution or dedication of land or money required
by the city from a developer for system improvements of the category for which
the development impact fee is being collected, including such system
improvements paid for pursuant to a local improvement district. Such credit or
reimbursement shall not be given for project improvements.
   B.   If a developer is required to construct, fund or contribute system
improvements in excess of the development project's proportionate share of
system improvements costs, including such system improvements paid for pursuant
to a local improvement district, the developer shall receive a credit on future
impact fees or be reimbursed at the developer's choice for such excess
construction, funding or contribution from development impact fees paid by
future development which impacts the system improvements constructed, funded or
contributed by the developer(s) or fee payer.
   C.   In the calculation of development impact fees for a particular project,
a credit or reimbursement shall be given equal to the present value of all tax
and user fee revenue generated by the developer, within the service area where
the impact fee is being assessed and used by the governmental agency for system
improvements of the category for which the development impact fee is being
collected.
   D.   If a credit or reimbursement is due to the developer pursuant to this
section, the city shall enter into a written agreement with the fee payer,
negotiated in good faith, prior to the construction, funding or contribution.
The agreement shall provide for the amount of credit or the amount, time and
form of reimbursement.
   E.   No credits shall be given for the construction of local on site
facilities, structures, improvements, or other project improvements required by
zoning, subdivision, or other city regulations unless the improvement is
identified in the capital improvements plan or there is a finding that the
proposed improvements meet the same need as improvements identified in the
capital improvements plan.
   F.   Any person requesting such credit or reimbursement shall submit his/her
request in writing on a form provided by the city and present documentation of
costs or payments for facilities to the city clerk for use in determining the
amount of credit or reimbursement to be given. Requests for credit or
reimbursement shall be submitted to the city clerk prior to issuance of a
building permit or special use permit. The determination shall be made no more
than forty five (45) days after complete documentation is submitted to the city
clerk. Any appeal from such a determination by the city clerk shall be made
pursuant to section
7-5-11 of this chapter.
   G.   Construction or development by the city shall be exempt from payment of
the development impact fees provided for herein. Political subdivisions of the
state which are legally eligible to receive the proceeds of development impact
fees and which have entered into an agreement with the city to do so may be
exempt from payment of development impact fees upon determination by the city
clerk that the development or construction for which the fee would be charged
is a system improvement within the capital improvements plan. Political
subdivisions which are not legally eligible to receive development impact fee
proceeds or which, although legally eligible, have not executed a cooperative
agreement with the city regarding the use, collection and expenditure of
development impact fee proceeds shall not be eligible for a development impact
fee waiver unless they present a request for waiver to the city clerk which
demonstrates that the development contemplated would not produce material
impacts upon the public infrastructure for which development impact fees are to
be collected and expended. Nonprofit charitable organizations may be exempt
from payment of development impact fees upon showing that the construction or
development activities undertaken by the charitable organization are for
purposes of providing direct public benefit through construction of facilities
or improvements to be used by the general public. Any request for waiver shall
follow the procedures for appeal set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 211, 4-4-
2006)
7-5-10: REFUNDS:
   A.   The current owner of record of property on which an impact fee has been
paid may request a refund of such fee if:
      1.   The project for which a building permit or special use permit has
been issued has been within one year lawfully altered resulting in a decrease
in the amount of the impact fee due;
      2.   The city, after collecting the fee when service is not available,
has failed to appropriate and expend the collected development impact fees
pursuant to section 67-8210(4), Idaho Code;
      3.   A building permit or special use permit is denied or abandoned prior
to construction, use or placement; or
      4.   Service is available but never provided.
   B.   The request for refund must be in writing and submitted to the city
clerk on a form provided by the city for such purpose. The owner shall provide
such documentation as the city clerk may require to prove such satisfaction,
reconveyance, or release from contract sellers, mortgagees, lienholders, and/or
others having an interest in the real property for which an impact fee has been
paid.
   C.   A request for refund must be filed within one year of the date that the
owner discovers or should have reasonably discovered his/her right to a refund.
   D.   Within ninety (90) days of the date of receipt of a request for refund,
the city clerk must provide the owner, in writing, with a decision on the
refund request including the reasons for the decision. If a right to a refund
exists, the city is required to send a refund to the owner of record within
ninety (90) days after it is determined that a refund is due. A refund shall
include a refund of interest at one-half (1/2) the legal rate provided for in
section
28-22-104, Idaho Code.
   E.   An owner may appeal the determination of the city clerk to the city
council pursuant to the provisions in section
7-5-11 of this chapter. (Ord. 211, 4-4-2006)
7-5-11: APPEALS:
   A.   A developer or fee payer may appeal the written determination of the
applicability and amount of the development impact fee, or refund, or any
discretionary action or inaction by or on behalf of the city to the city
council.
   B.   The developer or fee payer must file a notice of appeal with the city
clerk within thirty (30) days following the written determination,
discretionary action or inaction. When filing an appeal, the fee payer shall
submit a letter providing a full explanation of the request, the reason for the
appeal, as well as all supporting documentation.
   C.   The city council shall consider the appeal and make a final
determination within ninety (90) days of receipt of the written appeal. The
decision of the city council on the appeal shall be final.
   D.   The filing of an appeal shall not stay required payment of the impact
fee, however, a fee payer can pay a development impact fee under protest in
order to obtain development approval or permit approval.
   E.   Upon voluntary agreement by the fee payer and the city, any
disagreement related to the impact fee for the proposed development may be
mediated by a qualified independent party.
      1.   Mediation may take place at any time during the appeals process and
participation in mediation does not preclude the fee payer from pursuing other
remedies provided for in this chapter.
      2.   Mediation costs shall be shared equally by the fee payer and the
city. (Ord. 211, 4-4-2006)
7-5-12: EXTRAORDINARY IMPACTS:
In determining the proportionate share of the cost of system improvements to be
paid by the developer, the city clerk or her designee shall consider whether
any extraordinary costs will be incurred in serving the development based upon
an "extraordinary impact" as defined in section
7-5-2 of this chapter. This determination shall be made prior to issuance of
any permit for development and shall be paid prior to any such issuance except
as may be provided pursuant to a private agreement between the parties as
authorized by section 67-8214, Idaho Code.
If the city clerk or her designee determines that the development will result
in an extraordinary impact, the city clerk or her designee shall advise the fee
payer in writing what the extraordinary impact is, the reason for the
extraordinary impact, and the estimated costs to be incurred as a result of the
extraordinary impact.
Nothing in this chapter shall obligate the city to approve any development
which results in extraordinary impact.
The fee payer may appeal the determination of an extraordinary impact or the
amount of the extraordinary costs incurred in writing by filing a notice of
appeal to the city council with the city clerk pursuant to the terms set forth
in section
7-5-11 of this chapter. When filing an appeal, the fee payer shall submit a
letter providing the reason for the appeal along with supporting documentation.
The city council shall consider the appeal and make a final determination
within ninety (90) days of receipt of the written appeal. (Ord. 211, 4-4-2006)
7-5-13: ADDENDUM A:
Addendum A entitled the "City Of Hayden Lake Development Impact Fee Program/
Capital Improvement Plan", dated March 2006, along with all footnotes,
exhibits, appendices, addenda, and other attachments referenced therein
including, but not limited to, the capital improvements plan, all of which are
by this reference incorporated herein as if set forth fully. A description of
acceptable levels of service for system improvements are described in the
report. (Ord. 211, 4-4-2006)
7-5-14: BONDING:
Funds pledged toward retirement of bonds, revenue certificates, or other
obligations of indebtedness for the capital improvements identified in the
report may include impact fees and other city revenues as may be allocated by
the city council. (Ord. 211, 4-4-2006)
7-5-15: EFFECT OF IMPACT FEE ON ZONING AND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS:
This chapter shall not affect, in any manner, the permissible use of property,
density of development, design and improvement standards and requirements, or
any other aspect of the development of land or provision of capital
improvements subject to the zoning and subdivision regulations or other
regulations of the city, which shall be operative and remain in full force and
effect without limitation with respect to all such development. (Ord. 211, 4-4-
2006)
7-5-16: OTHER POWERS AND RIGHTS NOT AFFECTED:
   A.   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the city from requiring a
developer to construct reasonable project improvements in conjunction with a
development project.
   B.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent or prohibit
private agreements between property owners or developers, the Idaho
transportation department, the city, and other governmental entities in regard
to the construction or installation of system improvements or providing for
credits or reimbursements for system improvements or providing for credits or
reimbursements for system improvements costs incurred by a developer including
interproject transfers of credits or providing for reimbursement for project
improvements which are used or shared by more than one development project. If
it can be shown that a proposed development has a direct impact on a public
facility under the jurisdiction of the Idaho transportation department, then
the agreement shall include a provision for the allocation of impact fees
collected from the developer for the improvement of the public facility by the
Idaho transportation department.
   C.   Nothing in this chapter shall obligate the city to approve development
which results in an extraordinary impact. Extraordinary impacts shall be
determined and processed pursuant to section
7-5-12 of this chapter.
   D.   Nothing in this chapter shall obligate the city to approve a
development request which may reasonably be expected to reduce levels of
service below minimum acceptable levels established in this chapter. To this
end, the city may impose a development impact fee for system improvements costs
incurred subsequent to adoption of the ordinance to the extent that new growth
and development will be served by the system improvements.
   E.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to create any additional
right to develop real property or diminish the power of the city in regulating
the orderly development of real property.
   F.   Nothing in this chapter shall work to limit the use by the city of the
power of eminent domain or supersede or conflict with requirements or
procedures authorized in the Idaho Code for local improvement districts or
general obligation bond issues.
   G.   Nothing herein shall restrict or diminish the power of the city to
annex property into its territorial boundaries or exclude property from its
territorial boundaries upon request of a developer or owner, or to impose
reasonable conditions thereon, including the recovery of project or system
improvements costs required as a result of such voluntary annexation. (Ord.
211, 4-4-2006)
TITLE 8
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
8-1-1: Building Codes Adopted
8-1-2: Certificates Of Occupancy
8-1-3: Building Permits
8-1-4: Tram Permits
8-1-1: BUILDING CODES ADOPTED:
   A.   Official Codes: The 2018 edition of the International Building Code,
prepared by the International Code Council, Inc., as adopted by the State, with
all rules adopted by the State to provide equivalency with the provisions of
the Americans With Disabilities Act accessibility guidelines and the Federal
Fair Housing Act accessibility guidelines, together with any other amendments
or revisions to the International Building Code made by the State through the
negotiated rulemaking process and in accordance with Idaho Code section 39-
4109, is hereby adopted. The 2020 Idaho Residential Code, consisting of the
2018 edition of the International Residential Code, prepared by the
International Code Council, Inc., as adopted by the State, together with any
other amendments or revisions to the International Residential Code made by the
State through the negotiated rulemaking process and in accordance with Idaho
Code section 39-4109, is hereby adopted. The 2020 Idaho Energy Conservation
Code, consisting of the 2018 edition of the International Energy Conservation
Code, prepared by the International Code Council, Inc., as adopted by the
State, together with any other amendments or revisions to the International
Energy Conservation Codes made by the State through the negotiated rulemaking
process and in accordance with Idaho Code section 39-4109, is hereby adopted.
The 2018 Idaho Existing Building Code, consisting of the 2018 International
Existing Building Code, prepared by the International Code Council, Inc., as
adopted by the State, together with any other amendments or revisions to the
International Existing Building Code made by the State through the negotiated
rulemaking process and in accordance with Idaho Code section 39-4109, is hereby
adopted. The amendments and revisions referred to herein are limited to those
that have been adopted by the State as of the effective date of this Section.
Agricultural Buildings, as defined by the 2018 International Building Code, are
exempt from the building codes adopted herein but shall remain subject to
placement requirements and permits established by City Code. Full and complete
versions of these codes are available at Hayden Lake City Hall, 9393 Strahorn
Road, Hayden Lake, Idaho 83835.
   B.   Fire Code Adopted:
      1.   There is hereby adopted by the City for the purpose of prescribing
regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property and to protect
the health, safety, and welfare of the public that certain Code known as the
International Fire Code, except for section 103.2, which edition shall be the
edition currently adopted by the State of Idaho pursuant to Idaho Code section
41-253(1) together with such revisions, additions, amendments and appendices as
are from time to time adopted by the State of Idaho.
      2.   In those instances when the International Fire Code references the
International Building Code or those International Fire Code standards that are
based on "National Fire Protection Association Standards", the reference shall
be to the most recent edition of the "National Fire Protection Association
Standards".
      3.   Such Code and appendices are hereby adopted and incorporated by
reference as though set out at length in this chapter.
      4.   Any provisions contained in this Code more restrictive than the
provisions of the currently adopted International Fire Code and appendices
thereto, adopted herein, shall take precedence over such adopted Fire Code and
appendices.
      5.   Whenever a provision of the International Fire Code as currently
adopted by the City provides for the issuance of a permit, the applicant for
such permit at the time of issuance shall pay a fee in accordance with a fee
schedule to be adopted by resolution of the City Council.
   C.   Mechanical and Fuel Gas Codes: The 2018 International Mechanical Code
and the 2018 International Fuel Gas Code, published by the International Code
Council, Inc., are adopted as the Mechanical Code of the City of Hayden Lake
for regulating the design, construction, quality of materials, erection,
installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition
to, use or maintenance of heating, ventilating, cooling, refrigeration systems,
incinerators, or other miscellaneous heat producing appliances in the City,
providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each
and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions and terms of such 2018
International Mechanical Code and 2018 International Fuel Gas Code, except
sections 103.2 and 103.3 thereof. The adoption of the 2018 International
Mechanical Code and 2018 International Fuel Gas Code as the Mechanical Code for
the City includes all amendments thereto that have been adopted by the state as
of the effective date of this Ordinance. Full and complete versions of these
codes are available at Hayden Lake City Hall, 9393 Strahorn Road, Hayden Lake,
Idaho 83835. (Ord. 221, 12-17-2007; amd. Ord. 286, 12-5-2017, eff. 1-1-2018;
Ord. 296, 5-19-2020; Ord. 301, 12-1-2020; Ord. 315, 11-7-2024)
8-1-2: CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Certificate Required: It is unlawful to use or occupy or permit the use
or occupancy of any building or premises or both, or part thereof thereafter
created, erected, changed, converted or wholly or partly altered or enlarged in
its use or structure until a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued
therefor by the City building inspector stating that the proposed use of the
building or land conforms to the requirements of this Code, that a stamped
certification from a licensed design professional has been submitted to the
City Clerk stating that the stormwater system was constructed in accordance
with the approved design and is functioning properly and that the building,
proposed use of the building and land conforms to all other conditional
provisions that may have been imposed. (Ord. 202, 8-16-2004)
   B.   Temporary Certificate: A temporary certificate of occupancy may be
issued by the building inspector for a period not exceeding six (6) months
during alterations or partial occupancy of a building pending its completion.
   C.   Fees And Charges: The City Council shall establish by resolution a
schedule of fees and charges for occupancy permits.
   D.   Records Kept: The City Clerk shall maintain a record of all
certificates of occupancy, and copies shall be furnished upon request to any
person as otherwise provided by law.
   E.   Limitations And Restrictions:
      1.   Failure to obtain a certificate of occupancy shall be a violation of
this section. Real property upon which a project subject to this chapter is in
progress shall not be sold or conveyed if a certificate of occupancy has not
been issued pursuant to this section.
      2.   Certificates issued on the basis of plans and applications approved
by the building inspector authorize only the use and arrangement set forth in
such approved plans and applications or amendments thereto, and no other use,
arrangement or construction. Use, arrangement or construction contrary to that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of this section. (Ord. 161, 3-14-2000)
   F.   Violation And Penalty: In addition to taking whatever criminal action
allowed by law, the City Attorney may take steps to civilly enjoin any
violation of this section. Penalties for failure to comply with or violations
of the provisions of this section shall constitute an infraction punishable by
fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. The landowner, tenant, subdivider, builder, public official
or any other person who commits, participates in, assists in or maintains such
violation may be found guilty of a separate offense. Nothing contained in this
section shall prevent the City Council or any other public official or private
citizen from taking such lawful action as is necessary to restrain or prevent
any violation of this section or of the Idaho Code. (Ord. 290, 2-19-2019; amd.
Ord. 315, 11-7-2024)
8-1-3: BUILDING PERMITS:
It shall be unlawful to construct, alter, demolish, repair or use any building
or structure, including fences 1 , within the City, nor shall any excavation
commence or be completed, nor shall any foundation, footing or other base or
arrangement be made preliminary to any contemplated construction without first
having obtained a permit to do so from the City.
   A.   All permits for construction, demolition, repair or alteration,
including fences, shall become invalid if the work authorized on the site by
such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of one hundred eighty (180)
days after the time the work is commenced, or if such work is not completed
within one year (365 days) of the date that the permit is issued. The Code
Enforcement Officer is authorized to grant one extension of time for a period
of one hundred eighty (180) days. The extension shall be requested in writing
before the subject time period expires and justifiable cause must be
demonstrated. A late extension request may be submitted in writing within
thirty (30) days from the permit expiration date. These late extension requests
shall only be granted by the Code Enforcement Officer after justifiable cause
is demonstrated. Additional extensions beyond a first granted extension may be
requested in writing and granted by the City Council upon an additional showing
of justifiable cause. Fees for all extensions shall be required and set by
future resolution of the City Council. All extension requests that must be
granted by the City Council shall be considered by the City Council as an
administrative item at a regular or special meeting of the Council. No public
hearing shall be required. If a building permit or extension thereof is allowed
to expire before a certificate of occupancy is issued, or for projects that do
not require a certificate of occupancy, before a final inspection has been
performed, and no request for renewal of the permit or an extension thereof has
been submitted in writing before the permit or a previously granted extension
expires, the Code Enforcement Officer shall implement the code enforcement
procedures set forth in subsection
1-11-4A of this Code, which shall include the issuance of a "stop work order"
in accordance with subsection
1-11-4A1 of this Code. Such stop work order shall not be removed or obstructed
in any manner without the authorization of the Code Enforcement Officer. Should
the thirty (30) day compliance period referenced in subsections
1-11-4A2, A3 and
1-11-5C of this Code expire without compliance being achieved to the
satisfaction of the Code Enforcement Officer and without an appeal being timely
filed in accordance with section
1-11-5 of this Code, the notice of violation referenced in subsection
1-11-4A1 of this Code shall be recorded in the records of Kootenai County. A
copy of the recorded notice shall be mailed to the property owner via certified
mail. If an appeal of the notice of violation is timely filed pursuant to
section
1-11-5 of this Code, the notice of violation shall not be recorded unless such
action is required in the decision issued by the City Council pursuant to
subsection
1-11-5F of this Code. In addition to the other requirements of subsection
1-11-5F of this Code, the decision of the City Council shall also address what
applicable fees, if any, the appellant shall be required to pay. If a notice of
violation is recorded in accordance with this section, a release shall be
recorded by the Code Enforcement Officer upon compliance being achieved to the
satisfaction of the Code Enforcement Officer, or if a timely appeal is filed
and heard pursuant to section
1-11-5 of this Code, upon full compliance with the decision of the City
Council. Any violation of this section is subject to the general civil penalty
of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each day that the violation continues
pursuant to sections
1-4-1 and
1-4-2 of this Code. (Ord. 275, 2-2-2016)
   B.   If fees for building permits are established independently from the
fees provided in the adopted building code, such fees for building permits
shall be established by resolution of the City Council. The City Council shall
also establish by resolution penalty fees for constructing (or starting
construction of) a building without an approved building permit. No building
permit shall be issued if unresolved code enforcement violations exist that are
related to the subject property.
   C.   The City Council shall fix by resolution the minimum number of days
required by the City to review and issue or deny a building permit.
   D.   A request for a building permit shall be accompanied by a scale map or
drawing showing actual dimensions of the lot or parcel, the location and size
of any building and such other information as may be requested by the City.
   E.   A request for a building permit shall be accompanied by proof in
writing that all required fees imposed by other public agencies have been paid
and other conditions imposed by other public agencies with jurisdiction have
been met.
   F.   A request for a building permit shall be accompanied by a stamped
certification from a licensed design professional stating that the design
professional has inspected and verified that all of the required erosion
control measures are in place prior to commencing ground disturbing activities.
   G.   The issued permit must be posted onsite in a visible location
throughout the duration of the permit. (Ord. 202, 8-16-2004; amd. Ord. 315, 11-
7-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 3 of this title.
8-1-4: TRAM PERMITS:
   A.   Trams in the City shall be constructed in accordance with the most
current versions of American Society of Mechanical Engineers Standards 5.4.2
and 17.1.
   B.   The procedure and requirements for obtaining a building permit set
forth in City Code Section
8-1-3 shall also be applicable to tram permits. Fees for such permits shall be
established by resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 315, 11-7-2024)
CHAPTER 2
BUILDING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Building Movement Or Demolition
8-2-2: Building Construction Near Lake
8-2-3: Reconstruction
8-2-4: Preconstructed Or Manufactured Housing
8-2-5: Engineer Report
8-2-6: Trams
8-2-7: Grading Restrictions
8-2-1: BUILDING MOVEMENT OR DEMOLITION:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall move from its foundation, remove or
demolish any building or structure in the city, or cause the same to be done
without first obtaining a permit therefor. This provision shall apply to any
demolition to the interior or exterior of any portion of any structure.
   B.   Application: To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first file an
application therefor in writing on a form furnished for that purpose by the
city clerk. Every such application shall identify and describe the work to be
covered by the permit. The applicant shall describe the land on which the
proposed work is to be done, by lot, block, tract and house and street address
or similar description that will readily identify and definitely locate the
proposed building or structure. The applicant shall indicate what if any
hazardous substances, may be present in the building or structure. The
application shall be signed by the owner of the real property upon which the
building or structure is located. The applicant shall give such other
information as reasonably may be required by the city clerk.
   C.   Hazardous Substances: If any hazardous substances may be present in the
building or structure to be moved, removed or demolished or in any facilities
that may be affected by the removal or demolition of the building or structure,
the applicant shall provide a detailed description of the plan for the proper
removal, containment and disposal of the hazardous substance. The applicant
shall also provide proof that all agencies with jurisdiction over hazardous
materials have been informed of the proposed removal or demolition of the
building or structure and have approved the plan for the removal, containment
and disposal of the hazardous substance. The term "hazardous substance" shall
have the definition and meaning as set forth in Title 42 U.S.C. 9601 (or the
corresponding provision of any future law); provided, however that the term
"hazardous substance" shall include "hazardous waste" as defined in Title 42
U.S.C. 6903 (or the corresponding provision of any future law) and "petroleum"
as defined in Title 42 U.S.C. 6991 (or the corresponding provision of any
future law).
   D.   Inspections: Before the building is moved, removed or any portion
thereof is demolished, the building inspector shall inspect the building or
structure. An inspection for interior demolition shall only be required when
walls or supporting posts are being removed. The building inspector may, at his
discretion, also inspect the building or structure during or after the moving,
removal or demolition.
   E.   Fees: There shall be charged a fee for the inspection and any
additional applicable fees as set by resolution of the city council. The
foregoing fees shall be paid to the city clerk in advance of the inspection.
(Ord. 262, 7-16-2013)
   F.   Time Limits: The permit for moving, removal or demolition of a building
or structure shall be effective for six (6) months from the date that it is
issued by the city clerk. If the removal or demolition is not complete within
six (6) months from the date that the permit is issued, a new permit must be
granted based upon a new application and the payment of the required fees.
(Ord. 184, 9-16-2002; amd. Ord. 262, 7-16-2013; Ord. 315, 11-7-2024)
8-2-2: BUILDING CONSTRUCTION NEAR LAKE:
No building or premises shall be used nor shall any structure be hereafter
erected, altered, modified or enlarged or changed so that any part thereof
shall be closer than thirty feet (30') from the ordinary high water mark of
Hayden Lake, defined as 2,239.0 feet above observed heights of mean sea level
utilizing the NGVD29 datum, where said waters are included within or abut the
boundaries of the city. A violation of the provisions of this section shall
subject the violator to a penalty as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 47, 10-25-1972; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 315, 11-7-2024)
8-2-3: RECONSTRUCTION:
If it is anticipated that more than ten percent (10%) of a structure is to be
removed or replaced, the application for a building permit must be accompanied
by the report of an engineer or architect as to the physical condition of the
property. (Ord. 164, 9-6-2000)
8-2-4: PRECONSTRUCTED OR MANUFACTURED HOUSING 1 :
Any preconstructed or manufactured housing brought into the city must be in
compliance with all existing building codes and ordinances. (Ord. 194, 9-2-
2003)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  9-3-4 of this code relating to zoning of manufactured housing.
8-2-5: ENGINEER REPORT:
All building permit requests submitted to the city must be accompanied by a
report of an engineer or an architect. If any structure is to be built over any
portion of a lot or parcel that has fill must be accompanied by an engineer's
report as to the physical condition of the property and capacity for support of
the proposed structure. (Ord. 164, 9-6-2000)
8-2-6: TRAMS:
All trams constructed in the city must have a tram permit. (Ord. 164, 9-6-2000;
amd. Ord. 315, 11-7-2024)
8-2-7: GRADING RESTRICTIONS:
Grading in excess of fifty (50) cubic yards shall be performed in accordance
with a grading plan produced by a civil engineer. The city shall have thirty
(30) days from receipt to review said plans, issue a grading permit and impose
a permit fee. (Ord. 276, 1-5-2016)
CHAPTER 3
FENCES
SECTION:
8-3-1: Construction Regulations
8-3-1-1: Site Obstructions Prohibited
8-3-2: Barbed Or Electrified Wire Fences
8-3-3: Fences Around Swimming Pools
8-3-4: Reconstruction Of Nonconforming Fences
8-3-5: Variances
8-3-1: CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS:
No fence, artificial or by shrubbery, foliage or by structure or growth of any
kind shall be erected to a height exceeding forty eight inches (48") from the
finished grade within the front yard of a lot. This height restriction shall be
extended to seventy two inches (72") above original grade for any fence,
foliage or structure erected for the purposes of enclosing the rear yard or
side yard of a lot.
For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions apply:
BUILDING LINE: Points on a building nearest a lot line. The line facing the
front lot line is the front building line. When a lot is vacant, the building
lines shall be the setback lines as described in section
9-1-5 of this code.
DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT: A lot with street frontage along two (2) opposite
boundaries.
FRONT LOT LINE: The lot line fronting on or nearest to a city street or right
of way, or in the absence thereof, a private street. For purposes of this
chapter, double frontage lots shall be treated as having two (2) front lot
lines and thus two (2) front yards.
FRONT YARD: The area along the full width of the front lot line between side
lot lines and from the front lot line to the front building line in depth.
REAR LOT LINE: The lot line which is opposite and most distant from the front
lot line.
REAR YARD: The area running the full width of a lot perpendicular to the rear
lot line and extending to the side lot lines.
SIDE YARD: The area extending the length of a lot from the front yard to the
rear yard. (Ord. 222, 3-4-2008)
8-3-1-1: SITE OBSTRUCTIONS PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any controller of any lot, place or area in the city
to plant, construct or maintain upon such lot, place, area, or public right of
way abutting the same, any hedge, shrubbery, fence, wall or other sight
obstruction of any nature except the bole of a tree and buildings between the
heights of three feet (3') and eight feet (8') measured from the elevation at
the centerlines of the intersecting streets, where these sight obstructions
constitute a traffic hazard as determined by the city engineer or his designee
within a vision triangle defined by measuring from the intersection of the
edges of two (2) adjacent roadways forty feet (40') along each roadway and
connecting the two (2) points with a straight line.
   B.   When the city engineer or his designee determines upon the basis of an
engineering and traffic investigation that such a traffic hazard exists, the
city engineer or his designee shall notify the owner and order that the hazard
be removed within fifteen (15) days. (Ord. 222, 3-4-2008)
8-3-2: BARBED OR ELECTRIFIED WIRE FENCES:
   A.   Prohibited: The use of barbed or electrified wire within the limits of
the city for fencing or gates along any street, alley, highway, road or on any
private property is prohibited except in those instances wherein the individual
desiring to use barbed or electrified wire for these purposes makes an
application to the city clerk, which application shall set forth good cause for
the use of the fence or gate and shall include a showing that the use of barbed
or electrified wire in the particular instance requested will not constitute a
hazard to public safety and the applicant.
   B.   Application For Permit: Before the city council will consider a request
to allow barbed or electrified wire, the applicant must provide all adjoining
neighbors notice in writing of the application and request for use of barbed or
electrified wire. The written notice must be mailed or delivered at least ten
(10) days before the city council meeting at which the application is to be
heard. The written notice must clearly describe the fence that is being
requested, including the location of the fence, the proposed building materials
to be used and the reasons why the request is being made. The written notice
must also inform the neighbors of the date that the city council will consider
the request and that they are invited to provide comment in writing or in
person to the city council at the meeting. Once the notice has been given, and
not later than the day before the scheduled city council meeting, the applicant
shall provide to the city clerk a copy of the written notice that was provided
to the neighbors and the applicant shall complete an affidavit for the city
clerk confirming that the notice was provided as required to all neighbors
identified as part of this application. If any neighbor does not receive notice
and brings a complaint against the fence, the city council may refuse to grant
or, if previously granted, revoke the permit.
   C.   Exceptions: Whenever the applicant provides proof to the city clerk
that the barbed or electrified wire is required by state or federal
regulations, the city clerk shall issue a permit for the fence or gate without
further hearing or consent of the city council. (Ord. 191, 7-1-2003)
8-3-3: FENCES AROUND SWIMMING POOLS:
On any property within the city that features a swimming pool capable of
holding twenty four inches (24") or more of water, a fence of seventy two
inches (72") shall encompass the entire area where the swimming pool is
located, except where a residence or other structure provides at least a
seventy two inch (72") barrier to entry. No such fence or structure shall be
located within five feet (5') of the edge of the swimming pool. All gates shall
be provided with safety latches operated only from the pool side of the fence
and the latches shall be located not less than four feet (4') above the ground.
Such fence shall be of a type that makes the climbing thereof by children
difficult if not impossible. (Ord. 218, 5-21-2007)
8-3-4: RECONSTRUCTION OF NONCONFORMING FENCES:
When twenty five percent (25%) or more of any fence not conforming to any
provision of this chapter is reconstructed after the effective date of such
provision(s), the entire fence must be constructed in full compliance with this
chapter. (Ord. 222, 3-4-2008)
8-3-5: VARIANCES:
The city council may grant variances to allow fences that exceed the height
limitations set forth herein only when the city council finds that the proposed
variance is compatible with the neighborhood, that there are special
characteristics of the site which make the application of the fencing
requirements different for this property than other property within the city,
and that it would be in the best interest of the city to approve the request
for a variance. An application as prescribed by the city clerk must be
completed and filed with the city clerk before a request for a variance will be
considered by the city council. The completed form and documents must be
submitted to the city clerk not later than twenty five (25) days prior to the
date of a regular city council meeting where the request for a fence variance
can be heard by the city council. Variances to allow fences to be built and
maintained at a height greater than otherwise allowed under city regulations
may only be granted where strict application of the fence regulations would
result in practical difficulties or hardship to a property owner and the
variance is not detrimental to the public interest. The city council will not
grant a variance in fence height when the new fence will create a sight
distance hazard. Before the city council will consider a request to vary the
height of a fence, the applicant must provide all adjoining neighbors notice of
the request in writing. The written notice must be mailed or delivered at least
ten (10) days before the city council meeting at which the request is to be
heard. The written notice must clearly describe the fence variance that is
being requested, including the location of the fence, the proposed building
materials to be used and the reasons why the request is being made. The written
notice must also inform the neighbors of the date that the city council will
consider the request and that they are invited to provide comment in writing or
in person to the city council at the meeting. Once the notice has been given,
and not later than the day before the scheduled city council meeting, the
applicant shall provide to the city clerk a copy of the written notice that was
provided to the neighbors and the applicant shall complete an affidavit for the
city clerk confirming that the notice was provided as required to all neighbors
identified as part of the application. If any neighbor does not receive notice
and brings a complaint against the fence, the city council may refuse to grant
or, if previously granted, revoke the permit. The city council shall issue and
provide to the applicant(s) a written decision on an application for a variance
no later than thirty (30) days after the hearing regarding the same. Such
decision shall be provided to the applicant(s) by personal delivery, regular
mail or electronic means. When sent by electronic means, the applicant(s) shall
be deemed to have received the decision on the date it was sent. When sent by
regular mail, the applicant(s) shall be deemed to have received the decision
three (3) days after the date of mailing. An applicant or affected person may
seek reconsideration of the decision by filing a written request with the city
clerk no later than fourteen (14) days after receiving the decision. Such
request must identify specific deficiencies in the decision for which
reconsideration is sought. Upon reconsideration, the decision may be affirmed,
reversed or modified. A written decision on the request for reconsideration
shall be provided to the applicant or affected person in the manner provided
above within sixty (60) days of receipt of the request for reconsideration or
the request is deemed denied. (Ord. 276, 1-5-2016)
CHAPTER 4
SIGNS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Purpose
8-4-2: Applicability
8-4-3: Definitions
8-4-4: Permit Requirements
8-4-5: Advertising Signs
8-4-6: Identification Signs
8-4-7: Temporary Signs
8-4-8: Prohibited Signs
8-4-9: Variances
8-4-10: Enforcement And Penalties
8-4-1: PURPOSE:
The city council finds and declares that it is necessary to regulate the
construction, erection, number, maintenance, illumination, type, size and
location of signs to protect the health, safety, property and welfare of the
public; improve the neat, clean, orderly and attractive appearance of the city
and provide for the safe erection and maintenance of signs, and to protect the
unique scenic beauty of the city. (Ord. 193, 8-12-2003)
8-4-2: APPLICABILITY:
The regulations set forth in this chapter apply to all lots and parcels in the
municipal boundaries of the city. Except as provided in this chapter, no person
shall erect, maintain or alter any sign, or cause or permit the same to be
done, in violation of the provisions of this chapter. No person in control of
any premises in the city shall permit thereon any sign which violates the
provisions of this chapter. Nothing in this chapter is intended to permit the
erection or maintenance of any sign at a place or in any manner unlawful under
state or federal law. Where provisions of this chapter are more restrictive
than state law, the provision of this chapter shall apply. (Ord. 193, 8-12-
2003)
8-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, words used in the present tense include the
future, the singular number includes the plural, the word "shall" is mandatory
and not directory and the word "building" includes "structures" other than
"sign structures". Defined terms are not required to be capitalized within the
text of this chapter to retain the definitions provided below:
BANNER: A piece of cloth or similar material on which a sign is placed and
which is stretched across a street or other area.
BUSINESS: All of the activities carried on by the same legal entity on the same
premises and includes charitable, fraternal, benevolent, religious, educational
and social organizations. Such "legal entity" includes individual
proprietorships, partnerships, corporations, nonprofit corporations,
associations or joint stock companies.
CANOPY: A permanent roofed structure which may be freestanding or partially
attached to a building for the purpose of providing shelter to patrons, but
does not mean a completely enclosed structure.
COMMERCIAL ADVERTISING SIGN: Any sign, display, light, emblem, device, figure,
mannequin, painting, drawing, place card, poster or other thing that is
designed, used or intended to advertise goods, products, businesses or services
which are sold, manufactured or distributed on or from the property or
facilities located on the property on which the sign is located, and includes
the sign structure, display area and all other components of the sign.
CUTOUT: Every type of display in the form of letters, figures, characters,
representations or other in cutout or irregular form attached to or
superimposed upon an advertising sign.
DIRECTIONAL SIGN: An on premises sign designed to be read by a person already
on the premises and used only to identify and locate an office, place or
activity, entrance, exit, motor vehicle route, parking area or similar place,
service or route.
DISPLAY AREA OR DISPLAY SURFACE: The area made available by the sign structure
for the purpose of displaying a message including every type of display in the
form of letters, figures, characters, representations or others in cutout or
irregular form attached to or superimposed upon a sign, and including any
extension of the display area which protrudes beyond the internal square
footage for the sign, and includes all nonstructural trim including moldings,
batten, caps, nailing strips, lattice, cutouts or any other items attached to a
sign or a sign structure.
ERECT: To construct, paint, place, affix or otherwise bring into being.
EXTENSION: The area of any sign that protrudes beyond the permitted footage for
signs and is on the same plane as the display surface; and includes cutouts in
the form of letters, figures, characters, representations or others in cutout
or irregular form attached to or superimposed upon an advertising sign; and
includes nonstructural trim attached to the display area and/or sign support
structure.
FLOTATION TYPE ATTENTION GETTING DEVICES: Any flotation type attention getting
device inflated with heated air or any lighter than air gas, and floated at the
end of a tether for the purpose of advertising or drawing attention.
LOCATOR SIGN: An on or off premises sign giving direction to motorists or
pedestrians seeking the location of a public school, college, charitable or
religious institution.
MAINTAIN: To allow to exist or continue.
MARQUEE: A permanent roofed structure attached to or supported by a building.
MONUMENT SIGN: A sign that is not affixed to any building, is erected
perpendicular to the horizon, has a base affixed to the ground which measures
at least two-thirds (2/3) of the horizontal length of the sign, and is used for
the purpose of identifying the structure, business or type of activity
conducted on the premises, or serves as an entry/gateway monument at certain
boundaries of the city. For purposes of measuring the sign area, the base shall
not be included.
PENNANT: A piece of cloth or similar material not to exceed fifteen (15) square
feet, which is attached at one or more points to a support.
PERMANENT SIGN: Any sign other than a temporary sign.
PERSON: Any individual, business, corporation or other entity erecting a sign,
and any property owner, business, corporation or entity upon whose premises a
sign is erected.
PORTABLE DISPLAY SURFACE OR PORTABLE SIGN: A display surface temporarily
affixed to an outdoor structure which is, or is intended to be, regularly moved
from structure to structure at periodic intervals including signs that provide
information by means of sequential illumination of lights contained in or upon
the sign.
PRINCIPAL SIGN: The primary permanent on premises sign designed to identify or
advertise a business or facility to motorists or pedestrians approaching the
business or facility and shall include marquee signs, roof signs and projecting
signs.
PROJECTING SIGN: A sign other than a wall sign which projects beyond the
building face to which it is attached.
ROOF SIGN: A sign erected upon the roof of a building, roof structure or flat
canopy or marquee roof.
SECONDARY SIGN: An incidental, permanent, on premises attached wall sign or
sign on the face of ends of a marquee or canopy or on a wall facade for signs.
Secondary signs may include freestanding pole signs when so designated herein.
SIGN AREA: Any constructed sign structure or monument holding the sign, the
total area of a sign, including all decorative or structural trim, facing,
announcement, demonstration, display, illustration, cutout, extensions or other
attention getting device, exclusive of essential structural supports. Where the
sign is of a three-dimensional, spherical, cubic or irregular solid shape, each
surface shall be used in computing the sign area. Whenever a sign is made of
letters or numbers located individually upon a surface which is not a wall, the
area of the sign shall be determined by adding together the square feet of each
letter and number.
SIGN STRUCTURE: A permanent structure, monument or edifice which is primarily
built to constitute or be used for the display for a message or to support or
hold the display area. No part of the sign structure shall be used for sign
display message or other information.
SIGN SUPPORTS: Freestanding piles or braces, together with supports that hold
signs or from which signs are hung.
STANDARDIZED OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN: A rigid assembled outdoor sign, display
or device permanently affixed to the ground or permanently attached to a
building or other permanent structure constituting or used for the display of a
commercial message, related to any use or activity on the property on which the
sign is located. For purposes of this definition "commercial messages" shall
include all direct or indirect advertisements for any transaction for profit
involving merchandise, goods, commodities, articles or services.
TEMPORARY SIGN: A sign, banner, pennant, valance or advertising display
constructed of cloth, canvas, light fabric, cardboard, plywood, wood,
wallboard, plastic, sheet metal or other similar light materials, with or
without frames, which is not permanently affixed to any sign, sign structure or
building. Temporary sign includes, but is not limited to:
Temporary Nonprofit Sign: A sign identifying a nonprofit civic, charitable or
benevolent event.
Temporary Political Sign: A sign advertising a candidate seeking public office
or promoting the passage or defeat of a measure on the ballot.
Temporary Promotional Sign: A sign that advertises a single event or promotion.
Temporary Real Estate Directional Sign: A temporary sign advertising an open
house and located off the premises advertised.
Temporary Real Estate Sign: A sign advertising the sale, rent or lease of the
building, structure or premises to which it is attached.
Temporary Sign For Work Under Construction: A sign denoting only the
architects, landscape architects, contractor, engineers, financial institution
and/or development itself.
Temporary Subdivision Sign: On premises sign advertising homes under
construction or property for sale in a subdivision including signs located on
lots in the subdivision identifying the lot as being for sale.
WALL SIGN: A sign which is attached to or painted upon a wall of a building and
does not extend beyond the corners of the building face to which the sign is
attached.
WINDSOCK: A cone made of cloth or similar material which is open at both ends
and is attached at one or more points to a support.
ZONING ORDINANCE: The zoning act(s) of the city as established in and set out
in title 9 of this code, and as amended from time to time. (Ord. 193, 8-12-
2003; amd. Ord. 197, 12-2-2003; Ord. 265, 4-15-2014)
8-4-4: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
Unless otherwise set forth herein or unless placed by the city on city property
or within city right of way, any person erecting a commercial advertising sign
and/or permanent sign in excess of five (5) square feet, is required to obtain
a sign permit from the city clerk prior to erecting the sign. The city council
shall set fees for sign permits by resolution. (Ord. 265, 4-15-2014)
8-4-5: ADVERTISING SIGNS:
Commercial advertising signs may be erected or located only on property located
in the overlay district as defined in title 9, chapter 4 of this code.
   A.   Height: The height of the principal sign for restaurants in the overlay
zone shall not exceed fifteen (15) square feet. The height of the principal
sign for all other uses in the overlay zone shall not exceed seven feet (7').
   B.   Size: The total area of the principal sign (sign area) for restaurants
in the overlay zone shall not exceed sixty (60) square feet. The total area of
the principal sign (sign area) for all other uses in the overlay zone shall not
exceed thirty six (36) square feet. The total sign area for all secondary signs
shall not exceed twenty (20) square feet.
   C.   Number: There shall be no more than one principal sign allowed for each
lot or parcel in the overlay district and no more than three (3) secondary
signs. Restaurants may also have one sign, not exceeding four (4) square feet,
indicating when the business is open or closed. (Ord. 193, 8-12-2003)
   D.   Illumination: Restaurants may illuminate the principal sign with neon
lighting or by an internal light source from which source light passes through
the display surface to the exterior of the sign, which may include a message
sign, so long as the light of the bulb does not exceed seventy five (75) watts.
Restaurants may use neon lighting for no more than three (3) small window signs
each not exceeding three (3) square feet. Where neon tubing is employed, the
capacity of such tubing shall not exceed sixty (60) milliamperes. All other
neon signs are prohibited. Illumination for all other uses in the overlay zone
shall be limited to exterior floodlighting sources which are directed toward
the sign and shielded from public view. Secondary signs may only use exterior
floodlighting for illumination. (Ord. 197, 12-2-2003)
8-4-6: IDENTIFICATION SIGNS:
   A.   Signs Identifying Public Buildings Or City Boundaries: Public buildings
and city boundaries may be identified by the following signs:
      1.   Height: The height of the principal sign shall not exceed seven feet
(7').
      2.   Size: The total area of the principal sign (sign area) shall not
exceed thirty six (36) square feet except monument signs which sign area shall
not exceed sixty five and one-half (65.5) square feet.
      3.   Number: There shall be no more than two (2) principal signs allowed
for each lot or parcel. No secondary signs are allowed.
      4.   Illumination: Illumination shall be limited to exterior
floodlighting sources which are directed toward the sign and shielded from
public view. (Ord. 276, 1-5-2016)
   B.   Signs Identifying Public Parks: Public parks, as defined in title 9,
chapter 2 of this code, may be identified by the following signs:
      1.   Height: The height of the principal sign shall not exceed seven feet
(7').
      2.   Size: The total area of the principal sign (sign area) shall not
exceed thirty six (36) square feet except monument signs which sign area shall
not exceed sixty five and one-half (65.5) square feet.
      3.   Number: There shall be no more than two (2) principal signs allowed
for each lot or parcel. Up to three (3) secondary signs are allowed.
      4.   Illumination: Illumination shall be limited by exterior
floodlighting sources which are directed toward the sign and shielded from
public view.
   C.   Signs Identifying Residences: Residences may be identified by the
following signs:
      1.   Height: The height of the principal sign shall not exceed four feet
(4').
      2.   Size: The total area of the principal sign (sign area) including the
sign structure and sign supports shall not exceed four (4) square feet.
Freestanding secondary signs are allowed which do not exceed two (2) square
feet per sign.
      3.   Number: There shall be no more than one principal sign allowed for
each residence and no more than three (3) secondary signs.
      4.   Illumination: Illumination shall be limited to exterior
floodlighting sources which are directed toward the sign and shielded from
public view.
   D.   Signs Identifying Subdivisions: Subdivisions may be identified by the
following signs:
      1.   Height: The height of the principal sign shall not exceed five feet
(5').
      2.   Size: The total area of the principal sign (sign area) shall not
exceed thirty (30) square feet. No secondary signs are allowed.
      3.   Number: There shall be no more than one principal sign allowed for
each entrance into the subdivision.
      4.   Illumination: Illumination shall be limited to exterior
floodlighting sources which are directed toward the sign and shielded from
public view. (Ord. 197, 12-2-2003)
8-4-7: TEMPORARY SIGNS:
   A.   General: Temporary signs may only be erected on private property with
permission of the land owner. No temporary signs may be erected on public right
of way and may be permitted on public property only with prior written
permission of the city council.
   B.   Nonprofit And Promotional Signs:
      1.   Type: Temporary nonprofit signs shall be freestanding pole signs
meeting the regulations provided herein, or, with permission of the city
council, banners, pennants, windsocks and portable signs may be allowed as
directed by the city council for the time limits provided herein.
      2.   Time Limitation: No sign shall be erected for more than two (2)
weeks beginning the first day that the sign is erected. All signs must be
removed by the second day following termination of the event. Any banner,
pennant, windsock or portable sign approved by the city council shall not be
erected or maintained for more than one week.
      3.   Height: The height of the signs shall not exceed four feet (4').
      4.   Size: The sign area of each sign shall not exceed four (4) square
feet.
      5.   Number: Up to three (3) signs may be erected.
      6.   Illumination: No illumination shall be allowed.
   C.   Political Signs:
      1.   Type: Temporary political signs shall be freestanding pole or wall
signs meeting the regulations provided herein.
      2.   Time Limitation: All signs must be removed within 30 days following
the applicable election.
      3.   Height: The height of the signs shall not exceed four feet (4').
      4.   Size: The sign area of each sign shall not exceed thirty two (32)
square feet.
      5.   Number: No limitation.
      6.   Illumination: No illumination shall be allowed.
   D.   Real Estate Signs:
      1.   For Sale/For Rent Signs:
         a.   Type: Temporary real estate signs shall be freestanding pole
signs meeting the regulations provided herein.
         b.   Size: The sign area of each sign shall not exceed one square
foot. The sign area includes all decorative or structural trim, facing,
announcement, demonstration, display, illustration, cutout, extensions or other
attention getting device. The support structure shall not exceed four feet (4')
in height and three feet (3') in width.
         d.   Number: No more than one sign is allowed, unless the subject lot
is a "double frontage lot" as that term is defined in section
8-3-1 of this title or a lakefront lot. In the case of a double frontage lot,
one sign shall be allowed along each frontage boundary so long as only one sign
is visible from each frontage street. For lakefront lots, one sign shall be
allowed on the lot itself and one sign shall be allowed on the respective
property owner's dock.
         e.   Illumination: No illumination is allowed.
      2.   Real Estate Directional Signs:
         a.   Type: Temporary real estate directional signs shall be
freestanding pole signs meeting the regulations provided herein.
         b.   Time Limitation: No sign shall be erected for more than three (3)
days beginning the first day that the sign is erected.
         c.   Height: The height of the signs shall not exceed four feet (4').
         d.   Size: The sign area of each sign shall not exceed two (2) square
feet. The sign area includes all decorative or structural trim, facing,
announcement, demonstration, display, illustration, cutout, extensions or other
attention getting device.
         e.   Number: No more than three (3) signs are allowed.
         f.   Illumination: No illumination is allowed.
   E.   Work Under Construction Signs: No temporary subdivision or work under
construction signs are allowed. (Ord. 197, 12-2-2003; amd. Ord. 242, 11-16-
2010; Ord. 315, 11-7-2024)
8-4-8: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
No sign, except motor vehicle, pedestrian/bike warning, directional signs, or
monument signs identifying city boundaries shall be erected, relocated or
maintained in the public right of way or view corridor of an intersection. No
sign shall be erected, relocated or maintained so as to prevent free ingress or
egress from any door, window or fire escape. No sign shall bear or contain
statements, words or pictures such as will offend the public morals or decency.
No sign shall purport to be or imitate or resemble an official traffic sign,
signal or device or bear the words "stop", "go slow", "caution", "danger",
"warning" or similar words unless permission for the sign has been granted by
the city council. No sign shall attempt to direct traffic. No sign shall hide
from view or interfere with the effectiveness of any official traffic sign,
signal or device. No sign shall be erected or maintained which by use of lights
or illumination, creates an unduly distracting or hazardous condition to a
motorist, pedestrian or the general public. Roof signs, flotation signs, strobe
type lights, blinking, sequential illumination and off premises signs are
prohibited. With permission of the city council, banners, pennants, windsocks
and portable signs may be allowed for limited purposes and for a time not to
exceed one week. (Ord. 265, 4-15-2014)
8-4-9: VARIANCES:
   A.   The city council may, upon application, grant a variance for the
continuation of a nonconforming sign existing prior to August 12, 2003, but not
beyond a period of one year from the date of the application. The city council
may provide for the erection of a new sign which does not conform with this
chapter only upon the following conditions:
      1.   When the topography of the lot or parcel makes compliance with the
provisions governing the location of any sign impractical or impossible; or
      2.   The variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a
substantial property right of the applicant; and
      3.   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to other property in the neighborhood in which said
property is situated.
   B.   A person requesting a variance must make a written application upon a
form provided by the city. The application shall contain a legal description of
the property, a general description of the problem causing the need for a
variance, and be accompanied by an ownership list and such other information as
may be required. The ownership list shall be prepared by a title insurance
company listing the property owners within a radius of three hundred feet
(300') from the external boundaries of the property described in the
application, using the last known name and address of such owners as shown on
the latest adopted tax roll of the county. The applicant shall also pay the fee
required by the city upon filing the application for a variance.
   C.   At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing date before the city
council, not including said hearing date, the applicant shall send notice of
the application by regular mail to all property owners listed on the ownership
list and publish a notice in the newspaper of general circulation in the city.
The notices shall contain a description of the property where the sign is to be
located, a summary of the request, and the time, date and place of the hearing.
The wording of the notice shall be approved by the city prior to the applicant
sending the notice to the property owners or submitting the notice to the
newspaper.
   D.   The city council, in determining the appeal, shall allow only the
minimum appeal necessary to meet the hardship or practical difficulties
including granting only a portion of the appeal when deemed appropriate and
attach such conditions as the city council finds appropriate. (Ord. 193, 8-12-
2003)
8-4-10: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   This chapter shall be enforced by persons employed or otherwise engaged
by the city under the general provision for enforcement of city ordinances and
regulations approved by the city council, including the provisions of title 1,
chapter 11 of this code. In addition to the general penalties provided by law
for violation of city ordinances, any person violating any of the provision set
forth in this chapter shall be assessed a charge of one hundred dollars
($100.00) for each violation and each and every day the violation continues
constitutes a separate violation. (Ord. 193, 8-12-2003; amd. Ord. 197, 12-2-
2003)
   B.   This chapter shall not be deemed to be the exclusive method of abating
public nuisances, but shall be supplemental and in addition to other ordinances
and resolutions of the city council and statutes of the state of Idaho. (Ord.
193, 8-12-2003)
TITLE 9
ZONING
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Title
9-1-2: Purpose
9-1-3: Application Of Provisions
9-1-4: Zoning Designations
9-1-5: Setback Regulations
9-1-6: Violation And Enforcement
9-1-1: TITLE:
The provisions of this title shall be referred to as the HAYDEN LAKE ZONING
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 150, 7-7-1998)
9-1-2: PURPOSE:
The zoning regulations as herein prescribed have been made in accordance with
the comprehensive plan 1  for the purpose of promoting the health, safety,
morals and general welfare of the city. They have been made with reasonable
consideration, among other things, for the character of the city and its
peculiar suitability for particular uses and with a view of conserving the
value of buildings and encouraging the most appropriate use of the land
throughout the city. (Ord. 150, 7-7-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-10-1 of this code.
9-1-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
To the extent permissible under other laws, this title shall apply to all
property situated within the boundaries of the city. (Ord. 150, 7-7-1998)
9-1-4: ZONING DESIGNATIONS:
   A.   Entire City: All lands situated within the boundaries of the city are
hereby classified and shall be and are hereby zoned as a residential zone and
shall be used only for residential purposes and for purposes allowed in any
overlay zoning districts, and the boundaries of the residential area hereby so
zoned shall be the entire area within the boundaries of the city. (Ord. 150, 7-
7-1998)
   B.   Overlay District: Certain properties identified as follows are hereby
classified as an overlay zoning district:
Kootenai County Tax Number Location
Kootenai County Tax Number Location
3476                       1677 East Miles Avenue
3980                       1683 East Miles Avenue
3981                       1680 East Miles Avenue
4111                       1658 East Miles Avenue
V-0000-018-6300            1800 East Bozanta Drive
V-0000-018-5600            1800 East Bozanta Drive
V-6300-000-00A-0           1800 East Bozanta Drive
 
(Ord. 239, 6-1-2010)
9-1-5: SETBACK REGULATIONS:
All setback requirements, as defined in section
9-2-1 of this title, shall be measured from the outside wall of the structure
to the property line or paved area of any adjoining street, when applicable.
Eaves shall be allowed to project into the setback area up to twenty four
inches (24"). (Ord. 186, 1-7-2003)
   A.   Residential District:
      1.   Front Yard Setback: No building or structure shall be closer than
twenty feet (20') from the property line when the property line for the front
yard does not include any right of way for a street. When the front yard
property line includes a roadway easement (explicit or prescriptive) or road
right of way, the setback shall be measured by taking the average setback of
the front of the structure from the paved area of the road of the two (2)
adjoining structures on each side of the proposed structure and applying this
average setback to the proposed structure. If the road is unpaved, the average
setback of the adjoining structures shall be measured from the centerline of
the unpaved road. However, in no event shall the front of a garage be located
less than twenty feet (20') from the edge of the pavement.
      2.   Side Yard Setback: No structure shall be located so that any part
shall be closer than ten feet (10') from adjoining lot lines of separate
parcels or alley, except as provided in this section.
      3.   Back Yard Setback: No structure shall be located so that any part
shall be closer than ten feet (10') from the "rear lot line" as that term is
defined in section
8-3-1 of this Code. However, approval of a proposed structure that will violate
this subsection may be obtained from the City Council so long as the property
owner first obtains the written consent of Northern Lakes Fire District and the
proposed structure otherwise fully complies with this Code and Idaho law. The
property owner shall submit an administrative permit to the City Clerk with the
written consent of Northern Lakes Fire District attached thereto before the
Council considers the matter. The Council shall consider such structures as
administrative items on its agenda. No public hearing shall be required. (Ord.
223, 5-19-2008)
   B.   Overlay District:
      1.   No building or structure shall be closer than thirty feet (30') to
any public street. For purposes of this section, public street shall refer to
the nearest paved portion of the street.
      2.   No structure shall be located so that any part shall be closer than
ten feet (10') from adjoining lot lines of separate parcels or alley. (Ord.
150, 7-7-1998)
9-1-6: VIOLATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
For any violation of this title, or any amendment thereto or special use permit
herein provided, the violator shall be punishable by a fine consistent with the
penalty provisions provided by section
1-4-1 of this Code; and provided further, that the continuation of any such
violation shall constitute a separate offense for each calendar day it is
permitted to continue. (Ord. 290, 2-19-2019)
CHAPTER 2
ZONING DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Definitions
9-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
ABOVE GROUND  A measurement of height from the natural grade of a site to the highest point of a
LEVEL:        structure.
ABUT:         Two (2) adjoining parcels of property with a common property line.
              Buildings which are: a) incidental to and customarily associated with a single-
ACCESSORY     family residential dwelling; b) which match in exterior appearance with the
BUILDINGS:    residential dwelling; and c) which include, but are not limited to, garages,
              storage buildings and separate sleeping accommodations that contain bedroom(s) and
              bathroom(s) but do not contain kitchen facilities.
ADJACENT:     Near, close or abutting.
ADJOIN:       See definition of Abut.
AFFECTED      A person having an interest in real property which may be adversely affected by
PERSON:       the issuance or denial of a permit authorizing the development.
              The surface from which wireless radio signals are sent and received by a WCF which
              may include one or more rods, panels, discs or similar devices used for the
ANTENNA:      transmission or reception of radio frequency signals through electromagnetic
              energy, which may include omnidirectional antenna (whip), directional antenna
              panel and parabolic antenna (dish).
BUILDING:     A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and maintained for the
              support, shelter or enclosure of persons, animals or property of any kind.
BUILDING,     The sum in square feet of the areas occupied by all buildings and structures on a
AREA OF:      lot.
              The vertical distance at the center of the building's front measured from the
BUILDING      average elevation of the finished grade along the front of the building to the
HEIGHT:       highest point of the coming of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof,
              or to the average height of the highest gable of a pitch or hip roof, except
              chimneys and steeples.
              A line at the minimum distance as prescribed herein between any property line or
BUILDING      recorded easement requiring setback and the outside wall of any building or
SETBACK LINE: structure related thereto, as further defined in section
              9-1-5 of this title.
              A wireless communication service facility that is disguised or hidden to blend in
CAMOUFLAGED:  with the surrounding environment and not be readily noticeable to the public or
              private residences or uses in the area.
              The use of a single mount on the ground by more than one carrier and/or several
COLLOCATION:  mounts on an existing building or structure by more than one carrier. Each service
              on a collocation is a separate wireless communication service facility.
COMMERCIAL    The construction of marine docks on lakefront property for sale to the general
DOCK          public.
BUILDING:
COUNTRY CLUB  Those facilities traditionally associated with a country club, including a private
FACILITIES:   golf course, golf shop, golf course maintenance facilities, clubhouse, restaurant,
              bar, swimming facilities, boating facilities and private lodging.
DRIVEWAY:     A vehicular access to an off street parking or loading facility.
              Unless otherwise specified by ordinance means any of the following:
                 A. One or more persons who are related by blood, marriage, or adoption; or
                 B. No more than four (4) persons who are unrelated by blood, marriage or
              adoption living together as a single housekeeping unit; or
                 C. No more than a total combination of five (5) persons related and unrelated
              living together as a single housekeeping unit; or
                 D. A group:
                     1. Placed in a foster home or childcare facility by an authorized agency;
                     2. Eight (8) or less persons with disabilities or elderly persons who are
              unrelated by blood, marriage, or adoption with no more than two (2) residential
FAMILY:       staff members, so long as such persons are supervised at the group residence in
              connection with their disability or age related infirmity. This subsection is
              intended to mirror and fully comply with Idaho Code section 67-6531 and any
              successor statutes.
                 E. Notwithstanding any other provision of this definition, the term family does
              not and shall not include tenancy or planned tenancy in a group residence, as
              defined in subsection D2 of this definition, by persons who are under the
              supervision of the Idaho board of correction pursuant to Idaho Code section 20-
              219, or who are required to register pursuant to chapters 83 or 84, title 18,
              Idaho Code, or whose tenancy would otherwise constitute a direct threat to the
              health or safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial
              physical damage to the property of others.
FENCE:        A structural device forming a vertical, physical barrier.
LIMITED       Activities that include managerial, clerical, consultation and professional
PROFESSIONAL  services typically performed by insurance and real estate offices; architects,
OFFICES:      engineers, lawyers and accounting offices; doctors, dentists and other healthcare
              practitioners.
LIMITED       Offices owned and operated by a public entity and which are expected to generate
PUBLIC        limited additional vehicular traffic that would not be a detrimental impact on the
FACILITIES:   surrounding streets and neighborhood.
              A parcel of land used or set aside and available for use as the site of one or
LOT:          more buildings, and any buildings, accessory thereto or for any other purpose in
              ownership and not divided by a street. A lot for the purpose of this title will
              coincide with the lot of record.
MANUFACTURED  A structure or building that is primarily preconstructed and brought to a site for
STRUCTURE:    placement or assemblage.
MODIFIED      An existing structure that is modified to allow the structure to be used as a
FACILITY:     wireless communication facility.
OVERLAY       A district which establishes further and separate regulations for limited
ZONING        professional offices, country club facilities and commercial dock building. This
DISTRICT:     district shall overlay the underlying zoning district.
PRIVATE ROAD: A road that provides vehicular access to three (3) or more lots and/or parcels.
PUBLIC PARK:  A park open to the public and providing open space and recreational opportunities.
RF:           A radio frequency engineer specializing in electrical or microwave engineering,
              especially the study of radio frequencies.
RFR:          Radio frequency radiation are the emissions from the WCF.
              A travel trailer, truck, camper or camping trailer with or without motor power
RECREATIONAL  designed for human habitation for recreational or emergency occupancy. A living
VEHICLE:      area less than two hundred twenty (220) square feet, excluding built in equipment
              such as wardrobes, closets, cabinets, kitchen units or fixtures, bath and toilet
              rooms.
RESIDENTIAL   A residential area that permits single-family detached housing at a density of one
ZONE:         single-family dwelling per fourteen thousand five hundred twenty (14,520) square
              feet 1 .
              A portion of the property reserved for public use and accepted for such by the
RIGHT OF WAY: city council to provide circulation and travel to abutting properties, including,
              but not limited to, streets, sidewalks, provisions for public utilities, cut and
              fill slopes and public open space.
SECURITY      A locked, impenetrable wall, fence or berm that completely seals an area from
BARRIER:      unauthorized entry or trespass.
              Those where the principal use or occupancy of the building is for dwelling
SINGLE-FAMILY purposes and not more than thirty percent (30%) of the usable floor space of said
DWELLINGS:    dwelling shall be devoted to home occupation, other than actual residential
              purposes.
PECIAL USE    A permit which may be granted by the city to allow a proposed use which is
PERMIT:       otherwise prohibited by the terms of this title, but may be allowed with
              conditions upon proper application and proceedings as provided herein.
              A portion of the building between the surface of any floor and the surface of the
STORY:        floor next above it, or if there is no floor above it the space between such floor
              and the ceiling next above it.
              That portion of a right of way improved, maintained and intended for use by
STREET:       vehicles to provide traffic circulation, primary access to abutting properties and
              parking.
              Anything constructed or erected, which requires the location on the ground or
STRUCTURE:    attachment to something having a fixed location on the ground. Among other things,
              structures may include any type of building or sign.
TRANSMISSION  A tower, including, but not limited to, a self-supporting lattice or monopole
TOWER:        structure which elevates a wireless communication antenna and may include
              accessory transmission and receiving equipment.
              A permit which may be granted by the city which modifies the requirements as to
VARIANCE      lot size, lot coverage, width, depth, front yard, side yard, rear yard, setbacks,
PERMIT:       parking space, height of building or other provisions of this title affecting the
              size or shape of a structure or the placement of the structure upon lots.
              An unstaffed facility designed and used for the purpose of transmitting, receiving
              and relaying voice and data signals through electromagnetic energy. Facilities
WIRELESS      include siting areas, modified facilities transmission towers and antennas
COMMUNICATION including cellular, personal communication services, enhanced specialized mobile
FACILITY      radio, specialized mobile radio and paging services and as used in the
(WCF):        telecommunications act of 1996. (Ord. 150, 7-7-1998; amd. Ord. 153, 10-6-1998;
              Ord. 165, 3-13-2001; Ord. 186, 1-7-2003; Ord. 200, 3-9-2004; Ord. 223, 5-19-2008;
              Ord. 227, 12-2-2008; Ord. 239, 6-1-2010; Ord. 261, 7-16-2013; Ord. 265, 4-15-2014;
              Ord. 276, 1-5-2016; Ord. 312, 7-2-2024)
 
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  9-3-5 of this title.
CHAPTER 3
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-3-1: Permitted Uses
9-3-2: Conditional Uses
9-3-3: Prohibited Uses
9-3-4: Manufactured Homes
9-3-5: Lot Area Requirements
9-3-6: Supplementary Regulations
9-3-1: PERMITTED USES:
Principal permitted uses in the residential zoning district shall be used as
follows:
Accessory buildings.
Garage or carport.
Limited public facilities.
Overlay zones.
Public parks.
Single-family detached housing. (Ord. 150, 7-7-1998; amd. Ord. 153, 10-6-1998)
9-3-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following structures and uses may be built and maintained by special use
permit of the city council:
Boathouses and docks on the waters of Hayden Lake within the limits of the
city.
Transmission towers and wireless communication facilities. (Ord. 150, 7-7-1998;
amd. Ord. 165, 3-13-2001)
9-3-3: PROHIBITED USES:
   A.   Recreational Vehicles: There shall be no recreational vehicles
permitted, occupied or otherwise permitted to locate in the city when intended
for human occupancy. (Ord. 150, 7-7-1998)
   B.   Multi-Family Dwellings: To further define a single-family dwelling,
there shall be no apartment structures erected or used in the city. (Ord. 261,
7-16-2013)
   C.   Commercial Activities: Except as permitted in overlay zoning districts,
no use of land, structures or buildings in a residential zone shall be
permitted for the purpose of sales or services, whether wholesale or retail,
including home occupations, where, in connection with such sale or service, the
customer or client travels to the property. (Ord. 150, 7-7-1998; amd. Ord. 200,
3-9-2004)
9-3-4: MANUFACTURED HOMES 1 :
Manufactured structures are allowed within the city to be used for residential
purposes when such structures meet all requirements of the city including the
following: (Ord. 162, 5-2-2000)
   A.   The manufactured home shall be multisectional and enclose a space of
not less than one thousand (1,000) square feet. (Ord. 200, 3-9-2004)
   B.   The manufactured home shall be placed on an excavated and backfilled
foundation and enclosed at the perimeter such that the home is located not more
than twelve inches (12") above grade.
   C.   The manufactured home shall have a pitched roof, with a slope no less
than three feet (3') in height for each twelve feet (12') in width.
   D.   The manufactured home shall have exterior siding and roofing which in
color, material and appearance is similar to the exterior siding and roofing
material commonly used on residential dwellings located within one thousand
feet (1,000') from the boundaries of the lot upon which the manufactured home
is to be located.
   E.   The manufactured home shall have an attached garage constructed of like
materials. (Ord. 162, 5-2-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 67-6509A.
9-3-5: LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Lot Size: Minimum lot size requirement in the City shall be
fourteen thousand five hundred twenty (14,520) square feet with a road frontage
to depth ratio of .40 or greater. All buildable lots must have seventy-five
feet (75') of road frontage on a street. Furthermore, all lots shall be a
minimum of fifty feet (50') wide unless subsection A3 of this section applies.
      1.   Lots which do not meet the minimum standards set forth above, which
are existing legal lots at the time of the effective date of this section are
authorized as legal lots. For purposes of this section a legal lot is a lot
which has been previously platted or otherwise approved by the City.
      2.   A lot shall not be separated from a larger parcel if the result is a
lot which does not meet the requirements of this subsection.
      3.   Lot lines of adjoining lots may be changed to adjust, between said
lots, areas that are designated easements or vacated or abandoned streets and
roadways so long as the adjustment does not make an existing structure more
nonconforming, is in character with other lots and parcels in the neighborhood,
and is not otherwise detrimental to the public. The lots resulting from said
lot line adjustment may be less than fourteen thousand five hundred twenty
(14,520) square feet in size. (Ord. 288, 9-18-2018)
   B.   Minimum Area: No buildings shall hereafter be erected for human
occupancy containing less than one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet of
enclosed area exclusive of garages and accessory buildings.
   C.   Building Height: The maximum building height of any structure shall be
thirty two feet (32'). (Ord. 150, 7-7-1998)
   D.   Setbacks: See subsection
9-1-5A of this title. (Ord. 186, 1-7-2003)
   E.   Alternative Setback And Height Requirements:
      1.   Generally: The City Council may apply alternative setback and height
requirements to buildings in the City of Hayden Lake without reference to the
standards of section
9-7-1 or subsection
9-7-3D of this title, if after a duly noticed public hearing, the Council finds
that the requirements of subsections E4 and/or E5 of this section are met.
      2.   Limitations: The approach authorized under this subsection shall not
be used to grant relief to setback or height requirements of more than fifty
percent (50%) of the dimension of the required setback or height. Requests for
greater relief to requirements must be processed as a variance and comply with
the legal standards for variances. (Ord. 256, 2-19-2013)
      3.   Application And Processing: Application requirements and processing
of the application shall be the same as those for a special use permit, as
specifically listed in section
9-6-2 and subsections
9-6-3A, B, C and F of this title. (Ord. 276, 1-5-2016)
      4.   General Standards For Alternative Setbacks:
         a.   The proposed construction within the alternative setback area
will not be a blatant departure from the established pattern of development on
residential lots in the same neighborhood;
         b.   The proposed construction within the alternative setback area
will not materially affect any neighboring residential landowner's reasonable
expectation of peace and quiet enjoyment of their property;
         c.   The proposed construction does not interfere with planned
expansion of right-of-way, and if right-of-way expansion is planned, the
encroachment is evaluated as if the right-of-way has been expanded;
         d.   The proposed construction does not result in interference with a
utility or access easement;
         e.   The proposed construction does not materially impede emergency
access to the building;
         f.   Drainage onto abutting properties, rights-of-way, and surface
waters is not significantly altered, and drainage patterns are not
substantially changed (when compared to the condition before the proposed
development); or drainage is improved through the use of upgraded and/or new
BMPs;
         g.   The proposed construction does not result in a nonconformity with
respect to the Building Code (e.g., required fire ratings for exterior walls
due to building spacing) on either the lot proposed for development or abutting
properties;
         h.   If the parcel that abuts the improvement is used for residential
purposes, the proposed construction is built to building code standards that
would allow construction of the abutting lot to be built to the same building
code standard along the same setback line;
         i.   The proposed construction does not reduce the area provided for
parking to fewer spaces than required by this code;
         j.   The proposed construction within the area of the alternative
setback will not result in an unsafe condition on any abutting public or
private road or shared driveway (e.g., by creating a visual obstruction); and
         k.   Sightlines along the abutting roads will be unchanged or will be
adequate to allow for safe traffic flow during vehicular movements into and out
of the lot.
      5.   General Standards For Alternative Height Requirements:
         a.   The proposed construction within the alternative setback area
will not be a blatant departure from the established pattern of development on
residential lots in the same neighborhood;
         b.   The proposed construction within the alternative setback area
will not materially affect any neighboring residential landowner's reasonable
expectation of peace and quiet enjoyment of their property;
         c.   The proposed construction will not result in greater restrictions
or increased costs to develop on any neighboring property;
         d.   The proposed construction will not result in an unsafe condition
on any abutting public or private road or shared driveway (e.g., by creating a
visual obstruction); and
         e.   Sightlines along the abutting roads will be unchanged or will be
adequate to allow for safe traffic flow during vehicular movements into and out
of the lot.
      6.   Conditions Of Approval: Conditions may be attached to a request that
is granted pursuant to this subsection which are reasonably related to assuring
compliance with the standards set forth above. (Ord. 256, 2-19-2013; amd. Ord.
312, 7-2-2024)
9-3-6: SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS:
   A.   Signs: Signs shall comply with the provisions of title 8, chapter 4 of
this code. (Ord. 192, 8-12-2003)
   B.   Garage Sales: Garage sales are allowed on residential lots for a
duration not to exceed three (3) days and for no more than two (2) garage sales
per year. (Ord. 253, 8-7-2012)
   C.   Animals: The keeping of animals within the city shall comply with the
provisions of section
5-1-1 of this code. (Ord. 255, 9-4-2012)
CHAPTER 4
OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-4-1: Uses
9-4-2: Building Height And Setback Requirements
9-4-3: Supplementary Regulations
9-4-1: USES:
   A.   By special permit, the following uses shall be allowed in an Overlay
Zoning District:
Commercial dock building.
Country club facilities.
Limited professional offices.
Restaurants. (Ord. 239, 6-1-2010)
   B.   No building shall be permitted where the location, size, design and
operational characteristics are not compatible with and adversely affect the
livability or appropriate development of abutting properties and the
surrounding neighborhood, with consideration to scale, bulk, site, coverage and
density. (Ord. 150, 7-7-1998)
9-4-2: BUILDING HEIGHT AND SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Building Height: The maximum building height of any structure shall be
thirty two feet (32').
   B.   Setbacks: See subsection
9-1-5B of this title.
   C.   Alternative Setback And Height Requirements: The maximum building
height and setback requirements set forth in subsections A and B of this
section shall be subject to the same alternative setback and height
requirements contained in subsection
9-3-5E of this title. (Ord. 288, 9-18-2018)
9-4-3: SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS:
   A.   Signs: Signs shall comply with the provisions of title 8, chapter 4 of
this Code. (Ord. 192, 8-12-2003)
CHAPTER 5
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES
SECTION:
9-5-1: Purpose
9-5-2: WCF Standards
9-5-3: Information Requirements
9-5-4: Additional Plans Required
9-5-5: Site Sharing
9-5-6: Maintenance Of Properties
9-5-7: Term Of Special Use Permit
9-5-8: Professional Services Provided
9-5-9: Abandoned Facilities
9-5-1: PURPOSE:
It is the express purpose of this chapter to minimize the visual and
environmental impacts of wireless communication service facilities by
regulating the placement, construction and modification of such facilities. If
feasible, wireless communication service facilities shall be located on
existing structures, including, but not limited to, buildings, water towers,
existing telecommunications facilities, utility poles and towers and related
facilities, provided that such installation preserves the character and
integrity of those structures. In particular applicants are urged to consider
the use of existing telephone and electric utility structures as sites for such
service. (Ord. 165, 3-13-2001)
9-5-2: WCF STANDARDS:
In addition to the general regulations provided herein, any new and modified
WCF shall comply with the standards set forth in this chapter. Substantial
changes (as determined by the city), including the physical expansion of a
siting area or the extension of a tower beyond ten feet (10') from its original
height shall require a new or modified special use permit.
   A.   General Standards: In case of a conflict between these standards and
other regulations, local, state or federal, the most restrictive regulations
shall apply.
      1.   The minimum lot size allowable for all WCF except modified
structures shall be the minimum required for the zone in which the WCF is
proposed to be located.
      2.   All new transmission towers shall be designed to allow for a minimum
colocation of at least four (4) additional providers. All modified structures
shall be designed to allow for a minimum colocation of at least one additional
provider.
      3.   Setbacks for transmission tower structures and modified structures
shall be measured from the security barrier and shall be not less than one foot
(1') for every five feet (5') of tower height, or the minimum setbacks for the
zone in which it is located, whichever is greater. All WCF shall be setback
from any residential structure a minimum of three hundred feet (300'). All
equipment shelters, cabinets, or other on the ground ancillary equipment shall
meet the setback requirements of the zone in which it is located.
      4.   All ancillary on the ground equipment shelters, cabinets and/or
equipment shall be situated on a permanent foundation and require a building
permit. All buildings shall be designed to match the architectural
characteristics of the surrounding neighborhood and shall use building
materials and colors that are compatible with the surrounding neighborhood.
      5.   Installation antenna array shall conform to such standards as are
required by the federal communication commission (FAA) requirements.
      6.   No WCF shall be constructed within a two (2) mile radius of an
existing transmission tower or modified facility.
      7.   Maximum allowable transmission tower height, including antennas, is
ten feet (10') above the average building height of buildings located within
three hundred feet (300') of the proposed facility. The city may impose
stricter height limitations due to obstruction of views or incompatibility with
surrounding uses including the average height of the surrounding tree canopy.
      8.   Outdoor storage of any supplies or vehicles related to the use of
the facility is prohibited.
      9.   No signs, striping, graphics or other attention getting devices are
permitted on WFC except for warning and safety signage with a surface area of
no more than three (3) square feet. Such signage shall be affixed to the fence
at the siting area the number of signs is limited to no more than two (2).
      10.   Antenna arrays located on an existing structure shall be placed in
such a manner so as to not be visible from a ground level view adjacent to the
structure and shall extend no higher than ten feet (10') above the top of the
structure. The antenna array shall be placed and colored and camouflaged to
blend into the architectural detail and coloring of the host structure.
      11.   The WCF shall be camouflaged to blend with the natural and built
surrounding environment. Support towers, etc., shall be painted a color and
designed in a manner that best allows it to blend into the surroundings.
      12.   Only such lighting as required by the FAA is permitted. The FAA
lighting requirement shall be met in the least obtrusive manner, as determined
by the city. Wherever possible, the city shall require that a waiver to FAA
requirements be sought. White strobe lighting will not be allowed unless
specifically required and not waived by the FAA. Security lighting for the
siting area is permitted as long as it is downward directed and shielded to
prevent all illumination from leaving the siting area boundary.
      13.   No hazardous waste shall be discharged on the site of any WCF. If
any hazardous materials are to be used on site, there shall be provisions for
full containment of such materials. An enclosed containment area shall be
provided and such other requirements as shall be recommended by the Panhandle
health district.
      14.   All stormwater runoff shall be contained on site.
      15.   The WCF shall not generate noise in excess of fifty (50) dB at the
property line as certified by a qualified acoustical engineer once the WCF is
complete and functioning.
   B.   Landscaping Requirements: Landscaping as shown on a landscape/design
prepared by a design professional shall be required. The following standards
shall apply:
      1.   Existing vegetation at the siting area shall be preserved to the
maximum extent possible. Landscaping shall be placed completely around the
siting area including all equipment, towers, shelters, cabinets and other on
the ground ancillary equipment except as required to access the facility. Such
landscaping shall consist of native vegetation placed densely enough so as to
form a year round one hundred percent (100%) sight obscuring buffer within
three (3) years from planting. The buffer for new transmission towers shall be
no less than ten feet (10') in width on all sides of the facility. Landscaping
shall be compatible with other nearby landscaping and shall be adequately
watered to be healthy and shall be well maintained on a regular monthly basis.
      2.   A security barrier shall be built around the WCF as required to
protect the public from radio frequency radiation. The security barrier shall
be obscured by landscaping as provided herein. (Ord. 165, 3-13-2001)
9-5-3: INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Specific Requirements: In addition to the general application
requirements for special use permits, the following application requirements
shall apply to WCF:
      1.   The applicant shall supply a written verification from an
independent, licensed engineer:
         a.   That alternative sites, both new and modified facilities, within
a radius of four (4) miles have been considered and have been determined to be
technologically unfeasible or legally unavailable as provided herein. The
evidence must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the city that no practical
alternative is reasonably available to the applicant. (Ord. 165, 3-13-2001)
         b.   That the proposed WCF complies with applicable building code
standards and all national standards and the manufacturer's recommended
installation guide, and all equipment proposed for the facility has been
authorized per the FCC guidelines for evaluation of the environmental effects
of radio frequency radiation. (Ord. 165, 3-13-2001; amd. Ord. 200, 3-9-2004)
         c.   That a structural analysis of the tower has been completed
demonstrating the tower's ability to accommodate the colocation as provided
herein.
         d.   That the proposed WCF complies with all applicable federal
building regulations and standards and that the FAA has reviewed and approved
the proposal.
      2.   A description of the need for the proposed facility at the proposed
location and justification for site selection.
      3.   A notarized statement of the property owner granting authorization
to proceed with the special use permit and agreement to be bound by the terms
of the permit and this chapter.
      4.   Evidence (duly recorded if necessary) of legal access to the site.
      5.   A signed agreement, binding upon all current and future owners,
stating that colocation on the proposed tower by other owners/operators will be
allowed.
      6.   Documentation of the legal right to install and use the proposed
facility.
   B.   Modifications: A modification of a WCF will require an application for
a special use permit when there is a change in the number of facilities or
carriers located on the site or a change in technology used at the site and/or
an additional equipment or additional height, not specified in the original
design, is added to the site. (Ord. 165, 3-13-2001)
   C.   Annual Information: After the WCF is operational, the applicant shall
submit to the city clerk within ninety (90) days of beginning operations and at
annual intervals from the date of issuance of the special use permit, the
following information: (Ord. 165, 3-13-2001; amd. Ord. 200, 3-9-2004)
      1.   The existing measurements of RFR from the WCF signed and certified
by an RF engineer, stating that RFR measurements are accurate and meet then
current FCC guidelines.
      2.   The existing measurements of noise from the WCF at the property line
signed and certified by an acoustical engineer, stating that the noise
measurements are accurate. (Ord. 165, 3-13-2001)
9-5-4: ADDITIONAL PLANS REQUIRED:
   A.   Vicinity Plan: The applicant shall provide as part of the initial
application a one inch equals forty feet (1" = 40') vicinity plan showing:
      1.   The property lines of the subject property and the property lines of
all properties adjacent to the subject property within three hundred feet
(300').
      2.   The tree cover on the subject property and adjacent properties
within three hundred feet (300'), by dominant species and average height.
      3.   An outline of all existing buildings including proposed buildings on
the subject property and all adjacent properties within three hundred feet
(300').
      4.   The proposed location of antenna, mount and equipment shelters.
      5.   The proposed location of the security barrier, indicating the type
and extent as well as point of controlled entry.
      6.   The location of all roads, public and private on the subject
property and on all adjacent properties within three hundred feet (300')
including driveways proposed to service the facility.
      7.   The distances, at grade, from the proposed WCF to each building on
the vicinity plan.
      8.   Contours at each ten feet (10') for the subject property and
adjacent properties within three hundred feet (300').
      9.   All proposed changes to the existing property, including grading,
vegetation removal and temporary or permanent roads and driveways.
      10.   Representations, dimensioned and to scale, of the proposed mount,
antennas, equipment shelters, cable runs, parking areas and any other
construction or development attendant to the WCF.
   B.   Photo Simulation: A photo simulation (including elevations) of the
proposed facility from each window and entry of each residential building
located within three hundred feet (300') of the proposed facility and from the
intersection of and midblock of each public right of way located within three
hundred feet (300') of the WCF. (Ord. 165, 3-13-2001)
9-5-5: SITE SHARING:
Applicants are required to share WCF and sites where feasible and appropriate.
All applicants shall demonstrate, at the time an application is submitted, a
good faith effort to colocate with other carriers and facilities. Such good
faith effort includes a survey of all existing structures that may be feasible
sites for colocation, contact with all other licensed carriers for commercial
mobile radio services operating within the county; and sharing information
necessary to determine if colocation is feasible under the design configuration
most accommodating to colocation. In the event that colocation is found to be
not feasible, a written statement of the reasons for the unfeasibility shall be
submitted to the city as part of the application. The city may, at its option,
retain a technical expert in the field of RF engineering to verify if
colocation at another site is not feasible or is feasible and the cost for such
a technical expert will be at the expense of the applicant. The city may deny a
special use permit to an applicant that has not demonstrated a good faith
effort to provide for colocation. (Ord. 165, 3-13-2001)
9-5-6: MAINTENANCE OF PROPERTIES:
The applicant and/or property owner shall maintain the WCF in good condition.
Such maintenance shall include, but not be limited to, painting, maintaining
the structural integrity of the facility, the mounts and security barrier and
maintenance of the buffer areas and landscaping. (Ord. 165, 3-13-2001)
9-5-7: TERM OF SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
A special use permit issued for WCF over forty feet (40') in height shall be
valid for fifteen (15) years. At the end of that time period, the WCF shall be
removed by the carrier or property owner or a new special use permit shall be
required. The city may, while reviewing the new special use permit, change or
add any conditions that are appropriate. (Ord. 165, 3-13-2001)
9-5-8: PROFESSIONAL SERVICES PROVIDED:
All services of an acoustical engineer and independent licensed engineer as
required in this section shall, at the discretion of the city, be either
provided by the applicant or hired by the city with expenses reimbursed to the
city by the applicant. (Ord. 165, 3-13-2001)
9-5-9: ABANDONED FACILITIES:
If any antenna or transmission tower or modified facility is not operated for a
continuous period of six (6) months it shall be considered abandoned. Any
wireless communication facility that is abandoned shall be reported immediately
by the service provider to the city clerk. The owner of such WCF or the
property owner shall remove the same with sixty (60) days of abandonment. If
such WCF is not removed within said sixty (60) days, the city may, at the
property owner's expense, remove the WCF and file a lien on the subject
property for expenses incurred in removal. If the city is compelled to seek
judicial authority to undertake such removal, the reasonable costs and attorney
fees incurred by the city in the course of doing so shall constitute a charge
against the owner. (Ord. 165, 3-13-2001; amd. Ord. 200, 3-9-2004)
CHAPTER 6
SPECIAL USE PERMITS
SECTION:
9-6-1: Authority To Grant
9-6-2: Preapplication Conference
9-6-3: Application Procedures
9-6-4: Conditions Of Permit
9-6-1: AUTHORITY TO GRANT:
Recognizing that there are certain uses of property that may not be, in the
opinion of the city council, detrimental to the public health, safety, morals
and general welfare depending upon the facts in each individual case, a limited
power to issue special use permits for certain uses is hereby vested in said
city council acting as a planning commission. (Ord. 150, 7-7-1998)
9-6-2: PREAPPLICATION CONFERENCE:
Every person who seeks a special use permit as provided herein shall meet with
the city clerk prior to submission of an application for a special use permit.
The purpose of this meeting is to discuss informally the purpose and effect of
the zoning ordinance, and the criteria and standards contained therein. (Ord.
150, 7-7-1998)
9-6-3: APPLICATION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Submission Forms; Fees: Submission of the special use permit
application shall be on a form prescribed by the city clerk, and the
application and required fee, set by resolution of the city council, shall be
paid to the city clerk. The application shall contain and be accompanied by the
following information:
      1.   An accurate scale drawing of the site including any affected
adjacent property and showing the location of all existing and proposed
structures, the maximum dimensions of all existing and proposed buildings,
streets, easements, property lines, setbacks, driveways, pedestrian walkways,
off street parking and off street loading facilities and landscaped areas,
buffering or other similar elements of site design.
      2.   An ownership list prepared by a person or entity with appropriate
expertise in the preparation of ownership lists, including a title company, or
a list obtained through the county assessor's office, and shall list the
boundaries of the property described in the application, using the last known
name and address of such owners as shown on the latest adopted tax roll of the
county. Both lists will identify property owners and residents within the
subject property and within a radius of three hundred feet (300') from the
external boundaries of the property described in the application. Where the
special use permit is requested by reason of height allowance, such list shall
also include any additional owners or purchasers of record within no less than
three (3) times the distance of the height of the allowed height of a structure
when more than one hundred feet (100').
   B.   Submission For Hearing: The completed form and documents must be
submitted to the city clerk not later than twenty five (25) days prior to the
date of a regular city council meeting where a public hearing to consider the
request for the special use permit can be set. The completed application shall
be deemed accepted for the twenty five (25) day processing period as of the
date when all plans and information have been filed, checked and accepted as
complete by the city clerk.
   C.   Public Hearing: After receiving a complete application including fees,
the city clerk shall set the time, place and date of the public hearing, shall
publish notice thereof once in the official newspaper of the city at least
fifteen (15) days before the hearing and shall notify by mail, at least fifteen
(15) days before the hearing all property owners and purchasers of record
within the subject property and within three hundred feet (300') of the
property's external boundaries. Notice shall also be posted on the city's
website at least fifteen (15) days before the hearing and on the premises at
least one week before the hearing. Where the special use permit is requested by
reason of height allowance, such notice shall also be mailed to any additional
owners or purchasers of record within no less than three (3) times the distance
of the height of the allowed height of a structure when more than one hundred
feet (100'). Said notice shall include the time and place of hearing, a summary
of the proposal and state that a copy of the application for a special use
permit is on file with the city clerk for public inspection.
   D.   Approval Of Permit: A special use permit may be approved only if the
proposal conforms to all of the following criteria, to the satisfaction of the
city council acting as the planning commission:
      1.   The location is compatible to other uses in the general
neighborhood;
      2.   The proposed use will not place an undue burden on transportation
and other public facilities in the vicinity;
      3.   The proposed use is a permitted use as defined under the zoning
regulations and is in compliance with the comprehensive plan;
      4.   The site is large enough to accommodate the proposed use and all
yards, open spaces, pathways, walls, fences, parking, loading, landscaping and
such other features as are required by this code;
      5.   The proposed use, if it complies with all conditions imposed, will
not adversely affect other property in the vicinity; and
      6.   All applicable regulations of the city and of other affected
agencies have been met.
   E.   Conditions Of Permit: Upon granting a special use permit, the city
council may attach conditions including, but not limited to, those:
      1.   Minimizing adverse impact on other development;
      2.   Controlling the sequence and timing of development;
      3.   Controlling the duration of development;
      4.   Assuring that development is maintained properly;
      5.   Designating the exact location and nature of development;
      6.   Requiring the provision for on site or off site public facilities or
services;
      7.   Requiring more restrictive standards than those generally required
in an ordinance;
      8.   Requiring mitigation of effects of the proposed development upon
service delivery by any political subdivision, including school districts,
providing services within the city.
   F.   Decision And Reconsideration: The city council shall issue and provide
to the applicant(s) a written decision on an application for a special use
permit no later than thirty (30) days after the hearing regarding the same.
Such decision shall be provided to the applicant(s) by personal delivery,
regular mail or electronic means. When sent by electronic means, the applicant
(s) shall be deemed to have received the decision on the date it was sent. When
sent by regular mail, the applicant(s) shall be deemed to have received the
decision three (3) days after the date of mailing. An applicant or affected
person may seek reconsideration of the decision by filing a written request
with the city clerk no later than fourteen (14) days after receiving the
decision. Such request must identify specific deficiencies in the decision for
which reconsideration is sought. Upon reconsideration, the decision may be
affirmed, reversed or modified. A written decision on the request for
reconsideration shall be provided to the applicant or affected person within
sixty (60) days of receipt of the request for reconsideration or the request is
deemed denied. (Ord. 261, 7-16-2013)
9-6-4: CONDITIONS OF PERMIT:
   A.   A special use permit shall be subject to and all development thereunder
shall adhere to the plans upon which the special use permit was granted and any
conditions placed thereon.
   B.   The permit shall terminate one year from the date it is approved by the
city council acting as the planning commission unless the city council finds
substantial development or actual commencement of construction has begun.
However, such period of time may be extended by the city council for one
additional year, without public notice, upon written request filed by the
applicant at any time before the permit has expired. (Ord. 150, 7-7-1998)
   C.   A special use permit shall be required for the location of a WCF in any
zone or overlay zone. In addition to the general requirements for a special use
permit, the specific requirements found herein for WCF shall apply. The city
council shall evaluate every application for a special use permit for a WCF on
a case by case basis. (Ord. 165, 3-13-2001)
   D.   In the event of a violation of any of the provisions of the zoning
ordinance, or in the event of a failure to comply with any portions of the
permit approved or conditions placed thereon, the city council acting as the
planning commission may, after notice and hearing as herein provided, revoke
any special use permit. (Ord. 150, 7-7-1998)
CHAPTER 7
VARIANCES
SECTION:
9-7-1: Authority To Grant
9-7-2: Preapplication Conference
9-7-3: Variance Procedures
9-7-1: AUTHORITY TO GRANT:
The city council may authorize a variance from the regulations established in
this title when, in its opinion, the applicant has shown undue hardship because
of exceptional physical characteristics of the site, where such strict
application would result in impractical difficulties or unnecessary hardship
that would deprive the owner of the reasonable use of the land or building
involved, and the variance is not in conflict with the public interest. The
special circumstances or conditions must be particular to the site and not
applicable generally to land or buildings in the city. In granting any
variance, the city council shall prescribe only conditions that it deems
necessary to or desirable for the public interest. A variance shall not be
considered a right or a special privilege. (Ord. 165, 3-13-2001)
9-7-2: PREAPPLICATION CONFERENCE:
Every person who seeks a variance permit as provided herein shall meet with the
city clerk prior to submission of an application for a variance permit. The
purpose of this meeting is to informally discuss the purpose and effect of the
zoning ordinance, and the criteria and standards contained therein. (Ord. 165,
3-13-2001)
9-7-3: VARIANCE PROCEDURES:
   A.   Submission Forms; Fees: Submission of the variance permit application
shall be on a form prescribed by the city clerk, and the application and
required fee, set by resolution of the city council, shall be paid to the city
clerk. The application shall contain and be accompanied by the following
information: (Ord. 165, 3-13-2001; amd. Ord. 200, 3-9-2004)
      1.   An accurate scale drawing of the site including any affected
adjacent property and showing the location of all existing and proposed
structures, the maximum dimensions of all existing and proposed buildings,
streets, easements, property lines, setbacks, driveways, pedestrian walkways,
off street parking and off street loading facilities and landscaped areas,
buffering or other similar elements of site design.
      2.   A physical description of all buildings and architectural drawing(s)
of all proposed buildings showing height, dimensions, design, exterior finish
and other appropriate aspects of the building.
      3.   An ownership list prepared by a person or entity with appropriate
expertise in the preparation of ownership lists, including a title company, or
a list obtained through the county assessor's office, and shall list the
boundaries of the property described in the application, using the last known
name and address of such owners as shown on the latest adopted tax roll of the
county. The list shall also include a list of residents for property that is
not owner occupied. Both lists will identify property owners and residents
within the subject property and within a radius of three hundred feet (300')
from the external boundaries of the property described in the application.
   B.   Submit Application: The completed form and documents must be submitted
to the city clerk not later than twenty five (25) days prior to the date of a
regular city council meeting where a public hearing to consider the request for
the variance permit can be set. The completed application shall be deemed
accepted for the twenty five (25) day processing period as of the date when all
plans and information have been filed, checked and accepted as complete by the
city clerk. (Ord. 165, 3-13-2001)
   C.   Public Hearing, Decision And Reconsideration: After receiving a
complete application including fees the city clerk shall set the time, place
and date of the public hearing, shall publish notice thereof once in the
official newspaper of the city at least fifteen (15) days before the hearing
and shall notify by mail at least fifteen (15) days before the hearing all
property owners or purchasers of record within three hundred feet (300') of the
property's external boundaries. Said notice shall state the time and place of
hearing, a brief description of the request and state that a copy of the
application for a variance is on file with the city clerk for public
inspection. The city council shall issue and provide to the applicant(s) a
written decision on an application for a variance no later than thirty (30)
days after the hearing regarding the same. Such decision shall be provided to
the applicant(s) by personal delivery, regular mail or electronic means. When
sent by electronic means, the applicant(s) shall be deemed to have received the
decision on the date it was sent. When sent by regular mail, the applicant(s)
shall be deemed to have received the decision three (3) days after the date of
mailing. An applicant or affected person may seek reconsideration of the
decision by filing a written request with the city clerk no later than fourteen
(14) days after receiving the decision. Such request must identify specific
deficiencies in the decision for which reconsideration is sought. Upon
reconsideration, the decision may be affirmed, reversed or modified. A written
decision on the request for reconsideration shall be provided to the applicant
or affected person within sixty (60) days of receipt of the request for
reconsideration or the request is deemed denied. (Ord. 261, 7-16-2013)
   D.   Criteria For Approval: A variance permit may be approved only if the
proposal conforms to all of the following criteria, to the satisfaction of the
city council acting as the planning commission: (Ord. 165, 3-13-2001)
      1.   There is undue hardship as a result of special physical
characteristics affecting said property.
      2.   The variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a
substantial property right of the petitioner.
      3.   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to other property in the territory in which said property
is situated.
      4.   The granting of the variance would not be contrary to the zoning
ordinance or the comprehensive plan. (Ord. 150, 7-7-1998)
CHAPTER 8
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
9-8-1: Title And Purpose
9-8-2: Nuisances Declared
9-8-3: Continuance Of Nonconforming Use
9-8-4: Activity Nonconformities
9-8-5: Dimensional And Lot Nonconformities
9-8-1: TITLE AND PURPOSE:
The provisions of this chapter shall be known as the NONCONFORMING USE
REGULATIONS of the city. The purpose of these regulations is to control, and
allow for renovation, repair and changes for uses which do not conform to the
zoning regulations of the city. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to
all nonconforming uses. Nonconforming uses shall include:
   A.   Nonconforming Activity: A nonconforming situation that occurs when
property is used for a purpose or in a manner made unlawful by the zoning
district. The term also refers to the activity that constitutes the use made of
the property.
   B.   Dimensional Nonconformity: A nonconforming situation that occurs when
the height, size or minimum floor space of a structure or the relationship
between an existing building or buildings and other buildings or lot lines does
not conform to the regulations applicable to the district in which the property
is located.
   C.   Nonconforming Lot: A lot that does not meet the minimum area
requirement of the district in which the lot is located. (Ord. 150, 7-7-1998)
9-8-2: NUISANCES DECLARED:
None of the provisions of the nonconforming use regulations contained in this
chapter restrict the authority to require modification or termination of any
nonconforming use which has been declared to be a nuisance by the city council.
(Ord. 150, 7-7-1998)
9-8-3: CONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMING USE:
A nonconforming use which is in existence on the effective date of the zoning
ordinance or of any subsequent rezoning or other amendment thereto which makes
such use nonconforming may be continued and maintained, as specified in this
chapter. No substitution, extension or other change in activities and no
alteration or other change in facilities is permitted except as specifically
provided in this chapter. (Ord. 150, 7-7-1998)
9-8-4: ACTIVITY NONCONFORMITIES:
   A.   Abandonment Of Use: Whenever a use, which is nonconforming because it
is not a permitted activity, discontinues active operation for a continuous
period of six (6) months, such nonconforming use shall be considered to be
abandoned and may not be resumed. The facilities of such a use may be used
thereafter, but only for a permitted activity. A use, which is nonconforming
because of dimension or lot size, may resume operations regardless of the
period during which it may have discontinued active operation.
   B.   Damage Or Destruction Of Facilities: Whenever a nonconforming facility
is damaged or destroyed, the facility may only be restored to accommodate the
same nonconforming activity. The restoration must be substantially completed
within one year after damage or destruction. If it is not, the nonconforming
activity is considered to be abandoned and cannot be restored except for use as
a permitted activity.
   C.   Repairs, Alterations And Expansions Of Facilities: Facilities for a use
which is nonconforming because the activity is not itself permitted where it is
located may be repaired, altered and expanded; provided, no structural
alterations or expansions, except those required by law, shall be made to a
facility used for a nonconforming activity if such alterations result in an
increase in the total amount of space devoted to the nonconforming activity.
   D.   Substitutions: Substitutions are allowed with permission of the city
council. A substitution is the replacement of an existing nonconforming
activity by a new nonconforming activity, or a change in the nature of an
existing nonconforming activity. It does not include a change of ownership,
tenancy or management where the previous line of business or other function is
substantially unchanged.
   E.   Change To Permitted Activity Or Activity Not Requiring Special Use
Permit: Any nonconforming activity may be replaced by an activity permitted in
the zoning district. If a nonconforming activity is replaced by a conforming
activity, the nonconforming activity shall not be resumed. (Ord. 150, 7-7-1998)
9-8-5: DIMENSIONAL AND LOT NONCONFORMITIES:
   A.   Dimensional Nonconformities:
      1.   Whenever a nonconforming facility is replaced, damaged or destroyed,
the facility may be restored complying with the original footprint of the
nonconforming portion of the structure but in a manner which would not increase
the preexisting degree of nonconformity. If the preexisting nonconforming
portion of the structure is included in any modification to the facility and if
this portion of the structure includes overhangs, eave lines or rooflines,
these overhanging features shall be modified to eliminate the nonconformity to
the extent possible.
      2.   Any portion of a nonconforming facility which is changed to conform
to the regulations of the zoning district where located shall not be changed
back to a nonconforming portion.
   B.   Lot Nonconformities: Whenever a structure that is otherwise conforming,
except that the lot upon which it is located is nonconforming is damaged or
destroyed, then the structure may be repaired or rebuilt as set forth above.
Also, nonconforming lots may be adjusted utilizing the boundary line adjustment
process described in subsection
9-3-5A3 of this title so long as the adjustment does not create a new
nonconformity or a greater degree of nonconformity. In order to preserve the
status of a legal, nonconforming lot that is eligible for a building permit, a
building site (the area of the lot that is left after setbacks are considered)
must be maintained with a minimum of thirty feet (30') in the smallest
dimension and must be at least one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet in
size.
   C.   Nonconforming As To Dimension And Lot: Any nonconforming facility used
for a permitted activity may be repaired, altered or expanded subject to the
following provisions:
      1.   No structural alterations or expansions, except those required by
law, shall be made to the nonconforming portion of any facility.
      2.   Such repairs or alterations shall not result in a greater degree of
nonconformity. (Ord. 276, 1-5-2016)
CHAPTER 9
SHORT-TERM RENTALS
SECTION:
9-9-1: Purpose
9-9-2: Definitions
9-9-3: Permit Required
9-9-4: Standards
9-9-5: Violations; Penalties
9-9-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations for the use of
residential dwellings as short-term rentals, to safeguard the public health,
safety and general welfare, to protect the integrity of the City's
neighborhoods, to establish a system to track the short-term rental inventory
in the City, to ensure compliance with local performance standards, to provide
a means of contact for the responsible party of a short-term rental and to
allow private property owners the right to fully and efficiently utilize their
property without undue regulation or interference.
   B.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to nullify or override any
lease agreements, or covenants, conditions, and restrictions applicable to the
property that may prohibit or restrict its use for short-term rental purposes.
(Ord. 299, 10-20-2020)
9-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
 
OCCUPANT:             Shall mean the person or persons who contract with the
                      responsible party for use of the short-term rental.
                      Shall mean a single unit providing complete and
                      independent living facilities for one or more persons,
                      including permanent provisions for living, sleeping,
RESIDENTIAL DWELLING: eating, cooking, and sanitation. Tents, recreational
                      vehicles, campers, and similar units not designed for
                      permanent residential use are excluded from this
                      definition.
                      Shall mean the owner of a residential dwelling being used
                      as a short-term rental, as well as any person designated
                      by the owner who is responsible for compliance with this
                      chapter by an occupant and any guests utilizing the
                      short-term rental. The responsible party shall provide
                      for the maintenance of the property and ensure compliance
                      by the occupant and any guests with the provisions of
                      this chapter, or any other applicable law, rule, or
RESPONSIBLE PARTY:    regulation pertaining to the use and occupancy of a
                      short- term rental. The owner of the property shall not
                      be relieved of responsibility or liability for
                      noncompliance with the provisions of this chapter, or any
                      other applicable law, rule, or regulation pertaining to
                      the use and occupancy of a short-term rental because of
                      the designation of another responsible party. All
                      responsible parties shall be at least twenty-one (21)
                      years old.
                      Shall mean a residential dwelling which is rented for
                      thirty (30) days or fewer, and which is sometimes
SHORT-TERM RENTAL:    referred to as a "vacation rental". This term does not
                      include country club facilities as that term is defined
                      in City Code Section
                      9-2-1. (Ord. 299, 10-20-2020)
 
9-9-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   An applicant for a short-term rental permit must be the owner of the
residential dwelling to be offered for rent. No person with less than a fee
ownership interest may apply for a short-term rental permit.
      1.   A short-term rental permit is valid only for the residential
dwelling identified in the application. An applicant shall file a separate
application and obtain a separate permit for each residential dwelling to be
used as a short-term rental.
      2.   A short-term rental permit is non-transferable.
   B.   Prior to offering a short-term rental to the public, the owner of the
residential dwelling shall complete an application on a form provided by the
City and file it with the City Clerk or his/her designee. The application shall
include:
      1.   The owner's legal name, date of birth, contact number, both physical
and mailing addresses, and email address;
      2.   If the short-term rental is to be operated or managed by someone
other than the owner, the name, date of birth, contact number, both physical
and mailing addresses, and email address for a responsible party with day-to-
day authority and/or control over the short-term rental;
      3.   The address of the short-term rental;
      4.   The signatures of the owner and other responsible party, if any,
agreeing and acknowledging that they are jointly responsible for the compliance
by the occupant and any guests with all applicable laws, rules, and regulations
pertaining to the use and occupancy of the short-term rental, and for any
unreasonable noise, disturbances or disorderly conduct by the occupant and/or
guests while utilizing or while on the property of the short-term rental; and
      5.   The fee established by resolution of the City Council.
   C.   If any information required by subsections B1 through B4 of this
section changes, a responsible party shall promptly advise the City.
   D.   Short-term rentals are not a grandfathered use. All short-term rentals
in the City must have a permit to operate.
   E.   A short-term rental permit expires on March 31 of each following year;
provided, if the residential dwelling identified in the application is sold or
title is otherwise transferred, the permit shall automatically expire upon the
transfer of title.
      1.   To renew a short-term rental permit, the holder shall submit an
application for renewal on a form provided by the City to the City Clerk or
his/her designee, together with the renewal fee.
      2.   The renewal application must be submitted by March 1 of each
following year. A permit for which a renewal application is not submitted by
March 1 shall expire on March 31.
      3.   If a permit has expired, a new application shall be required.
   F.   Subject to subsection
9-9-1.B of this chapter, any residential dwelling in the City may be rented
without a permit for no more than fourteen (14) days per calendar year, where
those fourteen (14) days are divided into no more than two (2) stays. (Ord.
299, 10-20-2020)
9-9-4: STANDARDS:
   A.   Accessory Buildings:
      1.   An accessory building, as defined by subsection
9-2-1 of this title, may be rented as a short-term rental, provided that either
the principal dwelling or accessory building on the property must be occupied
by a majority owner of the property or an immediate family member of the
property owner more than six (6) months out of any given year.
      2.   A principal dwelling and its associated accessory building may not
both be rented out concurrently as short-term rentals.
   B.   Duties of Responsible Party:
      1.   A responsible party must be available twenty four (24) hours per
day, seven (7) days per week, for the purpose of responding within sixty (60)
minutes to complaints regarding the condition of the short-term rental or the
conduct of the occupant of the short-term rental and/or their guests.
      2.   A responsible party shall obtain the name, address, and contact
number of each occupant of a short-term rental.
      3.   A responsible party shall provide the information required in
subsection B.2 of this section to the City at the City's request, if available.
      4.   A responsible party, upon notification that any occupant or guest
has created any unreasonable noise or disturbance, engaged in disorderly
conduct, or committed a violation of any applicable law, rule or regulation
pertaining to the use and occupancy of a short-term rental, shall promptly
respond in an appropriate manner within sixty (60) minutes and require an
immediate halt to the conduct, and take such steps as may be necessary to
prevent a recurrence of such conduct. Failure of the responsible party to
respond to calls or complaints regarding the condition, operation, or conduct
of an occupant or guest in a short-term rental in an appropriate manner within
sixty (60) minutes shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
      5.   A responsible party shall prepare a written notice, and shall mail
or deliver the notice to all residents and owners of property abutting or
across the street from the short-term rental, which notice shall state the
intent to operate a short-term rental and the number of bedrooms that will be
rented to overnight guests, and include information on how to contact the
responsible party by phone.
      6.   A responsible party shall post on or near the front door of the
short-term rental a notice which includes the address of the rental, emergency
contact numbers, and a diagram showing emergency exit route(s) approved by the
Fire Department.
   C.   Information Provided to Occupants:
      1.   At the time of each occupancy of the unit, the responsible party
shall provide to the occupant of a short-term rental the following:
         a.   A current copy of the short-term rental permit;
         b.   The name and contact number of all responsible parties;
         c.   A notice of the trash pick-up day, and applicable rules and
regulations pertaining to leaving or storing trash on the exterior of the
dwelling; and
         d.   Parking locations and requirements.
   D.   Occupancy:
      1.   The maximum number of overnight guests occupying a short-term rental
shall not exceed the definition of "family" as provided in subsection
9-2-1 of this title.
      2.   Guests of an occupant may use a short-term rental only when an
occupant is present and may not stay overnight.
      3.   A responsible party may rent either the entire residential dwelling
or one room of the residential dwelling to an occupant. Under no circumstances
shall a responsible party rent individual rooms in a short-term rental to
different occupants for the same night or nights.
      4.   No recreational vehicle, travel trailer, tent, or other temporary
shelter shall be used as a short-term rental or in conjunction therewith to
provide additional sleeping areas or otherwise.
   E.   Outdoor Storage:
      1.   Storage of equipment, inventory, or work-related items other than
vehicles, shall be within the residence or a permitted accessory building.
Outdoor storage and storage containers are prohibited. For purposes of this
article, the term "storage container" refers to industrial and commercial
shipping containers and buildings, including PODS and like containers, which
are designed to be portable and/or temporary and which do not meet the design
criteria for accessory buildings. The term does not include sheds or small
storage buildings intended for incidental residential use and which are
compatible with residential use.
   F.   Parking:
      1.   All occupants and guests shall, to the greatest extent possible,
utilize any off-street parking of the residential dwelling which constitutes
the short-term rental. On-street parking by occupants and guests shall be
governed by subsection
6-1-3 of this Code.
      2.   An accessory building, built after the effective date of this
chapter and used as a short-term rental, requires one off-street parking space
in addition to parking spaces required for the principal dwelling.
   G.   Signs and Advertising:
      1.   No sign indicating that the residence is a short-term rental or that
it is for rent or lease shall be displayed such that it is visible from any
other public or private property.
      2.   The street number of a short-term rental shall be posted in
accordance with Fire Department IFC requirements.
      3.   All advertising for the short-term rental shall include the City
permit number and the maximum number of vehicles accommodated by off-street
parking spaces.
   H.   Trash:
      1.   Trash and refuse shall not be left stored within public view except
in proper containers for the purpose of collection by the authorized waste
hauler on scheduled trash collection days.
      2.   The short-term rental property shall, at all times, be kept in a
neat and sanitary condition, in compliance with the requirements of this Code.
   I.   Zoning:
      1.   Subject to the standards and restrictions applicable to such zone,
the standards and restrictions contained in this chapter, and any permit
requirements, the use of a residential dwelling as a short-term rental is
permitted as a right in the residential district only. (Ord. 299, 10-20-2020)
9-9-5: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Violations:
      1.   It is unlawful for any responsible party to offer for rent a short-
term rental or to operate a short-term rental without a City permit.
      2.   It is a violation of this chapter if a responsible party, or an
occupant or guest knowingly and willfully violates any provision of this
chapter.
   B.   Penalty:
      1.   For any offense, the violator shall be subject to an infraction
pursuant to the general penalty provision found in subsection
1-4-1 of this Code.
      2.   In addition to any other remedy or procedure authorized by law, for
three (3) or more violations of or failure to comply with any of the standards
of this chapter in a calendar year, the City Code Enforcement Officer or his/
her designee may revoke any or all of the owner's permits and, in addition, may
order that no new permit shall be issued for up to three (3) years pursuant to
the following procedures.
         a.   Prior to the revocation of any permit or the denial of a permit
for repeated violation of the provisions of this chapter, written notice of the
reasons for such action shall be served on the owner and/or responsible party
in person or by certified mail at the address on the permit application.
Revocation shall become final within ten (10) days of service unless the owner
and/or responsible party appeals the action. The owner and/or responsible party
shall provide the appeal in writing to the City Clerk or his/her designee
within ten (10) days of receipt of the notice. The written notice of appeal
must state the reasons for the appeal and the relief requested.
         b.   Should the owner and/or responsible party request an appeal
within the ten (10) day period, the City Clerk or his/her designee shall notify
the owner and/or responsible party in writing of the time and place of the
hearing.
         c.   Appeals shall be heard by the Mayor and City Council.
         d.   For good cause shown, the City Council may affirm or reverse the
decision to revoke a permit. The City Council may affirm, reverse, or modify a
decision to deny a new permit upon a showing of good cause. The city council
shall issue and provide to the appellant a written decision no later than
thirty (30) days after the hearing regarding the same. Such decision shall be
provided to the appellant by personal delivery, regular mail or electronic
means. When sent by electronic means, the appellant shall be deemed to have
received the decision on the date it was sent. When sent by regular mail, the
appellant shall be deemed to have received the decision three (3) days after
the date of mailing. An appellant or affected person may seek reconsideration
of the decision by filing a written request with the city clerk no later than
fourteen (14) days after receiving the decision. Such request must identify
specific deficiencies in the decision for which reconsideration is sought. Upon
reconsideration, the decision may be affirmed, reversed or modified. A written
decision on the request for reconsideration shall be provided to the appellant
or affected person within sixty (60) days of receipt of the request for
reconsideration or the request is deemed denied. (Ord. 299, 10-20-2020)
TITLE 10
SUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Authority And Applicability
10-1-3: Scope And Purpose
10-1-4: Administration
10-1-5: Application Form And Fees
10-1-6: Approval And Recording Of Plats
10-1-7: Modification Or Revision Of Plats
10-1-8: Improvements Or Guarantees
10-1-9: Variances
10-1-10: Violation And Penalty
10-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known as the SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS of the city of Hayden
Lake, Idaho. (Ord. 119, 5-3-1994)
10-1-2: AUTHORITY AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   These regulations are authorized by Idaho Code 50-1301 et seq., Idaho
Code 67-6513 and Idaho constitution article XII, section 2, as amended or
subsequently codified.
   B.   This title shall apply, in conformance with the Idaho Code, to all
divisions of property when said property is located within the city and to all
divisions of property when said property is located either within one mile of
the boundaries of the city, as provided in Idaho Code 50-1306, or as authorized
by agreement with Kootenai County within any area of city impact adopted
pursuant to Idaho Code 67-6526.
   C.   There are four (4) types of plats or subdivisions provided for within
these regulations. They are:
Preliminary plats;
Final plats;
Short plats; and
Planned unit developments. (Ord. 119, 5-3-1994)
10-1-3: SCOPE AND PURPOSE:
The purpose of these subdivision regulations is to prescribe the procedures by
which:
   A.   A plat is required when a lot, tract, or parcel of land is divided into
two (2) or more parts for the purpose (whether immediate or future) of transfer
of ownership or for building development, except as noted herein;
   B.   Proper provisions for streets and roads, including location, design and
construction, are made;
   C.   Any plat is made and filed; and
   D.   These regulations shall not apply to the following divisions of land:
      1.   An adjustment of lot lines, as shown on a recorded plat, which does
not reduce the area, frontage, width, depth or building setback lines of each
building site below the minimum zoning requirements, and does not increase the
original number of lots in any block of the recorded plat;
      2.   An allocation of land in the settlement of an estate of a decedent
or a court decree for the distribution of property;
      3.   The unwilling sale of land as a result of legal condemnation as
defined and as allowed in the Idaho Code;
      4.   The acquisition of street rights of way by a public agency; and
      5.   Any lot or lots forming a part of a subdivision created and recorded
prior to the effective date hereof. (Ord. 119, 5-3-1994; amd. Ord. 312, 7-2-
2024)
10-1-4: ADMINISTRATION:
This title is administered jointly by the city clerk and the city engineer, as
directed by the city council. All plats shall be received and processed by the
city clerk. All plats shall be reviewed by the city engineer for compliance
with the technical standards set forth in this title. (Ord. 119, 5-3-1994)
10-1-5: APPLICATION FORM AND FEES:
   A.   Applications: All plats must be accompanied by the appropriate
application form, number of plats and required fee.
   B.   Plat Submitted: A plat shall be submitted to the city clerk, who shall
then forward the plat to the city engineer for review and comment. (Ord. 119,
5-3-1994)
   C.   Fees: In addition to the following filing fees, the subdivider shall
pay to the city the actual cost incurred by the city engineer of checking,
investigating and other matters required by law and these regulations.
      1.   Prior to any plat being accepted for processing hereunder, the
subdivider shall pay a filing fee as set by resolution of the city council plus
the cost of processing the same as estimated by the city clerk for every
preliminary plat and short plat submitted to the city council for approval.
      2.   Prior to any development plan being accepted for processing
hereunder as a planned unit development, the subdivider shall pay a filing fee
as set by resolution of the city council plus the cost of processing the same
as estimated by the city clerk for submittal to the city council for approval.
      3.   The subdivider shall pay a fee as set by resolution of the city
council for any requested extension of a preliminary plat or plan approval
submitted to the city council as provided herein. (Ord. 261, 7-16-2013)
10-1-6: APPROVAL AND RECORDING OF PLATS:
   A.   No map, plat, replat or plan of a subdivision or planned unit
development subject to the provisions of this title shall be recorded or
received for recording in any public office unless or until that map, plat,
replat or plan has been approved by the city engineer, city clerk and the city
council and shall bear the certificate of final approval signed as required by
Idaho Code 50-1308.
   B.   No plat of any subdivision or planned unit development shall be
entitled to be recorded in the county recorder's office or have any validity
until it shall have been approved as provided in this title. In the event any
such unapproved plat is recorded, it shall be considered invalid, and the city
council may institute proceedings to have the plat stricken from the records of
Kootenai County, Idaho.
   C.   No owner or agent of the owner of any land located within a subdivision
or planned unit development shall transfer, sell, agree to sell or negotiate to
sell any land by reference to, exhibition of or by the use of a plan or plat of
a subdivision or planned unit development before such plan or plat has been
approved and recorded in the manner prescribed by this title. Any sale or
transfer contrary to the provisions of this title is void. The description of
such lot or parcel by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other
documents used in the process of selling or transferring shall not exempt the
transaction from the provisions of this title.
   D.   The building inspector shall not issue building or repair permits for
any structure on a lot in a subdivision or planned unit development for which a
plat has not been approved and recorded in the manner prescribed herein, nor
issue a permit for the installation of water service and sewer connection upon
any lot in a subdivision or planned unit development for which a plat has not
been approved and recorded in the manner prescribed herein.
   E.   Further, no short subdivision required by this title shall be recorded
by the county recorder until such short subdivision has received approval by
the city council.
   F.   The city hereby defines its policy to be that the city, to the extent
possible, will withhold all public improvements of whatsoever nature, including
the maintenance of streets and the furnishing of sewerage facilities and water
service, from all subdivisions or planned unit developments which have not been
approved and from all areas dedicated to the public which have not been
accepted by the city council in the manner prescribed herein. (Ord. 119, 5-3-
1994)
10-1-7: MODIFICATION OR REVISION OF PLATS:
No changes, erasures, modifications or revisions shall be made in any plat of a
subdivision or planned unit development after approval has been given by the
city council unless the said plat is first resubmitted to the city council.
(Ord. 119, 5-3-1994)
10-1-8: IMPROVEMENTS OR GUARANTEES:
Before consideration of a final plat of a subdivision and/or PUD, the city
council must be satisfied that all improvements required have been constructed.
In lieu of the completion of the improvements, a bond executed by a surety
company, based on an estimate by the City Engineer, shall be furnished by the
subdivider in an amount equal to one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the cost
of construction of such improvements.
The surety will be subject to the condition that the improvements will be
completed twelve (12) months after approval of the final plat or PUD, and in
the event they are not completed, the City shall proceed with the work and hold
the owner and the bonding company jointly responsible for the costs thereof. As
an alternative, the subdivider may deposit a certified check with and payable
to the City in place of the surety bond. (Ord. 119, 5-3-1994)
10-1-9: VARIANCES:
   A.   Authorization Of Variances: The City Council may authorize a variance
from design standards when, in its opinion, the applicant has shown undue
hardship because of physical characteristics of the site and the variance is
not in conflict with the public interest. In granting any variance, the City
Council shall prescribe only conditions that it deems necessary to or desirable
for the public interest. A variance shall not be considered a right or a
special privilege. In making its findings, as required hereinbelow, the City
Council shall take into account the nature of the proposed use of land and the
existing use of land in the vicinity, the number of persons to reside or work
in the proposed subdivision and the probable effect of the proposed subdivision
upon traffic conditions in the vicinity. No variance shall be granted unless
the City Council finds:
      1.   There is undue hardship as a result of special physical
characteristics affecting said property.
      2.   The variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a
substantial property right of the petitioner.
      3.   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to other property in the territory in which said property
is situated.
      4.   The granting of the variance would not be contrary to the zoning
ordinance or the comprehensive plan of the City.
   B.   Public Hearing, Decision And Reconsideration: After receiving a
complete application including fees, the City Clerk shall set the time, place
and date of the public hearing, shall publish notice thereof once in the
official newspaper of the City at least fifteen (15) days before the hearing
and shall notify by mail at least fifteen (15) days before the hearing all
property owners or purchasers of record within three hundred feet (300') of the
property's external boundaries. Said notice shall state the time and place of
hearing, a brief description of the request for a variance and state that a
copy of the application for a variance is on file with the City Clerk for
public inspection. The City Council shall issue and provide to the applicant(s)
a written decision on an application for a variance no later than thirty (30)
days after the public hearing regarding the same. Such decision shall be
provided to the applicant(s) by personal delivery, regular mail or electronic
means. When sent by electronic means, the applicant(s) shall be deemed to have
received the decision on the date it was sent. When sent by regular mail, the
applicant(s) shall be deemed to have received the decision three (3) days after
the date of mailing. An applicant or affected person may seek reconsideration
of the decision by filing a written request with the City Clerk no later than
fourteen (14) days after receiving the decision. Such request must identify
specific deficiencies in the decision for which reconsideration is sought. Upon
reconsideration, the decision may be affirmed, reversed or modified. A written
decision on the request for reconsideration shall be provided to the applicant
or affected person within sixty (60) days of receipt of the request for
reconsideration or the request is deemed denied. (Ord. 261, 7-16-2013)
10-1-10: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
   A.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this title shall be
deemed guilty of an infraction and shall be subject to penalty not to exceed
three hundred dollars ($300.00) for each violation. Each day the subdivider is
in violation shall be treated as a separate offense. (Ord. 290, 2-19-2019)
   B.   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City Council or any other
public official or private citizen from taking such lawful action as is
necessary to restrain or prevent any violation of this title or of the Idaho
Code. (Ord. 119, 5-3-1994)
CHAPTER 2
SUBDIVISION DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Definitions
10-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivatives shall have the meanings given herein unless their context clearly
indicates that they are intended to have some other meaning:
Words used in the present tense include the future; the plural includes the
singular; the word "shall" is always mandatory, the word "may" denotes a use of
discretion in making a decision.
                                     A passage or way, open to public travel
                                     and dedicated to public use, affording
ALLEY:                               generally a secondary means of vehicular
                                     access to abutting lots and not intended
                                     for the general traffic circulation.
                                     A parcel of land bounded on all sides by
BLOCK:                               street rights of way, railroad rights of
                                     way, waterways, parks, unsubdivided
                                     acreage or a combination thereof.
BUILDING INSPECTOR:                  The building inspector of the city of
                                     Hayden Lake.
                                     A line at the minimum distance as
                                     prescribed by this title and/or other
                                     ordinances of the city between any
BUILDING SETBACK LINE:               property line or recorded easement
                                     requiring setback, and the closest point
                                     of the foundation of any building or
                                     structure related thereto.
CITY:                                The city of Hayden Lake, Idaho.
CITY CLERK OR CLERK:                 The city clerk of the city of Hayden Lake.
CITY COUNCIL OR COUNCIL:             The city council of the city of Hayden
                                     Lake.
CITY ENGINEER:                       The city engineer of the city of Hayden
                                     Lake.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:                  The comprehensive plan adopted by the city
                                     council. 1
                                     An estate consisting of: a) an undivided
                                     interest in common in real property in an
                                     interest or interests in real property or
CONDOMINIUM:                         in any combination thereof, together with
                                     b) a separate interest in real property,
                                     in an interest or interests in real
                                     property, or any combination thereof.
                                     The deliberate appropriation of land by
                                     its owner for any general or public use,
                                     reserving unto himself no other right than
                                     such as are compatible with the full
DEDICATION:                          exercise and enjoyment of the public uses
                                     to which the property has been
                                     appropriated. Dedications shall take
                                     effect only upon recordation of the
                                     approved plat and the specific acceptance
                                     by the city council.
                                     A plan or drawing of a planned unit
DEVELOPMENT PLAN:                    development submitted to the city (see
                                     definitions Preliminary Development plan
                                     and Final Development Plan).
                                     Any transaction or action, not otherwise
                                     exempt as provided for under the
                                     provisions of this title, which alters or
                                     affects the shape, size or legal
DIVISION OF LAND:                    description of any part of an owner's land
                                     as defined herein. Rental or lease of a
                                     building, facility or structure which does
                                     not alter or affect the legal description
                                     of an owner's land shall not constitute a
                                     division of land.
                                     A grant by a property owner to specific
EASEMENT:                            persons or to the public to use land for a
                                     specific purpose or purposes.
                                     The plan of a plat for a planned unit
                                     development, prepared for filing for
FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN OR FDP:       record with the county recorder and
                                     containing those elements and requirements
                                     as set forth for final development plans
                                     in this title.
                                     The plan of a plat, subdivision or
                                     dedication, or any portions thereof,
FINAL PLAT:                          prepared for filing for record with the
                                     county recorder and containing those
                                     elements and requirements as set forth for
                                     final plats in this title.
                                     A fractional part of subdivided lands
                                     having fixed boundaries being of
                                     sufficient area and dimension to meet
                                     minimum requirements of this title and the
                                     zoning title1 for width and area. The term
LOT:                                 shall include tracts, parcels, sites or
                                     divisions. A lot shall be considered as
                                     all continuous land under single ownership
                                     unless legally platted or short platted.
                                     Property bisected by a dedicated public
                                     road shall not be deemed contiguous.
                                     The map established by the city council
                                     showing the streets, highways and parks
                                     theretofore laid out, adopted and
OFFICIAL MAP:                        established by law and any amendments
                                     thereto adopted by the city council or
                                     additions thereto resulting from the
                                     approval of subdivision plats and the
                                     subsequent filing of such approved plats.
                                     Any individual, firm, association,
                                     syndicate, copartnership, corporation,
                                     trust or any other legal entity having
OWNER:                               sufficient proprietary interest in the
                                     land sought to be subdivided to commence
                                     and maintain proceedings to subdivide the
                                     same under this title.
                                     A unified development adhering to a
                                     comprehensive development plan and located
                                     on a single tract of land or, on two (2)
                                     or more tracts of land which may be
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:            separated only by a street or other right
                                     of way, whose approval would serve to
                                     implement the city comprehensive plan, and
                                     which is subject to the planned unit
                                     development regulations herein.
                                     A division of land which produces more
PLAT, REGULAR:                       than three (3) parts, or which contains a
                                     dedication for a new public right of way.
                                     A division of land which produces three
                                     (3) or fewer parts, and which contains no
PLAT, SHORT:                         dedication of a new public right of way,
                                     except that existing right of way may be
                                     widened within a short plat.
                                     The preliminary plan of a planned unit
                                     development indicating the proposed layout
                                     of streets, common area, lots and other
PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN OR PDP: elements of a plat which shall serve as a
                                     basis of the city council's approval or
                                     disapproval of the general layout of the
                                     planned unit development.
                                     The preliminary map, drawing or chart
                                     indicated for the proposed layout of
                                     streets, blocks, lots and other elements
PRELIMINARY PLAT:                    of a plat or subdivision which shall serve
                                     as a basis of the city council's approval
                                     or disapproval of the general layout of
                                     the plat or subdivision
                                     A way for vehicular traffic, whether
                                     designated as a street, highway,
                                     thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road,
                                     avenue, boulevard, lane, place or however
                                     otherwise designated.
                                     Arterial Street: A fast or heavy traffic
                                     street of considerable continuity and used
                                     primarily as a traffic artery for
                                     intercommunication among large areas.
                                     Collector Street: A street which carries
                                     traffic from minor streets to arterial
STREET:                              streets, including the principal entrance
                                     streets of a residential development and
                                     streets for circulation within such a
                                     development.
                                     Cul-De-Sac Or Dead End Street: A minor
                                     street with only one outlet.
                                     Marginal Access Street: A minor street
                                     which is parallel and adjacent to arterial
                                     streets and which provides access to
                                     abutting properties and protection from
                                     through traffic.
                                     Minor Street: A street used primarily for
                                     access to the abutting properties.
                                     Any individual, firm, association,
                                     syndicate, corporation, trust or any other
SUBDIVIDER OR DEVELOPER:             legal entity commencing proceedings under
                                     this title to effect a subdivision of land
                                     hereunder for himself or for another.
                                     The result of an act of dividing an
                                     original lot, tract or parcel of land into
SUBDIVISION:                         two (2) or more parts for the purpose of
                                     transfer of ownership or development;
                                     which shall also include the dedication of
                                     public streets and other rights of way.
                                     The restrictions contained in the zoning
ZONING RESTRICTIONS:                 ordinance of the city 1 . (Ord. 119, 5-3-
                                     1994; amd. Ord. 312, 7-2-2024)
 
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-10-1 of this title.
1 1. Title 9 of this code.
CHAPTER 3
PLATTING PROCEDURES
SECTION:
10-3-1: Preliminary Plat Procedures
10-3-2: Final Plat Procedures
10-3-3: Short Plat Procedures
10-3-1: PRELIMINARY PLAT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Every subdivider who seeks preliminary approval of a plat of a
subdivision as provided herein shall meet with the city clerk prior to
submission of the plat. The purpose of this meeting is to informally discuss
the purpose and effect of the subdivision regulations and the criteria and
standards contained herein, and to familiarize the subdivider with the
comprehensive plan and the zoning ordinance of the city.
   B.   Submission of the plat application shall be on a form prescribed by the
city clerk, and the application and required fees shall be filed with the city
clerk. The application shall be accompanied by the following:
      1.   Four (4) copies of a neat and approximated drawing of the
preliminary plat containing the following information:
         a.   Proposed name of the subdivision.
         b.   Names of adjacent subdivisions and owners of adjoining parcels or
unsubdivided land.
         c.   Names and addresses of the subdivider, owner and engineer.
         d.   Location by section, township, range, city, county and state.
         e.   Names of streets within the plat.
         f.   Location, widths and names of existing or platted streets,
railroad rights of way, easements, parks, permanent buildings and section
lines.
         g.   Existing contours with intervals of not more than five feet (5')
where the slope is greater than two percent (2%) and not more than two feet
(2') when the slope is less than two percent (2%). Elevations are to be derived
from datum established by national geodetic or geological surveys.
         h.   Drainage channels, wooded areas, power transmission poles and
lines and any other significant items.
         i.   Vicinity sketch.
         j.   Location and principal dimensions of all proposed streets,
easements, lot lines and areas to be reserved for public use.
         k.   Statement of proposed use of lots stating type of residential
buildings with number of proposed dwelling units; type of business or industry,
so as to reveal the effect of the development on traffic, fire hazards or
congestion and population.
         l.   Proposed covenants and restrictions.
         m.   Source of water supply.
         n.   Provisions for sewage disposal, drainage, stormwater management,
road maintenance and flood control.
         o.   An ownership list prepared by a person or entity with appropriate
expertise in the preparation of ownership lists, including a title company, or
a list obtained through the county assessor's office, and shall list the
boundaries of the property described in the application, using the last known
name and address of such owners as shown of the latest adopted tax roll of the
county. The list shall also include a list of residents for property that is
not owner occupied. Both lists shall identify property owners and residents
within the subject property and within a radius of three hundred feet (300')
from the external boundaries of the property described in the application.
         p.   Letters of approval from the highway district, fire district and
water or sewer district and other appropriate agencies.
   C.   The preliminary plat shall be prepared by a registered engineer or
surveyor in Idaho.
   D.   The completed application and fees must be received by the city clerk
no later than sixty (60) days prior to the date of a regular city council
meeting where a public hearing regarding consideration of the plat can be set.
   E.   The completed application shall be deemed accepted for the sixty (60)
day processing period as of the date when all maps and information required by
these regulations have been filed, checked and accepted as complete by the city
engineer and the required fees have been paid to the city clerk. Acceptance or
rejection of the application, and notification of the applicant, shall be made
in writing to the applicant by the city clerk within thirty (30) days of
submittal of the application to the city engineer.
   F.   The city engineer shall, within thirty (30) days after the application
has been deemed accepted, transmit copies of the plat and the city engineer's
recommendations thereon (unless a greater period of time is agreed upon by the
applicant) to the city clerk with directions to set a public hearing thereon at
the next available regular city council meeting. (Ord. 119, 5-3-1994)
   G.   After receiving the city engineer's recommendation, the city clerk
shall set the time, place and date of the public hearing, shall publish notice
thereof once in the official newspaper of the city at least fifteen (15) days
before the hearing and shall notify, by mail, at least ten (10) days prior to
the hearing all property owners within three hundred feet (300') of the extreme
limits of the subdivision as their names appear on the ownership and residents
lists. Said notice shall state the time and place of hearing, a brief
description of the subdivision and state that a copy of the preliminary plat of
said subdivision is on file with the city clerk for public inspection. (Ord.
119, 5-3-1994; amd. Ord. 200, 3-9-2004)
   H.   After considering testimony and other evidence submitted at the public
hearing, the city council may approve or conditionally approve, deny or defer
action until necessary studies and plans have been completed. The city council
shall issue and provide to the applicant(s) a written decision on an
application for a preliminary plat no later than thirty (30) days after the
public hearing regarding the same. Such decision shall be provided to the
applicant(s) by personal delivery, regular mail or electronic means. When sent
by electronic means, the applicant(s) shall be deemed to have received the
decision on the date it was sent. When sent by regular mail, the applicant(s)
shall be deemed to have received the decision three (3) days after the date of
mailing. An applicant or affected person may seek reconsideration of the
decision by filing a written request with the city clerk no later than fourteen
(14) days after receiving the decision. Such request must identify specific
deficiencies in the decision for which reconsideration is sought. Upon
reconsideration, the decision may be affirmed, reversed or modified. A written
decision on the request for reconsideration shall be provided to the applicant
or affected person within sixty (60) days of receipt of the request for
reconsideration or the request is deemed denied. The approval of the
preliminary plat shall not guarantee final approval of the plat or subdivision,
and shall not constitute an acceptance of the subdivision, but shall be deemed
to authorize the subdivider to proceed with the preparation of the final plat
along the lines indicated on the preliminary plat. (Ord. 261, 7-16-2013)
   I.   In order to approve a preliminary plat, the city council must make the
following findings:
      1.   All of the general preliminary plat requirements have been met as
attested to by the city engineer;
      2.   The provisions for streets, alleys, rights of way easements, street
lighting, water, sewer, plating, drainage and utilities are adequate;
      3.   The preliminary plat makes appropriate provision for streets, street
rights of way and other public improvements;
      4.   The preliminary plat is in conformance with the comprehensive plan;
      5.   The public interest will be served;
      6.   All of the required engineering elements of the preliminary plat
have been met as attested to by the city engineer;
      7.   The lots proposed in the preliminary plat meet the requirements of
the applicable zoning ordinance;
      8.   The plat or subdivision is appropriate for the physical setting,
including vegetation, drainage, soil conditions and any other elements of
physical significance;
      9.   The plat or subdivision will not result in undue congestion on
existing and proposed community facilities and services; and
      10.   The plat or subdivision will not result in undue impact on air
quality, water quality, noise level or other issues affecting the public
health, safety or welfare.
   J.   Preliminary plat approval, whether conditional or not, shall be
effective for twelve (12) months from the date of city council approval. An
extension of approval beyond this twelve (12) month period may be requested in
writing and submitted to the city clerk not less than twenty (20) days prior to
the date of the next regular city council meeting. The city council may extend
its approval for one additional six (6) month period upon the finding that the
preliminary plat complies with all of the requirements set forth at the time of
approval and no substantial change in circumstance affecting the surrounding
property or the plat has occurred. The request for such extension shall be
accompanied by the required fee. (Ord. 119, 5-3-1994)
10-3-2: FINAL PLAT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Time Limit For Submittal: The final plat must be received by the city
clerk not later than sixty (60) days prior to the date of a regular city
council meeting where consideration of the plat can be set.
   B.   Processing Period: The final plat shall be deemed accepted for the
sixty (60) day processing period as of the date when all maps and information
required by these regulations have been filed, checked and accepted as complete
by the city engineer. Acceptance or rejection of the application, and
notification of the applicant, shall be made in writing to the applicant by the
city clerk within thirty (30) days of submittal of the application to the city
engineer.
   C.   City Engineer Action: The city engineer shall, within thirty (30) days
after the application has been deemed accepted, transmit copies of the plat and
the engineer's recommendations thereon (unless a greater period of time is
agreed upon by the applicant) to the city clerk with directions to set the
final plat as a regular agenda item at the next available regular city council
meeting.
   D.   City Council Action: After receiving the engineer's recommendation, the
city clerk shall set consideration of the final plat as a regular agenda item
at the next appropriate regular city council meeting.
   E.   Inspections: At the discretion of the city engineer, an inspection may
be made of the subdivision to assure compliance with these regulations and the
cost of such inspection at prevailing rates shall be charged the applicant in
addition to the required fees and shall be paid before final approval of the
plat is given by the city council. If the city engineer determines the plat
complies with these regulations, a report so stating shall be sent to the city
clerk. If the plat does not comply, the city engineer shall state in writing
the specific reasons and return the plat to the subdivider for the corrections
or changes necessary to comply with the objections. Thereafter, the subdivider
may resubmit the final plat.
   F.   Certificate Of Approval: The city engineer shall approve and affix a
certificate of approval on the plat and forward the same to the city clerk for
approval by the city council if the city engineer finds that the final plat
meets the requirements of Idaho Code 50-1301 et seq.; and
      1.   The plat is accurate and correct in all details;
      2.   Required improvements have been completed, including improvements to
streets as curbing, grading of rights of way, placing base material, surfacing
of either bituminous concrete or Portland cement concrete, sanitary facilities,
and water system have been made or adequate bonding or other security
arrangements have been make to assure that such improvements will be made;
      3.   The proposed subdivision will not interfere with the future
development of any remaining property under the same ownership or of any
adjacent property;
      4.   Adequate access is available for the proposed subdivision and any
possible future development;
      5.   The lots conform to the requirements of the zoning ordinance 1 ;
      6.   Record drawings of cross sections and profiles of streets and all
other construction drawings related to the improvements constructed have been
submitted; and
      7.   A map showing all utilities in exact locations and elevation has
been submitted.
   G.   Accompanying Documents: The final plat shall be prepared as required in
Idaho Code 50-1301 et seq., and Idaho Code 55-1601 et seq. A copy of any
restrictive covenants and other deed restrictions that are intended to be
placed upon any of the lots in the subdivision shall accompany the plat, shall
be recorded no later than the date the plat is recorded and a notation shall
appear on the plat identifying the restrictive covenants.
   H.   Acknowledgements And Certifications: The acknowledgments and
certifications shall include:
      1.   A certificate by the county auditor that all taxes and assessments
have been paid on the land within the proposed subdivision.
      2.   Certification by an Idaho registered land surveyor to the effect
that the plat represents a survey made by him and that all monuments shown
thereon actually exist and that their location is correctly shown and that all
angles, distances and corners are staked as shown on the plat.
      3.   An acknowledgment by the owner or owners of his or their adoption of
the plat and of the dedication of streets and other public areas including a
description in bearings and distances of the platted area, showing all persons
and parties having an interest in the land platted.
      4.   A certificate stating that the city council has approved the plat.
The certificate shall bear the signature of the mayor, attested to by the city
clerk.
      5.   Any other certificate required by Idaho Code title 50, chapter 13.
The city clerk may require additional certificates, affidavits or endorsements
as they may become necessary for the reasonable enforcement of these
regulations.
   I.   Final Plat Contents: The final plat shall contain or be accompanied by
the following information:
      1.   Initial Points: The initial point and at least two (2) government
corners approved by the city engineer; the initial point tied to at least two
(2) public land survey corners or, in lieu of public land survey corners, to
two (2) monuments recognized by the city engineer.
      2.   Field And Computation Notes: A complete set of field and computation
notes may be required showing original or reestablished corners with
descriptions of them; actual traverses showing error of closures and method of
adjustments; and sketch showing all distances, angles and calculations required
to determine distances and corners of the plat boundary. The error of closure
shall be appropriate for urban surveys.
      3.   Coordinate Values: The final plat submittal shall be accomplished by
a diagram that includes the coordinate value of each boundary angle point, lot
corner, or angle point, street centerline point and street right of way point.
Coordinates shall be from the Idaho coordinate system. Coordinate values
provided shall be grid coordinates or, if project coordinates are used, the
project evaluation shall be stated. A sketch may be substituted by the above
information contained on electronic medium, acceptable to the city.
      4.   Basis Of Bearing: The plat shall contain a statement of the basis of
bearings and shall conform with all requirements of the Idaho Code.
      5.   Lines: All tract boundary lines, street right of way lines,
easements and other rights of way, and property lines of lot and other sites,
with accurate bearings, dimensions, complete curve data for street centerlines
and property lines and other information necessary to reproduce the plat on the
ground. Dimensions shall be shown from all angle points and points of curvature
of lot lines, except in a platted cemetery where lengths of the boundaries of
each burial lot may be shown by appropriate legend.
      6.   Description:
         a.   Name of the subdivision;
         b.   Names of adjacent subdivisions and owners of adjoining parcels of
unsubdivided land and names of all streets within the adjoining plats;
         c.   Names and addresses of the subdivider, owner and engineer; and
         d.   Location by section, township, range, city, county, and state.
      7.   Existing Conditions:
         a.   All plat boundaries;
         b.   Bearings and distances to the nearest established street lines,
section corners or other recognized permanent monuments which shall be
accurately described on the plat;
         c.   Municipal, township, county or section lines accurately tied to
the lines of the subdivision by distance and bearings;
         d.   Accurate location of and description of all survey monuments;
         e.   References to recorded plats or surveys of adjoining land,
including record bearings and/or distances of common lines, names, dates and
record numbers; and
         f.   The instrument number of the corner perpetuation and filing forms
of public land survey corners used in the plat or copies of said form, if not
previously filed;
      8.   Survey Data:
         a.   Length of all arcs, radii, internal angles, points of curvature
and tangent bearings; and
         b.   When lots are located on a curve or when side lot lines are at
angles other than ninety degrees (90°), the width at the building line shall be
shown;
            (1)   All easements for rights of way provided for public services
or utilities and any limitations of such easements and the dimensions and
purposes of each easement;
            (2)   All lot numbers and lines, with accurate dimensions in feet
and one-hundredths and with bearings or angles to street and alley or
crosswalkway lines; all lots numbered consecutively in each block and each
block consecutively lettered or numbered; and the area of each lot in square
feet or acres;
            (3)   Accurate outlines of any areas to be dedicated or temporarily
reserved for public use with the purpose indicated thereon;
            (4)   The name and right of way width of each street and other
rights of way; and
            (5)   Building setback lines, with dimensions. (Ord. 119, 5-3-1994)
   J.   City Council Approval: The city council shall review the final plat and
approve the same if it finds that the plat has been reviewed and approved by
the city engineer, is in the best interest of the public, has been submitted
with all of the required information, is in conformance with these regulations
and substantially complies with the criteria submitted and approved on the
preliminary plat. Should the city council find that there exists a substantial
change between the final plat as submitted and the preliminary plat as
approved, then the city council shall conduct a public hearing and issue a
written decision prior to approval of the final plat utilizing the same
procedure found in subsections
10-3-1G and H of this chapter.
The city council shall determine whether the final plat shall be approved or
disapproved and shall give notice to the subdivider in the following manner:
      1.   If approved, the mayor and city clerk shall affix their signature to
the plat and attach thereto a notation to the subdivider to take additional
action for compliance with recording requirements.
      2.   If disapproved, the city clerk shall attach to the plat a statement
of the reasons for such action and return it to the subdivider.
      3.   A notation of the action taken and requisite reasons therefor shall
be entered in the records of the city council. (Ord. 261, 7-16-2013)
   K.   Recording: The subdivider shall record the final plat in the office of
the county recorder of Kootenai County, Idaho, within thirty (30) days after
the date of approval. Otherwise, the final plat shall be considered void.
   L.   Photolitho Prints: The subdivider shall, immediately upon recording,
furnish the city council with as many photolitho prints of the final plat as
may be required by the city council. (Ord. 119, 5-3-1994)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9 of this code.
10-3-3: SHORT PLAT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Every division of land for the purpose of sale, lease or transfer into
three (3) or fewer parts within the city, where no new dedications are
required, shall proceed in compliance with this section.
   B.   Submission of a short plat application shall be on a form prescribed by
the city clerk, and the application and the required fees shall be filed with
the city clerk. The application shall be accompanied by the following
information:
      1.   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the
property owner, if different than the applicant.
      2.   A legal description of the entire area being subdivided and a legal
description for each of the proposed lots.
      3.   Letters of approval from all appropriate districts and agencies.
      4.   A copy of any existing or proposed restrictions or covenants.
      5.   A sketch map drawn on good quality paper, sheet size no larger than
eight and one-half inches by eleven inches (81/2" x 11"), to a scale sufficient
to assure legibility. Such a map shall contain, at a minimum, the following:
         a.   Boundaries and dimensions of the entire area being subdivided and
the proposed boundaries and dimensions of the proposed lots. The size of each
lot shall be indicated by square footage computation sufficiently accurate to
determine that each lot meets the minimum established lot size requirements.
         b.   All existing buildings and structural improvements.
         c.   The location of any roads, easements or rights of way that exist
or are proposed to serve the short subdivision.
         d.   A space for approval of the city council.
         e.   Must comply with Idaho Code 50-1301 et seq.
   C.   The short plat shall be prepared by an Idaho registered surveyor.
   D.   The completed application for a short plat and fees must be received by
the city clerk no later than sixty (60) days prior to the date of a regular
city council meeting where consideration of the plat can be set.
   E.   The completed application shall be deemed accepted for the sixty (60)
day processing period as of the date when all maps and information required by
these regulations have been filed, checked and accepted as complete by the city
engineer and the required fees have been paid to the city clerk. Acceptance or
rejection of the application, and notification of the applicant, shall be made
in writing to the applicant by the city clerk within thirty (30) days of
submittal of the application to the city engineer.
   F.   The city engineer shall, within thirty (30) days after the application
is deemed accepted, transmit copies of the plat and the engineer's
recommendations thereon (unless a greater period of time is agreed upon by the
applicant) to the city clerk with directions to set consideration of the plat
as a regular agenda item at the next available regular city council meeting.
   G.   All lots within a short subdivision shall have seventy-five feet (75')
frontage on a street and conform with the zoning ordinance. (Ord. 119, 5-3-
1994; amd. Ord. 312, 7-2-2024)
   H.   After considering testimony and other evidence submitted at the meeting
where the application is considered the city council may approve or
conditionally approve, deny or defer action until necessary studies and plans
have been completed. The city council shall issue and provide to the applicant
(s) a written decision on an application for a short plat no later than thirty
(30) days after said meeting. Such decision shall be provided to the applicant
(s) by personal delivery, regular mail or electronic means. When sent by
electronic means, the applicant(s) shall be deemed to have received the
decision on the date it was sent. When sent by regular mail, the applicant(s)
shall be deemed to have received the decision three (3) days after the date of
mailing. An applicant or affected person may seek reconsideration of the
decision by filing a written request with the city clerk no later than fourteen
(14) days after receiving the decision. Such request must identify specific
deficiencies in the decision for which reconsideration is sought. Upon
reconsideration, the decision may be affirmed, reversed or modified. A written
decision on the request for reconsideration shall be provided to the applicant
or affected person within sixty (60) days of receipt of the request for
reconsideration or the request is deemed denied. (Ord. 276, 1-5-2016)
   .   In order to approve a short plat the city council must make the
following findings:
      1.   The proposed lots meet all established lot size and width
requirements.
      2.   Adequate water supply and sewage disposal are available.
      3.   The decision to approve a short subdivision will not be contrary to
the public interest.
      4.   The plat conforms with the zoning ordinance and comprehensive plan.
   J.   The subdivider shall record the final plat in the office of the county
recorder of Kootenai County, Idaho, within thirty (30) days after the date of
approval. Otherwise, the short plat shall be considered void.
   K.   The subdivider shall, immediately upon recording, furnish the city
council with as many prints of the short plat as may be required by the city.
(Ord. 119, 5-3-1994)
CHAPTER 4
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Purpose
10-4-2: Applicability
10-4-3: Density Restrictions
10-4-4: Preliminary Development Plan
10-4-5: Final Development Plan
10-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the planned unit development regulations is to permit the
development of tracts with flexibility in the application of certain
regulations in a manner consistent with the general purpose of the zoning
ordinance. (Ord. 119, 5-3-1994)
10-4-2: APPLICABILITY:
These regulations shall apply to parcels of land under one ownership or control
or be the subject of a joint application by the owners of all property included
and be no less than three (3) acres in size. (Ord. 119, 5-3-1994)
10-4-3: DENSITY RESTRICTIONS:
The maximum allowable density for planned unit developments shall be based on
the overall gross deeded land area, and shall be equal to or less than the
overall density permitted by the zoning ordinance. In order to achieve the
purpose of this chapter, the following subdivision standards may be modified:
   A.   Any provision pertaining to site performance standards including, but
not limited to, height, bulk, setback or maximum dimensions of any facility.
   B.   Any provision establishing buffering, landscaping or other similar
requirements pertaining to site design.
   C.   Any provision pertaining to the minimum or maximum dimensions of any
lot(s).
   D.   Any provision pertaining to the type of facility allowed except that
all residential units shall be single-family detached.
   E.   Any provision regarding streets and sidewalks.
   F.   Any provision pertaining to off street parking and loading except that
required parking spaces shall be located within two hundred feet (200') of the
building containing the living units. (Ord. 119, 5-3-1994)
10-4-4: PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
Every subdivider seeking approval of a planned unit development (PUD) shall
first submit a preliminary development plan (PDP) for approval of the city
council using the following procedure:
   A.   Submission of a PDP shall be on a form prescribed by the city clerk and
the application and required fees shall be filed with the city clerk. The
application shall be accompanied by the following information:
      1.   Narrative containing the legal description of the property;
      2.   An overall description of the location and intensity of proposed
uses and activities, including public and private open spaces;
      3.   A physical description of proposed facilities, including types of
buildings, structures and landscape and circulation elements;
      4.   A general designation of utilities;
      5.   A general statement of the form of management proposed if areas of
common ownership are proposed; and
      6.   A statement detailing the relationship of the proposed development
project with major public development programs, including, but not limited to,
freeways, highways, parks, trails, open spaces, utility transmission and other
major public facilities;
      7.   A set of drawings of the entire development indicating:
         a.   Perimeter boundaries of the site;
         b.   Streets and driveways, sidewalks and pedestrianways and off
street parking and loading areas;
         c.   Location and dimension of buildings and structures;
         d.   Utilization of buildings and structures, including activities and
number of living units;
         e.   Reservations for public uses, including schools, parks,
playgrounds and other open areas;
         f.   Major landscaping features and preliminary location of water,
sewage and drainage facilities; and
         g.   Artists' or architectural renderings sufficient to clearly
establish the scale, character and general appearance of the development;
      8.   Preliminary development schedule indicating:
         a.   Anticipated timing for commencement and completion of each phase
of development;
         b.   The total number of acres in each phase;
         c.   The percentage of acreage to be devoted to particular uses;
         d.   The proposed number of dwelling units for each phase of
development; and
         e.   The average residential density per gross acre for each phase of
development;
      9.   Source of water supply;
      10.   Provisions for sewage disposal, drainage, stormwater management,
erosion control, road maintenance and flood control;
      11.   An ownership list prepared by a person or entity with appropriate
expertise in the preparation of ownership lists, including a title company, or
a list obtained through the county assessor's office, and shall list the
boundaries of the property described in the application, using the last known
name and address of such owners as shown on the latest adopted tax roll of the
county. The list shall also include a list of residents for property that is
not owner occupied. Both lists shall identify property owners and residents
within the subject property and within a radius of three hundred feet (300')
from the external boundaries of the property described in the application;
      12.   Letters of approval from the highway district, fire district and
water or sewer district and other appropriate agencies as appropriate.
   B.   The PDP shall be prepared by a registered engineer or surveyor.
   C.   The completed application for a preliminary development plan and fees
must be received by the city clerk no later than sixty (60) days prior to the
date of a regular city council meeting where a public hearing regarding
consideration of the preliminary development plan can be set.
   D.   The completed application shall be deemed accepted for the sixty (60)
day processing period as of the date when all maps and information required by
these regulations have been filed, checked and accepted as complete by the city
engineer and the required fees have been paid to the city clerk. Acceptance or
rejection of the application and notification of the applicant, shall be made
in writing to the applicant by the city clerk within thirty (30) days of
submittal of the application to the city engineer.
   E.   The city engineer shall, within thirty (30) days after the application
has been deemed accepted, transmit copies of the PDP and the engineer's
recommendations thereon (unless a greater period of time is agreed upon by the
applicant) to the city clerk with directions to set a public hearing thereon at
the next available regular city council meeting. (Ord. 119, 5-3-1994)
   F.   After receiving the city engineer's recommendation, the city clerk
shall set the time, place and date of the public hearing, shall publish notice
thereof once in the official newspaper of the city at least fifteen (15) days
before the hearing and shall notify, by mail, at least ten (10) days prior to
the hearing all property owners within three hundred feet (300') of the extreme
limits of the PDP as their names appear on the ownership and residents lists.
Said notice shall state the time and place of hearing, a brief description of
the PUD and that a copy of the PDP of said PUD is on file with the city clerk
for public inspection. (Ord. 119, 5-3-1994; amd. Ord. 200, 3-9-2004)
   G.   After considering testimony and other evidence submitted at the public
hearing, the city council may approve or conditionally approve, deny or defer
action until necessary studies and plans have been completed. The city council
shall issue and provide to the applicant(s) a written decision on an
application for a preliminary development plan no later than thirty (30) days
after the public hearing regarding the same. Such decision shall be provided to
the applicant(s) by personal delivery, regular mail or electronic means. When
sent by electronic means, the applicant(s) shall be deemed to have received the
decision on the date it was sent. When sent by regular mail, the applicant(s)
shall be deemed to have received the decision three (3) days after the date of
mailing. An applicant or affected person may seek reconsideration of the
decision by filing a written request with the city clerk no later than fourteen
(14) days after receiving the decision. Such request must identify specific
deficiencies in the decision for which reconsideration is sought. Upon
reconsideration, the decision may be affirmed, reversed or modified. A written
decision on the request for reconsideration shall be provided to the applicant
or affected person within sixty (60) days of receipt of the request for
reconsideration or the request is deemed denied. The approval of the PDP shall
not guarantee final approval of the PUD, and shall not constitute an acceptance
of the PUD, but shall be deemed to authorize the subdivider to proceed with the
preparation of the final development plan of the PUD along the lines indicated
on the preliminary development plan approval. (Ord. 261, 7-16-2013)
   H.   A preliminary development plan for a planned unit development may be
approved only if the proposal conforms to the satisfaction of the city, based
on the following criteria:
      1.   The proposal produces a functional, enduring and desirable
environment;
      2.   The proposal is consistent with the city comprehensive plan;
      3.   The design and site planning is compatible with existing uses on
adjacent properties. Design elements to be considered include: density,
architectural style, placement of buildings upon land, building heights and
bulk, off street parking, open space, privacy and landscaping;
      4.   The proposal is compatible with natural features of the site and
adjoining properties. Natural features to be considered include: topography,
native vegetation, wildlife habitats and watercourses;
      5.   The location, design and size of the proposal are such that the
development will be adequately served by existing public facilities or
services. Addition to, or expansion of existing or adjacent facilities may be
required as a condition of planned unit development approval;
      6.   The proposal provides adequate open space area, which shall be no
less than ten percent (10%) of gross land area, free of buildings, streets,
driveways or parking areas. The open space, if proposed as common area, shall
be accessible to all users of the development and usable for open space and
recreational purposes;
      7.   Off street parking provides parking sufficient for users of the
development and shall be integrated into the development to minimize exposure
and impact;
      8.   If the proposal contains common property, the proposal must indicate
the form of management, acceptable to the city, for the perpetual maintenance
of all common property. Whenever common open space is provided, the city
council may require that an association of owners or tenants be created and
incorporated for the purpose of maintaining such open space. The association
shall be created in such a manner that owners of property shall automatically
be members and shall be subject to assessments levied to maintain said open
space for the purposes intended. The period of existence of such association
shall be perpetual unless a majority vote of the members and consent of the
city council shall terminate it;
      9.   The location, design and size of the proposal are such that the
traffic generated by the development can be accommodated safely on major
streets, and without requiring unnecessary utilization of other local streets;
and
      10.   All improvements for planned unit developments including off street
parking and loading spaces, usable open space and landscaping, buffering and
screening may be located within the development without reference to the lot
lines or blocks, except that required parking spaces serving residential
activities shall be located within two hundred feet (200') of the building
containing the living units served.
   I.   After one year from the date of the public hearing, the approval of the
planned unit development shall terminate unless the applicant files a final
development plan for the entire development or for the appropriate phase of
development, when submission in stages has been authorized by the city in its
approval of the development plan, for the first unit or stage of development.
The city council may extend its approval for an additional six (6) month period
upon the finding that the preliminary development plan complies with all of the
requirements set forth at the time of approval and no substantial change in
circumstance affecting the surrounding property or the preliminary development
plan has occurred. The request for such extension must be submitted to the city
clerk twenty (20) days before the next regular city council meeting and shall
be accompanied by the required fee. (Ord. 119, 5-3-1994)
10-4-5: FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
In order to secure city council approval of the PUD, a final development plan
for the PUD must be submitted and approved by the city council under the
following procedures:
   A.   The completed final development plan must be filed with the city clerk
not later than sixty (60) days prior to the date of a regular city council
meeting where consideration of the plan can be set.
   B.   The completed final development plan shall be deemed accepted for the
sixty (60) day processing period as of the date when all maps and information
required by these regulations have been filed, checked and accepted as complete
by the city engineer. Acceptance or rejection of the plan and notification of
the applicant, shall be made in writing to the applicant by the city clerk
within thirty (30) days of submittal of the final development plan to the city
engineer.
   C.   The city engineer shall, within thirty (30) days after the acceptance
of the application, transmit copies of the plat and the engineer's
recommendations thereon (unless a greater period of time is agreed upon by the
applicant) to the city clerk with directions to set a public hearing thereon at
the next available regular city council meeting.
   D.   After receiving the city engineer's recommendation, the city clerk
shall set consideration of the final development plan as a regular agenda item
at the next appropriate regular city council meeting.
   E.   At the discretion of the city engineer an inspection may be made of the
PUD to assure compliance with these regulations and the cost of such inspection
at prevailing rates shall be charged the applicant in addition to the required
fees and shall be paid before final approval of the PUD is given by the city
council. If the city engineer approves the PUD, a report so stating shall be
sent to the city clerk. If the plat is not approved, the city engineer shall
state in writing the specific reasons and return the final development plan to
the subdivider for the corrections or changes necessary to comply with the
objections. Thereafter, the subdivider may resubmit the final development plan
without paying an additional fee.
   F.   The city engineer shall approve the final development plan and forward
the same to the city clerk for approval by the city council, if the city
engineer finds that the final development plan conforms with the approved
preliminary development plan and contains in addition to all elements
specified, the following elements:
      1.   The location of water, sewerage and drainage facilities;
      2.   Detailed building and landscaping plans;
      3.   Character and location of signs;
      4.   Plans for street improvements;
      5.   Grading or earthmoving plans;
      6.   Legal documents required for:
         a.   The dedication or reservation of common open spaces;
         b.   The creation of a nonprofit homeowners' association;
         c.   Performance bonds;
      7.   Changes as required as conditions for approval of the planned unit
development;
      8.   As appropriate, the final plan may be submitted concurrently with a
final subdivision map; and
      9.   The submitted planned unit development agreement and documents shall
be notarized and shall be filed with the site plan of record with the city
clerk. (Ord. 119, 5-3-1994)
   G.   The city council shall review the final development plan and approve
the same if it finds that the plan has been reviewed and approved by the city
engineer, is in the best interest of the public, has been submitted with all of
the required information, is in conformance with these regulations and
substantially complies with the criteria submitted and approved on the
preliminary development plan. Should the city council find that there exists a
substantial change between the final development plan as submitted and the
preliminary development plan as approved, then the city council shall conduct a
public hearing and issue a written decision prior to approval of the final
development plan utilizing the same procedure found in subsections
10-4-4F and G of this chapter.
   H.   The city council may approve or conditionally approve, deny or defer
action until necessary studies and plans have been completed. (Ord. 261, 7-16-
2013)
   I.   In order to approve a final development plan, the city council must
make the following findings:
      1.   All of the general preliminary development plan requirements have
been met as attested to by the city engineer;
      2.   The provisions for streets, alleys, rights of way, easements, street
lighting, water, sewer, plating, drainage and utilities are adequate and have
been constructed and approved, or a performance bond passed for all uncompleted
improvements per section
10-1-8 of this title;
      3.   The final development plan makes appropriate provision for streets,
street rights of way and other public improvements;
      4.   The final development plan is in conformance with the comprehensive
plan;
      5.   The public interest will be served;
      6.   All of the required engineering elements of the preliminary
development plan have been met as attested to by the city engineer;
      7.   The density proposed in the PUD meets the requirements of the
applicable zoning ordinance;
      8.   The PUD is appropriate for the physical setting, including
vegetation, drainage, soil conditions and any other elements of physical
significance;
      9.   The PUD will not result in undue congestion on existing and proposed
community facilities and services; and
      10.   The PUD will not result in undue negative impact on air quality,
water quality, noise level or other issues affecting the public health, safety
or welfare.
   J.   The subdivider shall record the PUD in the office of the county
recorder of Kootenai County, Idaho, within thirty (30) days after the date of
approval. Otherwise, the PUD shall be considered void.
   K.   The subdivider shall, immediately upon recording, furnish the city
council with as many copies of the PUD as the city may require. (Ord. 119, 5-3-
1994)
CHAPTER 5
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Unsuitable Areas
10-5-2: Streets
10-5-3: Blocks And Lots
10-5-1: UNSUITABLE AREAS:
   A.   General Requirements: Prior to submitting any application to subdivide
or develop any land which has been found by the city engineer or other
appropriate agency to be unsuitable for subdivision or development due to
flooding, poor drainage, steep slopes, rock formations or other features likely
to be harmful to the safety and general welfare of the future residents or
adjoining property owners or has been found to have a negative impact on the
quality of Hayden Lake, the subdivider/developer shall submit to the city
council an application demonstrating adequate methods for overcoming these
conditions, approved by the city engineer, for approval by the city council.
   B.   Application: Submission of an application pursuant to this section
shall be on a form prescribed by and filed with the city clerk. A fee for
processing such applications, set by resolution of the city council, shall be
paid at the time of filing. The application shall contain technical reports and
other information sufficient to demonstrate that the standards for approval set
forth in subsection C of this section have been or will be satisfied.
   C.   Standards For Approval: No application filed pursuant to this section
shall be approved by the city council unless all of the following standards
have been or will be satisfied:
      1.   Planning of development shall account for the topography, soils,
geology, vegetation, outstanding features such as outcropping and cliffs,
hydrology and other conditions existing on the proposed site.
      2.   Development shall be oriented on the site so that grading and other
site preparations are kept to a minimum.
      3.   Essential grading shall be completed during site preparation, rather
than left for future lot owners so that:
         a.   Shaping shall blend in with existing topography to minimize the
necessity of padding or terracing of building sites; and
         b.   Building pads and terracing shall be graded to blend into the
natural contours.
      4.   Paving shall be completed within sixty (60) days after final grading
(final grading: any grading done after the placement of utilities).
      5.   Areas not well suited for development because of soil, geology,
vegetation, or hydrology limitations shall be reserved for public or private
open space.
      6.   Disruption of existing plant and animal life shall be minimized.
      7.   Innovative methods of slope and soil stabilization, grading, and
landscaping are encouraged.
      8.   Multiple access points and street grades that meet requirements of
the Northern Lakes fire district shall be provided.
      9.   If the project will feature public streets, pedestrian access to and
through the project shall be provided.
      10.   Conformance bond and surety:
         a.   A bond and surety agreement or an irrevocable letter of credit in
an amount of one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the cost estimated by the city
engineer is required to enable restoration of the site if the project is not
completed as approved. The bonding shall be provided prior to the issuance of a
grading permit or signing of the final plat by the city engineer; and
         b.   A construction project schedule shall be submitted to the city
engineer for approval and shall be periodically updated.
      11.   Prior to issuance of a grading permit, the owner and/or developer
shall provide a legally binding easement allowing the city and/or its agents to
enter upon the property to do work, as deemed necessary by the city engineer,
to restore the site's appearance and drainage in case of noncompletion or
substantial deviation from the approved plans of the project by the developer/
owner.
      12.   All work must be performed in accordance with the latest approved
contract plans and specifications. Work not in accordance may not be accepted.
Revisions to the plans and specifications shall be submitted to the city
engineer and code enforcement officer, allowing sufficient time for review,
comment, revision and approval.
      13.   Vegetation should not be disturbed beyond the limits of the
approved grading plan.
      14.   Topsoil removed during construction shall be conserved for later
use on areas requiring revegetation or landscaping.
      15.   Topsoil shall be placed at a minimum thickness of four inches (4").
      16.   The minimum acceptable plant coverage is eighty percent (80%) two
(2) years after planting.
      17.   Seed mix shall include deep rooted plants and subsequent planting
of seedlings.
      18.   Erosion shall be controlled to prevent deposition of sediment on
adjacent property and into Hayden Lake.
      19.   Interceptor ditches or other methods approved by the city engineer
shall be established above all cut or fill slopes, and the intercepted water
shall be conveyed to a stable channel with adequate capacity. Provision for
ditch maintenance must be approved by the city.
      20.   Water on roadways may only flow off the roadway in conveyance
conduits.
      21.   Natural stream channels shall be stabilized using a method
acceptable to the city engineer.
      22.   Runoff from areas of concentrated impervious cover such as roofs,
driveways, and roads shall be retained on site or collected and transported to
a channel with sufficient capacity to accept the discharge without erosion or
flooding. Provision should be made by the owner or developer for the cleaning
of drainage facilities from the onset of construction through the completion of
the project.
      23.   All other applicable regulations of the city and of other affected
agencies have been or will be complied with.
Applicants may request a waiver of or variance from these standards by
utilizing the same procedures and satisfying the same standards that are set
forth in title 9, chapter 7 of this code.
   D.   Processing Procedure: The completed application and fees must be
received by the city clerk no later than sixty (60) days prior to the date of a
regular city council meeting where a public hearing regarding consideration of
the application can be set. Acceptance or rejection of the application, and
notification to the applicant, shall be made in writing to the applicant by the
city clerk within thirty (30) days of submittal of the application. The city
engineer shall, within thirty (30) days after the application has been deemed
accepted, transmit copies of the application and the city engineer's
recommendations to the city clerk with directions to set a public hearing
thereon at the next available regular city council meeting.
   E.   Public Hearing, Decision And Reconsideration: After receiving a
complete application including fees the city clerk shall set the time, place
and date of the public hearing, shall publish notice thereof once in the
official newspaper of the city at least fifteen (15) days before the hearing
and shall notify by mail at least fifteen (15) days before the hearing all
property owners or purchasers of record within three hundred feet (300') of the
property's external boundaries. Said notice shall state the time and place of
hearing, a brief description of the request and state that a copy of the
application is on file with the city clerk for public inspection. The city
council shall issue and provide to the applicant(s) a written decision on an
application filed pursuant to this section no later than thirty (30) days after
the public hearing regarding the same. Such decision shall be provided to the
applicant(s) by personal delivery, regular mail or electronic means. When sent
by electronic means, the applicant(s) shall be deemed to have received the
decision on the date it was sent. When sent by regular mail, the applicant(s)
shall be deemed to have received the decision three (3) days after the date of
mailing. An applicant or affected person may seek reconsideration of the
decision by filing a written request with the city clerk no later than fourteen
(14) days after receiving the decision. Such request must identify specific
deficiencies in the decision for which reconsideration is sought. Upon
reconsideration, the decision may be affirmed, reversed or modified. A written
decision on the request for reconsideration shall be provided to the applicant
or affected person within sixty (60) days of receipt of the request for
reconsideration or the request is deemed denied.
   F.   Permit, Revocation, Duration And Extension: Upon approval of an
application filed pursuant to this section, the city council shall issue a
corresponding "unsuitable area development permit" which shall include as
conditions thereof satisfaction of those standards set forth in subsection C of
this section that have not been fulfilled at the time that the permit is
issued. Failure to comply with any of the conditions shall, after notice and
hearing as provided in subsection E of this section, be grounds for revocation
of the permit. The applicant(s) shall be required to acknowledge such
conditions by signing the permit. All conditions must be satisfied within
twenty four (24) months of the date of issuance of the permit, unless a one
year time extension is granted by the city council prior to the expiration of
the permit. The city council shall establish fees for these extensions by
resolution. (Ord. 261, 7-16-2013)
10-5-2: STREETS:
   A.   Surface drainage from streets and other areas shall be disposed of
through an adequate system approved by the city engineer and in accordance with
the city's stormwater management ordinance 1 .
   B.   Street name and regulatory signs corresponding in design to those
adopted as standard for the city shall be supplied and installed by the
subdivider.
   C.   Street names or numbers shall be approved by the city.
   D.   Alleys shall be required at the rear of all lots used for commercial or
industrial use, unless adequate provisions are made for service, access,
delivery, loading, parking and utility easements. Alley right of way widths
shall not be less than twenty five feet (25').
   E.   The alignment of major streets shall conform with the adopted
comprehensive plan of Hayden Lake. The layout of streets shall provide for the
continuation of principal streets existing in adjoining subdivisions. The
layout of streets shall also provide for the future projections of streets into
areas which are not presently subdivided. Private streets in new subdivisions
may be approved by showing sufficient justification or need.
   F.   Street design shall be governed by the highway standards for the
Association Of Highway Districts Of Kootenai County, Idaho, latest version.
   G.   In those instances where streets shall not be approved and accepted
under the jurisdiction of the highway district, the streets shall be designed
as follows unless a variance is granted by the city council as provided herein:
      1.   Streets designed to be permanently closed at one end shall be in the
form of a cul-de-sac and shall be no longer than five hundred feet (500') with
a turnaround radius of at least sixty feet (60') or as otherwise required by
the fire district. The city council may approve private streets as provided
herein for lots created before 1994 and that are fifty feet (50') or less in
width and over one thousand feet (1,000') long.
         a.   Private streets that serve no more than two (2) residential units
may exceed five hundred feet (500') in length, shall be built with a paved
surface not less than sixteen feet (16') wide and shall terminate in a
hammerhead design that includes a sixty six foot (66') turning area as approved
by the fire district.
         b.   Private streets that serve no more than four (4) residential
units may exceed five hundred feet (500') in length, shall be built with a
paved surface not less than twenty feet (20') wide and shall terminate in a
cul-de-sac with a radius of at least fifty feet (50').
      2.   Connecting street centerlines deflecting from each other at any one
point more than ten degrees (10°) shall be connected by a curve of at least a
one hundred foot (100') radius for minor streets and at least a three hundred
foot (300') radius for major streets.
      3.   Street intersections shall be as nearly at right angles as
practical.
      4.   Street centerlines shall be offset by a distance of at least three
hundred feet (300').
      5.   Street grades shall conform to the natural contour of the land as
much as possible, but shall not be less than one-half percent (0.5%) or more
than six percent (6%).
      6.   Right of way widths shall be sixty foot (60') minimum.
      7.   Half streets shall be prohibited unless there exists a dedicated
half street of an adjoining plat in which case the other half shall be
dedicated on the proposed plat to make the street complete.
      8.   All public streets shall be surfaced with asphalt or concrete
according to appropriate highway district specifications.
      9.   Streets shall conform closely to the natural contour of the land,
except where a different grade has been established by the city engineer or the
agency furnishing municipal services to the community. Grades shall not be less
than thirty one-hundredths percent (0.30%) on any street and not more than
eight percent (8%). Changes in grades shall be connected by easy vertical
curves. (Ord. 189, 3-4-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 11, chapter 2 of this code.
10-5-3: BLOCKS AND LOTS:
   A.   In general, blocks should be as long as practical, consistent with
topography, access, circulation and safety provided that the length of a block
should be not less than three hundred feet (300'). Blocks should be wide enough
to allow for two (2) tiers of lots provided that the entire block width shall
not be less than two hundred feet (200').
   B.   Lots shall be designed in conformance with the city's zoning ordinance
and other adopted standards regulating lot area, width and length. Reverse
frontage lots shall be prohibited. All lots should be designed so that they
abut on a dedicated and maintained public street, or on a private street, if
approved by the city council. (Ord. 119, 5-3-1994)
CHAPTER 6 CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Applicability
10-6-1: APPLICABILITY:
Condominium developments shall be subject to the requirements set forth in this
title, all provisions herein contained and shall otherwise comply with the
Idaho Condominium Property Act (Idaho Code § 55-1501 - 55-1528 et seq.). (Ord.
312, 7-2-2024)
TITLE 11
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
11-1-1: Statutory Authorization, Findings Of Fact, Purpose, And Methods
11-1-1-1: Statutory Authorization
11-1-1-2: Findings Of Fact
11-1-1-3: Statement Of Purpose
11-1-1-4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
11-1-2: Definitions
11-1-3: General Provisions
11-1-3-1: Lands To Which This Chapter Applies
11-1-3-2: Basis For Establishing Special Flood Hazard Areas
11-1-3-3: Compliance
11-1-3-4: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
11-1-3-5: Interpretation
11-1-3-6: Penalties For Non-Compliance
11-1-3-7: Disclaimer Of Liability
11-1-3-8: Severability
11-1-4: Administration
11-1-4-1: Designation Of The Floodplain Administrator
11-1-4-2: Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator
11-1-4-3: Establishment Of Development Permit
11-1-5: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
11-1-5-1: Standards Of Construction
11-1-5-2: Standards For Storage Of Materials And Equipment
11-1-5-3: Standards For Water Supply And Waste Disposal Systems
11-1-5-4: Development Proposals
11-1-5-5: Standards For Manufactured Homes
11-1-5-6: Standards For Recreational Vehicles
11-1-6: Variance Procedure
11-1-6-1: Nature Of Variances
11-1-6-2: Conditions For Variances
11-1-6-3: Variance Criteria
11-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND METHODS:
11-1-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
In Idaho Code §§ 40-1020 - 40-1024 et seq., the Idaho State Legislature has
delegated the responsibility to each community to adopt floodplain management
regulations designed to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
of its citizenry. Therefore, the City Council of the City of Hayden Lake
(“City”) does ordain as follows: (Ord. 302, 1-19-2021)
11-1-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the City are subject to periodic inundation
which may result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses may be caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in flood hazard areas which increase flood heights and velocities
and, when inadequately anchored, cause damage in other areas. Uses that are
inadequately flood proofed, elevated or otherwise protected from flood damage,
also contribute to flood loss. (Ord. 302, 1-19-2021)
11-1-1-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote public health, safety, and general
welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flooding in flood
hazard areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains; electric, telephone and sewer lines; and streets and bridges located
in flood hazard areas;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood hazard areas so as to minimize blight areas caused by
flooding;
   G.   Notify potential buyers that the property is in a Special Flood Hazard
Area
   H.   Notify those who occupy flood hazard areas that they assume
responsibility for their actions; and
   I.   Participate in and maintain eligibility for flood insurance and
disaster relief. (Ord. 302, 1-19-2021)
11-1-1-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and
provisions to:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit development which is dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging
increases in erosion, flood heights or velocities;
   B.   Require that development vulnerable to floods, including facilities, be
protected against flood damage at the time of initial construction;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters, or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas. (Ord. 302, 1-19-2021)
11-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
APPEAL:        A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s interpretation of any
               provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
AREA OF        The land in the floodplain within a community subject to a 1 percent or greater chance
SPECIAL FLOOD  of flooding in any given year. It is shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) as
HAZARD:        Zone A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, A99, AR (V, VO, V1-30, VE). “Special flood hazard area” is
               synonymous in meaning with the phrase “area of special flood hazard”.
BASE FLOOD:    The flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
BASE FLOOD
ELEVATION      The elevation to which floodwater is anticipated to rise during the base flood.
(BFE):
BASEMENT:      Any area of the building having its floor sub-grade - i.e., below ground level - on
               all sides.
BUILDING:      See STRUCTURE.
               Any man made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including but not limited
DEVELOPMENT:   to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving,
               excavation or drilling operations or storage of equipment or materials.
               (a)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally
               dry land areas from:
                  (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
                  (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
               source.
                  (3)   Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by flooding as
               defined in paragraph (a)(2) of this definition and are akin to a river of liquid and
FLOOD OR       flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when earth is carried by a
FLOODING:      current of water and deposited along the path of the current.
               (b)   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other body of
               water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents of water
               exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an unusually high water
               level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe storm, or by an
               unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an abnormal tidal surge, or by
               some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event which results in flooding as defined in
               paragraph (a)(1) of this definition.
FLOOD          The official map of a community, on which the Federal Insurance Administrator has
INSURANCE RATE delineated both the special hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the
MAP (FIRM):    community. A FIRM that has been made available digitally is called a Digital Flood
               Insurance Rate Map (DFIRM).
FLOODPLAIN OR  Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any source. See FLOOD OR
FLOOD PRONE    FLOODING.
AREA:
FLOODPLAIN     The community official designated by title to administer and enforce the floodplain
ADMINISTRATOR: management regulations.
FLOODPLAIN     The operation of an overall program of corrective and preventive measures for reducing
MANAGEMENT:    flood damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans, flood control
               works, and floodplain management regulations.
               Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
FLOODPLAIN     special purpose ordinances (such as floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and
MANAGEMENT     erosion control ordinance) and other application of police power. The term describes
REGULATIONS:   such state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
               for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOOD          Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions, changes, or adjustments to
PROOFING:      structures which reduce or eliminate risk of flood damage to real estate or improved
               real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures, and their contents.
               A use which cannot perform its intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in
FUNCTIONALLY   close proximity to water. The term includes only docking facilities, port facilities
DEPENDENT USE: that are necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship
               building and ship repair facilities, and does not include long term storage or related
               manufacturing facilities.
HIGHEST        The highest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to construction next to the
ADJACENT       proposed walls of a structure.
GRADE:
               Any structure that is:
               1.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing
               maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the Secretary
               of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on the National
               Register;
               2.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as
               contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or a
HISTORIC       district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic
STRUCTURE:     district;
               3.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states with
               historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary of Interior;
               or
               4.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in communities with
               historic preservation programs that have been certified either:
                  a.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior or
                  b.   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved programs.
               The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including BASEMENT). An unfinished or
               flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or
LOWEST FLOOR:  storage in an area other than a basement area is not considered a building’s lowest
               floor, provided that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in
               violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
               A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a permanent
MANUFACTURED   chassis and is designed for use with or without a permanent foundation when attached
HOME:          to the required utilities. The term “manufactured home” does not include a
               “recreational vehicle.”
MANUFACTURED   A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into two or more manufactured home
HOME PARK OR   lots for rent or sale.
SUBDIVISION:
               For the purposes of determining insurance rates, structures for which the “start of
               construction” commenced on or after the effective date of an initial Flood Insurance
NEW            Rate Map or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes any subsequent
CONSTRUCTION:  improvements to such structures. For floodplain management purposes, “new
               construction” means structures for which the “start of construction” commenced on or
               after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by a community
               and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
ONE HUNDRED
YEAR FLOOD OR  See BASE FLOOD.
100 YEAR
FLOOD:
               A vehicle which is:
                  1.   Built on a single chassis;
RECREATIONAL      2.   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection;
VEHICLE:          3.   Designed to be self propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck;
               and
                  4.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
               quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
SPECIAL FLOOD
HAZARD AREA    See AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
(SFHA):
               Includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was issued,
               provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
               addition, placement, or other improvement was within 180 days from the date of the
               permit. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of
               a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of
               piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
START OF       placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not
CONSTRUCTION:  include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include
               the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
               basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does
               it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or
               sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
               substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration
               of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not
               that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE.:    For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building, including a gas or
               liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL    Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the
DAMAGE:        structure to its before damaged condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the
               market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
               Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure, the
               cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure before
               the “start of construction” of the improvement. This term includes structures which
               have incurred “substantial damage,” regardless of the actual repair work performed.
SUBSTANTIAL    The term does not, however, include either:
IMPROVEMENT:      1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of
               state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
               identified by the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary
               to assure safe living conditions; or
                  2.   Any alteration of a “historic structure,” provided that the alteration will
               not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a “historic structure.”
VARIANCE:      A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a flood plain management
               regulation.
               The failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the
               community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure or other development
VIOLATION:     without the elevation certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of
               compliance required in this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as
               that documentation is provided. (Ord. 302, 1-19-2021)
 
11-1-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
11-1-3-1: LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES:
This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
boundaries of the City. (Ord. 302, 1-19-2021)
11-1-3-2: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS:
The special flood hazard areas identified by the Federal Insurance
Administrator on Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) dated May 3, 2010 are hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. The FIRM panels
are on file at Hayden Lake City Hall, 9393 N. Strahorn Road, Hayden Lake, Idaho
83835. (Ord. 302, 1-19-2021)
11-1-3-3: COMPLIANCE:
All development within special flood hazard areas is subject to the terms of
this chapter and other applicable regulations. (Ord. 302, 1-19-2021)
11-1-3-4: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 302, 1-
19-2021)
11-1-3-5: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes. (Ord. 302, 1-19-2021)
11-1-3-6: PENALTIES FOR NON-COMPLIANCE:
Violation of the provisions of this chapter by failure to comply with any of
its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with conditions) shall constitute a public nuisance subject to
abatement pursuant to Idaho Code § 46-1023(1) and/or be subject to the general
penalty provisions found in City Code §§
1-4-1 and
1-4-2. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City from taking such other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. (Ord. 302, 1-
19-2021)
11-1-3-7: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the special flood hazard areas or uses permitted within
such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not
create liability on the part of the City, any officer or employee thereof, for
any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made hereunder. (Ord. 302, 1-19-2021)
11-1-3-8: SEVERABILITY:
This chapter and the various parts thereof are hereby declared to be severable.
Should any Section of this chapter be declared by the courts to be
unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
ordinance as a whole, or any portion thereof other than the Section so declared
to be unconstitutional or invalid. (Ord. 302, 1-19-2021)
11-1-4: ADMINISTRATION:
11-1-4-1: DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The City Engineer is hereby appointed to administer, implement and enforce this
chapter by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions. The Floodplain Administrator may delegate authority to implement
these provisions. (Ord. 302, 1-19-2021)
11-1-4-2: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
Duties of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be limited to:
   A.   Permit Review: Review all development permits to determine that:
      1.   The permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      2.   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained;
      3.   The site is reasonably safe from flooding;
   B.   Use Of Other Base Flood Data: When Base Flood Elevation data has not
been provided in accordance with Section
11-1-3-2, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any Base Flood Elevation data available from a federal, state or other
source, in order to administer Section
11-1-5. Any such information shall be consistent with the requirements of the
Federal Insurance Administrator.
   C.   Obtain And Maintain For Public Inspection: Obtain and maintain the
following for public inspection and make available as needed:
      1.   Certification required by Section
11-1-5-1.C.1. and Section
11-1-5-5 (lowest floor elevations for all structures, and service facilities/
mechanical equipment);
      2.   Certification required by
11-1-5-1.C.2. (lowest floor elevations or floodproofing of non-residential
structures and service facilities/mechanical equipment);
      3.   Certification required by Section
11-1-5-1.C.4. (engineered flood openings);
      4.   Records of all variance actions, including justification for their
issuance;
      5.   Improvement and damage calculations.
   D.   Notification To Other Entities:
      1.   Whenever a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, notify
adjacent communities and the State Coordinating Office prior to such alteration
or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the
Federal Insurance Administrator through appropriate notification means, and
assure that the flood carrying capacity of the altered or relocated portion of
said watercourse is maintained.
      2.   Base Flood Elevations may increase or decrease resulting from
physical changes affecting flooding conditions. As soon as practicable, but not
later than six months after the date such information becomes available, the
Floodplain Administrator shall notify the Federal Insurance Administrator of
the changes by submitting technical or scientific data in accordance with
Volume 44 Code of Federal Regulations Section 65.3. Such a submission is
necessary so that upon confirmation of those physical changes affecting
flooding conditions, risk premium rates and floodplain management requirements
will be based upon current data.
      3.   Notify the Federal Insurance Administrator in writing of acquisition
by means of annexation, incorporation or otherwise, of additional areas of
jurisdiction.
   E.   Remedial Actions: Take actions on violations of this chapter as
required in Section
11-1-3-6 herein. (Ord. 302, 1-19-2021)
11-1-4-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A Development Permit shall be obtained before construction or development
begins, including placement of manufactured homes, within any Special Flood
Hazard Area established in Section
11-1-3-2. Application for a Development Permit may be made on forms furnished
by the Floodplain Administrator and may include, but not be limited to, plans
in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and
elevation of the area in question, existing or proposed structures, fill,
storage of materials, drainage facilities and the location of the foregoing.
Specifically, the following information is required:
   A.   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all structures;
   B.   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure will be floodproofed;
   C.   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect that
the floodproofing methods for any non-residential structure meet the
floodproofing criteria in Section
11-1-5-1.C.2.;
   D.   Base Flood Elevation data for subdivision proposals or other
development, including manufactured home parks or subdivisions, greater than 50
lots or 5 acres, whichever is the lesser; and
   E.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered or
relocated as a result of proposed development. (Ord. 302, 1-19-2021)
11-1-5: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
11-1-5-1: STANDARDS OF CONSTRUCTION:
In all special flood hazard areas, the following standards are required:
   A.   Anchoring:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy; and
      2.   All manufactured homes shall meet the anchoring standards of Section
11-1-5-5.
   B.   Construction Materials and Methods:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
      2.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage; and
      3.   All new construction and substantial improvement shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
   C.   Elevation and Floodproofing:
      1.   Residential Construction:
         a.   Residential construction, new or substantial improvement, shall
have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above the Base Flood
Elevation.
         b.   Where the Base Flood Elevation has not been determined, the Base
Flood Elevation is determined locally by the criteria set out in Section
11-1-4-2.B. A minimum of 2 feet above highest adjacent grade may result in a
lower insurance premium.
         c.   A garage attached to a residential structure, constructed with
the garage floor slab below the Base Flood Elevation, must be designed to allow
for the automatic entry and exit of flood waters. See Section
11-1-5-1.C.4.
         d.   Upon completion of the structure, certification by a registered
professional engineer or surveyor that the elevation requirements of the lowest
floor, including basement, of this section have been satisfied shall be
provided to the Floodplain Administrator for verification.
      2.   Non-residential Construction:
         a.   Non-residential construction, new or substantial improvement,
shall have the lowest floor either elevated to conform with division C.1. of
this section,
         b.   Or, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities,
            (1)   Be floodproofed below the elevation recommended under
division C.1. of this section so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water; and
            (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic
and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
         c.   A registered professional engineer or architect shall develop
and/or review structural design, specifications, and plans for the
construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of construction are
in accordance with accepted standards of practice meeting the provisions listed
above.
         d.   Upon completion of the structure, certification by a registered
professional engineer or surveyor that the elevation requirements of the lowest
floor, including basement, of this section have been satisfied shall be
provided to the Floodplain Administrator for verification; or certification by
a registered professional engineer or architect that the floodproofing design
of this section is satisfied, including the specific elevation in relation to
mean sea level to which such structures are floodproofed, shall be provided to
the Floodplain Administrator for verification.
      3.   Appurtenant Structures (Detached Garages And Storage Structures):
Appurtenant structures used solely for parking of vehicles or storage may be
constructed such that the floor is below the Base Flood Elevation, provided the
structure is designed and constructed in accordance with the following
requirements:
         a.   Use of the appurtenant structure must be limited to parking of
vehicles or storage;
         b.   The portions of the appurtenant structure located below the Base
Flood Elevation must be built using flood resistant materials;
         c.   The appurtenant structure must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse and lateral movement;
         d.   Any machinery or equipment servicing the appurtenant structure
must be elevated or floodproofed to or above the Base Flood Elevation; and
         e.   The appurtenant structure must be designed to allow for the
automatic entry and exit of flood waters in accordance with division C.4. of
this section.
   Detached garages, storage structures and other appurtenant structures not
meeting the above standards must be constructed in accordance with all
applicable standards in division C.1. of this section.
   Upon completion of the structure, certification that the requirements of
this section have been satisfied shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator for verification.
      4.   Flood Openings: All new construction and substantial improvement
with fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements) that are
usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, and which
are subject to flooding, shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the automatic entry
and exit of floodwater. Designs for meeting this requirement must meet or
exceed the following criteria:
   For non-engineered openings:
         a.   Have a minimum of two openings with a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade;
         c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwater.
   Alternatively, a registered engineer or architect may design and certify
engineered openings.
   Upon completion of the structure, certification that the requirements of
this section have been satisfied shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator for verification. (Ord. 302, 1-19-2021)
11-1-5-2: STANDARDS FOR STORAGE OF MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT:
   A.   The storage or processing of materials that could be injurious to
human, animal or plant life if released due to damage from flooding is
prohibited in special flood hazard areas.
   B.   Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not subject to
damage by floods and if firmly anchored to prevent flotation, or if readily
removable from the area within the time available after flood warning. (Ord.
302, 1-19-2021)
11-1-5-3: STANDARDS FOR WATER SUPPLY AND WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
   A.   All new or replacement water supply and sanitary sewage systems shall
be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the
system and discharge from systems into flood waters.
   B.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding. (Ord. 302, 1-19-2021)
11-1-5-4: DEVELOPMENT PROPOSALS:
All new development proposals, including subdivisions and manufactured home
parks, shall:
   A.   Be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage;
   B.   Have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and
water systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage; and
   C.   Provide adequate drainage to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   D.   Include Base Flood Elevation data for all proposals greater than 50
lots or 5 acres, whichever is the lesser. (Ord. 302, 1-19-2021)
11-1-5-5: STANDARDS FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES:
All manufactured homes shall be installed using methods and practices which
minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not to be limited to, use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in
addition to applicable State and local anchoring requirements for resisting
wind forces.
Upon completion of installation of the manufactured home, certification by a
registered professional engineer or surveyor that the elevation requirements of
this section have been satisfied shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator for verification. (Ord. 302, 1-19-2021)
11-1-5-6: STANDARDS FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
All recreational vehicles placed on site shall:
   A.   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days,
   B.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. A recreational vehicle is
ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to
the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has
no permanently attached additions; or
   C.   Meet the permit requirements of Section
11-1-4 of this chapter and the applicable elevation and anchoring requirements
for manufactured homes in Section
11-1-5-5. (Ord. 302, 1-19-2021)
11-1-6: VARIANCE PROCEDURE:
11-1-6-1: NATURE OF VARIANCES:
The variance criteria set forth in this section of the ordinance are based on
the general principle of zoning law that variances pertain to a piece of
property and are not personal in nature. A variance may be granted for a parcel
of property with physical characteristics so unusual that complying with the
requirements of this chapter would create an exceptional hardship to the
applicant or the surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be
unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique
characteristic must pertain to the land itself, not to the structure, its
inhabitants or the property owners.
It is the duty of the City Council to help protect its citizens from flooding.
This need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of insuring a
structure built below the Base Flood Elevation are so serious that variances
from the flood elevation or from other requirements in the flood ordinance are
quite rare. The long-term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage
can only be met if variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the variance
guidelines provided in this chapter are more detailed and contain multiple
provisions that must be met before a variance can be properly granted. The
criteria are designed to screen out those situations in which alternatives
other than a variance are more appropriate. (Ord. 302, 1-19-2021)
11-1-6-2: CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES:
   A.   Variances shall only be issued:
      1.   Upon a determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances; and
      2.   Upon a showing of good and sufficient cause; and
      3.   Upon a determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant.
   B.   Variance shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance is
the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   C.   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the Base
Flood Elevation, provided the procedures of Sections
11-1-4 and
11-1-5 of this chapter have been fully considered. As the lot size increases
beyond one-half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the
variance increases.
   D.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use provided that (i) the criteria of A-D of this
section are met, and (ii) the structure or other development is protected by
methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no
additional threats to public safety. (Ord. 302, 1-19-2021)
11-1-6-3: VARIANCE CRITERIA:
   A.   In considering variance applications, the City Council shall consider
all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      1.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      2.   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      3.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      4.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      5.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      6.   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use,
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      7.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      8.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      9.   The safety of access to the property in time of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      10.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the flood waters expected at the site; and,
      11.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, water system and streets and bridges.
   B.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice over the signature of a community official that:
      1.   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the Base
Flood Elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage, and
      2.   Such construction below the base flood elevation increases risks to
life and property; and
   C.   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance. (Ord. 302, 1-19-2021)
CHAPTER 2
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
11-2-1: Title
11-2-2: Definitions
11-2-3: Purpose
11-2-4: Applicability
11-2-5: General Requirements
11-2-6: Performance Standards
11-2-7: Installation Guarantee
11-2-8: Supporting Resolutions
11-2-9: Prohibited Conduct
11-2-10: Variances
11-2-11: Enforcement And Penalties
11-2-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the STORMWATER MANAGEMENT ORDINANCE of the city
of Hayden Lake. (Ord. 117, 6-24-1993)
11-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
AS BUILT DRAWINGS: Design plans which have been revised to reflect all changes
to the plans which occurred during construction.
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP): Physical, structural and/or managerial
practices that, when used singly or in combination, prevent or reduce pollution
of water.
BOND: A surety bond, cash deposit or escrow account, assignment of savings,
irrevocable letter of credit or other means acceptable to or required by the
permit authority to guarantee that work is completed in compliance with the
project's drainage plan and in compliance with all local government
requirements.
CITY: The city of Hayden Lake, Kootenai County, Idaho.
CITY CLERK: The city clerk/treasurer of the city of Hayden Lake, Kootenai
County, Idaho, or other officer of the city who is the custodian of the records
of the proceedings of the city council, or his successor in functions, if any.
CITY ENGINEER: The engineer or engineering firm selected by the mayor and city
council to act as city engineer for the city.
CLEARING: The destruction and removal of vegetation by manual, mechanical or
chemical methods.
CONVEYANCE: A mechanism for transporting water from one point to another,
including pipes, ditches and channels.
CONVEYANCE SYSTEM: The drainage facilities, both natural and manmade, which
collect, contain and provide for the flow of surface and stormwater from the
highest points on the land down to a receiving water. The natural elements of
the conveyance system include swales and small drainage courses, streams,
rivers, lakes and wetlands. The humanmade elements of the conveyance system
include gutters, ditches, pipes, channels and most retention/detention
facilities.
DESIGN STORM: A rainfall event of specific return frequency and duration that
is used to calculate the runoff volume and peak discharge rate.
DETENTION: The temporary storage of storm runoff in a BMP, which is used to
control the peak discharge rates, and which provides gravity settling of
pollutants.
EROSION: The wearing away of the land surface by running water, wind, ice or
other geological agents, including such processes as gravitational creep. Also,
detachment and movement of soil or rock fragments by water, wind, ice or
gravity.
EROSION/SEDIMENTATION CONTROL: Any temporary or permanent measures taken to
reduce erosion, control siltation and sedimentation and ensure that sediment-
laden water does not leave the site.
GROUNDWATER: Water in a saturated zone or stratum beneath the land surface or a
surface water body.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: A hard surface area which either prevents or retards the
entry of water into the soil mantle as under natural conditions prior to
development, and/or hard surface area which causes water to run off the surface
in greater quantities or at an increased rate of flow from the flow present
under natural conditions prior to development. Common impervious surfaces
include, but are not limited to, roof tops, walkways, patios, driveways,
parking lots or storage areas, concrete or asphalt paving, gravel roads, packed
earthen materials and oiled, macadam or other surfaces which similarly impede
the natural infiltration of stormwater. Open, uncovered retention/detention
facilities shall not be considered as impervious surfaces.
INFILTRATION: The downward movement of water from the surface to the subsoil.
The infiltration capacity is expressed in terms of inches/hour.
INTERMITTENT STREAM: A stream or portion of a stream that flows only in direct
response to precipitation. It receives little or no water from springs and no
long continued supply from melting snow or other sources. It is dry for a large
part of the year, ordinarily more than three (3) months.
LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY: Any activity that results in a more than a fifteen
percent (15%) change in the existing soil cover (both vegetative and
nonvegetative) and/or the existing soil topography. Land disturbing activities
include, but are not limited to, demolition, construction, clearing, grading,
filling and excavation.
NUTRIENTS: Essential chemicals needed by plants or animals for growth.
Excessive amounts of nutrients can lead to degradation of water quality and
algal blooms. Some nutrients can be toxic at high concentrations.
QUALIFIED, LICENSED PROFESSIONAL: Licensed engineer, landscape architect,
architect, soil scientist or other individual who has demonstrated a
professional ability to design stormwater systems and certify their
effectiveness with a registered stamp.
RECONSTRUCTION: Road reconstruction shall be considered any modification of the
cross section or subgrade. Paving or repaving shall not be considered
reconstruction.
RETENTION: The holding of runoff in a basin without release except by means of
evaporation, infiltration or emergency bypass.
RUNOFF: Water originating from rainfall and other precipitation that is found
in drainage facilities, rivers, streams, springs, seeps, ponds, lakes and
wetlands, as well as shallow groundwater.
SEDIMENT: Fragmented material that originates from weathering and erosion of
rocks or unconsolidated deposits, and is transported by, suspended in or
deposited by water.
SEDIMENTATION: The deposition of sediment or ground surfaces and in
watercourses.
STORM FREQUENCY: The time interval between major storms of predetermined
intensity and volumes of runoff for which storm sewers and other structures are
designed and constructed to handle hydraulically without surcharging and
backflooding, e.g., a 2-year, 25-year or 100-year storm.
SWALE: A shallow drainage conveyance or infiltration area with relatively
gentle slopes, generally with flow depths less than one-half foot (1/2').
TREATMENT BMP: A BMP that is intended to remove pollutants from stormwater. A
few examples of treatment BMPs are detention ponds, oil/water separators,
biofiltration swales and construction wetlands.
UNIQUE SITE CHARACTERISTICS: Soil, slope or depth to bedrock conditions that
will not accommodate on site treatment through infiltration to the standards
specified in the ordinance. (Ord. 117, 6-24-1993)
11-2-3: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter shall be to require implementation of surface water
management techniques which rely upon natural on site treatment and recycling
of stormwater as opposed to collection and conveyance of untreated stormwater
into ground water sources or into surface bodies of water. The underlying
purposes to be achieved by implementation of such regulations are the
protection of groundwater quality through pretreatment of stormwater prior to
infiltration and protection of surface water resources from the effects of
contaminants, sedimentation and erosion. (Ord. 117, 6-24-1993)
11-2-4: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall be applicable in the following circumstances:
   A.   Development of every new subdivision of land within the jurisdiction of
the city.
   B.   All public projects within the jurisdiction of the city including, but
not limited to, street construction or reconstruction (modification of the
cross section, not to include resurfacing), park development, building
development or other public works construction or development. Except as
necessary to maintain the continuity of existing stormwater handling systems,
all new construction as outlined in this subsection, shall employ the methods
for stormwater management required by this chapter and shall otherwise be
designed to minimize adverse impacts upon surface and groundwater quality; or
   C.   Every lot or every building permit or land development permit where
land disturbing activity is to occur on any part of the site with a slope
greater than fifteen percent (15%) or on sites less than five hundred feet
(500') distant horizontally from, and located vertically above, any surface
water in the form of a perennial or intermittent stream, river, pond, lake,
wetland or similar surface water feature which can be determined from USGS
seven and one-half (7.5) minute quadrangle topographic maps. Stormwater
management plans may not be necessary for individual building sites if runoff
from the site has been accommodated by an approved stormwater management plan
for the subdivision in which the site is located. However, detailed erosion
control plans may still be required. The city engineer may allow a building
permit to be issued for minor additions to existing improvements without the
preparation of a stormwater management plan if, in using his professional
judgment, the requirements of this chapter can be met by existing site
conditions. (Ord. 117, 6-24-1993)
11-2-5: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
Unless otherwise lawfully excused from compliance with the standards set forth
in this chapter, all activity to which this chapter is applicable shall comply
with the following requirements and methods for stormwater management control:
   A.   Stormwater, in accordance with the performance standards set forth
herein, shall be directed by nonerosive means to grass infiltration areas when
appropriate. Expected containment removals are as follows:
Total suspended solids 95%
Total dissolved solids 50%
Nutrients: Nitrate     20-50%
Total nitrogen         80%
Phosphorus             90%
Metals                 80% +
Organic chemicals      60% +
Bacteria               99%
 
An acceptable stormwater collection, treatment and disposal system shall be
implemented in accordance with an approved stormwater management plan, subject
to review by the city engineer. Said grass infiltration areas or other approved
alternative on site stormwater collection and treatment systems may be approved
in either nodal or dispersed form, subject to specific approval by the city
engineer during the development review process.
   B.   All activity subject to this chapter shall be carried out so that the
runoff of storm or other surface waters shall not be accelerated, concentrated
or otherwise conveyed beyond the exterior property lines or project boundaries
of the project in question except in compliance with the provisions of BMPs
adopted pursuant to this chapter or as allowed through joint management of
stormwater with adjoining property owners pursuant to agreement approved by the
city. The quality of surface runoff shall be protected by strict compliance
with the design standards and BMPs adopted pursuant to this chapter or by
implementation of measures shown by a qualified, licensed professional, as
defined in section
11-2-2 of this chapter, to have an effective design capability which exceeds
the BMPs adopted hereby.
   C.   Each landowner and/or developer subject to the terms of this chapter
shall develop a comprehensive stormwater plan which addresses and complies with
the requirements and standards established by this chapter and any plan
criteria, design standards and BMPs adopted by resolution pursuant to this
chapter. Each plan for stormwater management shall be approved by a qualified,
licensed professional, who shall submit both construction quality design
drawings and supporting calculations for review and approval by the city
engineer prior to start of construction or any land disturbing activity. Each
stormwater management plan shall also identify necessary maintenance
requirements.
   D.   Each landowner and/or developer who proposes and implements a
stormwater management system for collection or treatment of stormwater in
accordance with this chapter shall also establish, including assurance of
adequate funding, the necessary maintenance system, including an acceptable
plan for sustained functioning of the collection and treatment system, and,
when requested, grant the necessary easements to a local government which may
choose to provide continued maintenance of the system by public authorities or
may require the owner to accomplish same. Such services may be financed by
charging fees to owners and/or occupants of real property benefited by such
service.
   E.   The city engineer is authorized to accept, review and approve plans for
stormwater management required under this chapter including any site review or
inspections deemed necessary by the city engineer. The owner and/or developer
shall pay to the city engineer the actual costs of checking, investigating and
site inspections required to carry out the purpose of this chapter. (Ord. 117,
6-24-1993)
11-2-6: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
The following performance standards shall be applicable to all design,
construction, implementation and maintenance of stormwater management systems
pursuant to the jurisdiction exercised through this chapter:
   A.   There shall be no increase in the peak rate of runoff from the site
when compared with the dissipation of stormwater in the undeveloped state for a
25-year storm. Within project boundaries, sufficient retention capacity shall
be constructed to detain surface flow to meet the performance standard
established by this section. For purposes of this chapter "undeveloped state"
shall mean the natural soils and vegetation in place prior to the start of any
construction or clearing activity on a site.
   B.   No stormwater shall be collected or concentrated except within a
channel protected against erosion and containing energy dissipation measures to
prevent further erosion on adjoining lands. Existing unprotected channels shall
be protected against further erosion in the course of site development. Any
site development or construction shall preserve installed components of a
stormwater management plan. All disturbed soils shall be protected during the
course of construction to prevent exposure to stormwater and to contain eroded
materials should contact be made.
   C.   Any and all collected stormwater shall be directed to grass
infiltration areas which shall be established with grass and other approved
plant materials or to an acceptable alternative stormwater management design.
Grass infiltration areas or their acceptable alternatives shall be sized to
hold and treat the first one-half inch (1/2") of stormwater runoff from all
impervious surfaces. The overall stormwater disposal system shall have a
capacity to handle a 25-year storm based upon the appropriate Idaho
transportation department IDF curve, without damage to the stormwater
management system or adjacent land and improvements. (Ord. 117, 6-24-1993)
11-2-7: INSTALLATION GUARANTEE:
No final plat shall be recorded until the stormwater management facilities are
in place and functioning as designed or until a guarantee of financial surety
is provided to and accepted by the city. No certificate of occupancy 1  will be
issued until the stormwater management system has been installed and is
functioning as designed. If, in the judgment of the city engineer, project
occupancy can be achieved without harm to the environment or potential
occupants, occupancy may proceed upon receipt of an acceptable guarantee of
financial surety to complete installation when weather conditions or other
variables allow. In no case shall such guarantee be allowed if the incomplete
improvements would result in increased erosion, sedimentation or other damage
to the development, public improvements, subsurface or surface waters or the
proposed stormwater management system. At any time, the city engineer is
authorized to stop work on the installation of subdivision improvements, to
embargo further issuance of building permits in a development, to stop work on
any individual building or development of any individual building site, or to
otherwise take steps necessary to protect surface and groundwaters from damage
as a result of development. (Ord. 117, 6-24-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-10-1 of this code.
11-2-8: SUPPORTING RESOLUTIONS:
The city may adopt, by resolution, design standards, definitions of
terminology, administrative procedures, etc., intended to implement the general
requirements and performance standards set forth in this chapter. Changes in
the design standards may be accomplished by subsequently adopted resolution.
Such design standards may be complied with in alternative ways that will
contribute to rational achievement of the general requirements and performance
standards set forth in this chapter, provided that any such changes must be
proposed by a qualified, licensed professional, subject to review and approval
by the city engineer. (Ord. 117, 6-24-1993)
11-2-9: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
No person shall damage, harm, fail to install or complete or otherwise impair
the grass infiltration areas, approved methods of transmission of stormwater to
grass infiltration areas or any portion of a stormwater management system
installed pursuant to this chapter. Unless other provisions are made in the
process of development review and approval, responsibility for maintenance of
stormwater system elements remains with the property owner, and violation of
these maintenance requirements shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 117, 6-24-1993)
11-2-10: VARIANCES:
A variance from the requirements of this chapter or from the design standards
adopted pursuant to this chapter may be granted only upon a showing of undue
hardship due to unique site characteristics. Said variance may only be granted
in such circumstances if the approval of the variance would not otherwise
impair achievement of the standards or purposes of this chapter, would not
impose additional burden upon adjoining or downstream lands or landowners, or
otherwise disrupt the scheme of stormwater management in the community. It
shall be incumbent upon anyone requesting a variance to provide data showing
that alternative methods of stormwater handling proposed will produce
comparable efficacy of the stormwater management measures required by this
chapter. No variance shall be issued unless all elements of this section are
met. Any request for variance from the terms of this chapter shall be first
submitted to the city clerk who shall schedule a hearing in accord with
provisions of Idaho Code 67-6516. (Ord. 117, 6-24-1993)
11-2-11: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
Provisions of this chapter shall be enforced:
   A.   As provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 117, 6-
24-1993; amd. Ord. 200, 3-9-2004)
   B.   May be enforced by civil action to compel performance and completion
of, or maintenance of, facilities installed pursuant to this chapter.
   C.   May have building permits or certificates of occupancy denied or
revoked, as the case may be.
Occupancy of a dwelling or building without an approved certificate of
occupancy 1  shall constitute a violation of this chapter in addition to any
building or zoning ordinances from which the occupancy requirements derives.
(Ord. 117, 6-24-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-10-1 of this code.
