CITY CODE
of
HAYDEN, IDAHO
2002
Code current through:
Ord. 652, passed 7-9-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Hayden, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 652, passed July 9, 2024. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 315
   CITY OF HAYDEN
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF HAYDEN, A MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF THE STATE OF
IDAHO, ADOPTING THE CITY CODE OF HAYDEN FOR REVISING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING
THE GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF HAYDEN AS CODIFIED BY STERLING CODIFIERS
THROUGH AND INCLUDING CITY OF HAYDEN ORDINANCES 1 THROUGH 309, EXCEPT FOR THE
SUBDIVISION AND ZONING ORDINANCES; PROVIDING THAT THE UNLAWFUL ALTERATION OR
MODIFICATION OF THE CODE IS A MISDEMEANOR; PROVIDING SEVERABILITY; PROVIDING
REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES; AND PROVIDING AN EFFECTIVE DATE.
IT IS ORDAINED by the mayor and city council of the city of Hayden, Kootenai
County, Idaho as follows:
   Whereas, provisions of Title 50, Chapter 9 of Idaho Code authorize
publication of compiled ordinances of a city by compilation and codification.
   Section 1: This ordinance is the initial codification of the ordinances of
the city of Hayden from Ordinance 1 through 309, except for the Subdivision and
Zoning ordinances.
   Section 2: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the City
Code of the City of Hayden, Idaho prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc.
containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature, together with
the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body
of the City, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official
code and law of the City as enacted by the Mayor and City Council.
   Section 3: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official City Code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which shall be
maintained in the office of the City Clerk, for inspection at any and all times
that said office is regularly open. The Subdivision and Zoning Ordinances shall
remain in effect as adopted and enforceable, although not codified herein. Each
ordinance of a general nature subsequently adopted by the city council shall be
deemed incorporated into said City Code upon its effective date unless
expressly provided to the contrary.
   Section 4: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official City
Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official City Code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the City Code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official City Code.
   Section 5: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented thereby. It shall be a misdemeanor for any person, firm or
corporation to violate this section.
   Section 6. Severability: The ordinance is hereby declared to be severable.
Should any portion of this ordinance be declared invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions shall continue in full force
and effect and shall be read to carry out the purpose(s) of the ordinance
before the declaration of partial invalidity.
   Section 7. Repeal of Conflicting Provisions: All provisions of the current
ordinances of the City of Hayden which conflict with the provisions of this
ordinance are hereby repealed to the extent of such conflict.
   Section 8. Effective Date: This ordinance and the Code adopted by the same
shall be effective upon passage and publication of this ordinance as provided
by law.
Enacted by the city council as an ordinance of the City of Hayden on the 23 day
of April, 2002.
Approved by the Mayor on the        day of April, 2002.
         CITY OF HAYDEN
         Ronald B. McIntire, Mayor
ATTEST:
                                       
Lila Truesdell, City Clerk
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-5: Appeals
1-1-6: Reconsideration Of City Council Decisions
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the city council, this city code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official city code of the city of Hayden,
Idaho. This city code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the HAYDEN CITY
CODE and is hereby published by authority of the city council and shall be
supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of the city as provided
in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this city code by title in any legal documents. (2002 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
this state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2002 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the city code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this city code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this city code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the city code. (2002 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this city code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
city council. The city clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the city clerk. Any
person having custody of a copy of the city code shall make every effort to
maintain said code current as to the most recent ordinances passed. Such person
shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered or made available to such person through the office of the city
clerk. Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and shall be
returned to the office of the city clerk when directed so to do by order of the
city council. (2002 Code)
1-1-5: APPEALS:
   A.   General Provisions: The council shall hear and decide appeals where it
is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, recommendation or
determination made by the administrator, department officials and employees in
the enforcement of this code. Appeals to the council concerning interpretation
or administration of this code may be taken by any person aggrieved. All
appeals involving interpretation and enforcement shall first be presented to
the city council and recourse from the decision of the council shall be to the
courts as provided by law.
   B.   Procedures: An appeal shall be filed with the city clerk within
fourteen (14) days of a written decision and shall be accompanied by the appeal
filing fee as established by resolution of the city council.
   C.   Content Of Appeal: All appeals shall be in writing and shall contain
the following:
      1.   The appellant's name, address, and telephone number;
      2.   The appellant's statement describing his or her standing to appeal;
      3.   Identification of the application and/or decision which is the
subject of the appeal;
      4.   The appellant's statement of grounds for the appeal addressing why
the appellant believes the decision to be unlawful or inappropriate to the
factual circumstances.
   D.   Setting Of Appeal Hearing: Upon the timely filing of appeal, the city
shall set the date, time and place for the appeal to be heard by the city
council.
   E.   Burden Of Proof: The appellant shall bear the burden of proving the
decision was unlawful or inappropriate to the factual circumstances.
   F.   The council shall give legal public notice to the parties in interest,
and decide the same within a reasonable time following the hearing. At the
hearing, any affected party may appear in person, by agent or attorney.
   G.   Appeal Stays Proceedings: An appeal stays all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the council finds, after the
notice of appeal is filed with it, that by reason of facts stated in the
appeal, a stay would, in their opinion cause imminent peril to life and
property. In such cases, proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a
restraining order which may be granted by the courts after having due cause
shown. (Ord. 608, 3-24-2020)
1-1-6: RECONSIDERATION OF CITY COUNCIL DECISIONS:
   A.   Reconsideration: Every applicant or affected person seeking judicial
review of the city council's final decision must, within fourteen (14) days,
first file with the city council a written petition for reconsideration of the
council's decision, specifying deficiencies in the written decision for which
reconsideration is sought.
      1.   The city council may reconsider its decision only if it finds any of
the following:
         a.   There was a clerical error in the decision;
         b.   The decision resulted from fraud or mistake;
         c.   There is new evidence for the record or a change in
circumstances;
         d.   There was a procedural error;
         e.   The council previously rejected the application by a tie vote; or
         f.   The decision was made in violation of substantive law.
      2.   The city council shall review the petition for reconsideration at
its next regular meeting and decide whether to reconsider the matter. If the
city council grants reconsideration in whole or in part, a hearing before the
city council will be scheduled to address the specific deficiencies identified
by the applicant or affected person, which shall be conducted pursuant to the
public notice procedures set forth in section
11-12-4  of this code. The issues examined upon reconsideration shall be
limited to issues raised by the petition for reconsideration and the record
previously established, as well as the applicable law. The cost of all required
notices shall be borne by the party(ies) seeking reconsideration of the
decision and paid in advance.
      3.   Following the hearing on the reconsideration, the city council may
affirm, reverse, or modify, in whole or in part, its' prior decision and shall
provide a written decision to the applicant and the affected person(s) within
sixty (60) days of receipt of the request for reconsideration. If the city
council fails to timely decide, the request for reconsideration is deemed
denied.
   B.   Judicial Appeals: After a notice of decision is issued, or after a
revised notice of decision is issued under a reconsideration proceeding, any
aggrieved party with standing to appeal may appeal the decision to a court of
competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 608, 3-24-2020)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Repealer; Exceptions: All general ordinances of the city passed prior
to the adoption of this code are hereby repealed, except such as are included
in this code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal
(subject to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and
excluding the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; fee
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the city; and all special ordinances.
   B.   Effect Of Repealing Ordinances: The repeal of the ordinances provided
in subsection A of this section, shall not affect any debt or fee which is
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed or the term of office
of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor
shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance
heretofore repealed or superseded. (2002 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2002 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Scope Of Section: This section shall extend to all repeals, either by
express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any
new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Actions Now Pending: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2002 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this city code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The city council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (2002 Code)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-3-1: General Penalty
1-3-2: Application Of Provisions
1-3-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   Applicability: The penalty herein provided shall be applicable to every
ordinance of the City the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate ordinance.
   B.   Violation: Any person convicted of a violation of any ordinance of the
City shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor unless otherwise stated in the
section creating the offense; or by a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars
($100.00) with no imprisonment, when the offense is designated as infraction by
State law or by any section or provision of this Code.
   C.   Fine; Imprisonment: Any person convicted of a misdemeanor violation of
any ordinance of the City may be fined in a sum not to exceed one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) for any offense and such person may be confined in jail for
a period of not more than six (6) months. Either or both such fine and
imprisonment may be imposed; and in addition thereto, any person so convicted
shall pay such costs as the court may assess. (Ord. 583, 8-14-2018)
1-3-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this Code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply. (2002 Code)
CHAPTER 4
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-4-1: Compensation
1-4-2: Election Of City Council
1-4-1: COMPENSATION:
The salaries of the mayor and of the members of the city council shall be as
follows:
   A.   Mayor: The mayor shall receive a monthly salary in the sum of one
thousand three hundred twenty dollars ($1,320.00). The mayor shall be entitled
to receive employee benefit offerings available to other officers of the city,
except that the mayor shall pay fifty percent (50%) of the cost of the mayor's
dependent healthcare coverage.
   B.   Council Members: Each member of the city council shall receive a
monthly salary in the sum of six hundred sixty dollars ($660.00). Each city
council member shall be entitled to receive employee benefit offerings
available to other officers of the city, except that each council member shall
pay fifty percent (50%) of the cost of their dependent healthcare coverage.
(Ord. 497, 7-19-2011)
1-4-2: ELECTION OF CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Terms: There shall be elected at each regular city election, to be held
as required by state law, two (2) council members to serve for a term of four
(4) years; and at each succeeding general city election, there shall be elected
two (2) council members, each to serve a term of four (4) years. At any such
election additional council seats may fill as required by state law to fill the
remainder of unexpired terms or to meet other election law requirements.
   B.   Council Seats:
      1.   Pursuant to subsection A of this section, two (2) council members
are elected at each election for a term of four (4) years and thus there are
four (4) council seats on the city council; from and hereafter, each council
seat shall be numbered, as allowed by Idaho Code section 50-707, and the city
clerk shall assign the following numbers to each seat: seat 1, seat 2, seat 3,
and seat 4.
      2.   Any candidate seeking election to the city council shall file his
candidacy for one, and only one, council seat. The candidate shall meet all
other qualifications for the office of city council member, as required by law.
All nominating petitions must contain, at the time of circulating the petition,
the council seat number for which the candidate is being nominated. The council
seat number must be in the same format and font as the remainder of the
petition and may not be added or changed after the petition is circulated.
      3.   Commencing at the general city election to be held on the first
Tuesday following the first Monday in November 2003, seats 1 and 3 shall be the
council seats for which city council candidates shall file. Commencing at the
general city election held in 2005, seats 2 and 4 shall be elected. Henceforth,
the odd numbered council seats and the even numbered council seats shall be
elected in alternate general city elections in the same rotation period. (Ord.
338, 3-11-2003)
CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Legal Newspaper
1-5-1: LEGAL NEWSPAPER:
The Coeur d'Alene Press, circulated, printed and published in the city of Coeur
d'Alene, Kootenai County, Idaho, be and the same hereby is designated as the
legal newspaper for publications for the city. (Ord. 109, 2-2-1978)
CHAPTER 6
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
SECTION:
1-6-1: Creation Of Right
1-6-2: Number Of Petitioners Required
1-6-3: Time For Filing Petitions
1-6-4: Election; Time Limit
1-6-5: Idaho Code Requirements
1-6-1: CREATION OF RIGHT:
The people of the city shall have the right to enact ordinances through the
initiative process and to repeal ordinances through the referendum process,
according to the procedures set forth herein. (Ord. 155, 11-5-1981)
1-6-2: NUMBER OF PETITIONERS REQUIRED:
To enact an ordinance by initiative or repeal an ordinance by referendum, there
shall be attached or appended to the petition, the signatures of the legal
voters of the city equal to at least twenty percent (20%) of the total number
of voters registered to vote at the last general election in the city. (Ord.
155, 11-5-1981)
1-6-3: TIME FOR FILING PETITIONS:
Referendum petitions with the requisite number of signatures attached shall be
filed with the city clerk not less than sixty (60) days following the final
adoption of the ordinance subject to referendum. (Ord. 155, 11-5-1981)
1-6-4: ELECTION; TIME LIMIT:
A special election for initiative or referendum shall be as prescribed in Idaho
Code section 34-106. (Ord. 155, 11-5-1981; amd. 2002 Code)
1-6-5: IDAHO CODE REQUIREMENTS:
Referendum and initiative petitions shall conform with the requirements for
signature, verification of valid petitions, printing of petitions and time
limits, except as expressly modified to meet the purposes of initiative and
referendum to be as nearly as practicable as provided in Idaho Code sections
34-1701 through 34-1705. (Ord. 155, 11-5-1981)
CHAPTER 7
ANNEXATION PROCEDURES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Purpose (Rep. by Ord. 470, 3-24-2009)
1-7-2: Policy (Rep. by Ord. 470, 3-24-2009)
1-7-3: Application
1-7-4: Preannexation Studies
1-7-5: Annexation Procedure
1-7-1: PURPOSE:
(Rep. by Ord. 470, 3-24-2009)
1-7-2: POLICY:
(Rep. by Ord. 470, 3-24-2009)
1-7-3: APPLICATION:
Any person desiring to request annexation of lands within his or her ownership
may initiate the annexation consideration process by submitting a completed
annexation request form to the Hayden Community and Economic Development
Department accompanied by the filing fee established by resolution of the City
Council. Upon receipt of such completed form, a report will be submitted to the
Mayor and the City Council for deliberation concerning the desirability of
considering annexation of the requested lands. Upon receipt of such report, the
City Council, in consultation with City staff, shall decide whether it wishes
to further consider annexation of the requested lands or not. In the course of
such consideration, the City Council may determine what analysis and study it
would require to properly evaluate the consequences and effects of the proposed
annexation. The City Council may, if it wishes to further consider the matter,
establish the necessary prepaid annexation processing fee to be remitted by the
requester if he desires to proceed with the request. Such prepaid fees may
include a standard administrative fee (reasonably related to the administrative
costs of processing an annexation request, including staff and legal expense)
established by resolution of the City Council, in addition to any study based
fees established after City Council consideration of the specific annexation
request. (Ord. 578, 1-9-2018)
1-7-4: PREANNEXATION STUDIES:
The City Council may require the completion of relevant studies before allowing
an annexation proposal to go forward to the Planning and Zoning Commission or
City Council for initial public hearing. Any studies required by the City
Council as a prerequisite to consideration of an annexation request shall be
conducted by City staff or by a consultant chosen and engaged by the City. The
estimated costs of such studies shall be prepaid by the annexation applicant
before the studies are undertaken. Any consultant engaged to perform specified
tasks in the course of evaluating the consequences of a possible annexation
shall serve the City of Hayden as its client, not the parties requesting
annexation. Any such studies shall be conducted in accordance with direction
from the City to determine the anticipated consequences of the proposed
annexation. Such studies shall become public documents upon their completion
and shall be made available to the applicant and other interested parties prior
to the conduct of any public hearings. (Ord. 304, 11-27-2001)
1-7-5: ANNEXATION PROCEDURE:
   A.   Upon completion of the required preannexation studies and submittal of
an application in that form developed by the City with payment of fees pursuant
to the City's fee schedule, the Community and Economic Development Director or
his/her designee shall schedule any authorized annexation proposal for a public
hearing before the Planning and Zoning Commission as soon as such request may
be accommodated by the commission schedule. No such hearing shall be scheduled
until the required pre-annexation studies have been received, unless the City
Council waives such requirement. The legal purpose of such public hearing shall
be to receive public comment and to formulate a recommendation to the City
Council regarding proper zoning or land use regulations for the lands in
question. At the conclusion of its deliberations, the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall submit a recommendation to the City Council regarding
potential zoning of the lands under consideration for annexation and the
advisability of annexation of the subject lands in light of provisions of the
Comprehensive Plan or other planning considerations. Such recommendations shall
include the rationale employed and facts relied upon by the commission in
reaching its recommendation.
All parcels of land to be considered for annexation shall have a contiguous
boundary attachment to the existing incorporated area. The City Council shall
not have the power to declare land a part of the City if it will be connected
to the City only by a shoestring or strip of land which comprises a railroad or
highway right-of-way.
All portions of highways lying wholly or partially within an area to be annexed
shall be included within the area annexed unless expressly agreed between the
City and the Governing Board of the highway agency providing road maintenance
at the time of annexation.
For purposes of this chapter, highways are as defined by Idaho Code 40-109.5,
highways and bridges, definitions.
   B.   Upon receipt of the Planning and Zoning Commission recommendation, the
City Council may schedule a public hearing to consider zoning of the lands for
which annexation has been requested. The City Council may also require
additional information from the applicant or others or may require such
additional studies as it deems necessary to properly consider the annexation
request. The costs of any such additional studies shall be prepaid by the
annexation applicant. No public hearing may be scheduled before the City
Council until all such expenses have been paid or until the required study
results have been received unless expressly authorized by the City Council. The
public hearing concerning zoning in anticipation of annexation shall be
conducted as a legislative public hearing.
   C.   Upon completion of the public hearing concerning zoning, and after
considering such other information as it chooses to rely upon, the City Council
may decide to enact an ordinance annexing the subject lands, or any parts
thereof, and establish the zoning designation therefor. All fees and expenses
required to be paid must have been received and an annexation agreement must
have been executed and performed to the extent required by the City Council
prior to passage of the annexation ordinance.
   D.   All annexation applications shall follow and be processed pursuant to
the requirements of Idaho Code 50-222, Annexation by Cities. Annexation
applications shall be required to be accompanied by a request for a zoning
designation which shall follow the public hearing procedures of Idaho Code 67-
6509, as directed by Idaho Code 67-6511, Recommendation and Adoption, Amendment
and Repeal of the Plan. (Ord. 578, 1-9-2018)
CHAPTER 8
CITY ADMINISTRATOR
SECTION:
1-8-1: Appointment
1-8-2: Responsibilities
1-8-1: APPOINTMENT:
A city administrator shall be appointed as an officer of the city by the mayor
with the consent of the city council. The city administrator shall serve at the
pleasure of the mayor, subject to the removal provisions set forth in Idaho
Code section 50-206 or its successor, unless the city administrator is party to
an express employment contract, approved by the mayor and city council, which
provides otherwise. Such a contract is authorized hereby. The city
administrator shall be subject to policy direction by the city council through
its official actions and to supervision by the mayor. (Ord. 377, 10-12-2004)
1-8-2: RESPONSIBILITIES:
The city administrator shall be responsible for management and supervision of
departments designated by the mayor, this code or city council resolution. Such
duties may be changed at any time by direction of the mayor or by ordinance or
resolution of the city council. Unless otherwise directed by the mayor or by
formal city council action, the city administrator shall have supervisory
authority concerning the activities of all city operating departments. Any
rights or administrative prerogatives established by such resolutions shall
inure to the administrative position held by the city administrator and shall
not be personal rights of the individual appointed to the position. (Ord. 377,
10-12-2004)
CHAPTER 9
EMERGENCY POWERS
SECTION:
1-9-1: Legal Authority
1-9-2: Purpose And Intent
1-9-3: Scope
1-9-4: Definitions
1-9-5: Public Health Emergency Orders
1-9-6: Process For Enacting Public Health Emergency Orders
1-9-7: Exclusions
1-9-8: Suspension And Waiver Of Certain City Services, Ordinances, And Policies
And Procedures
1-9-9: Force Majeure
1-9-10: Penalty
1-9-1: LEGAL AUTHORITY:
Idaho Code sections 50-304 and 50-606 authorize the city of Hayden to pass
ordinances granting certain powers to the mayor related to public health
emergencies. (Ord. 607, 3-21-2020)
1-9-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The city finds that the preservation of public health, safety, and welfare may
require immediate action by the city in response to emergency situations.
Therefore, the city hereby authorizes the mayor certain powers for immediate
response to foreseeable, imminent, or present public health emergencies. (Ord.
607, 3-21-2020)
1-9-3: SCOPE:
This chapter sets forth the procedures for activating the emergency powers of
the mayor and the specific powers of the mayor during a public health
emergency. (Ord. 607, 3-21-2020)
1-9-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and
derivations will have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with the
context, words used in the present tense include the future tense, words in the
plural number include the singular number and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The words "shall", "will", or "must" are always
mandatory and not merely directory. Words used throughout this chapter, but not
defined herein will have their plain, ordinary, and common meaning. Words in
any gender apply to the feminine, masculine, and nonbinary genders.
 
                               The separation of infected persons, or of
                               persons suspected to be infected, from other
ISOLATION:                     persons to such places, under such conditions,
                               and for such time as will prevent transmission
                               of the infectious agent.
                               The foreseeable, imminent, or present threat of
PUBLIC HEALTH EMERGENCY:       any pathogen, agent, vector, or environmental
                               condition, including hazardous materials, which
                               does or may cause illness or injury to humans.
PUBLIC HEALTH EMERGENCY ORDER: An advisory, social distancing, isolation, or
                               quarantine order enacted by the mayor.
                               The restriction placed on the entrance to and
QUARANTINE:                    exit from the place or premises where an
                               infectious agent or hazardous material exists.
                               Actions taken to maintain distance from other
                               people, including avoiding or canceling
SOCIAL DISTANCING:             congregate settings and mass gatherings such as
                               by ordering the closure of bars, restaurants and
                               other places of public accommodation. (Ord. 607,
                               3-21-2020)
 
1-9-5: PUBLIC HEALTH EMERGENCY ORDERS:
The mayor, as authorized by this chapter and Idaho Code sections 50-304 and 50-
606, may issue the following orders, as deemed appropriate by the mayor
following consultation with or review of information issued by local, regional,
statewide, or nationwide public health authorities.
   A.   Advisory Order: Where a public health emergency is foreseeable or
imminent, the mayor may enact an advisory order, which order may provide
information and recommended guidelines for preventing, detecting, and/or
mitigating the onset or spread of a public health hazard.
   B.   Social Distancing Order: Where a public health emergency is imminent,
the mayor may enact a social distancing order, which order may establish any or
all of the following:
      1.   Appropriate restrictions regarding the operation or occurrence of
planned or foreseeable commercial, recreational, or expressive gatherings or
events.
      2.   Restrictions on travel through or visitation within the community.
      3.   Postponement or cancellation of public meetings and hearings.
      4.   A limit on the number of persons who may gather in one location and
may apply to indoor or outdoor venues.
      5.   Measures to be taken in order to prevent, avoid, detect, address, or
mitigate a foreseeable, imminent, or present public health hazard.
      6.   A social distancing order must include an effective date and an
anticipated expiration date, which may be extended in the same manner as the
imposition of the initial order.
   C.   Isolation Order: Where a public health emergency is present, and poses
a clear threat of harm to the public health, the mayor may enact an isolation
order, which order may establish any or all of the following:
      1.   A directive that infected and/or exposed individuals isolate
themselves from other persons.
      2.   Geographical areas of restricted or prohibited access.
      3.   Other measures necessary to avoid, address, or mitigate an imminent
public health hazard.
      4.   The scope and manner of delivery of services, materials, or supplies
to be provided by the city, if any.
      5.   Measures to be taken in order to prevent, avoid, detect, address, or
mitigate a foreseeable, imminent, or present public health hazard.
      6.   Conditions of the isolation order.
      7.   An isolation order must include an effective date and an anticipated
expiration date, which may be extended in the same manner as the imposition of
the initial order. An isolation order will be effective only when and for so
long as the public health emergency is present or for so long as the subject(s)
of the isolation order pose a threat to public health. Any person who is the
subject of an isolation order is entitled to appeal the isolation order or to
request a modification of any provision of such order by filing a written
appeal with the city clerk. Such appeal will be heard by city council at their
next meeting, or, if no meeting is scheduled during the term of the isolation
order, the sheriff or designee will review such appeal and issue a written
decision. The sheriff's decision will be final.
   D.   Quarantine Order: Where a health emergency is present and poses a clear
threat of harm to the public health, the mayor may enact a quarantine order,
which order may establish any or all of the following:
      1.   A directive that infected and/or exposed individuals isolate
themselves from other persons.
      2.   Geographical or other areas of restricted or prohibited access.
      3.   Other measures necessary to avoid, address, or mitigate an imminent
public health hazard.
      4.   The scope and manner of delivery of services, materials, or supplies
to be provided by the city, if any.
      5.   Measures to be taken in order to prevent, avoid, detect, address, or
mitigate a foreseeable, imminent, or present public health hazard.
      6.   Conditions of the quarantine.
      7.   A quarantine order must include an effective date and an anticipated
expiration date, which may be extended in the same manner as the imposition of
the initial order. A quarantine order will be effective only when and for so
long as the public health emergency is present or for so long as the subject(s)
of the quarantine order pose a threat to public health. Any person who is the
subject of a quarantine order is entitled to appeal the quarantine order, or to
request a modification of any provision of such order by filing a written
appeal with the city clerk. Such appeal will be heard by city council at their
next meeting, or, if no meeting is scheduled during the term of the quarantine
order, the sheriff or designee will review such appeal and issue a written
decision. The sheriff's decision will be final. (Ord. 607, 3-21-2020)
1-9-6: PROCESS FOR ENACTING PUBLIC HEALTH EMERGENCY ORDERS:
   A.   Issuance Of An Order: The mayor will prepare a written order and
publish it pursuant to this section.
   B.   Notice To The City Council: Following the issuance of any order
authorized by this chapter, the mayor will advise the city council at a
properly noticed public meeting of the issuance of the order and the basis for
its issuance as soon as is reasonably practicable but no later than seven (7)
days after the date that the order is issued.
   C.   Council Veto: The city council may reverse or alter the order issued by
the mayor by a majority vote of the full city council.
   D.   Publication Of Public Health Emergency Order: As soon as possible and
prudent under the circumstances, the mayor will cause a public health emergency
order to be published as follows:
      1.   Posting the order in a prominent place at the Hayden city hall;
      2.   Posting the order on the city's website;
      3.   E-mailing the order to all persons subscribed to city e-mail
notification services;
      4.   Posting the order to all city social media accounts;
      5.   Providing the order to local media outlets; and
      6.   Notifying other government agencies, including, but not limited to,
Coeur d'Alene School District, Lakeland School District, Lakes Highway
District, Post Falls Highway District, and Panhandle Health District.
   E.   Except as may be specifically stated in the public health emergency
order, such order will be effective upon posting at the Hayden city hall. (Ord.
607, 3-21-2020)
1-9-7: EXCLUSIONS:
Unless otherwise specifically prohibited by a public health emergency order
duly enacted by the mayor, the following activities are exempt from the scope
of such order:
   A.   Any and all expressive and associative activity that is protected by
the United States and Idaho Constitutions, including speech, press, assembly,
and/or religious activity;
   B.   Activities necessary to operate critical infrastructure and utilities;
   C.   Activities necessary to operate and use medical facilities and
services; and
   D.   Activities necessary to buy, sell, or otherwise deliver food and
necessities. (Ord. 607, 3-21-2020)
1-9-8: SUSPENSION AND WAIVER OF CERTAIN CITY SERVICES, ORDINANCES, AND POLICIES
AND PROCEDURES:
During a public health emergency and upon issuance of a public health emergency
order, the mayor may suspend certain non-critical city government services and
functions as deemed necessary and advisable given the specific public health
emergency and in consideration of the health of employees and the general
public. During such time, the mayor may also suspend the regular meetings of
city boards and commissions, including but not limited to planning and zoning
and the parks and recreation commission. In order to facilitate such suspension
of meetings, the ordinances providing for the regular meetings of these
commissions will be temporarily suspended. Those ordinances providing the
timeline for processing applications will also be suspended. The mayor is also
authorized to waive such internal rules, regulations, and procedures as deemed
necessary to protect the health and welfare of city employees. The mayor may
authorize the city administrator to act on his or her behalf and exercise the
authority granted to the mayor under this section. (Ord. 607, 3-21-2020)
1-9-9: FORCE MAJEURE:
In the context of this chapter, a public health emergency is a force majeure.
No person is entitled to recover from the city of Hayden any costs incurred, or
profits lost, as may be alleged to be attributed to the enactment of a public
health emergency order. (Ord. 607, 3-21-2020)
1-9-10: PENALTY:
It is unlawful to violate any provision or directive of a duly enacted social
distancing order, isolation order, or quarantine order while such order is in
effect. The violation of any provision or directive of a social distancing
order, isolation order, or quarantine order is a misdemeanor punishable as
provided in section
1-3-1. (Ord. 607, 3-21-2020)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Created
2-1-2: Chairperson
2-1-3: Committees
2-1-4: Meetings
2-1-5: Quorum
2-1-6: Voting
2-1-7: Secretary Designated
2-1-8: Notice Of Meetings
2-1-9: Powers And Duties
2-1-10: Cooperation Of City Personnel; Financial Liability
2-1-11: Types Of Hearings
2-1-12: Determinations
2-1-13: Appeals Of Planning And Zoning Commission Decisions
2-1-14: Supplemental Procedural Rules
2-1-1: CREATED:
   A.   Commission Established: Pursuant to the authority conferred by Idaho
Code section 67-6504, there is hereby created a planning and zoning commission
for the city.
   B.   Membership: The planning and zoning commission shall consist of seven
(7) members, appointed and confirmed as provided by state law. Five (5) members
shall be residents within the city. The sixth and seventh members may reside in
that portion of unincorporated Kootenai County identified as being the city's
"area of city impact" or within Kootenai County. A member outside of the city
and not within the city's "area of city impact" shall have an interest in real
property within the city and must remain a property owner in the city during
service on the commission. All members must meet the residency requirements of
state law.
      1.   An appointed member of a commission must have resided in the county
for at least two (2) years prior to appointment, and must remain a resident of
the county during service on the commission.
      2.   No person shall serve more than two (2) full consecutive terms
without specific concurrence by two-thirds (2/3) of the governing board adopted
by motion and recorded in the minutes.
   C.   Term Of Office: The term of office for all members shall be five (5)
years. A member shall discontinue service on his/her anniversary date, unless
and until reappointed and confirmed for an additional term of service. In order
to stagger terms and maintain continuity in subsequent years, the first members
of the commission appointed by the mayor and confirmed by the council following
passage of the ordinance codified herein shall serve the following terms: two
(2) initial members shall serve terms of three (3) years in length; two (2)
initial members shall serve terms of four (4) years in length; and three (3)
initial members shall serve terms of five (5) years in length. Mayoral
appointments of the initial membership shall specify the term of appointment.
   D.   Vacancies, Removal And Compensation: Vacancies occurring otherwise than
through the expiration of terms shall be filled in the same manner as the
original appointment. Members may be removed for cause by a majority vote of
the city council. Members shall be selected without respect to political
affiliation. Members shall serve without compensation, except as authorized by
state law. (Ord. 559, 7-12-2016)
2-1-2: CHAIRPERSON:
Once every year, at its first regular meeting in January, the planning and
zoning commission shall select one of its members as chairperson and one of its
members as vice chairperson. In the case of the absence of the chairperson and
vice chairperson, the members present at any meeting shall select one of the
members in attendance to act as chairperson pro tempore. (Ord. 559, 7-12-2016)
2-1-3: COMMITTEES:
The planning and zoning commission may establish subcommittees, advisory
committees or neighborhood groups to advise and assist the commission in
carrying out its responsibilities. Any such committees shall comply in all
respects with the open meeting law of the state. (Ord. 559, 7-12-2016)
2-1-4: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The planning and zoning commission shall conduct its
regular meetings in accordance with a continuing resolution adopting a schedule
for such meetings until or unless changed by the commission or by direction of
the city council. Regular meetings shall conform to the requirements
established by state law. In addition to regular meetings, special meetings may
be conducted on an "as needed" basis in compliance with the open meeting law.
   B.   Records Of Proceedings: Records of the activities and proceedings of
the commission shall be maintained by the city clerk in accordance with state
law. All public hearings and proceedings relating to quasi-judicial matters
shall be tape recorded such that a verbatim transcription can be produced.
   C.   Open To Public: All meetings and records shall be open to the public in
accordance with provisions of the state open meeting law. (Ord. 559, 7-12-2016)
2-1-5: QUORUM:
A majority of the then appointed membership of the planning and zoning
commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but in no
event shall a quorum consist of less than three (3) appointed and confirmed
members. The commission shall not function unless at least four (4) members
have been appointed and confirmed. Any action taken by a majority of those
present when those present constitute a quorum, at any regular or special
meeting of the planning and zoning commission, shall be deemed and taken as an
action of the commission. In the event that the lack of membership prevents the
commission from functioning, the city council shall perform the duties
otherwise assigned hereby to the commission. (Ord. 559, 7-12-2016)
2-1-6: VOTING:
Each member of the planning and zoning commission, including the chairperson,
vice chairperson, or chairperson pro tempore, shall be entitled to one vote on
each and every matter before the commission. (Ord. 559, 7-12-2016)
2-1-7: SECRETARY DESIGNATED:
The city clerk shall designate a person to serve as the recording secretary of
the commission. (Ord. 559, 7-12-2016)
2-1-8: NOTICE OF MEETINGS:
Notice of planning and zoning commission meetings shall comply with the
requirements of state law. (Ord. 559, 7-12-2016)
2-1-9: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: It shall be the duty of the planning and zoning commission
to act as a decision making body in certain cases as identified herein and as
an advisory body and hear, review and recommend to the city council in other
matters as identified herein. Any final decision made by the commission with
respect to an application presented to it shall be subject to appeal to the
city council.
   B.   Decision Making Capacities: The planning and zoning commission shall
have jurisdiction to hear and decide the following types of applications:
      1.   Applications for variances, special (conditional) use permits and
manufactured home parks filed in accordance with the city's zoning regulations;
and
      2.   Other decision making duties as may be assigned to the commission by
resolution or ordinance of the city council.
   C.   Capacities Advisory To Council: The planning and zoning commission
shall conduct hearings and make advisory recommendations to the city council on
all of the following:
      1.   Applications for change of zone filed in accordance with the city's
zoning regulations;
      2.   Applications for any change to the text of city ordinances governing
subdivision, zoning and other planning and land use related ordinances;
      3.   Applications for amendment of the city's comprehensive plan;
      4.   Applications for preliminary short and long plats filed in
accordance with the city's short and long subdivision regulations;
      5.   Other advisory duties as may be imposed upon the commission by
motion, resolution or ordinance of the city council.
   D.   Concurrent Processing: Whenever any application or permit is reliant,
in whole or in part, upon the grant of approval of a separate permit or
application, the planning and zoning commission may concurrently consider all
such related permits and/or applications, to the extent allowed by state law.
   E.   Appeals: Any decision of the planning and zoning commission regarding a
permit application as described in subsection B of this section, may be
appealed to the city council pursuant to the provisions of section
2-1-13 of this chapter. (Ord. 559, 7-12-2016)
2-1-10: COOPERATION OF CITY PERSONNEL; FINANCIAL LIABILITY:
All employees and elected officials of the city should render cooperation and
all reasonable and necessary assistance to the planning and zoning commission.
Neither the commission nor any person connected with the commission shall incur
any financial liability in the name of the city. (Ord. 559, 7-12-2016)
2-1-11: TYPES OF HEARINGS:
   A.   Specified: Public hearing matters before the planning and zoning
commission shall be either "legislative" or "quasi- judicial" in nature.
Legislative hearings are the type of hearing wherein the planning and zoning
commission hears public comment and formulates recommendations on legislative
actions of a citywide or neighborhood wide nature. Quasi-judicial hearings
involve potentially contested cases wherein the interests at stake are those
concerning specific sites, including, but not limited to, applications for
change of zone, subdivision of land, special (conditional) use permit and
variance of zoning standards.
   B.   Hearing Procedures: The procedures for the respective types of public
hearings shall be adopted by resolution of the city council pursuant to
provisions of state law. (Ord. 559, 7-12-2016)
2-1-12: DETERMINATIONS:
All planning and zoning commission decisions or recommendations after a quasi-
judicial hearing shall explain the criteria and standards considered relevant
by the commission and shall state the facts relied upon, and explain the
justification for the decision based on the criteria and standards established
by law, and facts found in the record compiled in the case. The written
decision or recommendation shall be promptly delivered or mailed to the
applicant and disseminated to others as required by law or as necessary to
carry out provisions of the procedural resolution. The provisions of this
section shall not apply to legislative hearings. (Ord. 559, 7-12-2016)
2-1-13: APPEALS OF PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION DECISIONS:
   A.   Authority: The decision of the planning and zoning commission granting,
granting with conditions, modifying or denying a permit application as
described in subsection
2-1-9B of this chapter, may be appealed to the city council.
   B.   Standing To Initiate Appeal: Any affected person, as defined by state
law, or the city administrator, may initiate an appeal of a decision rendered
pursuant to jurisdiction established by subsection
2-1-9B of this chapter.
   C.   Filing Of Appeal: Any appeal shall be filed with the city clerk
according to section
1-1-5.
   D.   Notice Of Appeal: Notice of an appeal shall be provided by the same
means applicable to the original application.
   E.   Optional Stay Of Action: Upon the timely filing of an appeal, the city
council may stall all action on the contested application until such time as
the appeal is adjudicated by the city council or withdrawn.
   F.   City Council Decision On Appeal: The planning and zoning commission's
guidelines and procedures herein for conducting a public meeting or hearing on
the application at issue, and for rendering a written determination thereon,
shall equally apply to the city council when any determination of the
commission is appealed to the council. The entire record compiled before the
planning and zoning commission shall be forwarded to the city council. (Ord.
559, 7-12-2016; amd. Ord. 608, 3-24-2020)
2-1-14: SUPPLEMENTAL PROCEDURAL RULES:
The planning and zoning commission may adopt, from time to time, such rules to
supplement the procedures set forth in this chapter or ordinances and
resolutions passed by the city council as it deems necessary to properly
exercise its duties pursuant to this chapter and state law. Such supplemental
rules, which must not conflict with procedural requirements established by the
city council, shall be kept on file with the city clerk and a copy thereof
shall be furnished to any person upon request. (Ord. 559, 7-12-2016)
CHAPTER 2
COMMUNITY FORESTRY COMMISSION 1
(Rep. by Ord. 538, 8-26-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 4 of this title.
CHAPTER 3
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-3-1: Purpose
2-3-2: Definitions
2-3-3: Commission Established
2-3-4: Organization, Officers, Rules, Meetings
2-3-5: Powers, Duties And Responsibilities
2-3-6: Special Restrictions
2-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the educational, cultural, economic
and general welfare of the public of the city of Hayden through identification,
evaluation, designation, and protection of those buildings, sites, districts,
areas, structures, and objects that reflect significant elements of the city's,
state's, and the nation's historic, architectural, archaeological, and cultural
heritage. (Ord. 337, 2-25-2003)
2-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases when used in this chapter shall have, unless
the context clearly indicates otherwise, the following meanings:
CITY: The city of Hayden.
COMMISSION: The historic preservation commission of the city of Hayden.
DESIGNATED HISTORIC PROPERTY: In order for any historic property to be
designated in the ordinance, it must, in addition, meet the criteria
established for inclusion of the property in the National Register of Historic
Places.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION: The identification, evaluation, recordation,
documentation, curation, acquisition, management, protection, restoration,
rehabilitation, stabilization, maintenance, interpretation, conservation, and
education of buildings, structures, objects, districts, areas, and sites
significant in the history, architecture, archaeology or culture of this state,
its communities or the nation.
HISTORIC PROPERTY: Any building, structure, district, area or site that is
significant in the history, architecture, archaeology or culture of this
community, the state or the nation. (Ord. 337, 2-25-2003)
2-3-3: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED:
   A.   There is hereby created a historic preservation commission, which shall
consist of no more than seven (7) members who shall be appointed by the mayor
with the advice and consent of the council, except as otherwise provided
herein. In the event the mayor creates a youth council, a member of the youth
council may also be appointed by the mayor with the concurrence of the city
council to serve on the commission in addition to the other appointed
commission members. The youth council member's term shall be set by the mayor,
but shall not exceed one year.
   B.   All members of the commission shall have a demonstrated interest,
competence, or knowledge in history or historic preservation. The council shall
endeavor to appoint at least two (2) members with professional training or
experience in the disciplines of architecture, history, architectural history,
urban planning, archaeology, engineering, conservation, landscape architecture,
law, or other historic preservation related disciplines.
   C.   Initial appointments to the commission shall be made as follows: one 1-
year term; two (2) 2-year terms; two (2) 3-year terms. All subsequent
appointments shall be made for three (3) year terms, with each term expiring on
December 31 of the last year of the term. Commission members may be reappointed
to serve additional terms. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as
original appointments and the appointee shall serve for the remainder of the
unexpired term.
   D.   The members of the commission may be reimbursed by the city for
expenses related to official training and events in support of historical
commission activities incurred in connection with their duties, with prior
approval of the city administrator and dependent on the availability of funds
budgeted for that given fiscal year.
   E.   A majority of the then appointed membership of the historic
preservation commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business. (Ord. 442, 12-11-2007)
2-3-4: ORGANIZATION, OFFICERS, RULES, MEETINGS:
   A.   The commission shall have the power to make whatever rules are
necessary for the execution of its duties as set forth in this chapter. Rules
of procedure and bylaws adopted by the commission shall be available for public
inspection.
   B.   The commission shall elect officers from among the commission members.
The chairperson shall preside at meetings of the commission. The vice
chairperson shall, lacking the chairperson, perform the duties of the
chairperson.
   C.   All meetings of the commission shall be open to the public, and follow
the requirements of Idaho open public meeting laws. The commission shall keep
minutes and other appropriate written records of its resolutions, proceedings,
and actions.
   D.   The commission may recommend to the council, within the limits of its
funding, the employment of or the contracting with other parties for the
services of technical experts or other persons as it deems necessary to carry
on the functions of the commission. (Ord. 337, 2-25-2003)
2-3-5: POWERS, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The commission shall be advisory to the council and shall be authorized to:
   A.   Conduct a survey of local historic properties.
   B.   Recommend the acquisition of fee and lesser interests in historic
properties, including adjacent or associated lands, by purchase, bequest, or
donation.
   C.   Recommend methods and procedures necessary to preserve, restore,
maintain and operate historic properties under the ownership or control of the
city.
   D.   Recommend the lease, sale, or other transfer or disposition of historic
properties subject to rights of public access and other covenants and in a
manner that will preserve the property.
   E.   Cooperate with the federal, state, and local governments in the
pursuance of the objectives of historic preservation.
   F.   Make recommendations in the planning processes undertaken by the
county, the city, the state, or the federal government and the agencies of
these entities.
   G.   Recommend ordinances and otherwise provide information for the purposes
of historic preservation in the city.
   H.   Promote and conduct an educational and interpretive program on historic
preservation and historic properties in the city.
   I.   Commission members, employees or agents of the commission may enter
private property, buildings, or structures in the performance of their official
duties only with the express consent of the owner or occupant thereof.
   J.   Review nominations of properties to the National Register of Historic
Places for properties within the city's jurisdiction. (Ord. 337, 2-25-2003)
2-3-6: SPECIAL RESTRICTIONS:
Under the provisions of Idaho Code 67-4612, the city of Hayden may provide by
ordinances, special conditions or restrictions for the protection, enhancement
and preservation of locally designated historic properties. (Ord. 337, 2-25-
2003)
CHAPTER 4
PARKS, RECREATION AND COMMUNITY FORESTRY COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-4-1: Establishment
2-4-2: Term
2-4-3: Commission Organization And Recordkeeping
2-4-4: Duties And Authority
2-4-5: Meetings
2-4-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
   A.   There is hereby established the Hayden parks, recreation and community
forestry commission, which shall consist of no more than seven (7) members,
except as otherwise provided herein. The mayor shall appoint these members with
the consent of the city council. Members shall have training, education or
experience in forestry, agriculture, horticulture, arboriculture, recreation,
parks, boating, athletics, cycling, or similar fields and at least three (3)
members shall be residents of the city of Hayden. Members may be removed for
cause upon majority vote of the city council. In the event the mayor creates a
youth council, a member of the youth council may also be appointed by the mayor
with the concurrence of the city council to serve on the commission in addition
to the other appointed commission members. The youth council member's term
shall be set by the mayor, but shall not exceed one year.
   B.   A majority of the then appointed membership of the parks, recreation
and community forestry commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction
of business. (Ord. 555, 5-24-2016)
2-4-2: TERM:
Members shall be appointed for a term of three (3) years, or until a successor
is appointed and qualified, except that in the original appointments at the
beginning of the commission the current two (2) members of the former
"community forestry commission" and the current five (5) members of the former
"parks and recreation commission" shall be allowed to complete their terms as
previously appointed, and as members of the newly created "parks, recreation
and community forestry commission". Terms shall expire on December 31 of the
last year of the designated term. Vacancies on the commission occurring other
than by expiration of the term shall be filled by the mayor with the consent of
the city council for the remainder of the unexpired term. (Ord. 538, 8-26-2014)
2-4-3: COMMISSION ORGANIZATION AND RECORDKEEPING:
The commission members shall meet and organize by electing one member as the
chairperson and such other officers as may be necessary. The city clerk shall
approve and designate a recording secretary to create and maintain records for
the commission. (Ord. 538, 8-26-2014)
2-4-4: DUTIES AND AUTHORITY:
   A.   The parks, recreation and community forestry commission shall not be
deemed to be other than an advisory committee to advise the mayor and city
council of the city.
   B.   The commission shall coordinate its activities with the city
administrator or his/her designee.
   C.   The commission may recommend rules and regulations for the proper
conduct in public parks and public playgrounds, athletic fields, and recreation
activities on any of the properties owned or controlled by the city. Such
proposed rules and regulations are subject to approval by the mayor and city
council.
   D.   The commission, upon the request of the mayor and city council, shall
conduct a survey/needs assessment and make recommendations to the city council
regarding future park needs and recreation program needs for the city based
upon the data collected.
   E.   The commission may make recommendations relating to bicycle/pedestrian
pathways, the health of the trees, and for city activities related to the
community forestry program.
   F.   The commission may identify and/or provide educational programs
relating to bicycle safety and community forestry.
   G.   The commission may distribute public information materials promoting
the goals of the city's parks, recreation, and community forestry commission
covering items such as recreation activities, future park needs, tree planting,
tree maintenance, and tree removal guidelines and requirements.
   H.   The commission, at the request of the mayor and/or city council, shall
plan and conduct observances, such as Arbor Day, and Bike Rodeo, to promote
public awareness of the city's park, recreation and community forestry goals.
   I.   The commission may identify outside funding sources for community
forestry work as approved by the mayor and city council in accordance with city
budgetary procedures. (Ord. 538, 8-26-2014)
2-4-5: MEETINGS:
The commission shall meet monthly at a time and place determined by resolution
of the commission. All meetings shall be open to the public and notice of such
meetings shall be provided to allow and promote public participation in the
subject matter considered by the commission. (Ord. 538, 8-26-2014)
CHAPTER 5
ARTS COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-5-1: Established
2-5-2: Purpose
2-5-3: Duties And Responsibilities
2-5-4: Membership; Terms Of Office; Vacancies
2-5-1: ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established and created a commission to be known as the Hayden
arts commission (hereinafter "commission"). (Ord. 415, 4-25-2006)
2-5-2: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of the commission to act in an advisory capacity to the mayor
and city council to create and maintain an atmosphere conducive to the fullest
expression of all forms of the arts in order to enrich the lives of all Hayden
and area citizens and visitors through public art. (Ord. 415, 4-25-2006)
2-5-3: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The commission shall advise and assist the mayor and city council with respect
to developing, coordinating, and promoting the performing and visual arts for
the enjoyment, education, cultural enrichment and benefit of the citizens of
Hayden. In furtherance of these duties, the commission shall attempt to
accomplish, subject to council approval, the following objectives:
   A.   Encourage the preservation and growth of the city's art resources and
advance Hayden as an arts and cultural destination.
   B.   Work with arts organizations, public agencies and community
representatives to plan and promote arts activities, and provide opportunities
for residents to participate in artistic activities.
   C.   Assist in obtaining grants and donations in support of the arts, and
encourage the donation of public art within the city.
   D.   Foster opportunities for artists to advance their art forms and
recognize the achievements and excellence of outstanding artists and increase
public access to their works.
   E.   Encourage a public collection of artworks with strong inherent
aesthetic qualities and a wide range of artistic styles and disciplines.
   F.   Stimulate and encourage, throughout the city and surrounding area, the
study and presentation of the performing and fine arts and public interest and
participation therein.
   G.   Make such surveys as may be deemed advisable of public and private
institutions engaged within the city in artistic and cultural activities,
including, but not limited to: music, theater, dance, creative writing,
painting, sculpture, architecture and allied arts and crafts, and to make
recommendations to the mayor and city council concerning appropriate methods to
encourage participation in, and appreciation of, the arts to meet the
legitimate needs and aspirations of persons in the city of Hayden.
   H.   To comply with all city policies, procedures, and regulations. (Ord.
415, 4-25-2006)
2-5-4: MEMBERSHIP; TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES:
The commission shall consist of no fewer than three (3) and no more than nine
(9) voting members of the commission, to be appointed by the mayor and
confirmed by the city council, except as otherwise provided herein. Residency
in the city is not a requirement to be a member of the commission, however, in
considering applications for committee membership, the applicant's residence or
business ties to the community will be taken into consideration, along with the
applicant's involvement and interest in the arts. The members shall serve
without compensation. In the event that the mayor creates a youth council, a
member of the youth council may also be appointed by the mayor with the
concurrence of the city council to serve on the commission in addition to the
other appointed commission members. The youth council member's term shall be
set by the mayor, but shall not exceed one year.
   A.   Commission Terms/Vacancies: Each member of the commission shall serve a
term of three (3) years or until his or her successor is appointed and
qualified. Vacancies arising in any member's position shall be filled for the
remaining term of the member originally appointed. Commission members may be
reappointed to serve additional terms. The mayor shall fill any vacancies
occurring in the membership of the commission, with the appointment to be
confirmed by the city council.
   B.   Organization And Quorum: After appointment of the first membership and
every two (2) years thereafter, following the first commission meeting in
January, the commission shall organize by selecting a chairman, vice chairman
and such other officers as deemed necessary by the commission. The chairperson
shall preside at meetings of the commission. The vice chairperson shall, when
the chairperson is absent, perform the duties of the chairperson. A majority of
the appointed members of the commission shall be necessary to constitute a
quorum and conduct any business at any commission meeting.
   C.   Removal Of Members: Any member of the commission may be removed with or
without cause by the mayor with the consent of the city council.
   D.   Meetings: The commission shall meet at a regular place and time as
determined by resolution of the commission. All meetings of the commission
shall follow the requirements of Idaho's open meeting laws to allow and promote
public participation in the decisions of the commission. The commission shall
keep minutes and other appropriate written records of its resolutions,
proceedings, and actions.
   E.   Reporting: The commission shall make a written record of the meetings
which said written record shall be kept as a public record. The commission will
give monthly updates to the mayor and the city council, when appropriate. (Ord.
477, 8-25-2009)
CHAPTER 6
BUILDING CODE BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
2-6-1: Establishment
2-6-2: Terms
2-6-3: Quorum
2-6-4: Qualifications
2-6-5: Organization
2-6-6: Duties
2-6-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
There is hereby established a Hayden building code board of appeals which shall
consist of up to seven (7) members who shall be qualified as required by the
building codes adopted by the city. The mayor shall appoint these members with
the consent of the city council. Members shall serve at the pleasure of the
governing board and may be removed upon majority vote of the city council. Just
cause for removal shall include, but not be limited to, neglect of public
duties by lack of preparation or diligence, being disruptive of meetings or
board procedures, being discourteous to the public served by the board or
failing to work cooperatively with other board members, the public or city
staff. (Ord. 420, 6-13-2006)
2-6-2: TERMS:
The terms of office of the members shall be staggered in such a manner so that
the term of two (2) members shall expire at the end of one year, the terms of
two (2) of the members shall expire two (2) years later, and the terms of the
three (3) remaining members shall expire three (3) years later. Thereafter, the
term of office for each appointed member shall be three (3) years or until a
successor is appointed and qualified. Terms shall expire on December 31 of the
last year of the term of appointment. Vacancies on the building code board of
appeals, occurring otherwise than by expiration of the term, shall be filled by
appointment for the unexpired remainder of the term. (Ord. 420, 6-13-2006)
2-6-3: QUORUM:
A majority of the appointed members of the board shall be necessary to
constitute a quorum and conduct any business at any board meeting. (Ord. 420,
6-13-2006)
2-6-4: QUALIFICATIONS:
Members of the building code board of appeals shall be qualified by experience
and training to pass upon matters relating to building construction. Members of
the board shall not be employees of the city of Hayden. The building official
of the city shall provide information for the board as requested and shall have
no vote thereon. (Ord. 420, 6-13-2006)
2-6-5: ORGANIZATION:
At its initial meeting of any calendar year, members of the building code board
of appeals shall meet and organize by electing one member chairman and such
other officers as may be necessary. The city clerk shall approve and designate
a recording secretary to create and maintain records for the board. (Ord. 420,
6-13-2006)
2-6-6: DUTIES:
The duties and authority of the building code board of appeals shall include,
but are not limited to: (Ord. 420, 6-13-2006)
   A.   To hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions or determinations made
by the building official of the city of Hayden in accordance with operative
provisions of the international building code, international residential code,
international mechanical code, uniform code for the abatement of dangerous
buildings, international energy code, and any other building codes adopted by
the city of Hayden. The building code board of appeals shall have no authority
regarding interpretation of the administrative provisions of these codes nor
shall the board be empowered to waive requirements of the codes. (Ord. 420, 6-
13-2006; amd. Ord. 500, 7-26-2011)
   B.   To adopt rules and procedures for conducting its business.
   C.   To render all decisions and findings in writing to the appellant, with
a duplicate copy to the building official. (Ord. 420, 6-13-2006)
CHAPTER 7
VETERANS COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-7-1: Established
2-7-2: Purpose
2-7-3: Duties And Responsibilities
2-7-4: Membership; Terms Of Office; Vacancies
2-7-1: ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established and created a commission to be known as the Hayden
veterans commission (hereinafter "commission"). (Ord. 506, 2-28-2012)
2-7-2: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of the commission to act in an advisory capacity to the mayor
and city council to create and maintain an atmosphere conducive to the fullest
expression of understanding and respect for past and current members of the
military in order to enrich the lives of all Hayden and area citizens and
visitors through honoring the military veterans and recognizing the value of
the service that they have and do provide. (Ord. 506, 2-28-2012)
2-7-3: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The commission shall advise and assist the mayor and city council with respect
to developing, coordinating, and promoting programs for the enjoyment,
education, cultural enrichment and benefit of the citizens of Hayden honoring
those individuals that have served and protected our country and freedoms
through military service. (Ord. 506, 2-28-2012)
2-7-4: MEMBERSHIP; TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES:
The commission shall consist of no fewer than three (3) and no more than nine
(9) voting members of the commission, to be appointed by the mayor and
confirmed by the city council, except as otherwise provided herein. Residency
in the city or military service are not a requirement to be a member of the
commission, however, in considering applications for committee membership, the
applicant's residence or business ties to the community as well as military
service will be taken into consideration. The members shall serve without
compensation. In the event that the mayor creates a youth council, a member of
the youth council may also be appointed by the mayor with the concurrence of
the city council to serve on the commission in addition to the other appointed
commission members. The youth council member's term shall be set by the mayor,
but shall not exceed one year.
   A.   Commission Terms/Vacancies: Each member of the commission shall serve a
term of three (3) years or until his or her successor is appointed and
qualified. Vacancies arising in any member's position shall be filled for the
remaining term of the member originally appointed. Commission members may be
reappointed to serve additional terms. The mayor shall fill any vacancies
occurring in the membership of the commission, with the appointment to be
confirmed by the city council.
   B.   Organization And Quorum: At the first commission meeting each calendar
year the commission shall select a chairman, vice chairman and such other
officers as deemed necessary by the commission. The chairperson shall preside
at meetings of the commission. The vice chairperson shall, when the chairperson
is absent, perform the duties of the chairperson. A majority of the appointed
members of the commission shall be necessary to constitute a quorum and conduct
any business at any commission meeting.
   C.   Removal Of Members: Any member of the commission may be removed with or
without cause by the mayor with the consent of the city council.
   D.   Meetings: The commission shall meet at a regular place and time as
determined by resolution of the commission. All meetings of the commission
shall follow the requirements of Idaho's open meeting laws to allow and promote
public participation in the decisions of the commission. The commission shall
keep minutes and other appropriate written records of its resolutions,
proceedings, and actions.
   E.   Reporting: The commission shall make a written record of the meetings
which said written record shall be kept as a public record. The commission will
give quarterly updates to the mayor and the city council, when appropriate.
(Ord. 506, 2-28-2012)
CHAPTER 8
GENERAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
2-8-1: Meeting Absences
2-8-1: MEETING ABSENCES:
All boards and commissioners identified in title 2 of this code, shall attend
their appointed and confirmed positions at such board or commission meetings.
Any appointed member of the city's commissions may be removed for cause by the
mayor upon a majority vote of the city council. Any commission member who is
absent from any series of three (3) consecutive regular meetings (or six (6)
with planning and zoning), or who fails to attend at least seventy five percent
(75%) of such regular meetings in a calendar year shall be deemed to have
resigned from their commission and the city council will be notified of the
vacancy. The appointed person shall no longer serve on his/her board or
commission and the seat/position shall be deemed vacant. The vacancy of such
position shall be appointed and confirmed as provided by state law and this
code. (Ord. 604, 8-27-2019)
CHAPTER 9
PUBLIC SAFETY COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-9-1: Establishment
2-9-2: Terms Of Office
2-9-3: Commission Organization And Recordkeeping
2-9-4: Duties And Responsibilities
2-9-5: Effect
2-9-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
   A.   There is hereby established the Hayden Public Safety Commission, which
shall consist of at least five (5) members and no more than seven (7) members,
all of whom shall reside within the City. The mayor shall appoint these members
with the consent of the city council. Members may be removed for cause upon
majority vote of the city council. (Ord. 649, 11-14-2023)
2-9-2: TERMS OF OFFICE:
   A.   Members shall be appointed for a term of three (3) years. Terms shall
expire on December 31 of the last year of the designated term.
   B.   Initial appointment of members shall be staggered by one-year.
   C.   Vacancies on the commission occurring other than by expiration of the
term shall be filled by the mayor with the consent of the city council for the
remainder of the unexpired term. Commission members may be reappointed to serve
additional terms. (Ord. 649, 11-14-2023)
2-9-3: COMMISSION ORGANIZATION AND RECORDKEEPING:
   A.   The commission members shall meet and organize by electing a
chairperson and vice- chairperson at the first meeting of each year, both of
whom shall serve a term of one-year.
   B.   The commission shall meet a minimum of two times per year
   C.   The city clerk shall approve and designate a recording secretary to
create and maintain records for the commission. (Ord. 649, 11-14-2023)
2-9-4: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Act in an advisory capacity to the City Council in matters pertaining
to public safety including law enforcement, fire, emergency medical services,
and other areas wherein the matter of public safety may be of concern;
specifically, review statistic data and other information concerning public
safety;
   B.   Recommend policies and procedures with respect to the foregoing for
approval by the City Council;
   C.   Perform such other tasks that may be expressly requested of by the City
Council. (Ord. 649, 11-14-2023)
2-9-5: EFFECT:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as restricting or curtailing any of
the power of the City Council or City officers, or the delegation to the Public
Safety Commission of any authority or discretionary powers imposed by law in
such council or officers. The City Council declares that the public interest,
convenience, welfare and necessity require the appointment of a Public Safety
Commission to act in a purely advisory capacity to such Council, for the
purpose enumerated in this chapter. (Ord. 649, 11-14-2023)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
RESERVED
(Ord. 592, 4-9-2019)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Title
3-2-2: Purpose
3-2-3: Beer Regulations
3-2-4: Wine Regulations
3-2-5: Liquor Regulations
3-2-6: Bars And Taverns Near Schools Or Churches
3-2-1: TITLE:
This chapter will be known as the ALCOHOL BEVERAGE CONTROL ORDINANCE of the
City. (Ord. 592, 4-9-2019)
3-2-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the general health, safety and public
welfare of City residents and visitors by regulating the hours, places and
conditions of the sale of alcoholic beverages in the City. (Ord. 592, 4-9-2019)
3-2-3: BEER REGULATIONS:
   A.   Definitions:
    BEER: Shall be defined as provided in Idaho Code title 23, chapter 10, as
amended from time to time.
   RETAILER: Any person engaged in the sale or distribution of beer to the
consumer.
   B.   License Required: It is unlawful for any person to sell beer without
first obtaining a proper license.
   C.   Application For License:
      1.   Application for the retail sale of beer shall be made and filed with
the City Clerk in such form and manner as provided herein. The application
shall provide for the name of the applicant, the location of the proposed
business, the information required to show that the applicant meets the
qualifications required by this chapter, and such other information as may be
prescribed and required by the Governing Body. At the time the application is
filed, the applicant shall also present a copy of a license to sell beer
obtained from the County.
      2.   The authority for final approval of the application is delegated to
the City Clerk, subject to appeal of the Clerk's decision to the City Council.
      3.   Licenses will be for a period of no longer than one year and shall
expire at two o'clock (2:00) A.M. on the first day of the renewal month for a
State license as determined by the Director of Idaho State Police.
   D.   Qualifications: No retail license shall be issued to any applicant who
is not qualified under Idaho Code title 23, chapter 10, as the same may be
amended from time to time.
   E.   Fee For License: The fee for a license for the sale of beer shall be
established by resolution of the City Council, and shall be consistent with the
limitations provided in Idaho Code title 23, chapter 10, as amended from time
to time.
   F.   Revocation Of License:
      1.   The City Council shall retain the right at all times to revoke and
cancel any license.
      2.   If any licensee or employee of a business licensed to sell beer by
the drink violates any of the provisions of this chapter or is convicted of
violation of any of the provisions of the laws of the State relating to the
sale of alcoholic beverages, the City Council is authorized to revoke the
license issued to the licensee; provided, however, that in the event it is
brought to the attention of the City Council that a violation has taken place,
before revoking such license, the City Council shall cause notice to be served
upon the licensee, setting forth in general terms the violation or violations
claimed to have been committed, and such notice shall provide a time for
hearing thereon by the City Council, which date of hearing shall not be less
than five (5) days nor more than ten (10) days from the date of the service of
the notice, and upon or following the hearing, the City Council, if they shall
find that the provisions of this chapter or the provisions of the laws of the
State have been violated, shall revoke such license theretofore issued, and no
refund of any unused portion of the license fee shall be made to the licensee.
      3.   A revocation by the State or the County of any license to sell any
alcoholic beverages shall automatically revoke the license issued by the City.
      4.   Failure to comply with any City ordinance or State law relating to
the manner of operation of the business, including, but not limited to,
violation of noise restrictions or zoning regulations, or operation of the
business in such a manner that it constitutes a public nuisance, or the
behavior of the patrons of the business is a violation of State or local
regulations or constitutes criminal behavior and that criminal behavior is
attributable to the alcohol consumed on the premises. Prior to revocation of
the licensed premises the licensee shall be provided notice and an opportunity
to be heard by the City Council in the same manner as set forth above.
   G.   Restrictions:
      1.   It is unlawful to sell or dispense beer to be consumed on the
premises at any times other than those allowed in Idaho Code title 23, chapter
10, as amended from time to time, except that the time restrictions shall be
extended from one o'clock (1:00) A.M. to two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
      2.   No license shall be issued for the sale of beer upon premises in
locations where such sale is prohibited by Idaho Code title 23, chapter 10, as
amended from time to time.
      3.   No persons shall sell beer to be consumed on the premises within
three hundred feet (300') of any Residential Zoning District except when such
sale is incidental to the operation of an eating establishment or the premises
fronts a street with a functional classification of principal arterial or minor
arterial designation in the Hayden transportation plan and the primary customer
entrance to the premises does not face the Residential Zoning District. For the
purpose of this section an "eating establishment" shall be defined as a
restaurant, cafe, hotel, dining room, coffee shop, cafeteria or other eating
establishment that utilizes at least seventy five percent (75%) of gross floor
area for the preparation, cooking and serving of complete meals, has an
actively operated commercial kitchen that includes a type 1 commercial hood and
cooking equipment, excluding micro-wave ovens and grills, capable of cooking
complete meals and be open to the public. The eating establishment must be
maintained and advertised as a place where complete meals are served and where
complete meals are actually and regularly served. Limited food service, such as
is provided by luncheonettes, drive-ins, sandwich shops and other similar uses
does not meet the requirements of this subsection.
         a.   Businesses which now lawfully sell beer within the prohibited
area set forth in this section are exempt from the provisions of this section
so long as they continue their operation. However, in the event such businesses
seek to expand beyond their existing floor space, they must comply with all
requirements set forth in this chapter, including, but not limited to, this
section.
         b.   Should any such exempt business discontinue its operation for a
period of six (6) months, it will no longer be exempt from the restrictions of
this chapter.
         c.   In the case of applicants for new licenses, the applicant shall
sign an affidavit of their intent to commence the operation of their eating
establishment and continue its operation as a bona fide eating establishment
meeting the requirements of this chapter.
   H.   Regulations: It is unlawful for any person to sell beer to any person
to whom the sale of the same is prohibited by the laws of the State. Any
violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any such sale by any
person licensed to sell or a person working at a business licensed to sell one
or more beverages shall be considered cause for cancellation of such license or
licenses as such person may be issued.
   I.   Renewal Of License:
      1.   Application for renewal of a license to sell beer shall be on the
same form as the application for the initial license.
      2.   If all of the information provided by the licensee is the same in
the application for renewal as was provided in the initial application, renewal
of the license may be issued by the City Clerk.
   J.   Appeal Of City Clerk Decision:
      1.   An applicant wishing to appeal the City Clerk's decision to deny a
license, transfer or renewal of a license to the City Council must submit the
appeal in writing to the City Clerk within ten (10) business days of the
denial. The appeal must set forth the factual basis on which the applicant
asserts that the denial was in error.
      2.   The appeal will be scheduled for the City Council at their next
available regular Council meeting. (Ord. 592, 4-9-2019)
3-2-4: WINE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Definitions:
    RETAILER: Any person engaged in the sale or distribution of wine to the
consumer.
   WINE: Shall be defined as provided in Idaho Code title 23, chapter 13, as
amended from time to time.
   B.   License Required: It is unlawful for any person to sell wine without
first obtaining a proper license.
   C.   Application For License:
      1.   Application for the retail sale of wine shall be made and filed with
the City Clerk in the same form and manner as a license to sell beer. At the
time the application is filed, the applicant shall also present a copy of a
license to sell wine obtained from the State.
      2.   The authority for final approval is delegated to the City Clerk,
subject to appeal of the Clerk's decision to the City Council in accordance
with subsection
3-2-3J of this chapter.
      3.   Licenses will be for a period of no longer than one year and shall
expire at two o'clock (2:00) A.M. on the first day of the renewal month for a
State license as determined by the Director of Idaho State Police.
   D.   Qualifications: No retail license shall be issued to any applicant who
is not qualified under Idaho Code title 23, chapter 13, as the same may be
amended from time to time.
   E.   Fee For License: The fee for a license for the sale of wine shall be
established by resolution of the City Council.
   F.   Revocation Of License: The City Council shall retain the right at all
times to revoke and cancel any license, subject to the same rights to appeal as
set forth in subsection
3-2-3F of this chapter relating to a license to sell beer.
   G.   Hours Of Sale Restricted: Wine sold for consumption on licensed
premises may be sold only during the hours that beer can be sold. Wine sold by
a retailer for consumption off the premises of the retailer may be sold only
during the hours that beer may be sold.
   H.   Regulations: The sale of wine is subject to the same regulations as set
forth in subsections
3-2-3G3 and H of this chapter relating to the sale of beer.
   I.   Renewal Of License: Renewal of a license shall be accomplished in the
same manner as provided in subsection
3-2-3I of this chapter relating to renewal of a beer license. (Ord. 592, 4-9-
2019)
3-2-5: LIQUOR REGULATIONS:
   A.   Definitions:
    LIQUOR: Shall be defined as provided in Idaho Code title 23, chapter 9, as
amended from time to time.
   RETAILER: Any person engaged in the sale or distribution of liquor to the
consumer.
   B.   License Required: It is unlawful for any person to sell liquor without
first obtaining a proper license.
   C.   Application For License:
      1.   Application for the retail sale of liquor shall be made and filed
with the City Clerk in the same form and manner as a license to sell beer. At
the time the application is filed, the applicant shall also present a copy of a
license to sell liquor obtained from the State.
      2.   The authority for final approval of the application is delegated to
the City Clerk, subject to appeal of the Clerk's decision to the City Council
in accordance with subsection
3-2-3J of this chapter.
      3.   Licenses will be for a period of no longer than one year and shall
expire at two o'clock (2:00) A.M. on the first day of the renewal month for a
State license as determined by the Director of Idaho State Police.
   D.   Qualifications: No retail license shall be issued to any applicant who
is not qualified under Idaho Code title 23, chapter 9, as the same may be
amended from time to time.
   E.   Fee For License: The fee for a license for the sale of liquor shall be
established by resolution of the City Council and shall be in conformance with
Idaho Code title 23, chapter 9, as amended from time to time.
   F.   Revocation Of License: The City Council shall retain the right at all
times to revoke and cancel any license, subject to the same rights to appeal as
set forth in subsection
3-2-3F of this chapter relating to a license to sell beer.
   G.   Restrictions:
      1.   Liquor may be sold or given away on any licensed premises only
during the hours of sale allowed in Idaho Code title 23, chapter 9, as amended
from time to time, except that the time restrictions shall be extended from one
o'clock (1:00) A.M. to two o'clock (2:00) A.M., and on Sundays, Memorial Day
and Thanksgiving.
      2.   No license shall be issued for the sale of liquor upon premises in
locations where such sale is prohibited by Idaho Code title 23, chapter 9, as
amended from time to time.
   H.   Regulations: The sale of liquor is subject to the same regulations as
set forth in subsections
3-2-3G3 and H of this chapter relating to the sale of beer.
   I.   Renewal Of License: Renewal of a license shall be accomplished in the
same manner as provided in subsection
3-2-3I of this chapter relating to renewal of a beer license. (Ord. 592, 4-9-
2019)
3-2-6: BARS AND TAVERNS NEAR SCHOOLS OR CHURCHES:
   A.   The purpose of this section is to establish the approval authorized
pursuant to Idaho Code 23-1011B and 23-913 for the City's Governing Body to
allow bars and taverns located closer than three hundred feet (300') of any
public school, church or any other place of worship measured in a straight line
to the nearest entrance to the licensed premises.
   B.   No license shall be issued for any businesses where alcoholic beverages
are sold or dispensed to be consumed on the premises in any neighborhood which
is predominantly residential or within three hundred feet (300') of any public
school, church, or any other place of worship measured in a straight line to
the nearest customer entrance to the licensed premises, except with the
approval of the Hayden City Council.
   C.   This limitation shall not apply to any duly licensed premises that at
the time of licensing did not come within the restricted area but subsequent to
licensing came therein. (Ord. 592, 4-9-2019)
CHAPTER 3
AMUSEMENT ARCADES AND MACHINES
(Rep. by Ord. 508, 3-13-2012)
CHAPTER 4
PAWNBROKERS AND SECONDHAND DEALERS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Authority
3-4-2: Purpose
3-4-3: Definitions
3-4-4: License Required; Exemptions
3-4-5: Application For License
3-4-6: License Fee
3-4-7: Transferability
3-4-8: Renewal Of License
3-4-9: Right Of Entry
3-4-10: Records Maintenance
3-4-11: Pawn Tickets Or Receipts
3-4-12: Time Limitations
3-4-13: Stolen Or Lost Property
3-4-14: Prohibited Acts
3-4-15: Denial Or Revocation Of License
3-4-16: Penalty
3-4-1: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is enacted and adopted pursuant to the authority granted to the
City by article XII, section 2, of the Constitution of the State and Idaho Code
section 50-307. (Ord. 592, 4-9-2019)
3-4-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is regulatory. It is intended to assist law
enforcement agencies in tracing stolen property. It is also intended to prevent
disposal of stolen property through pawnbrokers and secondhand dealers. The
requirements of this chapter are in addition to any requirements placed upon
pawnbrokers and others by Idaho Code title 63, chapter 23. (Ord. 592, 4-9-2019)
3-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
                Any associate, partner, employee, director, officer, owner, manager or person with
AGENT:          a financial interest in such pawnbroker business or secondhand dealer or recycler
                business, other than as a lessor, mortgagee or vendee.
                An identification card issued by a governmental entity, including, without
                limitation, the following:
                1.   An identification card issued by a federal agency, such as a passport,
GOVERNMENT      passport card, or a military, federal employee, or dependent identification card.
ISSUED          2.   A driver’s license or identification card issued by a state or territory of
IDENTIFICATION: the United States or by a federally recognized Indian tribe.
                3.   An identification card issued by a foreign government that is the equivalent
                of one of the types of identification cards listed in paragraphs (1) or (2) above
                (e.g., a driver’s license issued by a province of Canada).
                Any person, partnership, association, corporation or agent thereof which, in the
                course of its business, loans money and receives a security of personal property
                as a pledge or holds such personal property under a conditional sales contract or
PAWNBROKER:     an agreement to resell such personal property to the borrower or his assignee at a
                price agreed upon, at or before the time of such transaction; except this term
                shall not apply to banks, trust companies or bond brokers who are otherwise
                regulated by law and authorized to deal in commercial paper, sales of stock, bonds
                or other certificates of value.
RECYCLER:       Commercial Recycler is a company that collects and sorts trash and treats it in
                order to produce useful materials that can be used again.
                Any person, partnership, association, corporation or agent thereof, engaging in,
                conducting, managing or carrying on the business of buying, selling or otherwise
                dealing in used or secondhand personal property, rebuilt or reconditioned goods,
                wares or merchandise; providing, that this term shall not apply to a person
                conducting a casual or isolated sale of one’s own personal property; provided
                further, that this term shall not apply to a retail dealer of used or secondhand
SECONDHAND      merchandise, whose stock of merchandise consists at least ninety percent (90%) of
DEALER:         objects of art, curios or household furniture or furnishings offered for sale on
                the basis, express or implied, that the value of the property, in whole or
                substantial part, is derived from its age and historical association; provided
                further, that this term shall not apply to shops dealing exclusively in coins,
                currency and/or precious metals, auto wreckers, used car dealers or dealers of new
                articles who allow their patrons an exchange value on used or secondhand articles
                of personal property.
SHERIFF:        The Sheriff of Kootenai County and all of his authorized representatives. (Ord.
                592, 4-9-2019; amd. Ord. 634, 6-14-2022)
 
3-4-4: LICENSE REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to act as a "pawnbroker"
or "secondhand dealer", as defined in this chapter, unless a valid license
therefor has been issued as provided for in this chapter and which license is
in full force and effect.
   B.   Exemptions: Stores dealing in secondhand clothing only and all
nonprofit, charitable organizations are exempt from the requirements of this
chapter. (Ord. 592, 4-9-2019)
3-4-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
All applications for a license under this chapter shall be made to the City
Clerk in such form and manner as prescribed and shall be referred to the
Sheriff, who shall cause an investigation to be made of the qualifications of
the applicant. Such investigation shall include all agents of applicants.
Should the Sheriff determine that the applicant is qualified for a license
under the provisions of this chapter, he shall report to the City Clerk that
the applicant is so qualified and a license shall be issued by the City Clerk.
Such license shall expire one year from the date of its issuance, unless sooner
revoked or surrendered. Should the Sheriff find that the applicant does not
meet the qualification requirements under this chapter, the application shall
be denied. (Ord. 592, 4-9-2019)
3-4-6: LICENSE FEE:
   A.   Amount Set By Resolution: The City Clerk shall collect, before the
issuance of any license or renewal thereof, an annual license fee in such
amount as shall be established by resolution of the City Council.
   B.   Credits: Any fees paid to the City under Idaho Code title 63, chapter
23 by pawnbrokers and others shall be allowed as credit towards the license
fees due to the City by this chapter. (Ord. 592, 4-9-2019)
3-4-7: TRANSFERABILITY:
A license issued under this chapter is not transferable from one person to any
other person. Such license may not be transferred from one location to another
without application to and approval by the City Clerk. Such license shall
expire one year from the date of its issuance, unless sooner revoked or
surrendered. (Ord. 592, 4-9-2019)
3-4-8: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
A license under this chapter may be renewed by payment of the annual license
fee. If a licensee seeks a renewal of a previously expired license, a new
investigation by the Sheriff shall be required. (Ord. 592, 4-9-2019)
3-4-9: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The City Attorney or the Sheriff shall have the right at any time, during
normal business hours, to enter any premises licensed under this chapter to
inspect any article pawned or purchased by the licensee and examine the same;
and to determine that the licensee has and is complying with all laws,
statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations of the United States, the State,
the County and the City. If the licensee or agent of such licensee is present
on the premises at times other than normal business hours, such licensee or
agent of licensee shall permit the City Attorney or the Sheriff, or a duly
authorized representative of either, to enter said premises and inspect as
authorized herein. (Ord. 592, 4-9-2019)
3-4-10: RECORDS MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Invoice Book: Each pawnbroker, and-secondhand dealer, and recycler
shall maintain a record of each loan, purchase or other transaction. This
record shall be maintained in an invoice book or on computer software designed
for the keeping of invoices, as approved by the Sheriff. The book must be in
triplicate; software must allow for printing and electronic transfer of true
and accurate copies of each invoice. Numbering invoices must be maintained in
sequence. Each invoice shall have the following information legibly recorded
upon it:
      1.   The date, hour and place of transaction;
      2.   The name of person or employee conducting the same;
      3.   The name, age, street and house number, and a general description of
the person with whom the transaction is had, including height, weight, color of
hair and eyes;
      4.   The type of identification presented;
      5.   A description of the property bought or received in pledge, which,
in the case of watches, shall contain the name of the maker and the number of
both the works and the case, and in the case of jewelry, shall contain a
description of all letters and marks described thereon, and in the case of all
other personal property, the serial number of all articles so marked and any
inscriptions or identifying marks, as well as the brand or manufacturer’s name;
      6.   The amount of money loaned or paid for the property; and
      7.   The number of any pawn ticket issued therefor.
   B.   Identification: The pawnbroker, or secondhand dealer, or recycler must
require government issued identification and record the name, address, date of
birth, identification card number and type of identification presented, and
physical description of the person borrowing or selling the article from said
identification. A driver’s license shall be the preferred method of
identification.
   C.   Inspection: Such record and all goods received shall at all times,
during the ordinary hours of business, be open to the inspection by the Sheriff
and City Attorney, and any representative thereof, and to any peace officer.
Said records shall be maintained and kept available for inspection for a period
of three (3) years from the date of the last transaction recorded therein. Said
records shall be kept at the place of business for which the license was
issued.
   D.   Daily Copies To Sheriff: Every pawnbroker, secondhand dealer or
recycler shall ensure that a true and accurate copy of each purchase
transaction is available to be presented to the sheriff on a daily basis. Upon
written notice by the sheriff of the implementation of a different method of
reporting, every pawnbroker, secondhand dealer or recycler shall report
transactions in accordance with the method set forth in the notice. (Ord. 592,
4-9-2019; amd. Ord. 634, 6-14-2022)
3-4-11: PAWN TICKETS OR RECEIPTS:
Every pawnbroker, secondhand dealer, or recycler shall issue separate numbered
pawn tickets or receipts for any each item of property received as purchased,
or as a pledge or security for a loan, which ticket shall be considered a
receipt of such property. Tags shall be attached to all such property and upon
each tag shall be written in legible figures, a number which shall correspond
to the number on the pawn ticket issued for said property. (Ord. 592, 4-9-2019;
amd. Ord. 634, 6-14-2022)
3-4-12: TIME LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Pledged Property: Every pawnbroker who receives personal property in
pledge or as security for a loan shall hold such property for redemption by the
pledgor thereof for at least ninety (90) days after the receipt of said
property and shall not sell or assign the pledgor’s interest therein during
said redemption period. This time limitation shall not prevent the pledgor from
redeeming the property at any time during the redemption period.
   B.   Purchased Property: No pawnbroker, or secondhand dealer, or recycler
shall sell any item purchased for a period of thirty (30) days. This time
limitation shall not prevent the original seller from repurchasing any item at
any time during that period. (Ord. 592, 4-9-2019; amd. Ord. 634, 6-14-2022)
3-4-13: STOLEN OR LOST PROPERTY:
   A.   Return Of Property: Any article pledged or sold to a pawnbroker, or
secondhand dealer, or recycle which is subsequently determined by a law
enforcement agency to have been stolen shall be transferred to the custody of
such agency upon the request of the Sheriff or at the direction of the Sheriff,
shall be returned by the pawnbroker or secondhand dealer to the true owner. The
true owner shall not be liable to the pawnbroker, or secondhand dealer, or
recycler for any amounts expended by the pawnbroker or secondhand dealer, or
recycler with respect to an article deemed stolen. Restitution for the
pawnbroker or secondhand dealer, or recycler will be sought by the City
Attorney from anyone charged in connection with the stolen property. The
pawnbroker or secondhand dealer shall not return such property directly to the
true owner until:
      1.   The pawnbroker or secondhand dealer receives written notice from the
Office of the Sheriff authorizing the release of the property to the true owner
and specifying the name and address of the true owner; and
      2.   The true owner, in person, presents proper identification showing
his name, address, social security number and signature.
   B.   Documentation Necessary: Upon the return of stolen property to the true
owner either by the pawnbroker, or secondhand dealer or recycler, or a law
enforcement agency, the pawnbroker, or secondhand dealer, recycler shall
complete the documentation as may be necessary or required to effect the
transfer of the property, including such documents pertaining to the
registration of firearms as may be required by local, State or Federal
authorities.
   C.   Holding Property; Conditions: Any article pledged or sold to a
pawnbroker, or secondhand dealer, or recycler which is subsequently determined
to have been stolen must be held by such pawnbroker or secondhand dealer if not
transferred as authorized herein, except upon written authorization from the
Office of the Sheriff, the City Attorney or an authorized representative of
either. (Ord. 592, 4-9-2019; amd. Ord. 634, 6-14-2022)
3-4-14: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Purchases And Pledges From Minors: It shall be unlawful for a
pawnbroker, or secondhand dealer, or recycler, or agent thereof to purchase any
used or secondhand property from any person under the age of eighteen (18)
years. It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker or secondhand dealer or agent
thereof to accept any article as a pledge for a loan from any person under the
age of eighteen (18) years.
   B.   Employment Of Minors: It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker,
secondhand dealer, or recycler, or agent thereof to allow an employee under the
age of eighteen (18) years to directly conduct a loan or sale transactions. An
employee under the age of eighteen (18) years may, however, assist such
pawnbroker, secondhand dealer or agent thereof in any other aspect of the
business of such pawnbroker or secondhand dealer.
   C.   Persons Under Influence: It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker,
secondhand dealer, recycler or agent thereof to have any business dealings with
an intoxicated person or one who is obviously under the influence of alcohol
and/or drugs.
   D.   Specific Acts: It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker, secondhand
dealer, recycler or agent thereof to:
      1.   Failure To Record Entry: Fail to make a complete entry in the
records as provided for in this chapter for each and every loan, purchase or
other transaction; or
      2.   False Entry: Make any false entry therein; or
      3.   Time Limit For Records Maintenance: Falsify, obliterate, destroy or
remove from his place of business, such book or record within three (3) years
following the date of the last recorded transaction therein; or
      4.   Refusal Of Inspection: Refuse to allow the City Attorney or any
representative thereof, or the Sheriff or any peace officer engaged in law
enforcement within the City to inspect the records required herein or any goods
in his possession, during the ordinary hours of business, or present items and
pawn tickets to any Idaho peace officer; or
      5.   False Reporting: Report any material matter falsely to the City
Attorney or his authorized representative, or the Sheriff or any peace officer
of the City; or
      6.   Daily Forms To Sheriff: Having forms provided therefor, fail to make
available, before twelve o’clock (12:00) noon of each business day, to the
Sheriff a full, true and correct transcript of the record of all the loans,
purchases or other business transactions had on the previous business day; or
      7.   Lost Or Stolen Property: Fail to report forthwith to the Sheriff the
possession of any property which such pawnbroker, secondhand dealer or agent
thereof, may have good cause to believe has been lost or stolen, together with
the name of the owner if known, and together with the date such property was
received, along with the name, description, date of birth and other material
information required to be maintained by this chapter, of the person from whom
the property was received; or
      8.   Redemption Period: Remove or allow to be removed, from his place of
business, except upon redemption by the owners thereof, any property received
during the redemption period, except as provided herein; or
      9.   Violation: Violate any provisions of this chapter or other ordinance
of the City having application to the business or persons herein regulated.
(Ord. 592, 4-9-2019; amd. Ord. 634, 6-14-2022)
3-4-15: DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Authority: Any license issued under this chapter may be revoked and an
application for issuance of a new license or renewal of said license may be
denied when it is determined that any applicant, licensee or agent of applicant
or licensee, has violated any provision of this chapter or does not meet the
qualifications of a licensee as provided in this chapter.
   B.   Conditions: No license shall be issued to any pawnbroker, second-hand
dealer or agent thereof, if any such pawnbroker, secondhand dealer or agent
thereof, or other person having a direct financial interest in such business
other than as a lessor, mortgagee or vendee has:
      1.   Been convicted of a felony;
      2.   Had a license under this chapter revoked within five (5) years of
the date of application for such license.
   C.   Minors: A license shall not be issued to a person less than eighteen
(18) years of age.
   D.   Hearing; Notice: Prior to the revocation of any license or upon denial
of an application for a license or renewal thereof, written notice of the
reason for such action shall be given to the applicant or licensee by the City
Clerk. Such notice shall state that the applicant or licensee may request a
hearing on such decision by the City Council. Such request by the applicant or
licensee shall be made within ten (10) days of receiving the written notice.
Written notice shall be deemed received two (2) days after the mailing of said
notice or upon personal delivery to the applicant or licensee. Should the
applicant or licensee request a hearing within such ten (10) day period, the
applicant shall be notified in writing by the City Clerk of the time and place
of the hearing. Such notification of the hearing shall be deemed given two (2)
days after mailing of said notice or upon personal delivery to the applicant or
licensee. (Ord. 592, 4-9-2019)
3-4-16: PENALTY:
Any person who violates section
3-4-14 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-3-1 of this Code. Each prohibited act, including each incomplete entry or
false entry, shall be deemed a separate violation and shall be punishable
accordingly. (Ord. 592, 4-9-2019)
CHAPTER 5
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
SECTION:
3-5-1: Purpose And Findings
3-5-2: Definitions
3-5-3: Classification
3-5-4: License Required
3-5-5: Issuance Of License
3-5-6: Fees
3-5-7: Inspection
3-5-8: Expiration Of License
3-5-9: Suspension
3-5-10: Revocation
3-5-11: Transfer Of License
3-5-12: Location Of Sexually Oriented Businesses
3-5-13: Additional Regulations For Adult Motels
3-5-14: Exhibition Of Sexually Explicit Films, Videos Or Live Entertainment
3-5-15: Additional Regulations For Escort Agencies
3-5-16: Additional Regulations For Nude Model Studios
3-5-17: Additional Regulations For Public Nudity
3-5-18: Prohibition Against Children In A Sexually Oriented Business
3-5-19: Hours Of Operation
3-5-20: Exemptions
3-5-21: Injunction And Penalties
3-5-1: PURPOSE AND FINDINGS:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually
oriented businesses in order to promote the health, safety, morals, and general
welfare of the citizens of the City of Hayden, and to establish reasonable and
uniform regulations to prevent the deleterious location and concentration of
sexually oriented businesses within the City. The provisions of this chapter
have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on
the content of any communicative materials, including sexually oriented
materials which are not deemed obscene. Similarly, it is not the intent nor
effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually
oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access by the
distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their
intended market. Neither is it the intent nor effect of this chapter to condone
or legitimize the distribution of obscene material.
   B.   Findings: Based on evidence concerning the adverse secondary effects of
adult uses on the community presented in hearings and in reports made available
to the Council, and on findings incorporated in the cases of City of Renton v.
Playtime Theatres, Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986), Young v. American Mini Theatres,
426 U.S. 50 (1976), and Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991), and
on studies in other communities including, but not limited to, Phoenix,
Arizona; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Houston, Texas; Indianapolis, Indiana;
Amarillo, Texas; Garden Grove, California; Los Angeles, California; Whittier,
California; Austin, Texas; Seattle, Washington; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma;
Cleveland, Ohio; and Beaumont, Texas; and also on findings from the "Report of
the Attorney General's Working Group On the Regulation of Sexually Oriented
Businesses", (June 6, 1989, State of Minnesota), the Council finds:
      1.   Sexually oriented businesses lend themselves to ancillary unlawful
and unhealthy activities that cannot be effectively uncontrolled by the
operators of such establishments. Further, there is presently no mechanism to
make the owners of these establishments responsible for the activities that
occur on their premises.
      2.   Certain employees of sexually oriented businesses defined in this
chapter as adult theaters and cabarets engage in higher incidence of certain
types of illicit sexual behavior than employees of other establishments.
      3.   Sexual acts, including masturbation, and oral and anal sex, occur at
sexually oriented businesses, especially those which provide private or
semiprivate booths or cubicles for viewing films, videos, or live sex shows.
      4.   Offering and providing such space encourages such activities, which
creates unhealthy conditions.
      5.   Persons frequent certain adult theaters, adult arcades, and other
sexually oriented businesses for the purpose of engaging in sex within the
premises of such sexually oriented businesses.
      6.   Numerous communicable diseases may be spread by activities occurring
in sexually oriented businesses, including, but not limited to, syphilis,
gonorrhea, human immunodeficiency virus infection (HIV-AIDS), genital herpes,
hepatitis B, and numerous types of bacterial infections.
      7.   Since 1981 and to the present, there has been an increasing
cumulative number of reported cases of AIDS caused by the human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in the United States - six hundred (600) in 1982,
two thousand two hundred (2,200) in 1983, four thousand six hundred (4,600) in
1984, eight thousand five hundred fifty five (8,555) in 1985 and six hundred
eighty eight thousand two hundred (688,200) through December 31, 1998.
      8.   Since 1981 and to the present, there have been an increasing
cumulative number of persons testing positive for the HIV antibody test in the
Inland Northwest.
      9.   In 2001 the number of cases of sexually transmitted diseases
reported in the State of Idaho exceeded two thousand one hundred (2,100).
      10.   The Surgeon General of the United States, in his report of October
22, 1986, has advised the American public that AIDS and HIV infection may be
transmitted through sexual contact, intravenous drug abuse, exposure to
infected blood and blood components, and from an infected mother to her
newborn.
      11.   According to the best scientific evidence, AIDS and HIV infection,
as well as syphilis and gonorrhea, are principally transmitted by sexual acts.
      12.   Sanitary conditions in some sexually oriented businesses are
unhealthy, in part, because the activities conducted there are unhealthy, and,
in part, because of the unregulated nature of the activities and the failure of
the owners and the operators of the facilities to self-regulate those
activities and maintain those facilities.
      13.   Numerous studies and reports have determined that semen is found in
the areas of sexually oriented businesses where persons view "adult" oriented
films.
      14.   The findings noted in subsections B1 through B13 of this section
raise substantial governmental concerns.
      15.   Sexually oriented businesses have operational characteristics which
should be reasonably regulated in order to protect those substantial
governmental concerns.
      16.   A reasonable licensing procedure is an appropriate mechanism to
place the burden of that reasonable regulation on the owners and the operators
of the sexually oriented businesses. Further, such a licensing procedure will
place a heretofore nonexistent incentive on the operators to see that the
sexually oriented business is run in a manner consistent with the health,
safety and welfare of its patrons and employees, as well as the citizens of the
City. It is appropriate to require reasonable assurances that the licensee is
the actual operator of the sexually oriented business, fully in possession and
control of the premises and activities occurring therein.
      17.   Removal of doors on adult booths and requiring sufficient lighting
on premises with adult booths advances a substantial governmental interest in
curbing the illegal and unsanitary sexual activity occurring in adult theaters.
      18.   Requiring licensees of sexually oriented businesses to keep
information regarding current employees and certain past employees will help
reduce the incidence of certain types of criminal behavior by facilitating the
identification of potential witnesses or suspects and by preventing minors from
working in such establishments.
      19.   The disclosure of certain information by those persons ultimately
responsible for the day to day operation and maintenance of the sexually
oriented business, where such information is substantially related to the
significant governmental interest in the operation of such uses, will aid in
preventing the spread of sexually transmitted diseases.
      20.   It is desirable in the prevention of the spread of communicable
diseases to obtain a limited amount of information regarding certain employees
who may engage in the conduct which this chapter is designed to prevent or who
are likely to be witnesses to such activity.
      21.   The fact that an applicant for an adult use license has been
convicted of a sexually related crime leads to the rational assumption that the
applicant may engage in that conduct in contravention of this chapter.
      22.   The barring of such individuals from the management of adult uses
for a period of years serves as a deterrent to and prevents conduct which leads
to the transmission of sexually transmitted diseases.
      23.   The general welfare, health, morals and safety of the citizens of
the City will be promoted by the enactment of this chapter. (Ord. 592, 4-9-
2019)
3-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
ADULT ARCADE: Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin operated, slug operated, or for any form of consideration, or
electronically, electrically, or mechanically controlled still or motion
picture machines, projectors, video or laser disc players, or other image
producing devices are maintained to show images to five (5) or fewer persons
per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by the depicting or describing of "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE OR ADULT VIDEO STORE: A commercial
establishment which, as one of its principal purposes, offers for sale or
rental for any form of consideration any one or more of the following:
   A.   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or photographs,
films, motion pictures, videocassettes or video reproductions, slides, or other
visual representations which are characterized by the depiction or description
of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas"; or
   B.   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for use in
connection with "specified sexual activities".
A commercial establishment may have other principal business purposes that do
not involve the offering for sale or rental of material depicting or describing
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" and still be
categorized as adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or adult video store. Such
other business purposes will not serve to exempt such commercial establishments
from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or adult
video store so long as one of its principal business purposes is the offering
for sale or rental for consideration the specified materials which are
characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas".
ADULT CABARET: A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features:
   A.   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminude; or
   B.   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of "specified
anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities"; or
   C.   Films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
ADULT MOTEL: A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which:
   A.   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, videocassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which are
characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas"; and has a sign visible from the public right-
of-way which advertises the availability of this adult type of photographic
reproductions; or
   B.   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less than
ten (10) hours; or
   C.   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room for
a period of time that is less than ten (10) hours.
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A commercial establishment where, for any form of
consideration, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are characterized by the
depiction or description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas".
ADULT THEATER: A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity
or seminude, or live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
"specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities".
EMPLOYEE: A person who performs any service on the premises of a sexually
oriented business on a full time, part time or contract basis, whether or not
the person is denominated an employee, independent contractor, agent or
otherwise and whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage or other
compensation by the operator of said business. Employee does not include a
person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or
equipment on the premises, or for the delivery of goods to the premises.
ESCORT: A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
ESCORT AGENCY: A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
ESTABLISHMENT: Means and includes any of the following:
   A.   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a new
business;
   B.   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
   C.   The additions of any sexually oriented business to any other existing
sexually oriented business; or
   D.   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
LICENSEE: A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on
the application for a license; and in the case of an employee, a person in
whose name a license has been issued authorizing employment in a sexually
oriented business.
NUDE MODEL STUDIO: Any place where a person who appears semi- nude, in a state
of nudity, or who displays "specified anatomical areas" and is provided to be
observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly
depicted by other persons who pay money or any form of consideration. Nude
model studio shall not include a proprietary school licensed by the State of
Idaho, or a college, junior college or university supported entirely or in part
by public taxation; a private college or university which maintains and
operates educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college,
junior college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or in a
structure:
   A.   That has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates a nude or seminude person is available for
viewing; and
   B.   Where in order to participate in a class a student must enroll at least
three (3) days in advance of the class; and
   C.   Where no more than one nude or seminude model is on the premises at any
one time.
NUDITY OR A STATE OF NUDITY: The showing of the human male or female genitals,
pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft or cleavage with less than a fully opaque
covering, the showing of the female breast with less than a fully opaque
covering of any part of the nipple, or the showing of the covered male genitals
in a discernibly turgid state.
PERSON: An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association,
or other legal entity.
SEMINUDE OR IN A SEMINUDE CONDITION: The showing of the female breast below a
horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest point or the
showing of the male or female buttocks. This definition shall include the
entire lower portion of the human female breast, but shall not include any
portion of the cleavage of the human female breast, exhibited by a dress,
blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other wearing apparel provided the
areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER: A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
   A.   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between persons
of the opposite sex; or
   B.   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the same
sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or seminude.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture
theater, adult theater, escort agency, nude model studio, or sexual encounter
center.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: A. The human male genitals in a discernibly turgid
state, even if completely and opaquely covered; or
   B.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks or a female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY: Any of the following offenses:
   A.   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution; dissemination of obscenity;
sale, distribution or display of harmful material to a minor; sexual
performance by a child; possession or distribution of child pornography; public
lewdness; indecent exposure; indecency with a child; engaging in organized
criminal activity; sexual assault; molestation of a child; gambling; or
distribution of a controlled substance; or any similar offenses to those
described above under the Criminal or Penal Code of other states or countries;
   B.   For which:
      1. Less than two (2) years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is
the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
      2. Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the later
date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
      3. Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two (2) or more
misdemeanor offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within
any twenty four (24) month period.
   C.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the disqualification of the applicant or a person residing with the applicant.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: Any of the following:
   A.   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
   B.   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, or sodomy; or
   C.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in subsections A and B of this definition.
SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: The increase in floor
areas occupied by the business by more than twenty five percent (25%), as the
floor areas exist on the date this chapter takes effect.
TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: Means and
includes any of the following:
   A.   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
   B.   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest in
the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
   C.   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device which
transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing the
ownership or control. (Ord. 592, 4-9-2019)
3-5-3: CLASSIFICATION:
Sexually oriented businesses are classified as follows:
   A.   Adult arcades;
   B.   Adult bookstores, adult novelty stores, or adult video stores;
   C.   Adult cabarets;
   D.   Adult motels;
   E.   Adult motion picture theaters;
   F.   Adult theaters;
   G.   Escort agencies;
   H.   Nude model studios; and
   I.   Sexual encounter centers. (Ord. 592, 4-9-2019)
3-5-4: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   It is unlawful:
      1.   For any person to operate a sexually oriented business without a
valid sexually oriented business license issued by the City pursuant to this
chapter, or
      2.   For any person who operates a sexually oriented business to employ a
person to work for the sexually oriented business who is not licensed as a
sexually oriented business employee by the City pursuant to this chapter, or
      3.   For any person to obtain employment with a sexually oriented
business without having secured a sexually oriented business employee license
pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   An application for a license must be made on a form provided by the
City.
   C.   All applicants must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter. The application may request and the applicant shall provide such
information (including fingerprints) as to enable the City to determine whether
the applicant meets the qualifications established in this chapter.
   D.   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is an
individual, the person must sign the application for a license as applicant. If
a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, each individual who has a twenty percent (20%) or greater interest
in the business must sign the application for a license as applicant. Each
applicant must be qualified under the following section of this chapter and
each applicant shall be considered a licensee if a license is granted.
   E.   The completed application for a sexually oriented business license
shall contain the following information and shall be accompanied by the
following documents:
      1.   If the applicant is:
         a.   An individual, the individual shall state his/her legal name and
any aliases and submit proof that he/she is eighteen (18) years of age;
         b.   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name, and
the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general or limited, and a
copy of the partnership agreement, if any;
         c.   A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name, the
date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good standing
under the laws of its state of incorporation, the names and capacity of all
officers, directors and principal stockholders, and the name of the registered
corporate agent and the address of the registered office for service of
process.
      2.   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant; he or she must state:
         a.   The sexually oriented business's fictitious name and
         b.   Submit the required registration documents.
      3.   Whether the applicant, or a person residing with the applicant, has
been convicted of a "specified criminal activity" as defined in this chapter,
and, if so, the specified criminal activity involved, the date, place, and
jurisdiction of each.
      4.   Whether the applicant, or a person residing with the applicant, has
had a previous license under this chapter or other similar sexually oriented
business ordinances from another city or county denied, suspended or revoked,
including the name and location of the sexually oriented business for which the
permit was denied, suspended or revoked, as well as the date of the denial,
suspension or revocation, and whether the applicant or a person residing with
the applicant has been a partner in a partnership or an officer, director or
principal stockholder of a corporation that is licensed under this chapter
whose license has previously been denied, suspended or revoked, including the
name and location of the sexually oriented business for which the permit was
denied, suspended or revoked as well as the date of denial, suspension or
revocation.
      5.   Whether the applicant or a person regularly residing with the
applicant holds any other licenses under this chapter or other similar sexually
oriented business ordinance from another city or county and, if so, the names
and locations of such other licensed businesses.
      6.   The single classification of license for which the applicant is
filing.
      7.   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business, including a
legal description of the property, street address, and telephone number(s), if
any.
      8.   The applicant's mailing address and residential address.
      9.   A recent photograph of the applicant(s).
      10.   The applicant's driver's license number, social security number,
and/or his/her State or Federally issued tax identification number.
      11.   A diagram showing the configuration of the premises, including a
statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The diagram need not
be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn
with marked dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus
or minus six inches (±6").
      12.   A current certificate and straight line drawing prepared within
thirty (30) days prior to application by a licensed land surveyor depicting the
property lines and the structures containing any existing sexually oriented
businesses within one thousand feet (1,000') of the property to be certified;
the property lines of any established religious institution/synagogue, school,
or public park or recreation area within one thousand feet (1,000') of the
property to be certified. For purposes of this section, a "use" shall be
considered existing or established if it is in existence at the time an
application is submitted.
      13.   If an applicant wishes to operate a sexually oriented business,
other than an adult motel, which shall exhibit on the premises, in a viewing
room or booth of less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet of floor space,
films, videocassettes, other video reproductions, or live entertainment which
depict specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, then the
applicant shall comply with the application requirements set forth in section
3-5-14 of this chapter.
   F.   Before any applicant may be issued a sexually oriented business
employee license, the applicant shall submit on a form to be provided by the
City the following information:
      1.   The applicant's name or any other name (including "stage" names) or
aliases used by the individual;
      2.   Age, date, and place of birth;
      3.   Height, weight, hair and eye color;
      4.   Present residence address and telephone number;
      5.   Present business address and telephone number;
      6.   Date, issuing state and number of driver's permit or other
identification card information;
      7.   Social security number; and
      8.   Proof that the individual is at least eighteen (18) years of age.
   G.   Attached to the application form for a sexually oriented business
employee license as provided above, shall be the following:
      1.   A color photograph of the applicant clearly showing the applicant's
face, and the applicant's fingerprints on a form provided by the Police
Department. Any fees for the photographs and fingerprints shall be paid by the
applicant.
      2.   A statement detailing the license history of the applicant for the
five (5) years immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application,
including whether such applicant previously operated or is seeking to operate,
in this or any other county, city, state, or country has ever had a license,
permit, or authorization to do business denied, revoked, or suspended, or had
any professional or vocational license or permit denied, revoked, or suspended.
In the event of any such denial, revocation, or suspension, state the name, the
name of the issuing or denying jurisdiction, and describe in full the reason
for the denial, revocation, or suspension. A copy of any order of denial,
revocation, or suspension shall be attached to the application.
      3.   A statement whether the applicant has been convicted of a "specified
criminal activity" as defined in this chapter and, if so, the specified
criminal activity involved, the date, place and jurisdiction of each. (Ord.
592, 4-9-2019)
3-5-5: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Upon the filing of said application for a sexually oriented business
employee license, the City shall issue a temporary license to said applicant.
The application shall then be referred to the appropriate City departments for
an investigation to be made on such information as is contained on the
application. The application process shall be completed within forty two (42)
days from the date the completed application is filed. After the investigation,
the City shall issue a license, unless it is determined by a preponderance of
the evidence that one or more of the following findings is true:
      1.   The applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form;
      2.   The applicant is under the age of eighteen (18) years;
      3.   The applicant has been convicted of a "specified criminal activity"
as defined in this chapter;
      4.   The sexually oriented business employee license is to be used for
employment in a business prohibited by local or State law, statute, rule or
regulation, or prohibited by a particular provision of this chapter; or
      5.   The applicant has had a sexually oriented business employee license
revoked by the City within two (2) years of the date of the current
application. If the sexually oriented business employee license is denied, the
temporary license previously issued is immediately deemed null and void.
Denial, suspension, or revocation of a license issued pursuant to this
subsection shall be subject to appeal as set forth in section
3-5-10 of this chapter.
   B.   A license granted pursuant to this section shall be subject to annual
renewal upon the written application of the applicant and a finding by the City
that the applicant has not been convicted of any "specified criminal activity"
as defined in this chapter or committed any act during the existence of the
previous license, which would be grounds to deny the initial license
application. The renewal of the license shall be subject to the payment of the
fee as authorized in section
3-5-6 of this chapter.
   C.   Within forty two (42) days after receipt of a completed sexually
oriented business application, the City shall approve or deny the issuance of a
license to an applicant. The City shall approve the issuance of a license to an
applicant unless it is determined by a preponderance of the evidence that one
or more of the following findings is true:
      1.   An applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age.
      2.   An applicant or a person with whom applicant is residing is overdue
in payment to the City of taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed against or
imposed upon him/her in relation to any business.
      3.   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form.
      4.   An applicant or a person with whom the applicant is residing has
been denied a license by the City to operate a sexually oriented business
within the preceding twelve (12) months or whose license to operate a sexually
oriented business has been revoked within the preceding twelve (12) months.
      5.   An applicant or a person with whom the applicant is residing has
been convicted of a "specified criminal activity" defined in this chapter.
      6.   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business have not
been approved by the Health Department, Fire Department, and the building
official as being in compliance with applicable laws and ordinances.
      7.   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid.
      8.   An applicant of the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with any of the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the person
or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, the address of the
sexually oriented business and the classification for which the license is
issued pursuant to section
3-5-3 of this chapter. All licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous place at
or near the entrance to the sexually oriented business so that they may be
easily read at any time.
   E.   The Health Department, Fire Department, and the building official shall
complete their certification that the premises is in compliance or not in
compliance within twenty eight (28) days of receipt of the application by the
City.
   F.   A sexually oriented business license shall issue for only one
classification as found in section
3-5-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 592, 4-9-2019)
3-5-6: FEES:
   A.   Every application for a sexually oriented business license (whether for
a new license or for renewal of an existing license) shall be accompanied by a
nonrefundable application and investigation fee, to be set by resolution of the
City Council.
   B.   In addition to the application and investigation fee required above,
every sexually oriented business that is granted a license (new or renewal)
shall pay to the City an annual nonrefundable license fee, in an amount to be
set by resolution of the City Council, within thirty (30) days of license
issuance or renewal.
   C.   Every application for a sexually oriented business employee license
(whether for a new license or for renewal of an existing license) shall be
accompanied by an annual nonrefundable application, investigation, and license
fee, in an amount to be set by resolution of the City Council.
   D.   All license applications and fees shall be submitted to the Clerk of
the City. (Ord. 592, 4-9-2019)
3-5-7: INSPECTION:
   A.   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the Kootenai
County Sheriff's Office, Panhandle Health District, Northern Lakes Fire
Protection District, Planning and Building Department, or other City
departments or independent agencies to inspect the premises of a sexually
oriented business for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the law, at any
time it is occupied or open for business.
   B.   A person who operates a sexually oriented business or his agent or
employee commits a misdemeanor if he refuses to permit such lawful inspection
of the premises at any time it is open for business. (Ord. 592, 4-9-2019)
3-5-8: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Each license shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may be
renewed only by making application as provided in section
3-5-4 of this chapter. Application for renewal shall be made at least forty two
(42) days before the expiration date. When made less than forty two (42) days
before the expiration date, the continuation of the license may be affected by
such failure by the licensee.
   B.   If the City denies renewal of a license, the applicant shall not be
issued a license for one year from the date of denial. If, subsequent to
denial, the City finds that the basis for denial of the renewal license has
been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at least
ninety one (91) days have elapsed since the date denial became final. (Ord.
592, 4-9-2019)
3-5-9: SUSPENSION:
   A.   The City may suspend a license for a period not to exceed thirty (30)
days if it determines that a licensee or an employee of a licensee has:
      1.   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter;
      2.   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter. Continued refusal to allow inspection
may serve as a basis for continued license suspension. (Ord. 592, 4-9-2019)
3-5-10: REVOCATION:
   A.   The City may revoke a license if a cause of suspension in section
3-5-9 of this chapter occurs and the license has been suspended within the
preceding twelve (12) months.
   B.   The City may revoke a license if it determines that:
      1.   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process;
      2.   A licensee has knowingly allowed possession, use, or sale of
controlled substances on the premises;
      3.   A licensee has knowingly allowed prostitution or solicitation
therefor on the premises;
      4.   A licensee knowingly operated the sexually oriented business during
a period of time when the licensee's license was suspended;
      5.   Except in the case of an adult motel, a licensee has knowingly
allowed any act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation,
or other sex act to occur in or on the licensed premises; or
      6.   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the City, County, or State
for any taxes or fees past due.
   C.   When the City revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for one
year, and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented business license
for one year from the date the revocation became effective. If, subsequent to
revocation, the City finds that the basis for the revocation has been corrected
or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at least ninety one (91)
days have elapsed since the date the revocation became effective.
   D.   After denial of an application, or denial of a renewal of an
application, or suspension or revocation of any license, the applicant or
licensee may seek prompt review of such administrative action before the Hayden
City Council at the next meeting at which such matter can be accommodated.
(Ord. 592, 4-9-2019)
3-5-11: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
A licensee shall not transfer his/her license to another, nor shall a licensee
operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license at any
place other than the address designated in the application. (Ord. 592, 4-9-
2019)
3-5-12: LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES:
   A.   A person commits a misdemeanor if that person operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business in any zoning district other than as
expressly allowed in the zoning title 1  of this Code.
   B.   A person commits an offense if the person operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business within one thousand feet (1,000') of:
      1.   A church, synagogue, mosque, temple or building which is used
primarily for religious worship and related religious activities;
      2.   A public or private educational facility including, but not limited
to, child daycare facilities, nursery schools, preschools, kindergartens,
elementary schools, private schools, intermediate schools, junior high schools,
middle schools, high schools, vocational schools, secondary schools,
continuation schools, special education schools, junior colleges, and
universities; school includes the school grounds, but does not include
facilities used primarily for another purpose and only incidentally as a
school;
      3.   A boundary of a Residential District as defined in the Hayden Zoning
Code 2 ;
      4.   A public park or recreational area which has been designated for
park or recreational activities including, but not limited to, a park,
playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball
or tennis courts, pedestrian/bicycle paths, wilderness areas, or other similar
public land within the City which is under the control, operation, or
management of the City park and recreation authorities;
      5.   The property line of a lot devoted to a residential use as defined
in this Code;
      6.   An entertainment business which is oriented primarily towards
children or family entertainment; or
      7.   A licensed premises, licensed pursuant to the alcoholic beverage
control regulations of the State.
   C.   A person commits a misdemeanor if that person causes or permits the
operation, establishment, substantial enlargement, or transfer of ownership or
control of a sexually oriented business within one thousand feet (1,000') of
another sexually oriented business.
   D.   A person commits a misdemeanor if that person causes or permits the
operation, establishment, or maintenance of more than one sexually oriented
business in the same building, structure, or portion thereof, or the increase
of floor area of any sexually oriented business in any building, structure, or
portion thereof containing another sexually oriented business.
   E.   For the purpose of subsection B of this section, measurement shall be
made in a straight line, without regard to the intervening structures or
objects, from the nearest portion of the building or structure used as the part
of the premises where a sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest
property line of the premises of a use listed in subsection B of this section.
Presence of a City, County or other political subdivision boundary shall be
irrelevant for purposes of calculating and applying the distance requirements
of this section.
   F.   For purposes of subsection C of this section, the distance between any
two (2) sexually oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight line,
without regard to the intervening structures or objects or political
boundaries, from the closest exterior wall of the structure in which each
business is located.
   G.   Any sexually oriented business lawfully operating on the date of
passage of this chapter, that is in violation of subsections A through F of
this section shall be deemed a nonconforming enterprise. The nonconforming
enterprise will be permitted to continue for a period not to exceed one year,
unless sooner terminated for any reason or voluntarily discontinued for a
period of thirty (30) days or more. Such nonconforming enterprises shall not be
increased, enlarged, extended, or altered except that the use may be changed to
a conforming use. If two (2) or more sexually oriented businesses are within
one thousand feet (1,000') of one another and otherwise in a permissible
location, the sexually oriented business which was first established and
continually operating at a particular location is the conforming enterprise and
the later established business(es) is/are nonconforming. Such determinations
may be appealed to the Hayden City Council.
   H.   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming
enterprise is not rendered a nonconforming enterprise by the location,
subsequent to the grant or renewal of the sexually oriented business license,
of a use listed in subsection B of this section within one thousand feet
(1,000') of the sexually oriented business. This "grandfathering" provision
applies only to the renewal of a valid license, and does not apply when an
application for a license is submitted after a license has expired or been
revoked. (Ord. 592, 4-9-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 11 of this Code.
2 1. See title 11 of this Code.
3-5-13: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT MOTELS:
   A.   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or a similar
commercial establishments has been rented and vacated two (2) or more times in
a period of time that is less than ten (10) hours creates a rebuttable
presumption that the establishment is an "adult motel" as that term is defined
in this chapter.
   B.   A person commits a misdemeanor if, as the person in control of a
sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or similar commercial establishment that does
not have a sexually oriented license, he rents or subrents a sleeping room to a
person and, within ten (10) hours from the time the room is rented, he rents or
subrents the same sleeping room again.
   C.   For purposes of subsection B of this section, the terms "rent" or
"subrent" mean the act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of
consideration. (Ord. 592, 4-9-2019)
3-5-14: EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS, VIDEOS OR LIVE ENTERTAINMENT:
   A.   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet of floor space, a
film, videocassette, live entertainment, or other video reproduction which
depicts specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply
with the following requirements:
      1.   Upon application for a sexually oriented license, the application
shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan thereof
specifying the location of one or more manager's stations and the location of
all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the premises in
which patrons will not be permitted. A manager's station may not exceed thirty
two (32) square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place
at which the permit will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally
prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or architect's blueprint shall
not be required; however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or to
some designated street or object and should be drawn to a designated scale or
with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of
all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches (±6"). The City may waive the foregoing diagram for renewal applications
if the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted and certifies
that the configuration of the premises has not been altered since it was
prepared.
      2.   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      3.   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's
station may be made without the prior approval of the City.
      4.   It is the duty of the licensee of the premises to ensure that at
least one licensed employee is on duty and situated in each manager's station
at all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      5.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two (2) or more manager's stations designated, then the interior
of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an
unobstructed view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted
access for any purpose from at least one of the manager's stations. The view
required in this subsection must be by direct line of sight, unimpaired by any
obstruction, from the manager's station.
      6.   It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that the view area
specified in subsection A5 of this section remains unobstructed by any doors,
curtains, partitions, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials and,
at all times, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the
premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted in the application filed pursuant to subsection A1 of this section.
      7.   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any time.
      8.   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than five (5.0) foot-candles as measured
at the floor level.
      9.   It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that the illumination
described above is maintained at all times that any patron is present in the
premises.
      10.   No licensee shall allow openings of any kind to exist between
viewing rooms or booths.
      11.   No person shall make or attempt to make an opening of any kind
between viewing booths or rooms.
      12.   The licensee shall, during each business day, regularly inspect the
walls between the viewing booths to determine if any openings or holes exist.
      13.   The licensee shall cause all floor coverings in viewing booths to
be nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces, with no rugs or carpeting.
      14.   The licensee shall cause all wall surfaces and ceiling surfaces in
viewing booths to be constructed of, or permanently covered by, nonporous,
easily cleanable material. No wood, plywood, composition board or other porous
material shall be used within forty eight inches (48") of the floor.
   B.   A person having a duty under subsections A1 through A14 of this section
commits a misdemeanor if he knowingly fails to fulfill that duty. (Ord. 592, 4-
9-2019)
3-5-15: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ESCORT AGENCIES:
   A.   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of eighteen
(18) years.
   B.   A person commits an offense if the person acts as an escort or agrees
to act as an escort for any person under the age of eighteen (18) years. (Ord.
592, 4-9-2019)
3-5-16: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR NUDE MODEL STUDIOS:
   A.   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years.
   B.   A person under the age of eighteen (18) years commits an offense if the
person appears seminude or in a state of nudity in or on the premises of a nude
model studio. It is a defense to prosecution under this subsection if the
person under eighteen (18) years was in a restroom not open to public view or
visible to any other person.
   C.   A person commits an offense if the person appears in a state of nudity,
or knowingly allows another to appear in a state of nudity in an area of a nude
model studio premises which can be viewed from the public right-of-way.
   D.   A nude model studio shall not place or permit a bed, sofa, or mattress
in any room on the premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception
room open to the public. (Ord. 592, 4-9-2019)
3-5-17: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC NUDITY:
   A.   It shall be a misdemeanor for a person who knowingly and intentionally,
in a sexually oriented business, appears in a state of complete nudity or
depicts specified sexual activities.
   B.   It shall be a misdemeanor for a person who knowingly or intentionally
in a sexually oriented business appears in a seminude condition unless the
person is an employee who, while seminude, shall be at least ten feet (10')
from any patron or customer and on a stage at least two feet (2') from the
floor.
   C.   It shall be a misdemeanor for an employee, while seminude in a sexually
oriented business, to solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron or customer
or for any patron or customer to pay or give any gratuity to any employee,
while said employee is seminude in a sexually oriented business.
   D.   It shall be a misdemeanor for an employee, while seminude, to touch a
customer or the clothing of a customer. (Ord. 592, 4-9-2019)
3-5-18: PROHIBITION AGAINST CHILDREN IN A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS:
A person commits a misdemeanor if the person knowingly allows a person under
the age of eighteen (18) years on the premises of a sexually oriented business.
(Ord. 592, 4-9-2019)
3-5-19: HOURS OF OPERATION:
No sexually oriented business, except for an adult motel, may remain open at
any time between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M. on weekdays and Saturdays, and one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock
(12:00) noon on Sundays. (Ord. 592, 4-9-2019)
3-5-20: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   It is a defense to prosecution under section
3-5-17 of this chapter that a person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a
modeling class operated:
      1.   By a proprietary school, licensed by the State of Idaho, a college,
junior college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
      2.   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      3.   In a structure:
         a.   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing; and
         b.   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must enroll
at least three (3) days in advance of the class; and
         c.   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time. (Ord. 592, 4-9-2019)
3-5-21: INJUNCTION AND PENALTIES:
A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business
without a valid license or in violation of section
3-5-12 of this chapter is subject to a suit for injunction as well as
prosecution for criminal violations. Any violation of the provisions or
prohibitions of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor. Each day a sexually
oriented business so operates or each time a person violates the requirements
or prohibitions of this chapter is a separate offense or violation. (Ord. 592,
4-9-2019)
CHAPTER 6
DOOR TO DOOR SOLICITATION
SECTION:
3-6-1: Registration Required
3-6-2: Registration Fee
3-6-3: Required Information
3-6-4: Term
3-6-5: Nuisance Prohibited
3-6-6: False Information Prohibited
3-6-7: Exemptions
3-6-1: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to solicit door to door without first registering
with the City of Hayden, unless exempt by State or Federal law. "Door to door
solicitation" shall mean any unsolicited contact by a person with any person at
a residence or dwelling in the City of Hayden for the purpose of selling any
product or service, or soliciting orders for any product or service. (Ord. 592,
4-9-2019)
3-6-2: REGISTRATION FEE:
A registration fee in the amount set by the City Council by resolution shall be
tendered at the time of submitting a registration application. (Ord. 592, 4-9-
2019)
3-6-3: REQUIRED INFORMATION:
Persons registering with the City Clerk shall present current and valid
government issued photo identification and shall fill out a registration
application to be provided by the City Clerk, which shall give the following
information:
   A.   Name and permanent home address of the applicant;
   B.   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods or
services to be sold or provided;
   C.   Name and address of the person's employer, together with an explanation
of the exact relationship between the person and the employer;
   D.   Length of time for which the door to door solicitation will occur;
   E.   A statement as to whether or not the person has been convicted of any
crime or violation of any Municipal ordinance, the nature of the offense and
where the offense was committed. (Ord. 592, 4-9-2019)
3-6-4: TERM:
   A.   A new registration shall be filed with the City Clerk every one hundred
eighty (180) days for solicitation of sales of the same product or service by
the same person.
   B.   A new registration shall be required when a person who has previously
registered within the last one hundred eighty (180) days desires to sell door
to door any products or services not listed on the original registration
application. (Ord. 592, 4-9-2019)
3-6-5: NUISANCE PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person, registered or not, shall solicit business at any home or
business when such location has clearly posted any sign indicating that
solicitation or peddling is prohibited.
   B.   No person, registered or not, shall continue with door to door
solicitation at any home or business when requested to leave by the owner,
authorized agent of the owner, or any other person that resides or works on the
premises. (Ord. 592, 4-9-2019)
3-6-6: FALSE INFORMATION PROHIBITED:
Providing false information on a registration application shall be a violation
of this chapter. (Ord. 592, 4-9-2019)
3-6-7: EXEMPTIONS:
The fee provisions of this chapter shall not apply to persons qualifying as a
nonprofit business, including charitable activities, within the meaning of
section 503 of the United States Internal Revenue Code. Possession of a
certificate of such status from the Internal Revenue Service shall be required
to qualify for this exemption. (Ord. 592, 4-9-2019)
TITLE 4
HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Declaration Of Nuisances
4-1-2: Abatement Procedure
4-1-3: Penalty
4-1-1: DECLARATION OF NUISANCES:
   A.   Responsibility: No person in charge of or in control of premises,
whether as owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or otherwise, shall allow any
partially dismantled, wrecked, junked, discarded or otherwise nonoperating or
unlicensed motor vehicle, machinery, implement and/or equipment and personal
property of any kind which is no longer safely usable for the purposes for
which it was manufactured, to remain on such property longer than twenty eight
(28) days unless such vehicle, equipment, etc., is maintained in an enclosed
building or so located within a fenced or screened enclosure six feet (6') in
height within the rear yard of the premises (not a side yard or a front yard),
as defined by the zoning ordinance of the City, such that the materials are not
readily visible from any public place or from any surrounding private property.
Allowing such materials to remain unenclosed or unscreened in the rear yard
shall constitute a nuisance. This section shall not apply with regard to any
vehicle, equipment or other personal property on the premises of a business
enterprise operated in a lawful place, other than in a residential district,
and operated in a lawful manner, when the keeping or maintenance of such
vehicle, equipment or other damaged and abandoned personal property is
necessary to the operation of such business enterprise and is not in violation
of other provisions of law.
   B.   Definition: For the purposes of this chapter, the term "nuisance" is
defined to mean any condition or use of premises or of building exteriors which
is detrimental to the property of others or which causes or tends to cause
substantial diminution in the value of other property in the neighborhood in
which such premises are located. This includes, but is not limited to, the
keeping or the depositing on, or the scattering over the premises of any of the
following:
      1.   Lumber, junk, trash, or debris.
      2.   Abandoned, inoperable, discarded or unused objects or equipment such
as automobiles, implements and/or equipment, or machinery and personal property
of any kind which is no longer safely usable for the purposes for which it was
manufactured, furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans or containers.
      3.   Any compost pile, solid or liquid/semi-liquid waste which is of such
a nature as to spread or harbor disease, emit unpleasant odors or harmful gas,
or attract rodents, vermin or other disease-carrying pests, animals or insects;
provided, that the presence of earthworms in a compost pile shall not
constitute a nuisance, nor shall a properly maintained garden compost facility.
      4.   Keeping unsanitary matter on premises. It shall be unlawful for any
person to keep or permit another to keep upon any premises deleterious or
septic material which causes adverse effects upon the occupancy or use of
neighboring lands. Such materials must generally be retained in containers or
vessels which deny access by humans, flies, insects, rodents and animals.
      5.   All turf grass or weeds over twenty four inches (24") in height,
noxious weeds or plants as defined by Idaho Code 22-2402; and those grasses or
weeds determined to be a fire hazard by the Fire Marshal, are hereby declared
to be a public nuisance and shall be removed, cut and destroyed by the owner or
agent of the ground or premises on which the same are located. It shall be the
duty of the owner, agent or person having charge of any property within the
City limits where offensive or noxious weeds or plants are growing to remove,
cut and/or destroy the same.
   C.   Noise Standards:
 
                           No person may make or permit the followings:
Weekdays (M, T, W, Th, F)
9:00 pm to 6:00 am          No unnecessary or unusual noise, or operation of a
                            machine, or harboring of an animal to the annoyance
Weekends (Saturday, Sunday) of others or any person of ordinary sensibilities;
9:00 pm to 7:00 am          except as authorized by the City Council for
                            utility construction or service emergencies.
 
(Ord. 572, 6-13-2017; amd. Ord. 578, 1-9-2018; Ord. 619, 4-13-2021; Ord. 624,
10-12-2021)
4-1-2: ABATEMENT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Notice: Prior to initiating prosecution for violation of this chapter,
City staff shall attempt to provide notice to the owner of the real property
upon which the nuisance is located. Additional notice shall be attempted to the
occupant/tenant or agent if one is known. Said notice shall describe the
location of the property as accurately as possible and shall specify the nature
of the nuisance and the time by which the nuisance must be abated. Said notice
shall be mailed to the owner, agent or person in charge of such property, if
such owner, agent or person in charge can be found. If an owner, agent or
person in charge cannot be found, then notice shall be provided by posting a
notice upon a conspicuous place on the premises and mailing a copy of said
notice by certified mail to the owner or agent of the same at such owner's or
agent's last known address.
   B.   Storage Or Removal: The owner, owners, tenants, lessees and/or
occupants of any lands upon which a nuisance is located may thereafter store
such nuisance vehicles, equipment or materials into completely enclosed
buildings authorized to be used for such storage purposes, if within the
corporate limits of the City, or otherwise remove the vehicles, equipment or
materials to a lawful storage location outside the corporate limits of the
City. If the nuisance consists of weeds or other vegetative materials, it shall
be removed and disposed of lawfully so as to eliminate the fire hazard created
and/or the risk of spread of weed infestation.
   C.   State Law Provisions: The provisions of this chapter shall not
compromise or otherwise adversely affect the applicability of provisions of
State law regarding the designation of nuisances and their abatement. (Ord.
298, 4-10-2001)
4-1-3: PENALTY:
If the owners, tenants or occupants allow said nuisance to exist or fail to
abate the nuisance, they, and each of them, shall be guilty of an infraction
and upon being found liable therefor shall be subject to an infraction penalty
of one hundred dollars ($100.00). Each day that a violation of this chapter
exists may be charged as a separate infraction or misdemeanor violation, as
appropriate. Any nuisance which violates this chapter and which constitutes an
immediate hazard to the public health or which continues to exist after a
finding of guilt or liability in two (2) or more prior infraction proceedings
shall constitute a misdemeanor. (Ord. 445, 1-22-2008)
CHAPTER 2
LAUNDRY CLEANING PRODUCTS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Purpose
4-2-2: Definitions
4-2-3: Sale Of Phosphorus Products Prohibited
4-2-4: Labeling Required
4-2-5: Penalty
4-2-1: PURPOSE:
It is hereby determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to and for
the protection of the health, safety and welfare of the public inhabitants of
the city to prohibit, within the city limits, the sale or distribution of
laundry cleaning products containing more than a trace amount of phosphorus.
(Ord. 196, 4-5-1990)
4-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms mean:
CITY: City of Hayden, Kootenai County, Idaho, or its authorized or designated
agent, representative or deputy.
LAUNDRY CLEANING PRODUCT: Any product, including, but not limited to, soaps,
detergents, laundry bleaches and laundry additives used for the purpose of
cleaning laundry.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, corporation, unincorporated association,
governmental entity or any other legal entity.
PHOSPHORUS: Elemental phosphorus.
TRACE QUANTITY: Any incidental amount of phosphorus which is not part of the
laundry cleaning product formulation and is present only as a consequence of
manufacturing, and does not exceed 0.5% of the content of the product by weight
expressed as elemental phosphorus. (Ord. 196, 4-5-1990)
4-2-3: SALE OF PHOSPHORUS PRODUCTS PROHIBITED:
No person may sell, distribute, offer or expose for sale, whether for domestic
or commercial use, and whether at wholesale or retail, within the city limits
any laundry cleaning product which contains phosphorus in excess of a trace
quantity. (Ord. 196, 4-5-1990)
4-2-4: LABELING REQUIRED:
All laundry cleaning products sold within the city limits shall have affixed
thereto labeling which clearly indicates the percent of phosphorus contained in
the product to the nearest one-tenth of one percent (0.1%) accuracy. Laundry
cleaning products which contain only a trace quantity of phosphorus may be
labeled "contains no phosphorus", "contains no phosphates" or similar labeling
which makes a clear statement that no prohibited quantity of phosphorus is
present in the product. (Ord. 196, 4-5-1990)
4-2-5: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter or fails to
comply with any of the terms and conditions of this chapter shall be subject to
civil penalties, including a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day.
(Ord. 196, 4-5-1990)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMALS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Authorization
4-3-2: Purpose And Intent
4-3-3: Definitions
4-3-4: Violations
4-3-5: Keeping Of Wild Or Exotic Animals
4-3-5-1: Feeding Of Wild Animals
4-3-6: Keeping Of Domestic Animals; Limits
4-3-6-1: Kennels
4-3-7: Caring For Animals
4-3-8: Sanitation
4-3-9: Cruelty To Animals
4-3-10: Restraint And Confinement; Generally
4-3-11: Restraint Of Guard Dogs
4-3-12: Animal Bites; Report Notice
4-3-13: Animal Bites; Quarantine Required
4-3-14: Possession And Disposition Of Infected Animals
4-3-15: Vicious Animal; Complaint
4-3-16: Vicious Animal; Appeal
4-3-17: Viciousness Guidelines And Standards
4-3-18: Vicious Animals; Confinement And Supervision
4-3-19: Dangerous Or Nuisance Animals
4-3-20: Subsequent Attack
4-3-21: Property Owners May Impound (Rep. by Ord. 482, 1-27-2010)
4-3-22: Return Of Animal To Owner
4-3-23: Disposition Of Large Animals (Rep. by Ord. 482, 1-27-2010)
4-3-24: Licensing Of Dogs
4-3-25: License Tags; Identification
4-3-26: Impoundment
4-3-27: Notice To Owner And Redemption
4-3-28: Enforcement; Interference Prohibited; Authority Granted
4-3-29: Violations And Penalties
4-3-30: Process For Satisfying Notice Of Violation
4-3-31: Appeal Of Civil Penalties
4-3-1: AUTHORIZATION:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the general police power and the authority
granted to cities by article 12, section 2 of the Idaho constitution and Idaho
Code section 50-319. (Ord. 330, 11-26-2002)
4-3-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety and the
general welfare of the residents of the city of Hayden and to foster the humane
treatment of animals by regulating the care and control of animals within the
city. (Ord. 330, 11-26-2002)
4-3-3: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words, terms, and phrases, and their
derivations shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
ANIMAL: Any live creature, either domestic or wild, except humans or plants.
Animal includes fowl and reptiles, but shall exclude fish.
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: Any employee or agent of the city, designated by the
mayor or city administrator to administer and enforce the licensing, inspection
and compliance requirements established by this chapter.
ANIMAL DAYCARE: An animal daycare is a use located inside a building where
household domestic animals, specifically dogs and cats, are maintained,
harbored, or cared for on a daily basis; and which may have commercial grooming
and similar accessory uses to the animal daycare. An "animal daycare" may
contain outdoor plan and sanitation areas as an accessory to the primary use.
Overnight boarding shall be considered kenneling and shall meet all kennel
requirements; whereas, overnight boarding associated with outdoor kenneling
practices are not allowed.
ANIMAL HOSPITAL AND CLINIC: Any establishment maintained and operated by a
licensed veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis and treatment of animal diseases
and injuries.
ANIMAL KENNEL: Any building, collection of buildings or a property in which
dogs or cats are housed, maintained, and bred.
ANIMAL NUISANCE: Any nuisance arising out of the keeping, maintaining or owning
of, or failure to exercise sufficient control of, an animal or animals.
ANIMAL SHELTER: Any facility operated for the temporary care, confinement and
detention of animals and for the humane euthanizing and other disposition of
animals or any facility authorized by the mayor or his designee to impound,
confine, detain, care for or destroy any animal.
AT LARGE ANIMAL: An animal, excluding cats, that is off the premises of its
owner, or if on the premises of its owner or of another, with permission, is
not on a leash or otherwise suitably contained on the premises such that it is
under the immediate control of a person physically capable of restraining the
animal.
CRUELTY: Any act or omission whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or
death of an animal is caused or permitted, including failure to provide proper
drink, air, space, shelter or protection from the elements, a sanitary and safe
living environment, veterinary care or nutritious food in a sufficient
quantity. In the case of activities where physical pain is necessarily caused,
such as medical and scientific research, food processing, customary and normal
veterinary and agricultural husbandry practices, pest elimination, and animal
training and hunting, "cruelty" shall mean a failure to employ the most humane
method reasonably available.
DISPOSITION: Adoption, quarantine, voluntary or involuntary custodianship or
placement, or euthanasia humanely administered to an animal. "Disposition"
includes placement or sale of an animal to the general public.
DOMESTIC ANIMAL: Includes dogs, cats, domesticated sheep, horses, pigs, cattle,
goats, swine, fowl, nonpoisonous snakes less than three feet (3') in length,
pigeons, ducks, geese, turkeys, confined domestic hares and rabbits, pheasants,
and other birds and animals raised and/or maintained in confinement.
EXOTIC ANIMAL: Any live monkey, alligator, crocodile, caiman, raccoon, skunk,
fox, bear, sea mammal, poisonous snake, nonpoisonous snakes more than three
feet (3') in length, members of the feline species other than domestic cat
(Felis domesticus), member of the canine species other than domestic dog (Canis
familiaris) or any other animal that by virtue of strength or inherent
temperament or disposition would require a standard of care and control greater
than that required for customary household pets sold by commercial pet shops or
domestic farm animals.
GUARD OR ATTACK DOG: A dog trained to attack on command or to protect persons
or property.
HEARING OFFICER: The sheriff, or a designee who is not directly involved in
animal control matters, who sits as an impartial hearer of facts and passes
judgment on appeals brought by persons who have been found to have violated any
of the provisions of this chapter.
IMPOUNDMENT: The taking into custody of an animal by any law enforcement
officer, animal control officer, or any authorized representative thereof.
KENNEL: Any premises wherein any person engages in the business of boarding,
breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for a fee or where four (4) or
more dogs, six (6) months or older, are maintained, harbored, possessed,
boarded, bred, trained or cared for.
MUZZLE: A device constructed of strong material designed to fasten over the
mouth of an animal to prevent the animal from barking or biting.
OWNER: Any person having temporary or permanent custody of, sheltering or
having charge of, harboring, exercising control over, or having property rights
to, any animal covered by this chapter. An animal shall be deemed to be
harbored if it is fed or sheltered by any person or if the person purported to
be harboring claims to have custody or responsibility for the care of any
animal.
SANITARY: A condition of good order and cleanliness to minimize the possibility
of disease transmission and not producing adverse health or sensory conditions
for adjoining property owners.
UNDER RESTRAINT: An animal is secured by a leash or lead under the control of a
person physically capable of restraining the animal, or securely enclosed
within the real property limits of the owner's premises.
VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMAL: Any animal that attacks, bites, or physically
injures human beings, domestic animals, or livestock without adequate
provocation, or which, because of temperament or training, has a known
propensity to attack, bite, or physically injure human beings, domestic
animals, or livestock. Any wild animal or any animal that without adequate
provocation has bitten or attacked a human being or other animal shall be prima
facie presumed vicious or dangerous.
WILD ANIMAL: Any live, nonhuman primate, feral or not, native or not, generally
living in a state of nature including, but not limited to, deer, elk, bears,
mountain lions, leopards, panthers, tigers, lions, lynx, bobcats, feral cats
and other animals classified by the state of Idaho as wildlife. The term "wild
animal" does not include domestic dogs (excluding hybrids with wolves, coyotes
or jackals), domestic cats (excluding hybrids with ocelots or margays), farm
animals, rodents, any hybrid animal that is part wild, and captive bred species
of common cage birds. (Ord. 482, 1-27-2010; amd. Ord. 556, 6-14-2016; Ord. 567,
2-28-2017; Ord. 608, 3-24-2020; Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
4-3-4: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any animal on any property
located within the corporate limits of the city when the keeping of such
animal, or the manner thereof, violates the provisions of this chapter, or when
the owner neglects a duty established by this chapter or carries out conduct
which this chapter labels as unlawful, or engages in activities, actions or
behavior which violates a rule of conduct or requirement of this chapter or
which creates a menace to public health or safety so as to create a nuisance to
neighboring property owners or the public at large. (Ord. 482, 1-27-2010)
   B.   Behavior and/or conditions which violate this chapter shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
      1.   Any animal that unreasonably annoys humans, endangers the life or
health of persons or other animals, or substantially interferes with the rights
of citizens, other than its owner, to enjoyment of life or property;
      2.   Any animal other than domestic cats found running at large;
      3.   Any animal that makes disturbing or grunting noises, including, but
not limited to, continued and repeated howling, barking, whining, or other
utterances which cause annoyance, disturbance, or discomfort to reasonable
neighbors or reasonable others in close proximity to the premises where the
animal is kept or harbored;
      4.   Any animal that causes fouling of the air by noxious or offensive
odors and thereby creates unreasonable annoyance or discomfort to neighbors or
others in close proximity to the premises where the animal is kept or harbored,
including neglect on the part of the owner to maintain, clean or otherwise
eliminate the waste which results from the containment of an animal;
      5.   Any animal, whether or not on the property of its owner, that
without provocation, molests, attacks, bites, menaces or otherwise interferes
with the freedom or movement of persons in a public right of way;
      6.   Any animal that chases motor vehicles on a public right of way;
      7.   Any animal that attacks domestic animals;
      8.   Any owner or harborer of animals who causes or allows conditions
offensive or dangerous to the public health, safety or welfare by virtue of the
number of animals maintained at a single residence or premises or because of
the inadequacy of the facilities. (Ord. 556, 6-14-2016)
4-3-5: KEEPING OF WILD OR EXOTIC ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to own, harbor, or permit at large any wild or
exotic animal without the express written authorization of the Hayden city
council. Such authorization may be given only if it is demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the council that the animal will not constitute a threat to
public health or safety. The city council may conduct a public hearing to
obtain the opinions of adjoining residents and property owners when considering
such requests. The City Council may charge an applicant for such authorization
an appropriate fee to recover the authorization processing costs incurred by
the City. Public educational institutions shall be exempt from the foregoing
authorization requirement. (Ord. 330, 11-26-2002)
4-3-5-1: FEEDING OF WILD ANIMALS:
It is unlawful to feed or provide food or other attractants (other than
ornamental plants or vegetable gardens) to wild animals within the City limits
except: feeding songbirds and/or squirrels by utilizing a bird feeder that may
be accessed only by birds or squirrels. (Ord. 567, 2-28-2017)
4-3-6: KEEPING OF DOMESTIC ANIMALS; LIMITS:
   A.   Unless otherwise allowed as an agricultural or ranching related use
that is allowed in the zoning district, it shall be unlawful for any household
to own, harbor, or possess more domestic animals than authorized by this
section or not in accordance with limitations and licensing requirements
established by this chapter. The following domestic animals are allowed:
      1.   Dogs, cats, and miniature pigs not exceeding the number limitations
as set forth in subsections C and D of this section.
      2.   Rabbit, guinea pig, hamster, gerbil, frog, ferret, mouse, rat, snake
or bird (except fowl, pigeons, chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys) kept for the
sole purpose of an indoor family pet or for educational purposes at an
educational institution. It shall be the duty of all persons owning or
harboring such animals to keep and maintain such animals in a clean and
sanitary condition.
      3.   a.   Cattle, equine, goats, sheep, lambs, alpacas, miniature horses,
ducks, geese, and rabbits may be kept on a lot containing a minimum of three-
fourths (3/4) acre of securely fenced, irrigated open space, exclusive of a
homesite, and containing at least one acre in total, maintained in compliance
with this chapter. Said fenced area shall be irrigated during the growing
season to sustain vegetation. The number of listed animals allowed on the
original one acre lot and per acre on each succeeding acre of contiguous site
is limited to a total of ten (10) points (per acre) using the point system in
the following table, where the points are calculated per animal.
 
Animals                                    Points
                                           (Limit 10 Points Per Acre)
Cow                                        5
Equine (horse, pony, donkey, mule, llama)  4
Goat, sheep, lamb, alpaca, miniature horse 3
Goose, rabbit                              1
 
         b.   Chickens and domestic, flightless ducks are permitted in the
Agricultural, Residential, and Residential-Suburban Zones of the City on any
detached single-family lot. A maximum of one hen or duck may be raised or kept
per two thousand (2,000) gross square feet of lot area with a maximum of ten
(10) hens or ducks per lot in the Residential and Residential-Suburban Zones
and a maximum of ten (10) hens or ducks per acre in the Agricultural Zone.
Roosters are prohibited within the City limits. Coops and feeders shall be
secured to prevent problems with mice and other pests. Coops, hutches, or
similar containment structures shall be set back in accordance with the
authorized accessory building setbacks of the zone in which they are located
and shall also be located at least fifteen feet (15') from the on site
residence and twenty five feet (25') from any neighboring residences.
Additionally the coop shall not be attached to a shared fence or a fence
located along property lines. All other zone district setbacks and restrictions
shall apply.
         c.   Owners of property less than the minimum premises size, on which
animals were kept at the time of passage of this chapter, may continue keeping
those animals or replacement animals, so long as the owner of the property
provides proof of ownership of the number of animals kept at the time of
passage of this chapter and keeps the premises free from nuisance to the
neighboring property owners or the public. If the City determines that the
keeping of the animals is a nuisance or a violation of this section, the City
shall enforce the nuisance or violation, in accordance with the terms of
chapter 1 of this title. If the property does not cure the nuisance or
violation in the permitted time, the property owner shall be required to bring
the property into compliance with the limitations of subsections A3a and A3b of
this section.
   B.   It shall be the duty of all persons owning or harboring such animals to
keep them in secure confinement to prevent them from roaming onto adjacent
lands and to maintain such animals, and the grounds upon, and facilities
within, which they are housed, in a clean and sanitary condition.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any household in a multi-family dwelling
housing unit to keep more than three (3) permitted animals as defined by
subsections A1 and A2 of this section. Each household in a detached single-
family dwelling shall keep no more than seven (7) animals permitted pursuant to
subsections A1 and A2 of this section, but not more than three (3) of any
species shall be allowed within such limitation; except that a litter of pups,
kittens or other young animals may be kept for a period of time not exceeding
five (5) months from birth. One miniature pig, weighing no more than one
hundred fifty (150) pounds, is allowed per detached single family dwelling lot
so long as the lot is located in either the Residential Suburban or
Agricultural Zone Districts. The restrictions of this subsection shall not
apply to any commercial establishment where such animals are legally kept for
breeding, sale, sporting purposes, or boarding.
   D.   Kennels shall be permitted only when allowed by the zoning ordinance of
the City and shall comply with all applicable zoning restrictions and the
requirements of section
4-3-6-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 578, 1-9-2018; amd. Ord. 612, 10-27-2020)
4-3-6-1: KENNELS:
   A.   Licenses Required: Prior to operating a kennel, the owner must first
obtain a kennel license.
      1.   Applications for a kennel license or renewal thereof shall be made
to the City Clerk. The application shall state the name and address of the
owner, the location of the kennel and the types and breeds of animals to be
kept. Kennel licenses shall not be transferred, and shall be valid for one
year. The application shall be accompanied by the application fee set by
resolution of the City Council.
      2.   Any new application for a kennel license shall include the written
approval of the Hayden Community Development Department showing that the kennel
is in compliance with all requirements, standards and conditions set forth in
this section and all applicable zoning and building requirements.
      3.   All kennels or prospective kennels shall be inspected by a law
enforcement officer or animal control officer before an application for a
kennel license or renewal thereof may be issued by the City Clerk. Any
application for a kennel license or renewal thereof shall include the written
approval from the inspecting law enforcement officer or animal control officer
which states that adequate shelter has been provided for the number of animals
to be kept, including adequate means of restraining such animals from running
at large. Such approval shall also indicate the maximum number of animals which
may be kept at the kennel based on the minimum space requirements in subsection
B1e of this section.
      4.   Subject to the exceptions set forth in section
4-3-24 of this chapter and subsection A5 of this section, all dogs owned, kept
or boarded by the kennel must be individually licensed, with the exception of
dogs that are regularly kept and housed in a kennel.
      5.   A person holding a commercial or noncommercial kennel license shall
not be required to separately license each dog regularly kept and housed
therein. However, should any dog be removed from the kennel and no longer be
domiciled therein, an individual license shall be purchased for the dog. The
fees set forth by resolution shall be paid to the Clerk upon renewal of the
license. (Ord. 578, 1-9-2018)
   B.   Kennel Standards:
      1.   Noncommercial Indoor Housing Facilities:
         a.   Interior surfaces must be of a nonporous material which is
substantially impervious to moisture and may be readily sanitized.
         b.   Wherever animals less than six (6) months old are regularly
present, floors shall be maintained at reasonable temperatures suited to the
conditions and welfare of such animals. Floors shall be maintained at
reasonable temperatures suited to adult animals in all other locations. An
elevated floor pad may be used to maintain adequate temperatures so long as the
surface meets the requirements of subsection B1a of this section.
         c.   Ceiling heights shall meet the minimum standards for a U type
structure under the International Residential Code in effect at the time of the
application for the license.
         d.   Adequate heating and ventilation shall be provided so as to
prevent exposure of animals to extremes in temperature and ventilation shall be
sufficient to provide for the health and comfort of the animals at all times.
The exchange of ventilated air must be at least eight (8) times per hour.
         e.   Adequate space shall be provided both internal and external so as
to provide adequate moveable space for the various dogs. Minimum internal space
requirements shall be as provided herein:
   MINIMUM SPACE REQUIREMENT
 
Weight Of Dogs Primary Width (Feet) Enclosure      Width  Kennel House Square
(Pounds)                            Square Footage (Feet) Footage
Up to 15       2.0                  6.0            1.5    3.0
Over 15 - 35   2.5                  10.0           2.0    5.0
Over 35 - 65   3.0                  15.0           2.5    7.5
Over 65 - 95   3.0                  18.0           2.5    9.0
Over 95 - 130  3.5                  24.0           3.0    12.0
Over 130       4.0                  32.0           3.5    14.0
 
         f.   All fencing or restraining methods shall be of sufficient
strength and construction to contain and control all animals. Fences shall be
installed in such a manner as to prevent animals from escaping by digging
underneath or by jumping or climbing over the top.
         g.   All kennels shall have natural lighting sufficient to comply with
a U type structure under the International Residential Code in effect at the
time of application for the license. Adequate artificial lighting shall be
provided in accordance with electrical code requirements for residential
structures.
      2.   Commercial Facilities:
         a.   Indoor housing facilities for commercial kennels shall meet all
of the requirements set forth in subsection B1 of this section, and shall also
meet the following requirements:
            (1)   All indoor facilities shall have three foot (3') high solid,
nontransparent walls or partitions between pens.
            (2)   All flooring shall slope at one-half inch (½") per running
foot to prevent pooling of urine and cleaning solutions. Floors shall be of a
smooth, nonporous, water impermeable substance.
            (3)   All indoor housing facilities will have sound deadening
characteristics that will prevent long sound reverberation or sound reaching
neighboring locations.
            (4)   All indoor housing facilities shall also have an external
space referred to as runs so as to provide adequate outdoor area for various
breeds. All kennel runs shall provide the square footage per dog based on the
maximum weight of each dog as set forth in subsection B1e of this section.
         b.   Boarding kennels if located within Animal Clinics or Hospitals:
The following shall apply:
            (1)   All animals will be housed in permanent structures which can
be physically enclosed during nighttime hours;
            (2)   All buildings and fenced running areas will be located at
least 300'from any residence including motels and hotels, except for an owner’s
residence. Lesser requirements may be needed if the animals are completely
housed in soundproof structures that completely screen them from view of the
abutting residential property; and
            (3)   Will comply with all State and local regulations relative to
such an operation, and maintain adequate housekeeping practices designed to
prevent the creation of a nuisance and to reduce to a minimum the factors of
noise and odor.
      3.   Outdoor Housing Facilities: All outdoor housing facilities, whether
commercial or noncommercial, shall meet the following general requirements set
forth in this subsection:
         a.   Any outdoor housing facility shall be of sufficient structural
strength and shall be maintained in good repair so as to protect the animals
from injury, to contain the animals and to restrict the entrance of other
animals.
         b.   Outdoor housing facilities shall provide sufficient shade from
the sun so as to prevent overheating or discomfort to the animals.
         c.   Outdoor housing facilities shall provide access to shelter to
allow animals to remain dry during rain or snow.
         d.   Outdoor housing facilities shall provide shelters for all animals
with sufficient clean bedding and other protection so as to protect the animal
from harm when the temperatures are below fifty degrees Fahrenheit (50°F).
         e.   Outdoor housing facilities shall provide a suitable method for
elimination of urine and other liquid substances.
         f.   All outdoor housing facilities shall provide sufficient space in
the enclosure and in the kennel house. Minimum space requirements are set forth
in the table in subsection B1e of this section. If a kennel enclosure or kennel
contains more than one dog, the minimum number of square feet required is the
sum of the square foot requirements for each individual dog kept therein.
         g.   All fencing or restraining methods shall be of sufficient
strength and construction to contain and control all animals. Fences shall be
installed in such a manner as to prevent animals from escaping by digging
underneath or by jumping or climbing over the top.
      4.   Feeding And Care Of Animals: All kennels, whether commercial or
noncommercial, shall meet the following feeding and care requirements:
         a.   Animals shall be provided food which is free from contamination
and is wholesome, palatable and of sufficient quantity and nutritive value so
as to meet the normal daily requirements for the condition and size of the
animal.
         b.   Food receptacles shall be accessible to all animals and shall be
located so as to minimize contamination by excrement. Feeding pans shall be
durable and shall be cleaned daily. Each pen shall have a satisfactory bowl or
bowl system for both water and food.
         c.   Clean potable water shall be available to the animals in
conformance with the principles of good animal husbandry unless restricted for
veterinary care. Water receptacles shall be cleaned every day.
         d.   All food and bedding for the animals shall be kept in a storage
area such that the food and bedding supplies are protected against infestation
or contamination by vermin.
         e.   Refrigeration shall be provided for any supplies of perishable
food.
      5.   Sanitation Of Primary Facilities: All kennels, whether commercial or
noncommercial, shall meet the following sanitation requirements:
         a.   Excrement shall be removed from each kennel enclosure and kennel
house at least once daily to prevent contamination of the animals contained
therein and to reduce disease hazard and odors.
            (1)   Individual and subsurface disposal systems used to dispose of
any kennel generated wastewater shall be reviewed by the Panhandle health
district:
               (A)   At initial application for a kennel license; and
               (B)   At the discretion of a law enforcement officer or animal
control officer.
Wastewater and subsurface sewage disposal system loading will be assessed for
compliance with all state rules and regulations pertaining to individual and
subsurface sewage disposal systems. Dry wells shall not be used for wastewater
disposal.
            (2)   Solid excrement shall be double bagged and disposed of at the
county sanitary landfill or transfer station.
         b.   At least once each day, each kennel enclosure shall be sanitized
by washing with water and soap or detergent.
         c.   Pens using pea gravel or its equivalent shall be sanitized by
removing the gravel and replacing it when it no longer provides adequate
sanitation so as to reduce disease hazard and odors.
         d.   Each individual dog shall be vaccinated for rabies.
         e.   An effective program for the control of insects, ectoparasites,
avian and mammalian pests shall be established and maintained.
      6.   Care Of Sick Or Injured Animals:
         a.   An isolation and quarantine area shall be a part of every
commercial kennel to prevent physical contact by or between animals that are
under quarantine or treatment for a communicable disease. The isolation and
quarantine area must protect from cross contamination by saliva, waste material
or washing solutions to the greatest extent practicable.
         b.   Animals shall be separated according to the following standards.
Commercial and noncommercial kennels shall meet these requirements:
            (1)   Females in heat shall not be housed in the same kennel
enclosure as males, except for purposes of breeding;
            (2)   Any animal exhibiting a vicious disposition shall be housed
individually in a separate kennel enclosure;
            (3)   Puppies shall not be housed in the same kennel enclosure with
any other adult dogs other than their dam, except when the owner specifically
requests combined housing;
            (4)   Dogs shall not be housed in the same kennel enclosure with
other species of animal.
      7.   Recordkeeping Requirements: The kennel operator shall keep available
for inspection on the premises a record that shall show the name, current
address and telephone number of the owner of each animal kept at the kennel,
the description of the animal, including its age (if known) or approximate age,
breed, sex and color. As a part of such record, a current valid rabies
certificate or other written proof of vaccination, verified by telephone or
electronic mail, shall be maintained for each dog required to be vaccinated by
this chapter, showing the dog owner's name, address, and telephone number; the
dog's name and description including breed, color, sex, month and year of
birth; the date of vaccination; and the name and telephone number of the
licensing agency verifying the vaccination. In addition, each kennel operator
shall have someone in attendance at the kennel that can identify each animal in
the kennel, except that animals under four (4) months of age may be identified
as to the litter.
   C.   Inspections; Implied Consent: Application for, and issuance of, a
kennel license shall constitute consent to inspection of any licensed kennel by
any law enforcement officer, animal control officer, building inspector or
planning official at any reasonable time, with or without prior notice.
   D.   Revocation Or Denial Of License:
      1.   Grounds For Revocation Or Denial: A kennel license may be revoked,
or an application for kennel license may be denied, on the basis of any
violation of the provisions of subsection B of this section, or when any of the
following conditions are found to exist:
         a.   Animals from such kennel are picked up for running at large more
than three (3) times in any twelve (12) month period;
         b.   Keeping more than the approved number and type of animals at the
kennel;
         c.   Excessive loud noise; or
         d.   Failure to adequately treat or have treated any diseased or
injured animal or to segregate such diseased animal so as to prevent the spread
of disease to other animals.
      2.   Procedure For Revocation Or Denial:
         a.   Written Notice: Upon a finding by a law enforcement officer,
building official or the animal control officer of the existence of one or more
of the conditions set forth in subsection D1 of this section, or any other
provision of this chapter constituting grounds for revocation or denial, the
city clerk shall send written notice of revocation of a kennel license or
denial of a kennel license application to the license holder or applicant. Such
notice shall include information concerning the requirements for curing such
conditions, and shall include information regarding the right to contest the
revocation or denial.
         b.   Cure; Time Limit: A kennel license holder or applicant shall have
thirty (30) days from the date of notice of revocation or denial to cure all
conditions constituting grounds for revocation or denial.
         c.   Reinspection Of Kennel:
            (1)   If the kennel license holder or applicant believes that all
conditions constituting grounds for revocation or denial have been cured, the
holder or applicant shall contact the city clerk to request an inspection of
the kennel. In no event shall such request be made later than twenty one (21)
days from the date of notice of revocation or denial. This inspection shall be
conducted within seven (7) days after receipt of the request by the city clerk.
            (2)   If the person performing the inspection finds that all
conditions constituting grounds for revocation or denial have been cured, the
notice of revocation or denial shall be voided, and the kennel license shall be
issued or renewed, as applicable.
            (3)   If the person performing the inspection finds that any
conditions constituting grounds for revocation or denial continue to exist, the
notice of revocation or denial shall continue in force, subject to the right of
the kennel license holder or applicant to contest such revocation or denial.
         d.   Revocation Or Denial Final After Thirty Days: If, after the
expiration of thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of notice of revocation
or denial, any of the conditions constituting grounds for revocation or denial
continue to exist and no request for hearing has been filed, the revocation of
the kennel license or denial of the application shall be final. A law
enforcement officer or the animal control officer shall then be authorized to
impound any dogs kept, harbored or possessed anywhere on the real property,
including any buildings erected thereon, which was the subject of the kennel
license or kennel license application. The law enforcement officer or animal
control officer may lawfully enter any such property and/or buildings in the
course of performing such impoundment. Upon impoundment, the procedures set
forth in section
4-3-27 of this chapter shall apply. Up to two (2) licensed dogs may be allowed
to remain on the property, unless a law enforcement officer or animal control
officer determines that it is unsafe for the dogs to remain.
      3.   Procedure For Contesting A Revocation Of Kennel License Or Denial Of
Application:
         a.   A kennel license holder or applicant shall have thirty (30) days
from the date of notice of revocation or denial to file a written request for a
hearing before the city council to contest the revocation or denial; provided,
however, that a kennel license holder or applicant who has requested an
inspection to determine whether the conditions constituting grounds for
revocation or denial continue to exist after an attempt to cure such conditions
shall have seven (7) days from the date of the inspection, or the remainder of
the thirty (30) day period from the date of notice of revocation or denial,
whichever is longer, to file such request.
         b.   The city council shall hold a hearing at the next available city
council meeting after receipt of the written request from the license holder or
applicant. The hearing shall be informal, and strict rules of evidence shall
not apply. In addition to any evidence present by the city clerk or the law
enforcement officer, building official or animal control officer that
investigated the issues that led to the revocation or suspension notice, the
license holder or applicant may be represented by counsel, present testimony
and evidence, and examine witnesses. Evidence and testimony shall be limited to
the specific issues relating to the revocation of the license or the denial of
the application.
         c.   The city council shall issue a written decision within twenty
eight (28) days after the close of the hearing.
      4.   Liability For Impoundment: Any costs of care, including, without
limitation, necessary veterinary care, of any dogs impounded pursuant to the
provisions of this section shall be the responsibility of the dog(s) owner.
(Ord. 482, 1-27-2010; amd. Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
4-3-7: CARING FOR ANIMALS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or custodian of any animal to refuse
or fail to provide such animal with sufficient wholesome and nutritious food,
water, veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering, humane care and
treatment, or to unnecessarily expose any such animal to intolerably hot,
stormy, cold or inclement weather without adequate shelter.
   B.   No owner or custodian of any animal shall abandon such animal on any
street, road, highway or public place, or on private property when not in the
care of another responsible person. (Ord. 330, 11-26-2002)
4-3-8: SANITATION:
   A.   It shall be unlawful and no owner or custodian of any animal shall
allow the owner/custodian's animal to soil, defile or defecate on any public
property, street, sidewalk, public way, public play area or upon private
property other than that which is exclusively owned by the animal owner, unless
such owner or custodian immediately removes and disposes of all feces deposited
by such animal by the following method, except for horses being ridden on a
designated equestrian trail:
      1.   Collection of the feces by appropriate implement and placement in a
paper or plastic bag or other container; and
      2.   Removal of such bag or container to a waste disposal container
lawfully available to the owner for sanitary disposal of waste as permitted by
law.
   B.   It shall be unlawful and no person owning, harboring or keeping an
animal within the city shall permit any waste matter from the animal to collect
and remain on the property of the owner or custodian, or on the property of
others so as to cause or create an unhealthy, unsanitary, dangerous or
offensive living condition on the owner's or custodian's property, or upon the
abutting or nearby property of others.
   C.   It shall be unlawful and no person owning, harboring, keeping or in
charge of any animal shall cause or allow the existence or maintenance of
unsanitary, dangerous or offensive conditions by virtue of the size or number
of animals maintained at a single location or due to the inadequacy of the
facilities. (Ord. 482, 1-27-2010)
4-3-9: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to strike, beat, abuse, or
intentionally run down with a vehicle any animal, or otherwise engage in any
act to cause or inflict unnecessary pain, injury, suffering or death to such
animal; except that reasonable force may be used to drive away vicious or
trespassing animals.
   B.   No person, except a licensed veterinarian, or animal control officer
(for humanitarian purposes) shall administer poison to any animal, or knowingly
leave any poisonous or harmful substance of any kind or ground glass in any
place with the intent to injure any animal. The provisions of this section are
not applicable to licensed exterminators using poisons as part of a pest
control program or the use of commercial insecticides and rodent baits used to
control insects and/or wild rodents. (Ord. 330, 11-26-2002)
4-3-10: RESTRAINT AND CONFINEMENT; GENERALLY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal, except cats, to fail
to keep such animal under restraint or permit such animal to run at large upon
the streets and public ways of the city or upon private property without
consent of the owner or present occupant. It shall be prima facie evidence of a
violation of this section when an animal is found by an animal control officer
or law enforcement officer while it is away from its owner (or responsible
person). (Ord. 330, 11-26-2002)
   B.   Any animal, while on a street, sidewalk, public way, or other public
space shall be secured by a leash or chain of sufficient tensile strength to
restrain the particular animal and shall be controlled by a person of
sufficient age and strength to control the animal. This shall not apply to
animals prescribed by a doctor for medical reasons or other properly trained
assist dogs. (Ord. 556, 6-14-2016)
   C.   No owner or custodian of any animal shall fail to exercise proper care
and control of such animal to prevent the same from becoming a private or
public nuisance.
   D.   Every female animal in heat shall be confined in a building or other
enclosed area in such a manner that such female animal cannot come into contact
with another animal except for planned breeding. (Ord. 330, 11-26-2002)
4-3-11: RESTRAINT OF GUARD DOGS:
   A.   Every owner of a guard or attack dog shall keep such dog confined in a
building, compartment or other enclosure. Any such enclosure shall be
completely surrounded by a fence at least six feet (6') in height and shall be
topped with an anticlimbing device to prevent the animal from exiting the top
of the enclosure.
   B.   Such areas of confinement shall all have gates and entrances thereto
securely closed and locked, and all fences shall be properly maintained and
escapeproof. Such premises shall be clearly posted to warn of the presence of
guard dogs.
   C.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to dogs owned or
controlled by government law enforcement agencies. (Ord. 330, 11-26-2002)
4-3-12: ANIMAL BITES; REPORT NOTICE:
   A.   Any person owning, possessing or harboring any animal that bites any
person, any person bitten by such animal, or any physician attending such,
shall immediately report the same to the animal control officer or law
enforcement officer, but in no case longer than within eight (8) hours of the
time of the bite or of learning of the bite, giving his/her full name, age, and
address, the circumstances surrounding the bite and the extent of the bite, the
medical treatment given and the name and address of the owner or person having
custody or possession of the animal. The owner of the animal in question shall
release, to the animal control officer or law enforcement officer upon request,
all information about the animal needed to complete the investigation. This
section shall not apply to veterinarians that are bitten while providing
veterinarian services to an animal.
   B.   It shall be the duty of every person having knowledge of the existence
of an animal apparently afflicted with rabies to report immediately to the
animal control officer the existence and description of such animal, the place
where sent, the name of the owner or persons having custody of the animal, if
known, and the symptoms suggesting rabies. (Ord. 482, 1-27-2010)
4-3-13: ANIMAL BITES; QUARANTINE REQUIRED:
No person owning or having custody or possession of any animal shall fail,
refuse or neglect to isolate and quarantine an animal that has bitten a human
or other animal for at least ten (10) days in such manner as may be specified
by the animal control officer or a law enforcement officer or for such period
and in such manner as may otherwise be required by a public official with
lawful authority. (Ord. 330, 11-26-2002)
4-3-14: POSSESSION AND DISPOSITION OF INFECTED ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any owner of any animal to keep such animal if it is
known to have a contagious disease unless the animal is under the current
treatment of a licensed veterinarian. If any animal impounded under the
provisions of this chapter is found to be suffering from rabies or is inflicted
with hydrophobia, mange or other infectious or dangerous disease, it shall not
be released. The animal control officer may order that an incurably contagious
or harmful animal be destroyed, subject to appeal to the city administrator. An
owner wishing to appeal the order of the animal control officer must file a
written appeal with the city clerk within forty eight (48) hours of the order
being served on the owner. The city administrator, or the administrator's
designee, shall hear the appeal within three (3) business days of a timely
appeal. (Ord. 482, 1-27-2010)
4-3-15: VICIOUS ANIMAL; COMPLAINT:
Any person reasonably apprehensive over the safety of his person, family or
property because of the threatening, predatory, menacing, destructive or
vicious actions of any animal may make a complaint to the animal control
officer providing such information as the animal control officer requires. Such
proceedings may also be initiated by an animal control officer upon information
developed in the course of his duties. The animal control officer, after
investigation and consultation with the owner or custodian, and upon finding
that there is good cause to believe that an animal poses a threat of injury to
persons, animals or property, may declare such animal vicious. The owner of
such animal shall immediately be notified in writing of the declaration and
shall immediately thereafter maintain said animal in an enclosed cage or other
secure enclosure as required by this chapter or by the lawful directives of the
animal control officer. (Ord. 482, 1-27-2010)
4-3-16: VICIOUS ANIMAL; APPEAL:
Any owner aggrieved by the classification of his animal as vicious, may
request, in writing, a hearing before the city council at the next regularly
scheduled meeting at which the appeal request may be accommodated. The request
for appeal must be filed with the city clerk within fourteen (14) days of the
date on the declaration of the animal as vicious. Notice of any such appeal
hearing shall be provided by mail or personal delivery to any complaining party
or adjoining property owner at least seven (7) calendar days in advance of the
appeal hearing. Subject to procedural rulings by the mayor, any appealing
party, as may those opposing such appeal, may present witnesses, evidence, and
argument in support of the appeal, and the council shall by a vote of the
majority of the members present either affirm or reverse the findings of the
animal control officer. The mayor may establish time limits and procedural
standards for presentation of any such appeal. (Ord. 368, 8-24-2004)
4-3-17: VICIOUSNESS GUIDELINES AND STANDARDS:
   A.   In determining whether or not an animal is vicious, the animal control
officer shall be guided by the following:
      1.   Whether or not the animal has bitten or attempted to bite any person
or persons;
      2.   Extraneous circumstances surrounding the occasion indicating the
temper or potential ferocity of the subject animal; or
      3.   Its general menace to the public or to specific individuals.
      4.   The potential for the animal to attack or menace again.
      5.   The record or history of compliance with animal regulations by the
animal's owner.
      6.   The propensity of the breed of animal, according to documented
authority, to display aggressive or vicious characteristics.
   B.   These provisions shall apply to dogs even though the dog in question
has been vaccinated and licensed as required by this chapter. (Ord. 330, 11-26-
2002)
4-3-18: VICIOUS ANIMALS; CONFINEMENT AND SUPERVISION:
   A.   Every animal declared vicious shall be confined by its owner or
authorized agent of its owner within a building or secure enclosure which
complies with this chapter. The secure pen or structure must have secure sides
and a secure top attached to the sides, or in the alternative to a secure top,
the sides must be of such height that the enclosed animal could not, under any
foreseeable circumstances in the opinion of the animal control officer, escape
by jumping or otherwise. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to the
sides, the sides must be embedded into the ground no less than one foot (1'),
or be otherwise designed to prevent any possibility of escape by digging by the
animal. All such pens, enclosures or structures must be adequately lighted, be
kept clean and in sanitary condition and comply in all respects with applicable
zoning and building codes.
   B.   A vicious animal may be temporarily allowed out of said secure
enclosure if such freedom from confinement occurs when accompanied at all times
by a person large and strong enough to control the animal and if securely
muzzled. Every person harboring a vicious animal is charged with an affirmative
duty to confine the animal in such a way that children, other than those of the
owner, do not have access to such animal and that the animal cannot access
others, either adults or children. The pen, enclosure or structure shall be
locked and shall have displayed in a prominent place a clearly visible sign, at
least eight and one-half inches by eleven inches (81/2" x 11") in size, in at
least two (2) conspicuous locations on the property, indicating that there is a
vicious animal on the premises. The owner of a vicious animal shall not suffer
or permit the animal to go beyond the premises of the owner unless the animal
is caged or securely muzzled and restrained by a chain or leash not more than
three feet (3') in length, and under the physical restraint of a person large
enough and strong enough to control the animal. The muzzle shall be made in a
manner that will not cause injury to the animal or interfere with its vision or
respiration, but shall prevent it from biting any human or animal.
   C.   It shall be the duty of the owner of a declared vicious animal to
furnish the animal control officer or law enforcement officer with the
residence location of said animal unless or until the vicious designation is
removed, even if such location is not within the city of Hayden.
   D.   The owner of an animal declared vicious pursuant to this chapter must
secure and maintain general liability insurance, in an amount of not less than
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), which insures against the liabilities
which derive from custody of the vicious animal. Proof of this insurance shall
be displayed to any animal control officer or law enforcement officer upon
demand. Said insurance shall be obtained within ten (10) days from the date
that the animal is declared vicious. Noncompliance with the requirements of
this section by any owner of an animal designated as vicious shall constitute a
violation of this chapter subject to all penalties or methods of enforcement
authorized hereby.
   E.   The owner of an animal declared vicious pursuant to this chapter shall
have a microchip inserted into the animal and include in the information
associated with that microchip that the animal has been declared vicious. The
information regarding the declaration of the animal as a vicious animal shall
not be removed or altered until the designation is removed by the city. (Ord.
482, 1-27-2010)
4-3-19: DANGEROUS OR NUISANCE ANIMALS:
Any animal, other than a domestic cat, which has been at large in excess of two
(2) times within any twelve (12) month period or which has been at large and
has proven menacing or threatening when at large may be declared a nuisance or
dangerous, as appropriate, by the animal control officer. An animal may be
designated as dangerous even though it has not behaved in a manner severe
enough to warrant designation as a vicious animal. Upon making such a
declaration, the animal control officer may prescribe the actions which the
animal owner must take to abate the nuisance or to protect the public from the
menacing characteristics of an animal so designated. Such restrictions may
include additional fencing, security measures, repair of containment
facilities, additional supervision or other measures intended to address the
nuisance or danger involved. Such designation may be applied for a certain
designated time frame such that the restrictions serve as a probation for the
animal or animal owner in question. Violation of any restrictions set forth in
a written order of the animal control officer pursuant to this section shall
constitute a violation of this chapter, subject to all penalties and
enforcement measures authorized hereby. Upon petition and demonstration of
compliance with applicable requirements, the animal control officer may revise
the designation of a vicious animal to nuisance or dangerous status if the
animal control officer believes that such designation will fulfill the purposes
of this chapter. Any decision concerning classification of an animal as a
nuisance or dangerous may be appealed by the animal owner in accord with the
procedures established in this chapter regarding vicious animals. (Ord. 556, 6-
14-2016)
4-3-20: SUBSEQUENT ATTACK:
Should any animal attack or bite a person or another animal, after the owner or
harborer of such animal has been notified that the animal has been declared
vicious, dangerous or nuisance, such animal shall be impounded by the animal
control officer or law enforcement officer, held for observation and shall not
be returned to its owner until the animal control officer can be assured that
the insecurity which allowed the animal to go free has been remedied and will
remain so. If any declared vicious animal is found at large and cannot be
safely taken up and impounded, such animal may be summarily destroyed by any
law enforcement officer or animal control officer. Failure to maintain security
for vicious, dangerous or nuisance animals shall constitute a violation of this
chapter. (Ord. 556, 6-14-2016)
4-3-21: PROPERTY OWNERS MAY IMPOUND:
(Rep. by Ord. 482, 1-27-2010)
4-3-22: RETURN OF ANIMAL TO OWNER:
If the name of the owner or custodian of an animal found at large is known or
can be obtained with reasonable dispatch, the animal control officer shall
attempt contact with such owner and advise the owner of the location of the
animal and attempt to make arrangements to return the animal. If the animal
owner is not available, the animal control officer shall provide written notice
to the registered owner explaining who the owner must contact to reclaim the
animal. The officer may remove the animal to the nearest shelter that will
accept the animal. The ultimate responsibility for locating an impounded animal
is the owner's. (Ord. 556, 6-14-2016)
4-3-23: DISPOSITION OF LARGE ANIMALS:
(Rep. by Ord. 482, 1-27-2010)
4-3-24: LICENSING OF DOGS:
   A.   License Required: No person shall own, keep, or harbor any dog over the
age of six (6) months within the city unless such dog is licensed as provided
in this chapter.
   B.   Application: Application for such license shall be made by the owner at
Hayden City Hall, or such other place designated by the city, on a form to be
provided by the city within ten (10) days after acquiring any dog over six (6)
months of age or within ten (10) days after a dog becomes six (6) months of
age; provided that any owner moving to the city for the purposes of
establishing residence or becoming a resident as a result of any annexation,
and otherwise required to obtain a license, shall have until thirty (30) days
after establishing residence to obtain such license.
   C.   Proof Of Rabies Vaccination Required: All owners applying for a license
must show to the satisfaction of the licensing authority that the animal for
which the license is being obtained has been inoculated against rabies within
the last two (2) years.
   D.   Proof Of Sterilization: Any owner claiming that his dog has been spayed
or neutered must show to the satisfaction of the licensing authority that the
operation has been performed.
   E.   Payment Of License Fee: A license fee shall be paid to the city of
Hayden, or the entity designated by the city to license dogs on behalf of the
city, at the time of making application. The license fee for dogs shall be
established by the city council by resolution. Such fee may be different
depending upon the altered status or other relevant characteristics of the
animal.
   F.   Exemption From License Fee: License fees shall not be required for
seeing eye dogs, dogs prescribed by a doctor for medical reasons, government
police dogs or dogs belonging to a nonresident of the city (which are licensed
elsewhere) and kept within the boundaries of the city for not longer than
thirty (30) days; provided that all dogs not subject to payment of the license
fee shall at the time of entry into the city be properly vaccinated against
rabies, and while kept within the city, meet all other requirements of this
chapter. Any owner claiming any of these exemptions has the burden of proving
to the satisfaction of the licensing authority that the dog in question is
entitled to such exemption. (Ord. 482, 1-27-2010)
   G.   Penalties: Any owner of a dog over the age of six (6) months who fails
to obtain a license within the time period specified in this chapter shall be
deemed to have violated this chapter. (Ord. 556, 6-14-2016)
4-3-25: LICENSE TAGS; IDENTIFICATION:
   A.   Upon payment and acceptance of the license fee, a durable license tag,
stamped with an identification number for the animal for which the license has
been obtained will be issued. Any license issued for the keeping of a dog shall
take effect on the date of issuance and shall be valid for the period of time
paid for and shown on the receipt issued by the licensing authority. Every dog
for which the owner is required to obtain a license must wear a valid license
tag at all times when the animal is off the premises of its owner.
   B.   No person may use a license for any animal other than the animal for
which the license was issued. It shall be unlawful for any person to remove
from the neck of any dog the license tag issued pursuant to this section or to
alter such tag in any manner.
   C.   Any dog license issued in reliance of false or inaccurate information
may be revoked. Anyone who knowingly submits false information to obtain a
license or to obtain a license without paying the appropriate fee shall be
deemed to have violated this chapter and shall be subject to all potential
penalties therefor. (Ord. 482, 1-27-2010)
4-3-26: IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   In addition to any other remedies provided in this chapter, an animal
control officer or a law enforcement officer may seize, impound and humanely
confine to an animal shelter or hospital any of the following animals:
      1.   Any animal, other than a domestic cat, at large; (Ord. 556, 6-14-
2016)
      2.   Any animal constituting a public nuisance or considered a danger to
the public;
      3.   Any animal that is in violation of any quarantine or confinement
order of the Panhandle Health District, a Hayden animal control officer or any
standing quarantine or confinement order of any public officer;
      4.   Any unattended animal that is ill, injured or otherwise in need of
care;
      5.   Any animal that is reasonably believed to have been abused or
neglected;
      6.   Any animal that is reasonably suspected of having rabies;
      7.   Any animal that is charged with being potentially dangerous, or
dangerous where the City Council or animal control officer determines that
there is a threat to public health and safety, including illegal, exotic and
wild animals;
      8.   Any animal that a court of competent jurisdiction has ordered
impounded or destroyed;
      9.   Any animal that is considered unattended or abandoned, as in
situations where the owner is deceased, has been arrested or has been evicted
from his regular place of residence;
      10.   Any animal that has been declared vicious and the owner or harborer
fails to adhere to the established guidelines set forth in the vicious animal
guidelines as set forth in this chapter;
      11.   Any dog without a valid license tag and that is not on the property
of its owner;
      12.   Any dog kept at a kennel that is not licensed, or the license has
been suspended or revoked. (Ord. 482, 1-27-2010)
4-3-27: NOTICE TO OWNER AND REDEMPTION:
   A.   Upon impoundment of an animal, the animal control officer shall attempt
to notify the owner by telephone or mail. If the owner is unknown or cannot be
contacted, the animal control officer shall provide to the City, no later than
the next business day after the animal is impounded, written notice to be
posted by the City at Hayden City Hall describing the animal and the time and
place of taking. Any telephonic or written notice to the owner shall also
include the location of the shelter or hospital where the animal is confined,
hours during which the animal can be reclaimed, and the fees to be charged to
the owner. The owner shall also be advised that the failure to claim the animal
within five (5) business days may result in the destruction or other
disposition of the animal.
   B.   An owner reclaiming an impounded animal shall pay the impound fees
charged by the shelter.
   C.   Any animal not reclaimed by its owner within five (5) business days
shall be subject to placement for adoption in a suitable home or euthanized in
a manner prescribed by the City. (Ord. 572, 6-13-2017)
4-3-28: ENFORCEMENT; INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED; AUTHORITY GRANTED:
Animal control officers and law enforcement officers shall be the enforcement
officials for this chapter. These officials shall have the authority to act on
behalf of the City in investigating complaints, impounding and destroying
animals, issuing citations, and taking other lawful actions as required to
enforce the provisions of this chapter. It shall be a violation of this chapter
to interfere with an animal control officer or other enforcement official in
the performance of his duties. Animal control officers are hereby authorized to
take such actions as they deem appropriate to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the public, whether expressly authorized by this chapter, or not.
(Ord. 330, 11-26-2002)
4-3-29: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   It shall be a violation of this chapter to:
      1.   Fail to comply with any provision of this chapter, that is, to do
that which is described as unlawful or to violate the requirements established
by this chapter.
      2.   Fail to comply with any lawful order of the animal control officer
or law enforcement officer, unless such order is lawfully stayed or reversed.
(Ord. 556, 6-14-2016)
   B.   Any violation of this chapter shall be punishable as follows: Any
person who violates any provision of subsection
4-3-4B1 through B4, B6, or B8 or section
4-3-8, subsection
4-3-10B, section
4-3-24,
4-3-25 or
4-3-5-1 of this chapter may be issued a civil citation in lieu of a uniform
infraction citation and shall be assessed a civil penalty as follows:
      1.   First violation: Fifty dollars ($50.00).
      2.   Second violation within two (2) years of first violation: One
hundred dollars ($100.00).
      3.   Third violation within two (2) years of first violation: One hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00).
      4.   Fourth and subsequent violations within two (2) years of first
violation: Two hundred dollars ($200.00).
The civil citation assessment shall be payable at city hall within thirty (30)
days from the date of issuance. No partial payments will be accepted as full
payment. If, within the thirty (30) day period following the issuance of the
city civil citation the assessment has not been paid, an infraction uniform
citation or sworn complaint may be issued for the violation of this chapter or
the rules, and the violator, if found guilty, will be fined in the appropriate
above amount for the violation plus court costs. Nothing contained herein
prohibits a law enforcement officer from issuance of a uniform infraction
citation instead of a civil citation. (Ord. 567, 2-28-2017)
   C.   Any person who fails to pay any civil penalty imposed pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punishable as
provided in this code. Upon a judgment of conviction for any violation of this
subsection, the court may also enter a civil judgment for any civil penalty
then due and owing.
   D.   Any person who violates any other provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor punishable as provided in section
1-3-1 of this code.
   E.   Each day on which a civil violation or misdemeanor offense occurs shall
constitute a separate violation. (Ord. 556, 6-14-2016)
4-3-30: PROCESS FOR SATISFYING NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
Any violation may be admitted to and the penalty paid as follows:
   A.   Civil Violations: All civil penalties shall be paid at the Kootenai
County sheriff's department. A receipt showing that the penalty has been paid,
referencing the citation number of each violation shall be issued to the payer
on receipt of payment.
   B.   Misdemeanors And Infractions: All misdemeanors and infractions shall be
processed pursuant to Idaho Code and applicable court rules in the magistrates'
division of the district court of the 1st judicial district, Kootenai County,
Idaho. (Ord. 556, 6-14-2016)
4-3-31: APPEAL OF CIVIL PENALTIES:
A determination that a person has committed a civil violation, as defined in
this chapter, may be appealed in the following manner:
   A.   A person who has received a citation for a civil violation, or his
agent or representative, may file a written request for a hearing before a
hearing officer within ten (10) business days after the date of issuance of the
citation. The hearing officer shall hold a hearing within five (5) business
days after receipt of the written request from the appellant. If the violation
being appealed is the first violation received, then the public hearing officer
may, after reviewing the circumstances for the citation and the written
request, agree to waive the violation without a hearing.
   B.   The scope of the hearing shall be limited to the following issues:
      1.   Whether a civil violation did in fact occur; and
      2.   Whether the person who received the citation had any responsibility
for the animal whose behavior gave rise to the issuance of the citation.
   C.   The hearing shall be informal and strict rules of evidence shall not
apply. The owner may be represented by counsel, present testimony and evidence,
and examine witnesses.
   D.   A decision shall be issued at the close of the hearing or within five
(5) days thereafter. The hearing officer shall notify the owner in writing of
the decision within five (5) days after the close of the hearing.
   E.   The decision of the hearing officer may be appealed to the mayor or
her/his designee pursuant to such rules as may be established. The decision of
the mayor shall be final. (Ord. 556, 6-14-2016; amd. Ord. 612, 10-27-2020)
CHAPTER 4
SMOKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Smoking Prohibited Near Public Buildings
4-4-1: SMOKING PROHIBITED NEAR PUBLIC BUILDINGS:
   A.   Purpose: The intent of this section is to protect the public health,
comfort and environment and the rights of nonsmokers to breathe clean air when
entering buildings and offices open to the public.
   B.   Prohibition: No person shall smoke within twenty feet (20') of public
entrances and exits of any building or office that is commonly open to the
public, whether publicly or privately owned.
   C.   Definition:
    SMOKE OR SMOKING: The possession of any lighted tobacco product in any
form.
   D.   Violations: Any person that violates the provisions of this section is
guilty of an infraction and is subject to a fine in the amount of twenty five
dollars ($25.00) for the first offense and a fine in the amount of fifty
dollars ($50.00) for all subsequent offenses within two (2) years from the
first offense. (Ord. 480, 11-24-2009)
CHAPTER 5
CURFEW FOR MINORS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definitions
4-5-2: Curfew
4-5-3: Exceptions
4-5-4: Failure To Pick Up Minor
4-5-5: Juvenile Runaways Prohibited
4-5-6: Penalties
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of
life. The term includes, but is not limited to, a fire, a natural disaster,
automobile accident, or any other situation requiring immediate action to
prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
ESTABLISHMENT: Any place of business to which the public is invited, including,
but not limited to, any place of amusement or entertainment.
GUARDIAN: A. A person, who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of
a minor; or
   B.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
MINOR: Any person less than eighteen (18) years of age, except for persons
emancipated by either marriage or by court order.
PARENT: A person who is:
   A.   A natural parent, stepparent or adoptive parent; or
   B.   A person at least eighteen (18) years of age and authorized by a parent
or legal guardian to have the care and custody of the minor.
PRIVATE PROPERTY OPEN TO THE PUBLIC: Real property not owned by the federal
government or the state of Idaho or any of its political subdivisions, but is
available for vehicular traffic or parking by the general public or customers
of the business.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, apartment houses, office buildings, retail stores/
complexes, recreational facilities, and shops. (Ord. 481, 11-24-2009)
4-5-2: CURFEW:
   A.   It is unlawful for any minor to be upon any public place or private
property open to the public between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. unless the person is accompanied by a
parent, legal guardian or any other adult person lawfully and properly
accompanying the minor person, or unless provided for herein.
   B.   It is unlawful for any parent or legal guardian to knowingly permit or
allow the minor to be present, without a specific purpose and without a parent
or guardian, in any public place or private property open to the public within
the city during curfew hours.
   C.   It is unlawful for an owner, operator, or any employee of an
establishment to knowingly allow a minor, without permission of a parent or
guardian, to be present upon the premises of the establishment during curfew
hours, unless the establishment is involved in rendering services for an
emergency or is a designated "safe place" and the minor is seeking emergency
help, shelter, or care. It is a defense to prosecution under this section that
the owner, operator, or employee of an establishment asked the minor to leave
the premises and promptly notified the law enforcement department for the city
that a minor is present on the premises of the establishment during curfew
hours and refuses to leave. (Ord. 481, 11-24-2009)
4-5-3: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply in cases where the minor is:
   A.   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
   B.   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any unauthorized detour, delay or stop;
   C.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
   D.   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home from
an employment activity, without any unauthorized detour, delay or stop;
   E.   Involved in an emergency;
   F.   Attending an official school, religious, recreational, or other
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city of Hayden, a civic
organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor, or going to or returning home from such activity, without any
unauthorized detour, delay or stop; or
   G.   Exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution, such as the right of free exercise of religion, freedom of
speech, and the right of assembly, or going to or returning from such activity,
without any unauthorized detour, delay, or stop. (Ord. 481, 11-24-2009)
4-5-4: FAILURE TO PICK UP MINOR:
It is unlawful and shall be considered a separate offense under this chapter
for any parent, guardian or other adult person having the legal care and
custody of such minor, after being notified to do so by a law enforcement
officer, to refuse to come immediately to any location designated by a law
enforcement officer where the child is ordered to remain for pick up and to
refuse to take charge of such minor. (Ord. 481, 11-24-2009)
4-5-5: JUVENILE RUNAWAYS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any minor to leave the city of Hayden residence of a
parent or legal guardian, without the permission of the parent or legal
guardian, with the intent of staying away from, or at a distance from, the
residence. This section is not intended to apply to a minor leaving the
residence for a visit to a neighbor or friend that is less than twelve (12)
hours and is not overnight. (Ord. 481, 11-24-2009)
4-5-6: PENALTIES:
A person who violates a provision of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor.
In the event that the person is a minor, a violation of this chapter may form
the basis for a petition for proceedings pursuant to the juvenile corrections
act. (Ord. 481, 11-24-2009)
CHAPTER 6
ELECTRONIC CIGARETTES
SECTION:
4-6-1: Purpose And Intent
4-6-2: Definitions
4-6-3: Prohibited Acts
4-6-4: Required Signage To Be Posted; Identification Required
4-6-5: Penalties, Enforcement And Defenses
4-6-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose and intent of this chapter is to protect individuals under the age
of eighteen (18) from the hazards of nicotine addiction and the dangers of
ingesting products with no regulatory oversight as to their purity, contents,
and potential negative health impacts. (Ord. 504, 9-13-2011)
4-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE OR E-CIGARETTE: An electronic device usually composed of a
mouthpiece, a heating element or atomizer, a battery, and electronic circuits
that provides a gas derived from liquid nicotine and/or other substances which
is inhaled by a user simulating smoking. The term includes such devices,
regardless of the details of the product appearance or marketed name, generally
manufactured to resemble cigarettes, cigars, pipes, or other smoking devices.
LIQUID NICOTINE: Any liquid product composed either in whole or part of
nicotine, propylene glycol and/or other similar substances and manufactured for
use with an e-cigarette to be converted into a gas for inhaling.
PERSON: Any natural person, individual, corporation, limited liability company,
unincorporated association, proprietorship, firm, partnership, joint venture,
joint stock association, or other entity or business of any kind.
PHOTOGRAPHIC IDENTIFICATION: State, district, territorial, possession,
provincial, national or other equivalent government driver's license,
identification card or military card, in all cases bearing a photograph and a
date of birth, or a valid passport. (Ord. 504, 9-13-2011)
4-6-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   No person may give, distribute, transfer, sell, market, or offer e-
cigarettes, their components, or samples to persons under eighteen (18) years
of age.
   B.   No person shall give or distribute e-cigarettes, or their components,
to a person by a coupon if such coupon is redeemed in any manner that does not
require an in person transaction in a retail store to help prevent redemption
of such merchandise by a person under eighteen (18) years of age.
   C.   No person under the age of eighteen (18) may purchase, attempt to
purchase, possess, or obtain e-cigarettes or their components. This prohibition
does not apply to activities or enforcement actions under the control of a
city, state, or federal law enforcement authority.
   D.   No person shall sell or permit to be sold e-cigarettes or their
components through any device that mechanically dispenses such products unless
the device is located fully within premises from which persons under the age of
eighteen (18) are prohibited, and not less than ten feet (10') from all
entrance or exit ways to and from each premises. (Ord. 504, 9-13-2011)
4-6-4: REQUIRED SIGNAGE TO BE POSTED; IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED:
   A.   Any person selling, marketing, displaying, giving, or distributing e-
cigarettes or their components shall display a printed sign, posted so that it
is clearly visible to anyone purchasing e-cigarettes or their components. The
sign must be in contrasting colors and at least 20-point type and must read
substantially as follows:
IF YOU ARE UNDER 18, YOU COULD BE SUBJECT TO PENALTY FOR PURCHASING E-
CIGARETTES OR RELATED DEVICES OR THEIR COMPONENTS. THE SALE OF E-CIGARETTES OR
RELATED DEVICES OR THEIR COMPONENTS TO PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 18 IS STRICTLY
PROHIBITED. PHOTO ID REQUIRED.
   B.   The failure of a person to request and examine photographic
identification from a person under eighteen (18) years of age prior to the
sale, gift or distribution of e-cigarettes or related devices to such person
shall be construed against the seller and form a conclusive basis for the
seller's violation of this chapter. (Ord. 504, 9-13-2011)
4-6-5: PENALTIES, ENFORCEMENT AND DEFENSES:
   A.   Violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor. Each
transaction is a new and separate violation.
   B.   It is a defense to a prosecution for violation of this chapter relating
to age when the person making the gift, distribution, transfer, sale,
marketing, or offer as a gift, transfer, sale, marketing, or sample reasonably
relied on an officially issued photographic identification showing the
purchaser or recipient was at least eighteen (18) years old.
   C.   It is a defense to subsection
4-6-3D of this chapter if the person demonstrates to the satisfaction of the
building official that it is architecturally impracticable for the device to be
located not less than ten feet (10') from all entrance and exit ways. (Ord.
504, 9-13-2011)
CHAPTER 7
GRAFFITI
SECTION:
4-7-1: Definitions
4-7-2: Removal Of Graffiti From Noncity Property Required
4-7-3: Notice To Remove Graffiti
4-7-4: Enforcement
4-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
GRAFFITI: Writing or drawings that have been scribbled, scratched, or sprayed
illicitly on a wall or other surface in a public or private place.
UNREASONABLE: The longer of the following periods:
   A.   Two (2) calendar days from the placement of the graffiti on the
premises; or
   B.   Two (2) calendar days from notification by the city to remove the
graffiti, or any extensions of the removal period granted in writing by the
city. (Ord. 522, 5-28-2013)
4-7-2: REMOVAL OF GRAFFITI FROM NONCITY PROPERTY REQUIRED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any owner, occupant, lessee, lessor, renter, tenant
or person otherwise in charge or control of any property within the city or the
owner of any public utility facilities or infrastructure located within the
public right of way within the city, to permit any graffiti to exist, or to
allow any graffiti to remain on any surface located on such property for an
unreasonable period of time when such graffiti or any portion of it is visible
to the public from a public street, sidewalk or from other properties, public
or private. Failure to remove the graffiti is a nuisance.
      1.   The removal of the graffiti shall not follow the pattern of the
graffiti such that the inscription, work, figure, symbol, drawing, mark, or
design of such graffiti remains apparent.
      2.   The removal of such graffiti by painting over it shall be reasonably
similar or identical to the original color of the surface upon which such
graffiti was applied.
      3.   If the surface is heavily covered with graffiti, the entire surface
shall be repainted.
      4.   When the city administrator or the administrator's designee
determines to remove graffiti at the city's expense or on behalf of the owner,
and the owner of the property consents to such removal and executes the
necessary documents, the city or its contractor is authorized to provide for
the removal of the graffiti and charge the cost of removal to the owner. If the
property owner fails to pay the costs, a special assessment may be levied
pursuant to Idaho Code 50-1008 and 50-334. (Ord. 522, 5-28-2013)
4-7-3: NOTICE TO REMOVE GRAFFITI:
When either law enforcement or city personnel discover or receive a report of
graffiti on any public or private property, the city may cause notice to be
served on the owner and occupant of the premises to abate the nuisance and
remove the graffiti. Such notice shall be served upon the owner of the
premises, as shown on the last property tax assessment rolls of Kootenai
County, Idaho, with a copy to the occupant of the premises, or by posting such
notice and order to abate at a conspicuous place on the property. Service of
the notice may be accomplished through personal service or by regular mail. If
service is by mail, it shall be deemed served three (3) business days after
placing the notice in the United States mail, postage prepaid. (Ord. 522, 5-28-
2013)
4-7-4: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Failure to abate the nuisance is a misdemeanor.
   B.   In addition to any other penalties in this section, the city may take
civil action to obtain an order enjoining the ongoing maintenance of such
nuisance. (Ord. 522, 5-28-2013)
CHAPTER 8
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
4-8-1: Title
4-8-2: Jurisdiction
4-8-3: Purpose
4-8-4: Definitions
4-8-5: Permit Requirements
4-8-6: Conditions Of Sale Or Use
4-8-7: General Prohibitions
4-8-8: Penalties
4-8-1: TITLE:
This chapter will be known as the FIREWORKS ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF HAYDEN.
(Ord. 558, 6-28-2016)
4-8-2: JURISDICTION:
The provisions of this chapter are applicable to the storage, use, discharge,
possession, and sale of fireworks within the city limits of the city of Hayden.
(Ord. 558, 6-28-2016)
4-8-3: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the general health, safety, and
public welfare of city residents and visitors by regulating the use,
possession, and sale of fireworks. (Ord. 558, 6-28-2016)
4-8-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meaning respectively ascribed to them by this section:
DEPARTMENT: The department of insurance, division of the state fire marshal.
FIREWORKS: Any combustible or explosive composition, or any substance or
combination of substances, or article prepared for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration or detonation.
Fireworks include items classified as common or special fireworks by the bureau
of alcohol, tobacco, firearms and explosives, or contained in the regulations
of the United States department of transportation and designated as UN 0335. 1.
3G or UN 0336. 1. 4G. The term "fireworks" shall not include any automotive
safety flares, toy guns, toy cannons, caps or other items designed for use with
guns or toy cannons, party poppers, pop-its or other devices which contain
twenty five hundredths (0.25) of a grain or less of explosive substance.
NONAERIAL COMMON FIREWORKS: Any fireworks such as ground spinners, fountains,
sparklers, smoke devices or snakes designated to remain on or near the ground
and not to travel outside a fifteen foot (15') diameter circle above a height
of twenty feet (20').
PERMIT: An authorization given by the Northern Lakes fire district pursuant to
Idaho Code 39-2604 or 39-2605.
SPECIAL FIREWORKS: Any fireworks designed primarily for display and classified
as special fireworks by the bureau of alcohol, tobacco, firearms and explosives
or designated as UN 0335. 1. 3G.
WHOLESALE: Sale of fireworks to a retailer or wholesaler. (Ord. 558, 6-28-2016)
4-8-5: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Retail Sales:
      1.   The fire district may require a permit for the retail sale of
nonaerial common fireworks.
      2.   If a permit is required, the applications shall be on a form
approved by the fire district and shall include the name and address of the
applicant (or the names of all partners, if a partnership, the name of the
corporation and the corporate officers if a corporation, or the name of the
limited liability company and all of its members, if a limited liability
company), the primary location of the business, each location at which
fireworks are to be stored and the applicant's Idaho sales tax seller's permit
number, if applicable.
      3.   The permit and certificate of liability mentioning the local fire
district shall be displayed in public view at the location listed on the
permit.
   B.   Public Displays Or Other Events:
      1.   The fire district may, at its discretion, issue a permit for public
display or other events in the following circumstances:
         a.   After determining that the public display will be supervised by a
qualified person and will not constitute an unreasonable hazard to persons or
property. Appropriate National Fire Protection Association or city fire code
provisions may be used as guidance for this determination.
         b.   After determining that sales and use of fireworks outside the
normal sales period provided in Idaho Code 39-2606, or proposing the use of
fireworks in addition to nonaerial common fireworks will not constitute an
unreasonable hazard to persons or property.
      2.   An application for a permit for public display or other event shall
be on a form approved by, and contain the information reasonably requested by
the fire district.
      3.   The permit shall be nontransferable, shall list the specific date or
dates upon which the display or event shall occur and the types of fireworks
and uses that will be allowed.
      4.   Alteration of fireworks may be performed by a person in possession
of a valid public display permit.
      5.   If a public display or other event using fireworks is to be held
over a lake, river or other navigable waterway in the city, the applicant must
obtain a marine event permit from the sheriff. (Ord. 558, 6-28-2016)
4-8-6: CONDITIONS OF SALE OR USE:
   A.   Authorized Dates: Nonaerial common fireworks may be sold at retail and
used beginning at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight June 23, and ending at twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight July 5, and beginning at twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight December 26, and ending at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight January 2.
   B.   Temporary Fireworks Stands: Temporary fireworks stands shall be
governed by Idaho Code 39-2607.
   C.   Short Term Storage: Short term storage of fireworks shall be governed
by Idaho Code 39-2608. (Ord. 558, 6-28-2016)
4-8-7: GENERAL PROHIBITIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, except in compliance with this chapter,
to:
   A.   Alter any fireworks;
   B.   Throw any fireworks from, into, or at a moving vehicle or at any
person;
   C.   Sell, use, or possess any fireworks at any time not permitted under
this chapter;
   D.   Use fireworks in any area that constitutes a severe fire threat based
on the vegetative conditions during the current fire season as determined by
the authority having jurisdiction, provided that notice of such areas is given
in advance or the area is posted with appropriate notices at points of access.
   E.   Fail to obtain a permit from the fire district, for a public display or
other event using fireworks before holding the public display or other event
using fireworks.
   F.   Fail to obtain a permit from the fire district before engaging in
retail sales of nonaerial common fireworks. (Ord. 558, 6-28-2016)
4-8-8: PENALTIES:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter or any rules issued
hereunder shall be guilty of an infraction and upon being found liable therefor
shall be subject to an infraction penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
Fireworks being used, sold, or possessed in violation of this chapter may be
confiscated by the fire district or any peace officer. (Ord. 558, 6-28-2016)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC PROTECTION
CHAPTER 1
SOUND AMPLIFICATION DEVICES
SECTION:
5-1-1: Purpose
5-1-2: Definitions
5-1-3: Permit Required
5-1-4: Penalty
5-1-1: PURPOSE:
It is hereby determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to and for
the protection of the health, safety and welfare of the public and inhabitants
of the city, and for the purpose of controlling loud noise and for providing
the means for the city approving the use of appropriate sound amplification
devices when such use is outside a structure. (Ord. 177, 8-8-1985)
5-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of the words
used in this chapter shall be as follows:
SOUND AMPLIFICATION DEVICE: Any electronic machine intended for amplifying
voice, music or other sound.
STRUCTURE: Any building or other enclosure intended for human habitation or
business. (Ord. 177, 8-8-1985)
5-1-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person for personal, business or professional
purposes, to use a sound amplification device outside a structure when that
device can be heard inside any structure adjacent to the property on which the
sound amplification device is being used, except when the sound amplification
device is used as part of a parade or in a city park and the person using the
device has obtained a permit from the city or the event for which the device is
used is sponsored by the city. The applicant shall apply five (5) days prior to
the outside use of the device, which application shall be in writing and filed
with the city clerk. Said application shall state the location of the intended
use, the purpose of the use, the maximum decibel level of the amplification,
and the time of the intended use. This application is without charge to the
applicant. The mayor shall approve the permit, approve the permit with
conditions, or deny the permit. The notification of denial of the permit shall
include the reason for the denial and shall also notify the applicant of his or
her right to a hearing before the city council.
   B.   Any person providing false or misleading information on the application
regarding the intended use or who violates the terms of any permit issued
pursuant to this chapter is in violation of this chapter and, in addition to
the penalties provided, will be ineligible to apply for a sound amplification
permit in the future. (Ord. 437, 9-11-2007)
5-1-4: PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor and upon conviction,
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-3-1 of this code. (Ord. 177, 8-8-1985)
CHAPTER 2
FIREARMS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Discharge Unlawful
5-2-2: Definition
5-2-3: Penalty
5-2-1: DISCHARGE UNLAWFUL:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm within the city
limits of the city of Hayden, Idaho; provided, however, that this prohibition
shall not apply to law enforcement officers and Idaho state fish and game
officers in the discharge of their duties. Military honor guards performing at
funerals or memorial services, or at public events, and performers in
theatrical productions or firearms demonstrations may, with the permission of
the city administrator or his designee, discharge firearms using blanks.
Exceptions:
      1.   A person may discharge a firearm on properties that are zoned to
allow agricultural use, if discharge of the firearm is for the purpose of
slaughtering animals raised on the property for the purpose of human
consumption and the person discharging the firearm complies with the following
conditions:
         a.   The discharge of the firearm is aimed away from persons,
vehicles, roadways, buildings constructed for human occupancy, and other
animals; and
         b.   The person discharging the firearm provides prior notice to the
law enforcement agency for the city.
      2.   A person discharging a firearm in the lawful defense of person or
persons or property.
      3.   A person lawfully discharging a firearm on a sport shooting range as
defined in section 55-2604, Idaho Code. (Ord. 541, 12-23-2014)
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to discharge any weapon which will, or is
designed to, expel a projectile, including a bow and arrow, within the city
limits for the purpose of hunting wildlife. This prohibition does not include
the use of a slingshot. For the purposes of this section, the definitions of
hunting and wildlife provided in title 36, chapter 2, Idaho Code shall apply.
(Ord. 528, 8-27-2013)
5-2-2: DEFINITION:
The term "firearm" when used in this chapter shall be defined as any instrument
which will or is designed to expel a projectile by action of an explosive or
which is defined as a firearm by any provision of Idaho or federal law. (Ord.
305, 12-11-2001)
5-2-3: PENALTY:
Violation of this chapter by unlawful discharge of a firearm shall be a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 445, 1-22-2008)
CHAPTER 3
EMERGENCY ALARM SYSTEMS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Purpose
5-3-2: Definitions
5-3-3: Prohibited Equipment
5-3-4: Display Of Alarm Systems Information
5-3-5: Audible Alarm; Time Limits
5-3-6: Emergency Response Information And Practices
5-3-7: False Alarms Prohibited; Penalties
5-3-8: Penalties
5-3-9: No Obligation Created
5-3-10: Grace Period
5-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote effective and efficient law
enforcement and other public emergency services to the public through the
reduction of the number of responses to false alarms. (Ord. 335, 1-28-2003)
5-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
In construing the provisions of this chapter, except where otherwise plainly
declared or clearly apparent from the context, words used in this chapter shall
be given their common and ordinary meaning, and in addition, the following
definitions shall apply:
ALARM SERVICE COMPANY: Any privately owned business, partnership or corporation
which installs and supplies an alarm system and acts as an intermediary for
contacting emergency response and law enforcement entities when an alarm is
sounded.
ALARM SYSTEM: Any assembly of equipment, mechanical, electrical or electronic,
designed to alert an alarm service company, law enforcement agencies, the
public, or any person or any public emergency response entity, of the
commission, or attempted commission, of a crime or occurrence of another
emergency, at a particular or given location, excluding vehicle alarms.
ALARM USER: Any person, business or other entity, which owns, or has control
over any building, structure, or facility where an alarm system is maintained.
FALSE ALARM: The intentional or unintentional activation of any alarm system
that elicits a response from the law enforcement or another public emergency
services entity when no criminal act has been committed or attempted or there
is no other emergency. The causes of false alarms include, but are not limited
to, the following: equipment malfunction, improper installation or maintenance
of equipment, human error or negligence, or any cause other than the actual
commission or attempted commission of a criminal act, fire or other emergency.
(Ord. 335, 1-28-2003)
5-3-3: PROHIBITED EQUIPMENT:
Alarm systems designed to alert any law enforcement agency or emergency
services of an emergency by providing unattended automatic dialing to any
public phone number of a law enforcement agency, fire department, or any
emergency response (911) system for the purpose of transmitting a preprogrammed
signal, message, or code are prohibited. (Ord. 335, 1-28-2003)
5-3-4: DISPLAY OF ALARM SYSTEMS INFORMATION:
The occupant, or owner, if not occupied, of any alarm equipped premises must
clearly display on the outside of the premises the name of the alarm monitoring
service and a twenty four (24) hour emergency telephone number answered by a
living person. (Ord. 335, 1-28-2003)
5-3-5: AUDIBLE ALARM; TIME LIMITS:
It shall be unlawful to operate an audible alarm system which does not shut off
within a maximum of thirty (30) minutes from the time of activation. Shutoff
may be accomplished either with an automatic cutoff or by manual operation. If
the alarm system has an automatic cutoff with a rearming phase, the rearming
phase must be able to distinguish between an open and closed circuit, and if
the circuit is broken, the system will not rearm. (Ord. 335, 1-28-2003)
5-3-6: EMERGENCY RESPONSE INFORMATION AND PRACTICES:
   A.   No person or business shall establish or maintain an alarm system
unless a current alarm information file is always maintained with the alarm
monitoring company or at the alarm point of termination.
The alarm file must contain the following information:
      1.   A recognized numerical street address;
      2.   Detailed directions from a major road or landmark;
      3.   A list of persons authorized to enter the premises and their
telephone number;
      4.   Instructions indicating where the alarm is located, showing where
the shutoff or disarming device is located;
      5.   Detailed directions to Knox box location when applicable.
If the address or directions are incomplete, the call shall be deemed a false
alarm. The name of the monitoring service and a twenty four (24) hour telephone
number must be clearly displayed outside of the premises where the alarm is
located.
   B.   Upon notification by the a law enforcement officer or other public
emergency response personnel that his/her presence is required, the alarm user,
or his/her representative, shall promptly proceed to the scene of the alarm
within thirty (30) minutes and render necessary service. Such service, when
necessary, shall include turning off the alarm and/or opening the alarmed
premises so a search can be made.
   C.   Circumstances that may require the alarm user's presence include, but
are not limited to: continual malfunction of an alarm system which causes
repeated false alarms over a short period of time, evidence at the alarmed
premises indicating a crime was committed or attempted, and further
investigation is necessary, or the premises is not or cannot be properly
secured.
   D.   Any alarm company, upon notification that a false alarm has sounded,
shall immediately notify the fire district servicing the city of Hayden that a
false fire alarm has been sounded or the law enforcement agency servicing the
city of Hayden if a false alarm has been sounded and that the alarm company has
been notified that it is a false alarm and that the fire district, the law
enforcement agency, or other emergency response no longer needs to respond to
the earlier reported location. (Ord. 335, 1-28-2003)
5-3-7: FALSE ALARMS PROHIBITED; PENALTIES:
   A.   No alarm user shall cause or allow a false alarm.
   B.   1. The intentional activation of a fire, burglary or robbery alarm
system for the purpose of summoning a fire district, law enforcement personnel,
or other public emergency service for other than actual fire, burglary or
robbery, or a life threatening emergency situation, shall be punishable as a
misdemeanor.
      2.   The failure of an alarm company or alarm company employee to notify
the fire district or law enforcement agency servicing the city of Hayden of the
cancellation of an alarm signal shall be punishable as a misdemeanor.
   C.   The third false alarm, and each subsequent false alarm, from the same
location or alarm system within a six (6) month period, continuously and
cumulatively until a six (6) month period free of false alarms has been
achieved, resulting from equipment malfunction, improper installation or
maintenance of equipment, or human error or negligence, shall obligate the
occupant/owner to pay a service fee as set forth in a resolution adopted by the
city council, which shall become due and payable no later than thirty (30) days
after the date of the occurrence.
   D.   The occurrence of more than five (5) accidental or unintentional false
alarms within any six (6) month period, continuously and cumulatively until a
six (6) month period free of false alarms has been achieved, shall constitute a
violation of this chapter. (Ord. 335, 1-28-2003)
5-3-8: PENALTIES:
The violation of any section of this chapter, excepting as set forth in that
section dealing with multiple false alarms, shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 335, 1-28-2003)
5-3-9: NO OBLIGATION CREATED:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed or interpreted to create a duty to
respond on the part of any law enforcement agency or other public emergency
services entity. (Ord. 335, 1-28-2003)
5-3-10: GRACE PERIOD:
There shall be a ninety (90) day grace period respecting the accidental false
alarm provisions of this chapter beginning at the effective date hereof, during
which time no punitive action will be taken against alarm users exceeding the
limits established under the section relating to false alarms, during which
time no service fee will be charged to a premises occupant/owner. Such grace
period shall not affect liability for penalties for violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 335, 1-28-2003)
CHAPTER 4
DISORDERLY CONDUCT
SECTION:
5-4-1: Disorderly Conduct; Prohibited Conduct
5-4-2: Availability Of Shelter
5-4-3: Penalty
5-4-1: DISORDERLY CONDUCT; PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
It shall be a violation of this section for any person to conduct himself or
herself in a violent, noisy, or riotous manner, or in any way which commits a
breach of the peace of another person(s), and/or to conduct himself or herself
in a manner that endangers the health and safety of another person(s); and a
violation of this section shall also include, but shall not be limited to, the
following:
   A.   Occupying, lodging or sleeping in any motor vehicle, building,
structure or place, whether public or private, without the permission of the
owner or person entitled to possession or in control thereof.
   B.   Loitering, prowling or wandering upon the private property of another,
without lawful business, permission or invitation by the owner or the lawful
occupants thereof.
   C.   Engages in violent, tumultuous or offensive conduct, or by threatening,
traducing, quarreling, or challenging to fight another person, or fights with
another person in a public place.
   D.   Makes noise that is unreasonable, considering the nature of the actor’s
conduct, location, time of day or night, and other factors that would govern
the conduct of a reasonably prudent person under the circumstances.
   E.   Engages in violent, noisy or riotous behavior that would be frightening
or offensive to a reasonable person who might be expected to be in the
vicinity.
   F.   Any person, who is in public and intoxicated at a level that presents a
danger to others or creates a disturbance of the peace. (Ord. 632, 6-14-2022)
5-4-2: AVAILABILITY OF SHELTER:
   A.   Availability Of Overnight Shelter: Law enforcement officers shall not
enforce subsection 1.A of this Chapter (disorderly conduct) when the individual
is on public property and there is no available overnight shelter.
      1.   The term “available overnight shelter” is a public or private
shelter, with an available overnight space, for an individual experiencing
homelessness, at no charge.
      2.   The term “available overnight shelter” shall not include the
following:
         a.   Shelter space where an individual cannot stay because the
individual has exceeded a shelter’s maximum stay rule.
         b.   Shelter space that cannot reasonably accommodate the individual’s
mental or physical needs or disabilities.
         c.   Shelter space that does not permit a minor child to be housed in
the same facility with at least one parent or legal guardian.
         d.   Shelter space for which an individual is required to attend or
participate in religious activities or programs as a condition of utilizing the
shelter space.
      3.   Police or their designee may initiate contact with the shelters when
necessary to determine whether the shelters have available space and, if so,
the number of available sleeping spaces. Prior to issuing any citation, a law
enforcement officer shall also confirm that a shelter has available space that
can be utilized by that particular individual. No law enforcement officer shall
issue a citation to a homeless person sleeping, lying, sitting, or camping
outdoors unless the officer first confirms the shelter has available space that
can be utilized by the individual. (Ord. 632, 6-14-2022)
5-4-3: PENALTY:
Any person who violates this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord.
632, 6-14-2022)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Administration
6-1-2: Enforcement
6-1-3: Parking Regulations
6-1-4: Visibility At Intersections
6-1-5: Compression Brakes Prohibited
6-1-6: Penalty
6-1-7: Speed Limits; Violations
6-1-1: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Authority: Whenever in the judgment of the mayor, city council, or city
engineer the operation on any road within the city of vehicles of sizes,
weights and at rates of speed permissible by law will cause damage to the road
by reason of climatic or other conditions, they shall have authority to make
regulations regarding the permissible sizes, weights or speeds of vehicles
operated on such roads within the city for such periods as may be necessary for
the protection of the road or for public safety.
   B.   Signs: Upon passing any regulations herein provided, the city shall
cause to be erected and maintained signs designating such regulations at each
end of such road or section and at intersections with main traveled roads.
(Ord. 329, 11-12-2002)
6-1-2: ENFORCEMENT:
Enforcement officials for the city are hereby authorized to direct all traffic
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter or in emergencies as public
safety or convenience may require and any person failing or refusing to comply
with any lawful order, signal or direction of such enforcement officials shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and punished as in this chapter prescribed.
(Ord. 31, 6-6-1963)
6-1-3: PARKING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Authority:
      1.   The city council and/or the public works director hereby authorized
to indicate zones where vehicles shall not be parked or stopped for any
purpose, including deliveries or pick ups, loading or unloading, when, in the
opinion of the city council or the public works director, based upon his
professional judgment, it is necessary to prevent parking, standing and/or
stopping of vehicles on any street or portion of such street. The city council
and/or public works director may do so by either placing appropriate signs or
placing barricades or officers at such places. The city may designate an agent
who is authorized to remove illegally parked vehicles and the owner thereof
shall pay the cost of such removal and storage.
      2.   Upon approval from the city administrator, the public works director
or the director’s designee is authorized to indicate temporary zones or
locations where vehicles shall not be parked, when, in the opinion of the
public works director or the director’s designee, it is necessary to
temporarily prevent the parking of vehicles to avoid public harm or
inconvenience or to prevent the vehicles from impeding snowplowing. The public
works director or the director’s designee may do so either by placing
appropriate signs or placing barricades at such places where parking is to be
restricted or by publishing such notice of the parking restrictions in the
official newspaper of the city and placing it on the city’s website. It shall
be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle at such time and at such
designated places in violation of the restrictions established by the public
works director or the director’s designee. Any law enforcement officer or a
designated agent of the city is authorized to remove such illegally parked
vehicles and the owner thereof shall pay the cost of such removal and storage.
   B.   Administration: Any peace officer or other designated person observing
any violations of this section may issue a ticket describing such violation and
the charge assessed for the violation to the person responsible for committing
the violation by placing a citation on the vehicle. The designated persons are
authorized to refrain from instituting a prosecution charging the person with
an infraction or, where applicable, a misdemeanor, if such person pays the
charge herein assessed to the city within fourteen (14) calendar days of the
violation.
   C.   Vehicle Ownership As Evidence; Exception:
      1.   In any prosecution against the registered owner of a motor vehicle
charging a violation of any regulation governing the standing or parking of a
vehicle under any ordinance of the city, proof that the particular vehicle
described in the complaint was parked in violation of any such ordinance,
together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was, at the time
of parking, the registered owner of the vehicle, shall constitute prima facie
evidence that the registered owner of the vehicle was the person who parked or
placed the vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, the
violation occurred. For the purposes of this subsection, proof that a person is
the registered owner of a vehicle is not prima facie evidence that the
registered owner has violated any other provision of law. Proof of a written
lease or of a rental agreement for a particular vehicle described in the
complaint on the date and time of the violation, which lease or rental
agreement includes the name and address of the person to whom the vehicle is
leased or rented, shall rebut the prima facie evidence that the registered
owner was the person who parked or placed the vehicle at the time and place
where the violations occurred.
      2.   In any prosecution against the lessee or renter of a motor vehicle
charging a violation of any regulation governing the standing or parking of a
vehicle under any ordinance of the city, proof that the particular vehicle
described in the complaint was parked in violation of any provision of the
ordinance, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was,
at the time of parking, the lessee or renter of the vehicle, shall constitute
prima facie evidence that the lessee or renter of the vehicle was the person
who parked the vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, the
violation occurred. For the purposes of this subsection, proof that a person is
the lessee or renter of a vehicle is not prima facie evidence that the lessee
or renter has violated any other provision of this law.
      3.   Any charge under such ordinance shall be dismissed when the person
charged has made a bona fide sale or transfer of the vehicle, has delivered
possession thereof to the purchaser, and has complied with the requirements of
Idaho Code title 49, chapter 4, prior to the date of the alleged violation and
has advised the court of the name and address of the purchaser and the date of
the sale.
   D.   Parking Regulations Generally:
      1.   No person shall stop or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or comply with law or the directions of a
police officer or traffic control device, in any of the following
circumstances:
         a.   At any location where a traffic control device restricting or
prohibiting parking has been posted in accordance with subsection A of this
section;
         b.   On a public sidewalk, pedestrian path, bicycle path or similar
nonvehicular right of way;
         c.   In an alley, except for loading and unloading which shall be done
as expeditiously as possible and shall not exceed thirty (30) minutes’ elapsed
time in any one block, unless written permission is given by city
administrator;
         d.   In front of, or otherwise blocking, a public or private driveway
or street access from lands adjoining a public street;
         e.   In an unloading zone for more than thirty (30) minutes;
         f.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant;
         g.   In violation of posted public parking lot use regulations;
         h.   In a handicapped zone without having a valid special license
plate or special card bearing the international accessible symbol issued by the
department of motor vehicles;
         i.   In the opposite direction of the authorized traffic movement;
         j.   Upon the travel area of the roadway when it is practicable to
stop, park or leave the vehicle off the roadway.
      2.   No vehicle shall be parked at the same location or combination of
locations within the same block on any public street or alley in the city
continuously for more than forty-eight (48) hours. Movement of a vehicle on a
public street, alley, or other public property for a distance of less than six
hundred feet (600') for a period of less than twenty-four (24) contiguous hours
shall constitute continuous and uninterrupted parking or storage in the same
location.
      3.   Overnight Parking In Residential Areas:
         a.   Restrictions: It is unlawful to park or otherwise leave
overnight, or between the hours of one minute after twelve o’clock (12:01) A.M.
and six o’clock (6:00) A.M., on any public street or public alley in the city
on those areas classified as residential by the official zoning ordinance,
commercial trailers and/or vehicles over ten thousand (10,000) pounds’ licensed
gross vehicle weight, the principal use of which is the transportation of
commodities, merchandise, produce, freight, animals, vehicles, passengers for
hire, or backhoes, tractors and cranes.
         b.   Exceptions: The provision of subsection 3(a) of this section
shall not apply when a vehicle is parked: a) for any purpose incident to any
lawful construction project located within the immediate vicinity of such
parked vehicle; b) for any purpose incident to a lawful commercial or
industrial operation located in any residential area and conducted under a
conditional use permit and so long as the vehicle is parked within one hundred
feet (100') of such commercial or industrial operation.
   E.   Major Recreational Equipment: No person shall park or store major
recreational equipment on any public right of way for a period to exceed twenty
four (24) hours. For the purposes of this section “major recreational
equipment” is defined as including, but not limited to, boats and boat
trailers, pickup campers or coaches (designed to be mounted on automotive
vehicles), motorized dwellings, tent trailers, trailers, and the like, and
cases or boxes used for transporting recreational equipment, whether occupied
by such equipment or not.
   F.   City Park Parking Restrictions:
      1.   Prohibited Areas:
         a.   No person shall stop, stand or park a motor vehicle within any
City park, except in designated areas established by the City Council and
marked by a sign.
         b.   No person shall operate or be in physical control of a motor
vehicle in any City park (except in designated parking lots and other roadways
open for public use), without the permission of the Mayor or City Administrator
or their designee.
         c.   The Mayor and City Administrator are authorized to indicate
temporary zones where motor vehicles may be parked within any City park.
      2.   Exceptions: The provisions of this section do not apply to
authorized emergency vehicles or to any vehicles in the City park participating
in an authorized parade or event approved by the City Council. For the purposes
of this section, “authorized emergency vehicles” shall mean vehicles operated
by any fire department or law enforcement agency of the State or any political
subdivision thereof and ambulances of any public utility or public service
corporation.
   G.   Removal: The enforcement official, upon finding any motor vehicle or
major recreational equipment parked in violation of any provisions of this
section, may have the same removed from such street, alley, parking lot or park
and the owner shall pay the cost of such removal and all other associated
costs.
   H.   Violations: It is unlawful for any individual to violate any of the
provisions of this section. Anyone violating any provision of this section may
be charged with an infraction, and if the violator is found guilty, will be
fined as provided by law.
      1.   In lieu of issuance of a uniform citation for the infraction, law
enforcement officers are authorized to issue a civil citation. The civil
assessments shall be as follows:
Violation Charge
Violation                                        Charge
In a handicapped zone                            $100.00
In alley or in front of driveway                 50.00
Over 30 minutes in loading zone                  50.00
By a fire hydrant                                50.00
Opposing traffic                                 50.00
Parking on roadway travel area                   50.00
In a no parking zone                             50.00
Violation of public parking lot use regulations  50.00
Other parking violations not specifically listed 50.00
 
      2.   The civil citation assessment shall be payable at City Hall within
thirty (30) days from the date of issuance. No partial payments will be
accepted as full payment.
      3.   Nothing contained herein prohibits a law enforcement officer from
issuance of a uniform infraction citation instead of a civil citation.
   I.   Appeal Of Civil Penalties: A determination that a person has committed
a civil violation, as allowed in this section, may be appealed in the following
manner:
      1.   A person who has received a citation for a civil violation may file
a written request with the city for a hearing within ten (10) business days
after the date of issuance of the citation. A hearing shall be held within five
(5) business days after receipt of the written request.
      2.   The scope of the hearing shall be limited to the following issues:
         a.   Whether a civil violation did in fact occur; and
         b.   Whether the person who received the civil citation had any
responsibility for the actions that gave rise to the issuance of the citation.
      3.   The hearing shall be informal and strict rules of evidence shall not
apply. The person may be represented by counsel, present testimony and
evidence, and examine witnesses.
      4.   A decision shall be issued and the person shall be notified in
writing within five (5) days after the close of the hearing.
      5.   The decision of the hearing officer may be appealed to the mayor or
her or his designee pursuant to such rules as may be established. The decision
of the mayor shall be final. (Ord. 519, 3-13-2013; amd. Ord. 573, 7-11-2017,
eff. 1-1-2018; Ord. 603, 8-27-2019; Ord. 632, 6-14-2022)
6-1-4: VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS:
Approaches shall be located as far as possible from intersections, in order to
preserve visibility at the intersection, allow a vehicle that is leaving the
approach to enter the desired traffic lane before entering the intersection,
permit a vehicle crossing the intersection to enter the approach in an orderly,
safe manner with a minimum of interference to through traffic, and to
facilitate the installation of traffic signals, signs and lighting where
required.
   A.   On a corner lot in any zone, nothing shall be erected, placed, planted
or allowed to grow in such a manner as to materially impede vision in the
vision triangle which boundaries are defined by measuring from the intersection
of right-of-way of two adjacent roads’ along each road and connecting the two
points with a straight line, unless by some other means as approved by the City
Engineer. Sight obstructions shall not extend more than three feet, or less
than 10', in height above the existing center line road elevation within the
vision triangle of vehicle operators. Trees within said defined area shall have
their branches removed at the trunk from ground level to a minimum of 10' above
ground level and shrubs or other vegetation shall be maintained to be no higher
than three feet above the centerline grade of the intersecting streets; and on
roads that are not State highways, a non-sight obscuring fence (i.e., chain
link) may be allowed on a corner lot to the property line; provided, that: 1)
no vegetative growth is allowed on said fence; 2) said fence does not encroach
upon public right-of-way; and 3) said fence does not impede visibility. For the
purpose of this section, “corner lot” shall mean any lot that is bound on two
or more sides by either public street right-of-way or a private street.
   B.   Private approaches onto a public or private street shall meet the site
triangle requirements as identified in the Access Management Policy.
   C.   Notification Of Existing Hazard: When the City determines that such a
traffic hazard exists, the City shall notify the owner and order that the
hazard be removed within thirty (30) days.
   D.   Failure To Comply: Pursuant to State law, the failure of the owner to
remove the traffic hazard within the appropriate specified time shall
constitute a misdemeanor and every day the owner shall fail to remove the
obstruction may be considered a separate and distinct offense. Civil action may
also be initiated by State or local officials to enforce vision triangle
restrictions.
   E.   Work Performed By City; Assessment: At the City Council’s direction
upon the failure, neglect or refusal of any owner so notified to remove the
public nuisance, as defined, within the time specified, the City shall proceed
with the work specified in the notice. The cost of the work shall be
transmitted to the City Council who shall cause the same to be paid and levy a
special assessment against the property. (Ord. 572, 6-13-2017; amd. Ord. 619,
4-13-2021)
6-1-5: COMPRESSION BRAKES PROHIBITED:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use
or operate or cause to be used or operated a compression brake within any
designated roadway except under emergency circumstances where the use of a
compression brake is necessary to prevent an accident or injury to persons or
property.
   B.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply:
    COMPRESSION BRAKE: Any engine brake, air compression brake or mechanical
exhaust braking device designed to aid in the braking or deceleration of any
vehicle that results in excessive, loud, unusual, or explosive noise from such
vehicle.
   DESIGNATED ROADWAY: Any public highway, as defined in section 40-117, Idaho
Code, within Hayden City limits.
   C.   Violation: Any person who violates any provision of this section shall
be deemed guilty of an infraction punishable pursuant to section
1-3-1 of this Code. (Ord. 583, 8-14-2018)
6-1-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the traffic or parking provisions set out in this
chapter shall have committed an infraction, unless other penalty is provided by
State law and, upon being found to have violated a provision of this chapter,
shall be penalized as allowed by State law. (Ord. 252, 7-30-1996)
6-1-7: SPEED LIMITS; VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Speed Limits:
      1.   Unless posted signage indicates to the contrary, all streets within
the City limits of Hayden and under the jurisdiction of the City of Hayden,
shall bear a maximum speed limit for wheeled vehicles of twenty five (25) miles
per hour.
      2.   The City Engineer, with the approval of the Mayor, may adopt a
temporary speed limit lower than the customary speed limit in a given area when
such speed limit is deemed necessary to cover special conditions arising from
construction zones. The temporary speed limit shall be posted in conformance
with Idaho Code section 49-209.
   B.   Violations: Any wheeled vehicle in excess of the speed limits
established by this section or by signage posted by the City pursuant to
determination of the City Engineer or City Council, which signage is
authorized, is deemed not reasonable and prudent, and the same is unlawful.
Violation of this section shall be subject to punishment as an infraction. The
penalty for an infraction violation shall be as determined by order of the
Idaho Supreme Court, as such is adopted from time to time. (Ord. 320, 6-25-
2002)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Clearing Sidewalks Of Snow And Debris
7-1-2: Repair And Maintenance Of Sidewalks
7-1-3: Snow On Public Property
7-1-4: Stormwater Infiltration System
7-1-5: Assessment And Lien
7-1-1: CLEARING SIDEWALKS OF SNOW AND DEBRIS:
Every owner or occupant of any house or other building, or of any vacant lot
within the city limits during the winter season and during the time snow
continues on the ground shall clear the sidewalks abutting such lot or block
from snow and ice, and shall keep them conveniently free therefrom during the
day, or shall in the case of snow or ice so congealed that it cannot be removed
without injury to the sidewalk, cause sand or some other substance that will
not harm the sidewalks to be scattered upon the snow and ice to provide
traction and to cause the snow and ice to melt. Every owner or occupant shall
also at all times keep the sidewalks clear of limbs, debris, and rubbish that
would tend to impede the free passage of pedestrian traffic upon the sidewalks.
Failure to comply with the provisions of this section shall constitute an
infraction punishable by a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 542, 1-
27-2015)
7-1-2: REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE OF SIDEWALKS:
It shall be the duty of the owner of property within the city limits to
maintain sidewalks abutting the owner's property at all times in a safe and
proper condition and to repair all damage to sidewalks whether or not the owner
has received notice from the city to do so. (Ord. 542, 1-27-2015)
7-1-3: SNOW ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any operator of snow removal equipment or the owner of any
private land upon which snow removal equipment is operated to place or
otherwise permit, sanction, approve or cause the placement of any fallen snow
onto public property or rights of way upon its removal from privately owned
land. (Ord. 542, 1-27-2015)
7-1-4: STORMWATER INFILTRATION SYSTEM:
Every owner or occupant of any house or other building, or of any vacant lot
within the city limits which has upon the private property any stormwater
infiltration system designed and installed for the purpose of collection,
conveyance, and/or treatment of storm drainage or abuts any such grass
infiltration system on public property shall be responsible to maintain the
system in a functional state, free of debris, sediment, surplus water, and
other items and practices that may impair the functionality of such system.
(Ord. 542, 1-27-2015)
7-1-5: ASSESSMENT AND LIEN:
If it becomes necessary for the city to clean or repair the sidewalks or grass
infiltration systems abutting any private property, the city may assess the
cost thereof against the private property and place a lien against the abutting
property as provided in title 9, chapter 50 of the Idaho Code. (Ord. 542, 1-27-
2015)
CHAPTER 2
RIGHT-OF-WAY ENCROACHMENTS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Title And Purpose
7-2-2: Definitions
7-2-3: Applicability
7-2-4: Administration
7-2-5: Regulations Mandatory
7-2-6: Permit Required
7-2-7: Fees
7-2-8: Insurance And Bond Requirements
7-2-9: Issuance Of Permit
7-2-10: Utility Companies
7-2-11: Standards And Specifications
7-2-12: Safety Requirements
7-2-13: Performance Standards
7-2-14: Earthwork And Drainage
7-2-15: Surface Restoration
7-2-16: Temporary Surfacing
7-2-17: Time Of Completion
7-2-18: Notice Requirements
7-2-19: Guaranty
7-2-20: Authority And Rights Of City
7-2-21: Indemnification
7-2-22: Failure To Comply
7-2-23: Revocation Of Permit
7-2-24: Suspension Of Permit
7-2-25: Penalty
7-2-1: TITLE AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Title: This chapter shall be known and cited as the HAYDEN RIGHT-OF-WAY
ENCROACHMENT ORDINANCE.
   B.   Purpose: The provisions contained in this chapter are necessary to
regulate all work of any kind or nature performed within the public right-of-
way or other public places contained within the corporate limits of the City
and to promote the public health, safety and general welfare in accordance with
approved standards. (Ord. 591, 3-26-2019)
7-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
FRANCHISE: The right or license granted to a utility through an agreement
between the City of Hayden and the utility (i.e., Avista, Kootenai Electric
Cooperative, or Spectrum) that includes right-of-way encroachment related
requirements as well as other items related to the use of the public right-of-
way.
HARSB: Hayden Area Regional Sewer Board oversees sewer service and waste water
treatment facility to the residents of the City of Hayden, Hayden Lake Sewer
District as well as the Coeur d'Alene (Kootenai County) Airport.
HLSD: Hayden Lakes Sewer District (formerly known as Hayden Lake Recreational
Water and Sewer District) was established in 1980 to provide sewerage systems
for the greater Hayden Lake area.
IDEQ: Idaho Department of Environmental Quality is a State department created
by the Idaho Environmental Protection and Health Act to ensure clean air,
water, and land in the State and protect Idaho citizens from the adverse health
impacts of pollution.
ISPWC: Idaho Standards for Public Works Construction Manual is a local standard
for construction and quality control of public works infrastructure projects.
ITD: Idaho Transportation Department is the State of Idaho governmental
organization responsible for State transportation infrastructure. This includes
ongoing operations and maintenance as well as planning for future needs of the
State and its citizens.
LHD: Lakes Highway District was formed in 1971 as a result of the consolidation
of multiple Highway Districts and the Kootenai County Road Department into four
(4) Highway Districts in Kootenai County. LHD is one of four (4) Highway
Districts in Kootenai County and maintains various public roads within the
district boundaries which generally lay north of Best Avenue in Coeur d'Alene
up to the Bonner County line, east of State Highway 41 and north the Rathdrum
City limits.
PFHD: Post Falls Highway District was originally formed in 1911 as a stand-
alone government agency, and then was adjusted in 1971 as a result of the
consolidation of multiple Highway Districts and the Kootenai County Road
Department into four (4) Highway Districts in Kootenai County. The district is
responsible for construction and maintenance of all public right-of-ways within
the district's boundaries.
PHD: Panhandle Health District provides over forty (40) different public health
programs to families, individuals and organizations in North Idaho. From food
and drinking water safety to health education and disease control, to include
septic tank and drywell permits within Kootenai County.
PRIVATE RIGHT-OF-WAY: Right-of-way not owned or maintained by the City of
Hayden or a Highway District.
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY: Right-of-way or property owned by the City of Hayden or a
Highway District.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: Roadway and associated curb, swale, and sidewalk whether
maintained or un-maintained; not an easement.
ROUTINE MAINTENANCE: Repairs, replacements, and corrections by the adjacent
property owner which does not require excavation of a City street, curb,
gutter, or sidewalk, does not require heavy equipment, and has no reasonable
potential to cause a hazard to the public, including, but not limited to,
mowing and trimming lawns, trimming landscape items, winter maintenance of
sidewalks, and irrigation repairs.
SURETY: Financial guaranty of work to be completed (performance) or work that
has been completed (warranty).
UTILITY EASEMENT: Utility located in an area located not within public right-
of-way. (Ord. 591, 3-26-2019)
7-2-3: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Specified: All work to be performed within or from the public right-of-
way or other public place that affects or may affect traffic and/or any of the
existing natural and/or manmade features contained therein.
   B.   Exemptions: The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the
following:
      1.   The City of Hayden; to include contractors who are under contract to
the City and who are covered by an insurance listing the City as additionally
insured and performance bond or appropriate security equal in value to one
hundred fifty percent (150%) of the amount of work to be performed within the
public right-of-way or other public place.
      2.   HARSB for routine sewer system maintenance activities for the City.
      3.   The State of Idaho for work exclusively within the right- of-way
limits of U.S. Highway 95.
      4.   Any work performed pursuant to any law of the State of Idaho which
specifically provides for such work.
      5.   Routine maintenance as defined in this chapter. (Ord. 591, 3-26-
2019)
7-2-4: ADMINISTRATION:
The City is vested with the duty of administering this chapter and may, in
consultation with authorized engineering and legal representatives, require
such additional information which is deemed necessary to fulfill the provisions
thereof. (Ord. 591, 3-26-2019)
7-2-5: REGULATIONS MANDATORY:
No person not specifically exempted as hereinabove stated shall initiate any
activity or work within the public right- of-way or other public place without
first having been issued a permit from the Public Works Director, City
Engineer, or his/her designee. Right-of-way encroachment permits for the
installation of driveway approaches (ingress/egress into a City of Hayden
public right-of-way), swales, and landscaping that are issued in conjunction
with a residential building permit shall be issued at the time of building
permit. (Ord. 591, 3-26-2019)
7-2-6: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person, unless specifically exempted by this chapter, to
injure or damage any features or perform work within the public right-of-way or
other public place without first obtaining a right-of-way encroachment permit
from the Public Works Director, City Engineer, or his/her designee. Activities
requiring permits include, but are not limited to, grading and drainage
required for approaches; boring, trenching and backfilling required for buried
utilities; modifications; repairs and maintenance of existing facilities;
landscaping, including the removal, planting, and/or trimming of trees;
erecting fences, signs, utility poles or other fixed objects; constructing
curbs, sidewalks, drives and drainage structures; constructing detours and/or
closing streets. Before issuing such permit, the City shall require the
following:
   A.   Application Form: For each project or segment thereof, a completed
right-of-way encroachment application, shall be processed and issued as a
permit hereinafter referred to as "permit".
   B.   Plans, Specifications, And Details:
      1.   Plans: Plans, details, and estimates illustrating all natural and
manmade features, the work to be performed, all utility locations, the limits
of work, the area of any required pavement replacement, the areas requiring
surface restoration and the traffic control measures that may be required, all
within the public right-of-way or other public place shall be submitted with
the application. Plans shall be accurately reproduced to a standard scale.
      2.   Specifications: A copy of written specifications for each item of
work to be performed within the public right-of-way or other public place.
Specifications shall include methods of construction, installation and
erection, and shall include performance criteria along with standards for
acceptance/rejection. Items of particular importance are grading, trench
excavation and backfill, utility installation, surface restoration, drainage
facilities, pavement replacement and testing, and traffic control as may be
applicable to the permit.
   C.   Additional Information As Required: Additional information as may be
required by the City or by an authorized representative of the City.
   D.   As-Constructed Conditions (As Required): As-constructed conditions
illustrating the following measurements shall be marked on the plans in red and
submitted to the City within two (2) business days following completion of the
work:
      1.   Horizontal measurements and/or coordinates;
         a.   Preexisting utility locations.
         b.   New utility locations, including, for buried installations, the
point of intersection with the right-of- way line and the points of connection
to the preexisting utility and to the building or to the front building line as
extended.
         c.   New surface restoration and pavement replacement locations.
         d.   Locations of all new aboveground appurtenances and fixed objects
of every character.
      2.   Vertical measurements and/or elevations;
         a.   Preexisting buried utilities.
         b.   New buried utilities at the point of intersection with the right-
of-way line and at the points of connection to the preexisting utility and to
the building or to the front building line as extended.
         c.   The base and top of new aboveground appurtenances and fixed
objects.
   E.   Emergencies: In the case of an emergency requiring physical injury or
damage to features or work to be performed within the public right-of-way or
other public place, an application for a right-of-way encroachment permit shall
be made on the next business day.
   F.   State And Adjacent Jurisdictions: No work within the right-of-way of
roads and highways under the jurisdiction of either the State of Idaho or
another jurisdiction (i.e., City of Dalton Gardens, City of Hayden Lake, City
of Coeur d'Alene, ITD, LHD, PFHD) shall be performed without first obtaining a
permit from the respective entity having jurisdiction.
   G.   Sewer Connections: If the permit application is for a sewer connection,
the applicant shall obtain a plumbing permit from the State and either the City
of Hayden or HLSD and shall attach a copy to the right-of-way encroachment
permit.
   H.   Work Within City Easements: Work within easements shall not be
detrimental to the underground utility and shall be in accordance with the
easement language.
   I.   Work Within Sewer Corridor: Work within the sewer corridor of a Hayden
Area Regional Sewer Board (HARSB) pressure main will require review and
approval by a representative of HARSB prior to the issuance of a City right-of-
way encroachment permit.
   J.   Review And Approval By Authorized Representative: The City may request
review and approval of the permit application by an authorized representative
before issuing the permit.
   K.   Minimum Requirements: All permits granted under this chapter shall
imply that all materials and workmanship shall meet or exceed the minimum
requirements of all applicable codes, laws, regulations and standards that are
in effect at the time the work is being performed, see chapter 3 of this title.
   L.   Inspection: All work performed under permit shall be subject to
inspection by the City or by an authorized representative of the City. Specific
items requiring inspection shall be indicated on the application form and shall
comply with project inspection certification requirements as contained in the
Hayden Supplemental Provisions. (Ord. 591, 3-26-2019)
7-2-7: FEES:
   A.   Permit Fees: The City shall require the permittee to pay certain fees
at the time of application and before issuing a permit. Fees charged in
accordance with this chapter shall be set by resolution.
   B.   Reparations: In addition to the permit application fee, all permittees
that cut the asphalt in the public right-of- way shall pay to the City, prior
to the cut being made, the reasonable cost to the City of the damage to the
integrity and longevity of the street surface resulting from the cut. The
amount of the cost shall be determined by the Public Works Director, City
Engineer or his/her designee. (Ord. 591, 3-26-2019)
7-2-8: INSURANCE AND BOND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Insurance: The City shall require the permittee to produce evidence of
insurance from the insurer, certifying to the amount of coverage and to the
period of coverage prior to issuing the permit. The insurer shall list the
names of the insured, the type and amount of coverage, the location and
operations to which the insurance applies and the date of expiration.
      1.   Public Liability Insurance:
         a.   Coverage for bodily injury and/or death for one or more persons
in each occurrence shall be maintained in force for a period of one year after
final acceptance of the work.
         b.   Coverage for property damage for each occurrence shall be
maintained in force until final acceptance of the work.
         c.   The combined single limit amount for both bodily injury and
property damage insurance shall not be less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00).
         d.   The liability policies shall cover the permittee and all
subcontractors, and shall name the City, its officials, employees and agents as
additional insureds.
      2.   Workers' Compensation: The permittee shall submit acceptable
evidence that all workers or employees at the site are covered in accordance
with applicable laws pertaining to workers' compensation and shall defend and
protect the City from and against all claims resulting from failure of the
permittee to maintain such insurance.
      3.   Builders Risk: The permittee shall secure all-risk type of builders
risk insurance covering all work performed, materials, equipment or other items
incorporated therein and within the public right-of-way or other public place.
The policy shall name the City, its officials, employees and agents as
additional insureds.
   B.   Surety: The permittee shall provide a bond or other form of surety, in
a form approved by the City, in an amount equal to one hundred fifty percent
(150%) of the cost of installation of the improvements and restoring the area
within the public right-of-way or other public place, including the cost of
pavement replacement and all other restoration work required by this chapter,
as surety for the timely completion of the work and in compliance with City
standards. (Ord. 591, 3-26-2019)
7-2-9: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
   A.   Conditions: The issuance of the permit is subject to the following:
      1.   The Public Works Director, City Engineer, or his/her designee shall
issue the permit only after all application items have been completed or
satisfactorily addressed, all reviews have been completed and all fees have
been paid.
      2.   Permits shall not be transferable.
      3.   The permittee shall notify the appropriate law enforcement agency,
the Fire Department, the School District and the utility companies at least two
(2) business days before work commences when so indicated on the permit.
      4.   The permit shall include the date when the work shall be completed.
      5.   The permit shall be void on the date following the date of
completion.
      6.   The permittee shall submit a written request for an extension of
time within two (2) business days before the date of completion, if the work is
not expected to be completed on time. The request shall state the cause of
delay.
   B.   Conflicting Provisions: Every permit shall be issued subject to any
prior rights or provisions of the City or of any other person, corporation or
utility company entitled thereto to use the public road right-of-way or public
place for any lawful purpose. (Ord. 591, 3-26-2019)
7-2-10: UTILITY COMPANIES:
   A.   Plan Submission:
      1.   The owner of the utility company responsible for installing and/or
constructing any aboveground or buried system of cables, conduits, pipes,
ducts, tunnels or any appurtenances within the public right-of-way or other
public place for the purpose of supplying or conveying oil, gas, electricity,
communications, water, sewer, stormwater in, to or from the City, or to or from
any parcel of land within the City shall submit a copy of plans and
specifications to the Public Works Director, City Engineer, or his/her designee
for review as part of the right-of-way encroachment application. Plans shall
clearly illustrate by coordinates, distances and bearings, the exact location,
size, descriptions and elevations of all pipes, conduits, ducts, cables,
tunnels or appurtenances to be installed or constructed within the public
right-of-way or other public places. Plans shall be accurately reproduced to a
standard scale.
      2.   The owner of the utility company shall, within ten (10) business
days following the completion of work, submit an as- constructed plan or set of
plans showing all corrections and changes marked clearly in red and shall
indicate the date of installation, including the date of service connections.
      3.   The owner of the utility company which is responsible for any
existing aboveground and/or buried systems of cables, conduits, pipes, ducts,
tunnels or any appurtenances shall submit a plan or set of plans showing the
location and description of the system components that have changed as a result
of construction within thirty (30) days following notice by the Public Works
Director, City Engineer, or his/her designee.
   B.   Protection Of Utilities: The owner of any utilities within the public
right-of-way or other public place shall bear all costs of relocating,
removing, shoring, supporting or protecting the utility in the event it becomes
necessary for the City or any authorized contractors to perform work under,
above, across or adjacent to the utility within the public right-of-way or
other public place. Relocation of the utilities shall occur within sixty (60)
days of notification by the City, unless some other time period is agreed upon
by the utility and the Public Works Director, City Engineer, or his/her
designee or in the case of utilities with franchise agreements, some other time
period is identified; but in no case shall it occur later than one hundred
eighty (180) days from the date of notification. (Ord. 591, 3-26-2019)
7-2-11: STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
All materials to be incorporated in the work and the quality of workmanship
shall meet or exceed the current minimum acceptable requirements of all of the
applicable laws, codes and industry standards, to include but not be limited by
the Hayden Supplemental Provisions, the Idaho State Public Works Construction
standards, and the Hayden Project Inspection and Certification requirements.
The City may request that any plans and specifications required of the permit
be stamped by a professional engineer licensed by the State of Idaho. Standards
and specifications that have been adopted or may become adopted by the City
shall have precedence. (Ord. 591, 3-26-2019)
7-2-12: SAFETY REQUIREMENTS:
The City may require the permittee to submit a traffic control plan,
illustrating the safety devices proposed for the work area prior to issuing a
permit. The permittee shall provide and maintain fences, barricades, signs,
lights, watchman and flaggers as required by laws and regulations and as deemed
necessary by the City to ensure full safety to the general public. The
permittee shall obey and enforce all lawful safety orders, rules and
recommendations of the State of Idaho and all City of Hayden laws, codes and
regulations. (Ord. 591, 3-26-2019)
7-2-13: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
Requirements to be met subsequent to issuing the permit include the following:
   A.   Utility Location: The permittee shall be responsible for ascertaining
the location of all underground utilities and other facilities which may affect
the work prior to beginning excavation.
   B.   Traffic Interference Minimized: Work shall be scheduled as to cause a
minimum of interference with pedestrian, bicycle and vehicular traffic and a
minimum of inconvenience to the general public and to the adjacent property
owners.
   C.   Access Unobstructed: Access to mailboxes and driveways shall not be
obstructed unnecessarily. Emergency vehicles shall be permitted to pass at all
times. Fire hydrants and valves shall be accessible at all times.
   D.   Water Flow Unobstructed: Stormwater facilities shall be kept open so as
to permit the free and unobstructed flow of water.
   E.   Detours: Temporary detours for vehicles and pedestrians shall be
constructed where deemed required by the City. Any damage to City property or
right-of-way resulting from temporary detours shall be repaired or restored to
the pre- construction condition state or better.
   F.   Excavation: Trench excavation and backfilling operations shall be
coordinated such that the length of open trench is never over fifty feet (50')
during construction hours and operations and twenty five feet (25') during
after-hours or shutdown. The City may also require that there shall not be any
unattended open trenches such that by dusk all backfilling and compaction will
have been completed.
   G.   Surplus Materials Removed: The City may also require the removal of all
surplus material and equipment from the right- of-way or from the travel way by
dusk each day.
   H.   Material Stockpiled: Material excavated from trenches shall be
temporarily stockpiled adjacent to the trench in such manner as to provide a
safe working environment and as to cause as little inconvenience as possible to
the general public.
   I.   Monuments: The City shall require the permittee to preserve, protect
and/or perpetuate any land monuments or reference points of whatever material
set for the purpose of defining the limits of property or establishing land
lines, boundaries or elevations. All such monuments that may become damaged or
destroyed shall be referenced and reestablished by a professional land
surveyor, licensed by the State, at the expense of the permittee.
   J.   Street Cuts: Where street surfacing has been in service three (3) years
or less, the contractor must bore crossings. Street cuts parallel to center
line must be approved by the Public Works Director, City Engineer, or his/her
designee and will require resurfacing using a paving machine. Crossings of
major collector streets and arterials may require boring at the direction of
the Public Works Director, City Engineer, or his/her designee. All street cuts
shall be paved back temporarily or permanently within seven (7) days of removal
unless otherwise approved by the Public Works Director, City Engineer, or his/
her designee.
   K.   Backfill: Backfill at subgrade shall be constructed and tested in
accordance with ISPWC and the Hayden Supplemental Provisions. The City may
require proof rolling of the subgrade, if it believes it is not firm and
unyielding at the time of inspection. (Ord. 591, 3-26-2019)
7-2-14: EARTHWORK AND DRAINAGE:
   A.   Performed According To Plans: Trench excavating and backfill, as well
as all grading, including roadway excavation and embankment, shall be performed
by the permittee in accordance with the lines and dimensions shown on the plans
and in accordance with the specifications, which together describe the work to
be performed under the permit.
   B.   Compaction Testing: The City shall require that compaction testing by
an independent consultant be performed during backfill and grading operations.
The cost of such testing shall be borne by the permittee.
   C.   Drainage: All earthwork operations shall be scheduled so as not to
disrupt the flow of drainage. Temporary ditches and grading may be required to
maintain normal drainage flows. (Ord. 591, 3-26-2019)
7-2-15: SURFACE RESTORATION:
   A.   Required: The permittee shall be required to restore all injured and/or
damaged surfaces within the public right-of- way and other public places in
accordance with the lines and dimensions shown on the plans and in accordance
with the specifications which together describe the work to be performed under
the permit.
   B.   Unpaved Surfaces: Restoration of unpaved surfaces shall include, but
shall not be limited to, grading, placement of topsoil, seeding, fertilizing,
watering, sodding, protecting, repairing and maintaining the area between the
edge of the traveled way and the right-of-way line.
   C.   Gravel, Concrete And Asphalt Surfaces: Restoration of gravel, concrete
and asphalt surfaces shall include, but not be limited to, grading, compaction
and placement of crushed rock, repair and/or replacement of concrete curbs,
walks, driveways and the repair and/or replacement of asphalt surfaces.
   D.   Cutting Surfaces: All concrete and asphalt surfaces requiring repair or
replacement shall first be cut with a power saw to form neat perpendicular and/
or parallel lines to the right-of-way lines.
   E.   Full Width Restoration: Where fifty percent (50%) or more of the
surface area of pavement has been removed or damaged, full width restoration
shall be required. Any strip of remaining pavement less than four feet (4') in
width along curb and gutter or pavement edge shall be removed and replaced.
   F.   Cold Joint Surface Tacking: All cold joint surfaces shall be in
accordance to ISPWC and tacked with emulsion which has been properly applied
and cured prior to the patching.
   G.   Deviation From Existing Surface: The completed patch shall not deviate
from existing surface more than 0.025 feet/10 feet in profile or 0.025 feet/10
feet in cross section when measured with a ten foot (10') straight edge.
   H.   Water Ponding Prohibited: Completed patches shall not pond water.
   I.   Compaction: Backfill, subgrade, ballast and base course shall be
compacted to a minimum of ninety five percent (95%) of the maximum dry density
as determined by AASHTO T-99 (standard proctor). Asphalt shall be compacted to
a minimum of ninety two percent (92%) of the Rice density (max theoretical
density).
   J.   Standards: Materials and constructions of structural repair shall
conform to the standards set by the City.
   K.   Trimming: Street surfacing shall be trimmed to a neat straight line
with the edges free of dust, moisture or loose material. (Ord. 591, 3-26-2019)
7-2-16: TEMPORARY SURFACING:
The permittee may be required by the City to place and compact a temporary
asphalt surface on the same day that each section of trench backfilling has
been completed or within twenty four (24) hours thereafter. Replacement of the
temporary asphalt surface with final pavement shall be completed within ten
(10) days of the date when all backfilling has been completed. Work shall be
scheduled such that final pavement will be completed prior to October 31 of the
same year. (Ord. 226, 5-24-1994)
7-2-17: TIME OF COMPLETION:
The permittee shall diligently and continuously prosecute the work without
interruption until it is satisfactorily completed, including the preparation of
as-constructed plans, within the time allowed in the permit. (Ord. 226, 5-24-
1994)
7-2-18: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Completion: The permittee shall call for a final inspection by the
Public Works Director, City Engineer, or his/her designee within two (2)
business days following completion of the work within the public right-of-way
or other public places.
   B.   Compliance: Within five (5) business days following receipt by the City
of the notice of completion, the Public Works Director, City Engineer, or his/
her designee shall visit the work site to ascertain if the work performed by
the permittee is in compliance with the permit and with the provisions of this
chapter and shall issue a notice of compliance stating therein any conditions
thereof and advising the permittee as to the effective date of the guaranty
period. (Ord. 591, 3-26-2019)
7-2-19: GUARANTY:
   A.   Required: The permittee shall guaranty all work for eighteen (18)
months after the date of final acceptance. If the permittee, after receiving
notice, fails within ten (10) days to comply with the terms of the guaranty,
the City may correct any defects at the expense of the permittee. The City may
require such surety as it deems reasonably necessary to ensure compliance with
this provision.
   B.   Repairs Under Guaranty:
      1.   For a period of eighteen (18) months following completion of work
under the permit, the permittee shall be responsible for immediately repairing
and making good, upon notice by the City, all injuries or damages to any and
all features within the public right-of-way or other public place that occur as
a result of work performed under the permit and which would not have occurred
had such work not been performed.
      2.   In the event that the repairs are not promptly made by the
permittee, the City shall have the authority, upon written notice to the
permittee, to make such repairs. The actual cost of such work by the City, plus
fifteen percent (15%) as an overhead charge, shall be charged to and paid for
by the permittee. (Ord. 591, 3-26-2019)
7-2-20: AUTHORITY AND RIGHTS OF CITY:
   A.   Work By City: If the work is unduly delayed by the permittee, and if
the public interest reasonably so demands, the City shall have the authority,
upon written notice to the permittee, to complete the work or any portion
thereof. The actual cost of such work by the City, plus fifteen percent (15%)
as an overhead charge, shall be charged to and paid for by the permittee.
   B.   Use By City: At all times during the performance of work, the City
shall have the right to use all or any part of the area occupied by the
permittee under the permit.
   C.   Observation: The authorized representative of the City shall observe
the operations of the permittee with respect to trenching, grading, drainage,
surface restoration and pavement replacement to ensure that all work complies
with the requirements of this chapter. The permittee shall notify the City at
least two (2) business days (48 hours) in advance of work requiring inspection.
(Ord. 226, 5-24-1994)
7-2-21: INDEMNIFICATION:
The permittee shall be responsible for all claims and liabilities arising out
of work performed under the permit or arising out of the permittee's failure to
perform the obligations with respect to this chapter. The permittee shall, and
by acceptance of the permit, agree to defend, indemnify, save and hold harmless
the City, its officials, employees and agents from and against any and all
suits, claims or actions brought by any person for or on account of any bodily
injuries, disease or illness or damage to persons and/or property sustained or
arising in the construction of the work performed under the permit or in
consequence of permittee's failure to perform the obligation with respect to
this chapter. (Ord. 226, 5-24-1994)
7-2-22: FAILURE TO COMPLY:
Should the permittee fail to complete the work for which the permit was issued
within the time limit specified in the permit, the City, at its option, shall
proceed to complete the same and shall hold the owner and surety, if any,
jointly and severally responsible for the same. (Ord. 226, 5-24-1994)
7-2-23: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
The City may revoke any permit for noncompliance with any of the provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 226, 5-24-1994)
7-2-24: SUSPENSION OF PERMIT:
The Public Works Director, City Engineer, or his/her designee has the authority
to suspend the issuance of permits for street cuts when he deems it is
appropriate based upon the condition of the street, the weather or the
availability of materials to make the repairs. (Ord. 591, 3-26-2019)
7-2-25: PENALTY:
Any person engaged in or responsible for performing work within the public
right-of-way or other public place without first obtaining a permit, or without
having the work inspected and approved, are in violation of this chapter.
Violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor, and
upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-3-1 of this Code. (Ord. 226, 5-24-1994; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 3
PUBLIC WORKS CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Title And Purpose
7-3-2: Standards
7-3-3: Regulations Mandatory
7-3-4: Failure To Comply
7-3-5: Penalty
7-3-1: TITLE AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Title: This chapter shall be known and cited as the HAYDEN PUBLIC WORKS
CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS ORDINANCE.
   B.   Purpose: The provisions contained herein are necessary to ensure that
all public infrastructure constructed within the corporate limits of the city
that will be owned and maintained by the city is designed and constructed in
accordance with approved standards. (Ord. 512, 7-10-2012)
7-3-2: STANDARDS:
All public works infrastructure construction for improvements to be owned and
maintained by the city shall be done in conformance with the standards for
public works construction adopted by the city council by resolution. (Ord. 512,
7-10-2012)
7-3-3: REGULATIONS MANDATORY:
No applicant, not specifically exempted, shall initiate any public works
construction work within the existing or proposed public right of way or
easement without first having executed a financial guarantee agreement and
having received written notice to proceed from the city. (Ord. 512, 7-10-2012)
7-3-4: FAILURE TO COMPLY:
Should the applicant fail to complete the improvements, as defined in the
project plans and referenced specifications in accordance with the requirements
of the adopted standards for public works construction and such other approved
provisions prior to the agreed upon date of completion, the city may complete
the project or cause the project to be completed according to the terms of the
financial guarantee agreement. (Ord. 512, 7-10-2012)
7-3-5: PENALTY:
The applicant or any person engaged in or responsible for performing public
works construction work without first executing a financial guarantee agreement
or performing work contrary to the provisions of this chapter is in violation.
Violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor and
upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-3-1 of this code. (Ord. 232, 5-24-1994; amd. 2002 Code; Ord. 512, 7-10-2012)
CHAPTER 4
PARADES AND PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES
SECTION:
7-4-1: Definitions
7-4-2: Permit Required
7-4-3: Exceptions To Permit Requirement
7-4-4: Application And Proper Notice
7-4-5: Contents Of Permit Application
7-4-6: Application Fee
7-4-7: Standards For Issuance
7-4-8: Notice Of Determination Of Application
7-4-9: Conditional Approval
7-4-10: Appeal Procedure
7-4-11: Duties Of Permittee
7-4-12: Time, Place, And Manner Restrictions
7-4-13: Violation; Penalties
7-4-14: Emergency Cancellation/Termination
7-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases when used in this chapter shall have the
meanings set out in this section:
APPLICANT: Any person applying for a "permit" as defined herein. The true
applicant for any such permit shall be the sponsoring entity whether such
sponsoring entity is an individual person, a corporation, a partnership or
other legal entity of any type.
CITY ADMINISTRATOR: The city administrator of the city.
CITY CLERK: The clerk of the city or the clerk's authorized designee.
PARADE: Any dash, demonstration, march, marathon, meeting, motorcade, parade,
procession, public assembly, race, rally, or like activity consisting of
persons, animals, or vehicles or a combination thereof within the city with an
intent of attracting public attention or achieving some other expressive
purpose which might interfere with or has the potential to interfere with the
normal flow or regulation of traffic upon the streets.
PERMIT: The permit as required by this chapter for a "parade" or "public
assembly" as defined herein. An approved application will serve as the permit.
PERMITTEE: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind granted a permit for an activity regulated by this
chapter.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
PUBLIC ASSEMBLY: Any meeting, demonstration, rally or gathering of persons for
a common purpose as a result of prior planning that interferes with or has a
tendency to interfere with the normal flow or regulation of pedestrian or
vehicular traffic or occupies any street or other public property managed by
the city of Hayden.
SHERIFF: The Kootenai County sheriff or the sheriff's authorized designee.
SIDEWALK: Any area or way set aside or open to the general public for purpose
of pedestrian traffic, whether or not it is paved.
STREET: Any place or way set aside or open to the general public for primary
purposes of vehicular traffic, including any berm or shoulder, parkway, right
of way, or median strip thereof. (Ord. 307, 2-12-2002)
7-4-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in, participate in, or conduct any "parade" or "public
assembly" as defined by this chapter unless a permit has been issued by the
city clerk for the date and location involved. (Ord. 307, 2-12-2002)
7-4-3: EXCEPTIONS TO PERMIT REQUIREMENT:
This chapter shall not apply to the following:
   A.   Funeral processions;
   B.   Government agencies acting within the scope of their function;
   C.   Regular park usage by family, charitable, fraternal or other groups in
the ordinary traditional use of the park, when the anticipated number of
participants is less than seventy five (75);
   D.   Community block watch events;
   E.   Students going to and from classes or participating in educational
activities, provided such conduct is under the immediate direction and
supervision of the proper school authorities;
   F.   Other activities sponsored by the city of Hayden in its municipal
capacity. (Ord. 469, 3-24-2009)
7-4-4: APPLICATION AND PROPER NOTICE:
A person seeking a parade/public assembly permit shall obtain an application
form and file a completed application with the city clerk on forms provided.
An application for a permit shall be filed with the city clerk as soon as the
applicant knows sufficient information to complete an application and at least
forty five (45) days and not more than one year before a parade or public
assembly is proposed to commence. The time frame set forth herein may be waived
in the discretion of the city administrator for good cause and upon a finding
that such waiver would not compromise the ability of the city to prepare for
the activity for which the permit is requested.
Good cause may be shown when the parade or public assembly is related to an
unanticipated or recently announced or occurring event and the application for
permit or public assembly can be processed in compliance with the provisions of
this chapter in sufficient time to allow the parade or public assembly to
proceed as scheduled without causing fiscal or operational hardship to the
city's operating departments.
This section is subject to amendment or replacement at any time, and any
application for a parade or public assembly permit shall be issued pursuant to
the ordinance in effect at the time of application, but conduct during the
parade or assembly shall be governed by standards of behavior legally required
at the time the event occurs. (Ord. 307, 2-12-2002)
7-4-5: CONTENTS OF PERMIT APPLICATION:
Each permit application shall state at least the following, and the applicant
shall adhere to and be bound by any commitments made in an application
submittal:
   A.   The full name, street address, telephone number, e-mail address, and
facsimile number, if any, of the person or organization sponsoring the parade
or public assembly;
   B.   The name, street address, telephone number, e-mail address, and
facsimile number, if any, of the person in charge of the parade or public
assembly;
   C.   The date when the parade or public assembly is to be conducted;
   D.   The name of the parade or public assembly, if any;
   E.   The time the parade or public assembly will begin to form, and the time
the parade or public assembly will begin movement;
   F.   The place the parade or public assembly will form;
   G.   The route of the parade or public assembly selected from the
preapproved routes maintained by the city clerk;
   H.   The place the parade or public assembly will disband;
   I.   The approximate number of participants, not including spectators, who
will participate in the parade or public assembly and the maximum number who
will be allowed to participate;
   J.   The number of marchers, animals, floats, automobiles, or other vehicles
in the parade or public assembly;
   K.   The prior parade or public assembly history of the applicant within
Hayden, or the state of Idaho history if no Hayden history exists, including
the number of permits previously applied for;
   L.   A thoroughly documented plan for controlling disorderly or violent
conduct if such might reasonably be expected, a plan for maintaining traffic
flow to commercial and other establishments, a plan for sanitary and medical
facilities, and for cleanup;
   M.   Attach the required certificate of insurance as set forth elsewhere
within this chapter;
   N.   Identify any requested exception from any requirement established by
this chapter premised upon the unique circumstances associated with the parade/
public assembly for which application has been made;
   O.   Any other information required by the city clerk or sheriff to enable
them to understand the impacts of the proposed parade or public assembly. (Ord.
307, 2-12-2002)
7-4-6: APPLICATION FEE:
A nonrefundable application fee in an amount set by resolution of the city
council to cover the expenses incident to processing the application for parade
or public assembly permit shall be paid to the city clerk at the time of filing
of the application. This fee is not refundable unless the application is
withdrawn on the same date it is submitted. (Ord. 469, 3-24-2009)
7-4-7: STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE:
   A.   Statement Of Purpose: The purpose of these regulations is to set forth
the standards of issuance for a parade or public assembly permit. It is further
the purpose of these regulations to:
      1.   Assure that emergency services such as police, fire, and ambulance
services are available for a parade or public assembly taking place within the
corporate limits of the city of Hayden; and
      2.   Assure that emergency services such as police, fire, and ambulance
services are not unreasonably inhibited in their ability to travel on and to
cross public streets or property used by parades or public assemblies; and
      3.   Assure that private business activities in Hayden are not
unreasonably impacted by parades or public assemblies; and
      4.   Assure that traffic on public streets is not unreasonably disturbed
or disrupted by parades or public assemblies; and
      5.   Assure that public safety can be maintained; and
      6.   Assure that public property can be protected from harm.
   B.   Permit Issuance: Only one parade or public assembly permit will be
granted for the same calendar day unless absolute assurance can be provided
that the permitted events will not conflict and that public service obligations
will not exceed the fiscal and operational limits of city personnel. The city
clerk shall issue the permit on a first come, first served basis. Except for
the city and other public agencies, individual persons/organizations/
corporations shall be limited to one parade and/or one public assembly per
month. Prior to issuance of the permit, the applicant shall provide a
certificate of liability insurance in an amount not less than five hundred
thousand dollars ($500,000.00).
   C.   Health District Requirement: No permit shall be granted unless the
applicant obtains the approval of the Kootenai County health district
indicating that the applicants for the permit have complied with the health
requirements of such district for like or similar facilities. Such approval
shall include the type and adequacy of water supply to be provided, the type
and adequacy of toilet, waste collection and washing facilities to be provided,
and if there is food or drink served on the premises, the type and adequacy of
food and drink preparation, and food and drink service facilities to be
provided.
   D.   Application Form; Approval: Affected city departments may request such
information from the applicant as necessary to demonstrate compliance with
applicable provisions of law. Information may be requested on the permit
application form, through written instructions communicated from the city clerk
or city administrator, or through written or oral inquiries addressed to the
applicant by any designated city staff member. The time for considering the
permit may be extended by the time taken by the applicant in responding
satisfactorily to any inquiry, not to exceed five (5) business days.
   E.   Discrimination Prohibited: There shall be no discrimination in
granting, denying, or conditionally granting permits under this chapter based
upon statutorily protected or constitutionally guaranteed individual rights.
   F.   Permit Denial: The city clerk may deny a permit if the applicant or the
person on whose behalf the application is made has on prior occasions made
material misrepresentations regarding the nature or scope of a parade or public
assembly previously permitted or has violated the terms of prior permits issued
to or on behalf of the applicant; or if the applicant or the person on whose
behalf the application was made has on prior occasions damaged city property
and not paid in full for such damage.
   G.   Additional Reasons For Denial; Halting Of Assembly: A permit may be
denied where the city clerk, upon the advice of the sheriff, determines that
the parade would unreasonably disrupt traffic or public services or where there
is clear and convincing evidence that the applicant, not opponents of the
applicant, intends to engage in violence and that the time, place, and manner
of the event cannot be adjusted such that the city will be able to control such
potential violence without injury to bystanders, participants, or police. A
parade or public assembly may be halted by the sheriff if at any time
participants fail to conform to the permit or if an imminent risk of violence
arises in the course of the parade or public assembly. No application for a
permit shall issue if the applicant fails to demonstrate compliance with all
applicable provisions of law, including the requirements of this chapter. (Ord.
469, 3-24-2009)
7-4-8: NOTICE OF DETERMINATION OF APPLICATION:
The city clerk shall act upon the application for a permit promptly after the
filing thereof accompanied by the applicant's submission of complete
information. The clerk shall make a reasonable effort to notify the applicant,
by facsimile, personal service, or certified mail, of any notice of denial or
conditional approval and the reason(s) for denial or conditions as soon as
practical upon the clerk's decision. Such decision shall be made with a
promptness adequate to allow an opportunity for appeal pursuant to provisions
of this chapter. (Ord. 307, 2-12-2002)
7-4-9: CONDITIONAL APPROVAL:
The city clerk may authorize the conduct of the parade or public assembly
requiring a permit at a date, time, place or in a manner different from that
named by the applicant and may tender a conditional permit setting forth
proposed modified terms which differ from those set forth in the application.
An applicant desiring to accept a conditional permit shall, within five (5)
days after notice of the action of the city clerk, file a written notice of
acceptance with the city clerk. If the applicant fails to provide written
notice of acceptance of the conditional permit within the time prescribed, the
parade or public assembly shall not be held. (Ord. 307, 2-12-2002)
7-4-10: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
Any applicant shall have the right to appeal the clerk's denial of a permit or
imposition of conditions to the city council. The denied applicant must make
any appeal within forty eight (48) hours after receipt of the denial or
conditional approval from the city clerk by filing a written notice of appeal
with the city clerk setting out the reasons therefor in writing. The city
council will hear the appeal at a regular or special meeting and reach a
determination prior to the planned date and time of the parade/public assembly,
and in each instance no more than seven (7) business days after the date the
notice of appeal is filed with the city clerk unless a quorum of the city
council cannot be obtained. (Ord. 307, 2-12-2002)
7-4-11: DUTIES OF PERMITTEE:
A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit conditions and with all
federal, state and local laws.
The following shall be attached to the parade or public assembly application:
   A.   Approval of the Kootenai County health district indicating that the
applicant has met all of the health requirements of the district for like or
similar facilities.
   B.   If sponsor operated motor vehicles are involved, proof of comprehensive
automobile liability insurance from an insurance company authorized to do
business in Idaho. This coverage shall be in the amount required by Idaho Code.
The city clerk may require a higher limit when in the opinion of the city clerk
or sheriff the event demands a higher limit. Such reasons for higher limits
shall be set forth in writing.
   C.   A performance bond may be required to guarantee damage repair to any
structure within the public right of way or other public property, if in the
opinion of the city clerk the nature of the activity is likely to cause damage
to city property. (Ord. 307, 2-12-2002)
7-4-12: TIME, PLACE, AND MANNER RESTRICTIONS:
The following prohibitions and regulations shall apply to activities requiring
a permit:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of, or responsible for
the conduct of, a duly permitted activity requiring a permit to knowingly fail
to comply with any condition of the permit.
   B.   No permit shall be issued for a parade or public assembly to commence
before seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. All parades and/or public assemblies shall
terminate prior to eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. No parade requiring a permit
shall exceed two (2) hours in length. City street setup and dispersal,
including barricade removal, shall not be included in the activity time limit.
   C.   All parade participants shall assemble for the parade at the time and
location designated in the parade permit and shall disperse from public
property after the conclusion of the parade in order that regular traffic
patterns might be restored.
   D.   Parade or assembly organizers shall assure to the satisfaction of the
sheriff: 1) participants are not in possession of firearms or other weapons
unless specifically approved by the sheriff, 2) do not intend to engage in
violence or other unlawful conduct, and 3) do not intend to incite others to do
so.
   E.   The permit may limit or condition the number of participants, the
length of the event, the time and location of the event, or the manner of the
event where necessary to prevent violence; to avoid serious inconvenience to
those needing access to commercial or public services; to avoid interference
with movement of police or fire vehicles or ambulances and where such
limitations or conditions provide ample opportunity for exercise of
constitutionally protected rights.
   F.   The permit may require that the applicant provide water supply and/or
toilet, waste collection and washing facilities for participants and attendees
of the parade or public assembly. (Ord. 307, 2-12-2002)
7-4-13: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person who violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter or who, having obtained a permit hereunder, fails to comply with the
conditions set forth in the approved permit is guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord.
445, 1-22-2008)
7-4-14: EMERGENCY CANCELLATION; TERMINATION:
Notwithstanding issuance of a permit pursuant to provisions of this chapter,
the mayor is authorized to revoke a parade/public assembly permit if the mayor
determines, based upon competent evidence, that the conduct of the parade or
public assembly would bring about violence which would, with reasonable
certainty, result in injury to the public or to public safety personnel or
which would result in damage to private property. Any such cancellation shall
be communicated to the sponsor/applicant as soon as possible after such
determination has been made. (Ord. 307, 2-12-2002)
CHAPTER 5
PUBLIC PARKS AND BEACHES
SECTION:
7-5-1: Short Title
7-5-2: Purpose
7-5-3: Definitions
7-5-4: Authority For Posted Regulations
7-5-5: General Prohibitions
7-5-6: Outdoor Entertainment And Assemblies
7-5-7: Smoking Prohibited On Honeysuckle Beach, City Parks And Play Fields
7-5-8: Honeysuckle Beach Fees
7-5-9: Penalties
7-5-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter will be known as the PUBLIC PARK ORDINANCE of the city of Hayden.
(Ord. 310, 4-9-2002)
7-5-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the general health, safety and public
welfare of city of Hayden residents and visitors by regulating the use, hours
of use, and what materials may be brought to public parks, play fields and
Honeysuckle Beach. (Ord. 310, 4-9-2002)
7-5-3: DEFINITIONS:
 
                                    Any verbal or nonverbal communication from
DIRECTIONS OR ORDERS BY LIFEGUARDS: a lifeguard employed by the city of Hayden
                                    with regards to maintaining the safety and
                                    health of visitors to Honeysuckle Beach.
                                    All lands, buildings, facilities, parking
HONEYSUCKLE BEACH:                  areas, beaches, docks, reserves and open
                                    space, owned, operated or maintained by the
                                    City.
                                    Any property set aside by the city of
PLAY FIELD:                         Hayden for baseball, softball, soccer,
                                    football or other outdoor sports
                                    activities.
                                    Any metal container which has an opening
POP TOP TYPE METAL CONTAINERS:      secured by a removable metal tag, the
                                    removal of which shall create sharp edges
                                    on the container or on the tag removed.
                                    Any rule or regulation posted on a sign, in
                                    plain view, advising what conduct is
POSTED REGULATIONS:                 expected or prohibited. It also means any
                                    markings on the road or parking lot surface
                                    with instructions as to parking regulations
                                    or vehicular traffic.
                                    Any and all lands, buildings, facilities,
                                    parking areas, beaches, docks, reserves and
                                    open space, sports complexes, game fields,
                                    playgrounds, trails, and other general or
PUBLIC PARK:                        special use outdoor places, that are owned,
                                    operated or maintained by the City as
                                    listed in the inventory of park properties
                                    by the City. (Ord. 310, 4-9-2002; amd. Ord.
                                    393, 8-9-2005; Ord. 632, 6-14-2022)
 
7-5-4: AUTHORITY FOR POSTED REGULATIONS:
The city of Hayden shall have ultimate authority to establish and have posted
rules and regulations, in addition to those set forth in this chapter, at
public parks, play fields and Honeysuckle Beach in order to protect the health,
safety and general welfare of residents and citizens. (Ord. 310, 4-9-2002)
7-5-5: GENERAL PROHIBITIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person in any public park, play field or
Honeysuckle Beach to:
   A.   Violate any posted regulations.
   B.   Fail to obey the lawful directives and/or orders from any lifeguard or
law enforcement officer. (Ord. 469, 3-24-2009)
   C.   Take or allow any domestic or farm animal which that person owns or
harbors upon the premises, except: animals trained and used for the aid of
individuals with special needs, "service animals" (as defined in 28 CFR 35 or
as it may be amended), or where signage specifically allows the particular
animal or activity. Special exceptions to this prohibition in the form of
organized animal shows or competitions may be granted by express written
authority of the city administrator when the use or activity is of general
community benefit or of particular benefit to the city. (Ord. 546, 10-27-2015)
   D.   Cause to be deposited on the premises any glass container, pop top
style metal container or the opening tag off of the containers, except in
designated trash receptacles.
   E.   Be in possession of open containers or receptacles of beer,
intoxicating liquor or wine, or to consume such beverages on the premises,
except during special events for which a permit has been issued by the city
council.
   F.   Park a motor vehicle, use any equipment, facilities, accessories, or
appliances for camping purposes, sleeping, or preparing meals between the hours
of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. Special exceptions to
this prohibition in the form of overnight camping permission or meal
preparation authorization may be granted by express written authority of the
city administrator when the use or activity is of general community benefit or
of particular benefit to the city.
   G.   Be in a public park, play field or the beach area of Honeysuckle Beach
between ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., except that
persons may be on the docks at Honeysuckle Beach for the purpose of launching a
boat at times that would otherwise be prohibited.
   H.   Sell or offer for sale any food, beverage, candy or goods of any kind,
within a public park, except for persons operating under a concession agreement
approved by the city council or except for persons with an assembly permit that
authorizes concessions. Permits for specific events shall take priority over
concession agreements.
Any entity or person desiring to obtain a permit to conduct operations of
concessions for a specific event within a city park shall make application to
the city and pay an application fee in an amount set by the city council by
resolution. The application shall include a list of the times concessions are
to be sold. No items will be permitted to be sold that are in violation of any
local, state or federal laws. The alcohol sales and/or consumption allowed with
a special event must be within the area designated within the permit. (Ord.
469, 3-24-2009)
7-5-6: OUTDOOR ENTERTAINMENT AND ASSEMBLIES:
The provisions of the city of Hayden parade and outdoor assembly ordinance
shall be applicable to outdoor entertainment and assemblies in public parks or
Honeysuckle Beach. (Ord. 310, 4-9-2002)
7-5-7: SMOKING PROHIBITED ON HONEYSUCKLE BEACH, CITY PARKS AND PLAY FIELDS:
   A.   Defined Terms: "Smoking" or "smoke" means the carrying or holding of a
lighted pipe, a lighted cigarette of any kind, or any lighted smoking
equipment, and lighting of a pipe, cigar or cigarette of any kind, and
inhaling, emitting, or exhaling the smoke of a pipe, cigar or cigarette of any
kind or any other smoking equipment.
   B.   Boundaries Of Honeysuckle Beach: For the purposes of this section,
boundaries of "Honeysuckle Beach" shall be defined as shown in section
7-5-3 of this chapter.
   C.   Smoking Prohibited: No person shall smoke anywhere within the
boundaries of Honeysuckle Beach, or any public park or play field, except for
areas specifically designated for smoking. For the purpose of this section, a
city park or play field shall include the parking lot associated with the park
or play field and any sidewalk adjacent to the park or play field.
   D.   Disposal Of Smoking Waste: No person shall dispose of any cigarette,
cigar, or tobacco, or any part of a cigarette or cigar, including cigarette and
cigar butts and ashes and used matches in any place within the boundaries of
Honeysuckle Beach, park or play field, including any designated smoking area,
except in any specially designated smoking waste receptacle.
   E.   Violation; Fine: A violation of this section is an infraction
punishable by a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00). (Ord. 468, 3-24-2009)
7-5-8: HONEYSUCKLE BEACH FEES:
   A.   This section shall be known and cited as the HONEYSUCKLE BEACH FEE
REGULATIONS for use of the Honeysuckle Beach boat ramp facility.
   B.   A boat ramp facility use fee shall be collected from the driver of each
vehicle that is using the Honeysuckle Beach boat ramp facility.
   C.   Boat ramp facility use fees shall be paid upon entrance to the
Honeysuckle Beach parking lot.
   D.   An annual boat ramp facility use permit may be purchased from the City
which shall authorize a vehicle with that permit attached to the vehicle to use
the boat ramp facility providing that the boat ramp facility is open for use at
that time. The amount of the daily boat ramp facility use fee and annual permit
fee shall be set by resolution of the City Council.
   E.   There shall be a fee waiver of the annual permit for any disabled
Hayden resident meeting the following qualifications:
      1.   Disabled: A person is disabled if they are deemed disabled by one or
more, but not necessarily all of the following: the Railroad Retirement Board
pursuant to title 45 of the United States Code, or certified as eligible for
Federal supplemental security income (SSI); or Social Security disability
income (SSDI); or a nonservice-connected veterans pension; or a service-
connected veterans disability benefit with forty percent (40%) or more
disability; or if a physician has certified any of the following - that a
person has lost the use of one or both lower extremities or both hands, or is
unable to walk two hundred feet (200') or more unassisted by another person, or
is unable to walk two hundred feet (200') or more without the aid of a walker,
cane, crutches, braces, prosthetic device or a wheelchair, or is unable to walk
two hundred feet (200') or more without great difficulty or discomfort due to
the following impairments - neurological, orthopedic, respiratory, cardiac,
arthritic disorder, blindness, or the loss of function or absence of a limb.
      2.   Eligible Applicant: Any physically disabled person certified by a
physician licensed in the State of Idaho, as meeting one or more of the
criteria set forth in subsection E1 of this section who is also a resident of
the City of Hayden.
      3.   Required Documentation: Required documentation must be presented in
person or by mail to the City. An applicant must present to the City one of the
following:
         a.   A current year's award statement in the individual's name showing
that he or she is receiving SSI or SSDI benefits for the current year;
         b.   A letter from the Railroad Retirement Board verifying disability
status and being dated within three (3) years preceding the application for a
disabled license;
         c.   A letter from the Veterans Affairs Office verifying a service-
connected disability rating of forty percent (40%) or greater. Such
documentation can bear any date prior to license application. Such
documentation will be required only for the initial application and will not be
required for subsequent disability license application; or
         d.   A current year's letter from the Veterans Affairs Office showing
an individual is receiving a nonservice-connected pension.
         e.   A physician's permanent disability certification, which must be
completed and signed by the applicant's physician, physician assistant, or
nurse practitioner stating which of the criteria set forth in subsection E1 of
this section qualifies the applicant and why.
      4.   Attestation; Misrepresentation: Applicants for a fee waiver must
attest to the disability requirements of this section, and shall not
misrepresent any information to obtain a fee waiver.
      5.   Residency: Applicants must prove City residency.
   F.   The vehicle shall not be left for more than one-half (1/2) hour during
the use of the boat ramp facility without parking the vehicle. (Ord. 573, 7-11-
2017, eff. 1-1-2018)
7-5-9: PENALTIES:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter or any rules issued
hereunder may be issued a civil citation in lieu of a uniform infraction
citation and shall be assessed a civil penalty of twenty five dollars ($25.00)
to be paid to the City. The civil citation assessment shall be payable at City
Hall within thirty (30) days from the date of issuance. No partial payments
will be accepted as full payment. If, within the thirty (30) day period
following the issuance of the City civil citation the assessment has not been
paid, an infraction uniform citation or sworn complaint may be issued for the
violation of this chapter or the rules, and the violator, if found guilty, will
be fined in the amount of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for the violation plus
court costs. Nothing contained herein prohibits a law enforcement officer from
issuance of a uniform infraction citation instead of a civil citation. (Ord.
573, 7-11-2017, eff. 1-1-2018)
CHAPTER 6
AGGRESSIVE SOLICITATION PRACTICES AND SOLICITATION OF FUNDS FROM OCCUPANTS OF
MOTOR VEHICLES
SECTION:
7-6-1: Solicitation Of Vehicle Occupants Prohibited In Public Highway Right Of
Way Open To Vehicular Traffic
7-6-2: Aggressive Soliciting Prohibited
7-6-3: Limiting Solicitation In Certain Circumstances
7-6-1: SOLICITATION OF VEHICLE OCCUPANTS PROHIBITED IN PUBLIC HIGHWAY RIGHT OF
WAY OPEN TO VEHICULAR TRAFFIC:
In order to prevent possible injury to pedestrians or distraction of motorists
leading to auto crashes, it shall be unlawful for any person to sit or stand on
a highway, as defined in Idaho Code 49-109(5) open to vehicular traffic to
solicit business or contributions from the occupants of any vehicle. (Ord. 530,
10-22-2013, eff. 12-1-2013)
7-6-2: AGGRESSIVE SOLICITING PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in aggressive solicitation in any
public place. For purposes of this section "aggressive solicitation" is defined
as:
   A.   Continuing to solicit from a person after the person has given a
negative response to the soliciting;
   B.   Intentionally touching or causing physical contact with another person
without that person's consent in the course of soliciting;
   C.   Blocking, obstructing or interfering with the free passage of a
pedestrian or vehicle by any means, including unreasonably causing a pedestrian
or vehicle operator to take evasive action to avoid physical contact in the
course of soliciting;
   D.   Exhibiting threatening conduct or manner toward a person solicited
which would cause a reasonable person to be fearful for his or her safety and/
or the safety of his or her property;
   E.   Persisting in closely following or approaching the person being
solicited and continuing to solicit after the person has informed the solicitor
by words or conduct that the person does not want to be solicited or does not
want to give money or anything of value to the solicitor;
   F.   Using profane or abusive language in the course of solicitation that
would be likely to provoke an immediate defensive reaction from the person
being solicited or would cause a reasonable person to be fearful for his or her
safety or well being;
   G.   Soliciting money from anyone who is in a fixed location whether waiting
in line for tickets, waiting to enter a building at a particular place or for
another purpose that limits the ability of a person solicited to move away from
a solicitor. (Ord. 530, 10-22-2013, eff. 12-1-2013)
7-6-3: LIMITING SOLICITATION IN CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in solicitation in any place to
which the public or a substantial part of the public has access, including
streets, highways, transportation facilities, schools, places of amusement,
parks, playgrounds and the common areas of public and private buildings and
facilities, including parking lots or any other area intended for use by the
public in any of the following circumstances:
   A.   To solicit funds or business on any private or residential property
after having been asked to leave, or to refrain from soliciting, by the owner
or other person lawfully in possession of the real property.
   B.   Without permission of the owner or other person lawfully in possession
of the real property, to solicit within twenty feet (20') of any automated
teller machine. Provided, however, that when an automated teller machine is
located within an enclosed automated teller machine facility, the distance
shall be measured from the entrance or exit of the facility.
   C.   To solicit for funds or business in or upon any public transportation
vehicle or public transportation facility, at any bus stop or in any public
parking lot, structure or other parking facility operated by a public agency.
   D.   To solicit for funds or business activity within ten feet (10') of an
entrance to a building fronting upon public property or a public highway as
defined by Idaho law, unless permission is expressly granted by the owner of
the abutting business.
   E.   To solicit funds or business activity from any person entering or
exiting a parked motor vehicle or in a motor vehicle stopped on a public
street.
   F.   To solicit funds or business activity from any person located within
the patio or sidewalk area of a retail business establishment that serves food
and/or drink.
   G.   To solicit funds or business activity from one-half (1/2) hour after
sunset until one-half (1/2) hour before sunrise, except as may be otherwise
allowed at any time on private property by permission of the business and/or
landowner. (Ord. 530, 10-22-2013, eff. 12-1-2013)
TITLE 8
UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
UTILITY INFRASTRUCTURE(S)
SECTION:
8-1-1: Purpose Of Utility Infrastructure(s)
8-1-2: Definitions
8-1-3: Indemnification
8-1-1: PURPOSE OF UTILITY INFRASTRUCTURE(S):
It is the purpose of these provisions to delineate restrictions, development
standards, operation and maintenance, and establish procedures in order to:
   A.   Protect the community's visual quality and safety while facilitating
the reasonable and balanced provision of utility services.
   B.   Promote and protect the public health, safety and welfare, preserve the
character of the Hayden community, and to reasonably regulate the development
and operation of utility infrastructure(s) within the City to the extent
permitted under State and Federal law;
   C.   Promote the use of landscaping to be incorporated into the design to
minimize visual impact or to blend the utility infrastructure facility into the
surrounding environment. All equipment and cabling shall be enclosed within a
structure or shall be concealed, camouflaged, or placed underground whenever
possible. (Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of the terms
used in this title shall be as follows:
ACT OR THE ACT: The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 USC 1251 et seq.
ANTENNA: Any exterior transmitting or receiving device mounted on a tower,
building or structure and used in communications that sends or receives digital
signals, analog signals, radio frequencies or wireless communication signals.
ANTENNA ARRAY: A single or group of antenna elements, not including SWF
antennas, and associated mounting hardware, transmission lines, or other
appurtenances which share a common attachment device such as a mounting frame
or mounting support structure for the sole purpose of transmitting or receiving
wireless communication signals.
APPLICABLE PRETREATMENT STANDARDS: For any specified pollutant, City of Hayden
prohibitive standards, City of Hayden specific pretreatment standards (local
limits), State of Idaho pretreatment standards, or EPA's categorical
pretreatment standards (when effective), whichever standard is appropriate or
most stringent.
APPLICANT: Any person engaged in the business of providing utility services or
the infrastructure required for utility services and who submits an
application.
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER (LEGAL AUTHORITY):
   A.   If the user is a corporation:
      1.The president, secretary, treasurer or a vice president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision making functions for the corporation; and/
or if the manager as an authorized representative has authority to sign
documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in accordance with
corporate procedures;
   B.   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general partner
or proprietor, respectively;
   C.   If the user is a Federal, State or local governmental facility: a
Director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or his/her
designee.
   D.   The individuals described in subsections A through C of this definition
may designate another authorized representative if the authorization is in
writing, the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for
the overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or
having overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and
the written authorization is submitted to the City of Hayden.
BMPs (BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE): Physical, structural and/or managerial
practices that, when used singly or in combination, prevent or reduce pollution
of water.
BACKHAUL NETWORK: The lines that connect a provider's towers or cell sites to
one or more cellular telephone switching offices or long distance providers, or
the public switched telephone network.
BASE STATION: A structure or equipment at a fixed location that enables FCC-
licensed or authorized wireless communications between user equipment and a
communications network. The term does not encompass a tower as defined in this
chapter or any equipment associated with a tower.
   A.   The term includes, but is not limited to, equipment associated with
wireless communications services such as private, broadcast, and public safety
services, as well as unlicensed wireless services and fixed wireless services
such as microwave backhaul.
   B.   The term includes, but is not limited to, radio transceivers, antennas,
coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power supplies, and comparable
equipment, regardless of technological configuration (including DAS and SWF
networks).
   C.   The term includes any structure other than a tower that, at the time
the relevant application is filed with the City under this title, supports or
houses equipment described in this title that has been reviewed and approved
under the applicable zoning or siting process, or under State or local
regulatory review process, even if the structure was not built for the sole or
primary purpose of providing such support.
   D.   The term does not include any structure that, at the time the relevant
application is filed with the State or the City under this title, does not
support or house equipment described in this title.
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The amount of dissolved oxygen needed by
aerobic biological organisms in a body of water to break down organic material
present in a given water sample at a certain temperature over a specific time
period.
BUILDING DRAINS: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge waste and other drainage pipes inside the walls of
the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five feet (5')
outside the building footprint.
BUILDING SEWER (SERVICE CONNECTION, STUB, SERVICE LINE): The extensions from
the building drain from a point five feet (5') outside the building footprint
to a point of connection with the public sewer collector line. The building
sewer is not a public sewer and shall be maintained by the owner(s) of the
building sewer.
CAMOUFLAGE (STEALTH): Technology that minimizes the visual impact of utility
infrastructure facilities by camouflaging, disguising, screening or blending
into the surrounding environment. Examples include but are not limited to
facilities disguised as trees (monopines), flagpoles, utility and light poles,
bell towers, clock towers, ball field lights, architecturally designed screens,
landscaping, fencing, and/or reflective films.
CAPITALIZATION FEE (CAP FEE): There are two portions of the capitalization or
cap fee - 1) collection currently administered by the City and 2) treatment
currently administered by HARSB. Credits or reimbursements defined in
8-2-6 shall only apply to the City’s collection cap fee unless specifically
described otherwise.
CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD OR CATEGORICAL STANDARD: Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the U.S. EPA which apply
to a specific category of.
CATEGORICAL USER: A user regulated by one of EPA's categorical pretreatment
standards.
CITY OF HAYDEN (CITY): A Municipality incorporated in the State of Idaho.
CITY OF HAYDEN WASTEWATER COLLECTOR SYSTEM (CITY OF HAYDEN WWCS): The
wastewater collectors, interceptors, force main, lift stations and
appurtenances in public right-of-ways or easements under City of Hayden
jurisdiction; excluding facilities administered by HARSB.
CLEARING: The destruction and removal of vegetation by manual, mechanical or
chemical methods.
COLOCATION: The mounting or installation of two (2) or more utility
infrastructures within a single utility site (i.e., an antenna on an existing
tower, building or structure for the purpose of transmitting and/or receiving
radio frequency signals for communications purposes).
COMPOSITE SAMPLE: The sample resulting from the combination of individual
wastewater samples taken at selected intervals based on an increment of either
flow or time.
CONVEYANCE: A mechanism for transporting stormwater from one point to another,
including pipes, ditches and channels.
CONVEYANCE SYSTEM: Drainage facilities, both natural and manmade, which
collect, contain and provide for the flow of surface and storm water from the
highest points on the land to a receiving water. The natural elements of the
conveyance system include small drainage courses, streams, rivers, lakes and
wetlands. Manmade elements of a conveyance system include gutters, ditches,
pipes, channels and swales, etc.
COOLING WATER/NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER: Water used for cooling which does not
come into direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste
product or finished product. Cooling water may be generated from any use, such
as air conditioning, heat exchangers, cooling or refrigeration to which the
only pollutant added is heat.
DESIGN STORM: A rainfall event of specific return frequency and duration that
is used to calculate the runoff volume and peak discharge rate.
DETENTION: The temporary storage of storm runoff in a BMP, which is used to
control the peak discharge rates and which provides gravity settling of
pollutants.
DEVELOPER: Owner(s) of property under development or proposed to be under
development.
DISTRIBUTED ANTENNA SYSTEM OR DAS: A network consisting of transceiver
equipment at a central hub site to support multiple antenna locations
throughout the desired coverage area.
EPA: United States Environmental Protection Agency.
ELECTRICAL LINES: An electrical line is a structure used in electric power
transmission and distribution to transmit electrical energy.
ELIGIBLE FACILITIES REQUEST: A. Any request for modification of an existing
tower or base station that does not substantially change the physical
dimensions of such tower or base station, involving:
1. Colocation of new transmission equipment;
2. Removal of transmission equipment; or
3. Replacement of transmission equipment.
ELIGIBLE SUPPORT STRUCTURE: Any tower or base station as defined in this
chapter, provided that it is existing at the time the relevant application is
filed with the City under this title.
EROSION: The wearing away of the land surface by running water, wind, ice or
other geological agents, including such processes as gravitational creep; also,
detachment and movement of soil or rock fragments by water, wind, ice or
gravity.
EROSION/SEDIMENTATION CONTROL: Any temporary or permanent measures taken to
reduce erosion; control siltation and sedimentation; and ensure that sediment
laden water does not leave a site.
EXISTING USER: Any (non)-categorical user which was discharging wastewater
prior to the effective date hereof.
EXISTING UTILITY INFRASTRUCTURE: A utility infrastructure that has been
reviewed and approved under the applicable zoning or siting process, or under
another State or local regulatory review process, provided that the utility
infrastructure that has not been reviewed and approved because it was not in a
zoned area when it was built, but was lawfully constructed, is existing for
purposes of this definition.
FAA: The Federal Aviation Administration.
FCC: The Federal Communications Commission.
FIBER OPTIC LINES: A fiber optic cable is a cable containing one or more
optical fibers that are used as a method of transmitting information from one
place to another by sending light pulses through the fiber.
FRONTAGE: The outside boundary of a project that lies adjacent to an existing
or planned public right of way, not including portions of the project that are
considered onsite.
GRAB SAMPLE: A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time basis
without regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of
time.
GROUNDWATER: Water in a saturated zone or stratum beneath the land surface or a
surface water body.
HARSB HAYDEN AREA REGIONAL SEWER BOARD: A governmental entity created by a
joint powers agreement between the City of Hayden, Kootenai County for the
Coeur d'Alene Airport and the Hayden Lake Sewer District.
HIGH PRESSURE TRANSMISSION PIPES: High pressure transmission pipes are used to
transfer natural gas, fuel, etc., over long distances.
HIGH VOLTAGE TRANSMISSION LINES: High voltage transmission lines are used to
transmit electric power across long distances.
I AND I (INFLOW AND/OR INFILTRATION): Inflow is storm or ground water that
enters the wastewater system through rain leaders, basement sump pumps or
foundation drains illegally connected directly to a sanitary sewer pipe; and
Infiltration is non-wastewater or groundwater seepage into sewer pipes through
cracks, leaky pipe joints and/or deteriorated manholes.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: A hard surface area which either prevents or retards the
entry of water into the soil mantle as under natural conditions prior to
development, and/or a hard surface area which causes water to run off the
surface in greater quantities or at an increased rate of flow from the flow
present under natural conditions prior to development. Common impervious
surfaces include, but are not limited to, rooftops, walkways, patios,
driveways, parking lots or storage areas, concrete or asphalt paving, gravel
roads, packed earthen materials and oiled, macadam or other surfaces which
similarly impeded the natural infiltration of stormwater. Open, uncovered
retention/detention facilities shall not be considered as impervious surfaces.
INDIRECT DISCHARGE OR DISCHARGE: The introduction of pollutants into the City
of Hayden WWCS or POTW from any nondomestic source regulated under section 307
(b), (c) or (d) of the Act. The discharge into the City of Hayden WWCS or HARSB
POTW is normally by means of pipes, conduits, pumping stations, force mains,
constructed drainage ditches, surface water intercepting ditches, and all
constructed devices and appliances appurtenant thereto.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: Any discharge from industrial manufacturing processes trade,
or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
INFILTRATION: The downward movement of water from the surface to the subsoil.
The infiltration capacity is expressed in terms of inches/hour.
INFRASTRUCTURE: The basic physical and organizational structures and facilities
needed for the operation of the utility.
INTERFERENCE: A discharge which alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, either:
   A.   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or operations;
   B.   Inhibits or disrupts its sludge processes, use or disposal; or
   C.   Is a cause of a violation of the HARSB's NPDES permit or of the
prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of the
following statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder (or more
stringent State or local regulations): section 405 of the Clean Water Act; the
Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA), including title II commonly referred to as the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); any State regulations contained
in any State sludge management plan prepared pursuant to subtitle D of the
SWDA; the Clean Air Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act.
INTERMITTENT STREAM: A stream or portion of a stream that has flowing water
during certain times of the year, when groundwater provides water for stream
flow. During dry periods, intermittent streams may not have flowing water.
Runoff from rainfall is a supplemental source of water for stream flow.
LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY: Any activity that results in a change in the existing
soil cover (both vegetative and non-vegetative) and/or the existing soil
topography. Land disturbing activities include, but are not limited to,
demolition, construction, clearing, grading, filling and excavation.
LOAD: The quantity of any constituent present in wastewater required to be
measured and treated by either State or Federal regulations, or which is
reasonably anticipated to be regulated.
MACROCELL: An antenna or antennas mounted on a tower, ground- based mast,
rooftops and other towers or structures, at a height that provides a clear view
over the surrounding buildings and terrain.
MAJOR UTILITY INFRASTRUCTURE: Public or private utility infrastructure or
facility involving construction of facilities of a complex nature including,
but not limited to the following: dam structures, high pressure transmission
lines, high voltage transmission lines, power substations, solar farms,
wastewater treatment plants, water towers, wind farms, and infrastructures or
facilities principally used in transmission and treatment of electricity, fuel,
natural gas, telecommunications, water or wastewater pressure mains and/or
regional pumping stations.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK: An area, tract, plot or site of land of at least five
(5) acres in size upon which two (2) or more manufactured homes are placed and
maintained for dwelling purposes either on a permanent or semi-permanent basis.
MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE DISCHARGE LIMIT: The maximum concentration (or loading) of a
pollutant allowed to be discharged at any time, determined from the analysis of
any grab or composite sample collected, independent of the industrial flow rate
and the duration of the sampling event.
MEDICAL WASTES: Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes and dialysis
wastes.
MINOR UTILITY INFRASTRUCTURE: Publicly or privately owned minor utility
infrastructure or facilities such as fiber optic lines, overhead telephone,
cable TV lines, power distribution lines, pumping stations, water and
wastewater mains, and the like.
NATURAL GAS: Flammable gas, consisting largely of methane and other
hydrocarbons, occurring naturally underground (often in association with
petroleum) and used as fuel.
NEW SOURCE:
   A.   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there is
(or may be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed categorical pretreatment standards under
section 307(c) of the Act which will be applicable to such source if such
standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section; provided
that:
      1. The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed at a
site at which no other source is located; or
      2. The building, structure, facility or installation totally replaces the
process or production equipment that causes the discharge of pollutants at an
existing source; or
      3. The production or wastewater generating processes of the building,
structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of an
existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
   B.   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located results
in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not create
a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria of
subsection A2 or A3 of this definition but otherwise alters, replaces or adds
to existing process or production equipment.
   C.   Construction of a new source as defined under this definition has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
      1.   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
         a. Any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or equipment;
or
         b. Significant site preparation work including clearing, excavation or
removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities which is necessary for
the placement, assembly or installation of new source facilities or equipment;
or
      2.   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase of
facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation within a
reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or
modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering
and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this
definition.
NEW USER: A user that is not regulated under Federal categorical pretreatment
standards but that applies to the City of Hayden for a new building permit or
occupies an existing building and plans to commence discharge of wastewater to
the City of Hayden WWCS or POTW after the effective date hereof. Any person
that buys an existing facility that is discharging nondomestic wastewater will
be considered an "existing user" if no significant changes are made in the
manufacturing operation.
NON-RESIDENTIAL: Users that do not meet the definition of residential,
including public, institutional, commercial and industrial users.
NUTRIENTS: Essential chemicals needed by plants or animals for growth;
excessive amounts of nutrients can lead to degradation of water quality and
algal blooms. Some nutrients can be toxic at high concentrations.
OFF-SITE: Not within the any portion of the project frontage or onsite.
ONSITE: Any portion of the project that is internal to the project boundary.
PASS THROUGH: A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United States
in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge
or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement
of HARSB's NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of
a violation).
PERMITTEE: A person or user issued a wastewater discharge permit.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity; or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. This definition includes all Federal, State or local governmental
entities.
pH: A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a substance, expressed in
standard units.
POLLUTANT: Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological
materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock,
sand, cellar dirt, agricultural and industrial wastes, and the characteristics
of the wastewater.
POWER SUBSTATION: A set of equipment reducing the high voltage of electrical
power transmission to that suitable for supply to consumers.
PRETREATMENT: The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to (or in lieu of) introducing such pollutants into the City
of Hayden WWCS or POTW. This reduction or alteration can be obtained by
physical, chemical or biological processes; by process changes; or by other
means (except by diluting the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by
an applicable pretreatment standard).
PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENT: Any substantive or procedural requirement related to
pretreatment imposed on a user, other than a pretreatment standard.
PRETREATMENT STANDARDS OR STANDARDS: Prohibited discharge standards,
categorical pretreatment standards and local limits established by the City of
Hayden and/or HARSB.
PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS OR PROHIBITED DISCHARGES: Absolute prohibitions
against the discharge of certain substances, which appear in subsections
8-4-4A and B of this title.
PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW): A "treatment works", as defined by
section 212 of the Act (33 USC 1292) which is owned by the City of Hayden and/
or HARSB. This definition includes any devices or systems used in the
collection, storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of sewage or
industrial wastes of a liquid nature and any conveyances which convey
wastewater to a treatment plant. The term also means the HARSB interceptors,
force main, treatment plant and City of Hayden WWCS.
PUMP HOUSE (WELL HOUSE): A building, structure, or room enclosing a well,
pumps, and/or various other appurtenances.
PUMP STATION (LIFT STATION): A basin or building equipped with pumps to elevate
wastewater to a higher elevation and includes pumps, controls, panels, wet
well, fencing, land, and other appurtenances.
RECONSTRUCTION (ROAD AND/OR PARKING LOT): Road reconstruction shall be
considered a modification of the cross section or subgrade. Paving or repaving
shall not be considered reconstruction.
RECORD DRAWINGS (AS-BUILT): Design plans which have been revised, sealed,
signed and dated to reflect all changes to the plans which occurred during
construction.
REGIONAL LIFT STATION: A lift station owned by the City that pumps directly to
the wastewater treatment plant.
RESIDENTIAL: Users occupying a building or dwelling unit designed and used
exclusively for housing purposes by one family, or a building or dwelling unit
that houses eight (8) or fewer persons occupying the dwelling unit and living
as a single housekeeping unit, or a single family dwelling as defined by the
Local Land Use Planning Act, Idaho Code 67-6531.
RESIDENTIAL USER (DOMESTIC USER): Any person who contributes, causes, or allows
the contribution of wastewater into the City of Hayden WWCS or POTW that is of
a similar volume and/or chemical makeup as that of a residential dwelling unit.
Discharges from a residential dwelling unit typically include up to two hundred
(200) gallons per day with loading as defined by the Joint Powers Agreement.
RETENTION: The holding of runoff in a basin without release, except by means of
evaporation, infiltration or emergency bypass.
RUN-OFF: That portion of precipitation that does not naturally percolate into
the ground or evaporate but flows via overland flow, interflow, channels or
pipes.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries waste water and to which storm, surface,
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
SEDIMENT: Fragmented material that originates from weathering and erosion of
rocks or unconsolidated deposits and is transported by, suspended in or
deposited by water.
SEPTIC TANK WASTE: Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers and septic tanks.
SEWAGE: Human excrement and gray water (household showers, dishwashing
operations, etc.).
SEWER: Any pipe, conduit ditch or other device used to collect and transport
sewage from the generating source.
SHALL, MAY: "Shall" is mandatory, "may" is permissive.
SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER: A. A user subject to categorical pretreatment
standards; or
   B.   A user that:
1. Discharges an average of twenty five thousand (25,000) gallons per day (gpd)
or more of process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact
cooling and boiler blowdown wastewater); or
2. Contributes a process waste stream which makes up five percent (5%) or more
of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
3. Is designated as such by the HARSB or City of Hayden on the basis that it
has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's or City of Hayden
WWCS operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
   C.   Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in subsection B of this
definition has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the City of
Hayden WWCS or POTW's operation or for violating any applicable pretreatment
standard or requirement, the City of Hayden may at any time, on its own
initiative or in response to a petition received from a user and in accordance
with procedures in 40 CFR 403.8(f)(6), determine that such user should not be
considered a significant industrial user.
SLUG LOAD: Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration which could cause a
violation of the discharge standards in subsections
8-4-4A through D of this title, or any discharge of a non- routine, episodic
nature, including, but not limited to, an accidental spill or a non-customary
batch discharge.
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES (SWF): Compact wireless equipment that contain their
own transceiver equipment and function like cells in a wireless network but
provide a smaller coverage area than traditional macrocells.
SOLAR FARM: An installation or area of land in which a large number of solar
panels are set up in order to generate electricity.
STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC) CODE: A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the United States Office of
Management and Budget.
STORM FREQUENCY: The theoretical return period between storms of a given
duration typically based upon historical data.
STORMWATER: Any surface flow, runoff, and/or drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation (including snow melt), and
resulting from such precipitation.
STRUCTURE HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from the base of the structure
at grade to the highest point of the structure (including the antenna in the
case of a tower). A lightning rod, not to exceed ten feet (10') in height,
shall not be included within the height.
SUB-REGIONAL LIFT STATION: A lift station owned by the City that does not pump
directly to the wastewater treatment plant.
SUPERINTENDENT: The person designated by the City of Hayden to supervise the
operation of the City of Hayden WWCS, and who is charged with certain duties
and responsibilities by this title, or a duly authorized representative.
SWALE: A shallow drainage conveyance or infiltration area with relatively
gentle side slopes, generally with flow depths less than one-half foot (1/2').
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: Communication over a distance by cable, telegraph,
telephone, or broadcasting.
TEMPORARY LIFT STATION: A lift station that will not be needed once the sewer
infrastructure is constructed fully in accordance with the most recent
Collection System Master Plan.
TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS: The total suspended matter that floats on the surface
of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquid, and which is
removable by laboratory filtering.
TOWER (COMMUNICATIONS, CELL, WIRELESS): Any structure built for the sole or
primary purpose of supporting any FCC-licensed or authorized antennas and their
associated facilities, including structures that are constructed for wireless
communications services including, but not limited to, private, broadcast, and
public safety services, as well as unlicensed wireless services and fixed
wireless services such as microwave backhaul, and the associated site.
TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT: Equipment that facilitates transmission for any FCC-
licensed or authorized wireless communication service, including, but not
limited to, radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, and
regular and backup power supplies. The term includes equipment associated with
wireless communications services including, but not limited to, private,
broadcast, and public safety services, as well as unlicensed wireless services
and fixed wireless services such as microwave backhaul.
TREATMENT BMP: A BMP that is intended to remove pollutants from stormwater. A
few examples of treatment BMPs are detention ponds, oil/water separators, bio-
filtration swales and constructed wetlands.
TREATMENT PLANT EFFLUENT: The discharge from the POTW into waters of the United
States.
UNDEVELOPED STATE: The natural soils and vegetation that are in place prior to
the start of any construction or clearing activity on the site.
UNIQUE SITE CHARACTERISTICS: Soil, slope or depth to bedrock conditions that
will not accommodate on site treatment through infiltration to the standards
specified in chapter 3 of this title.
USER OR INDUSTRIAL USER: A source of indirect discharge; and the source shall
not include "residential user (domestic user)", as defined herein.
UTILITY SUPPORT STRUCTURE: Utility poles or infrastructures supporting
electrical, telephone, cable, or other similar facilities; street light
standards; or pedestrian light standards.
WWCS: Wastewater Collection System is a system that collects wastewater and
disposes it in a central location for treatment.
WASTEWATER: Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are conveyed
to the City of Hayden WWCS and POTW.
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT: An authorization or equivalent control document
issued by the City of Hayden to users discharging wastewater to the City of
Hayden WWCS or POTW; the permit may contain appropriate pretreatment standards
and requirements as set forth in this title.
WASTEWATER MAINS: A conduit for conveyance of sanitary sewer, both pressure and
gravity (excluding privately owned individual stubs).
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT OR TREATMENT PLANT: That portion of the POTW which
is designed to provide treatment of Municipal sewage and industrial waste.
WATER MAINS: A conduit for conveyance of potable water (excluding privately
owned individual services).
WATER STORAGE (WATER TOWER): A vertical pipe extending from a water supply, to
the mains. A tower supporting an elevated water tank, whose height creates the
pressure required to distribute the water through a piped system.
WIND FARM: An area of land with a group of energy producing windmills or wind
turbines.
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES (WCF): A staffed or unstaffed facility or
location or equipment for the transmission or reception of radio frequency (RF)
signals or other wireless communications or other signals for commercial
communications purposes, typically consisting of one or more antennas or group
of antennas, a tower or attachment support structure, transmission cables and
other transmission equipment, and an equipment enclosure or cabinets, and
including small wireless facilities technologies. (Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-1-3: INDEMNIFICATION:
Each permit issued for utility infrastructure(s) located on City property shall
be deemed to have as a condition of the permit a requirement that the applicant
defend, indemnify and hold harmless the City and its officers, agents,
employees, volunteers, and contractors from any and all liability, damages, or
charges (including attorneys' fees and expenses) arising out of claims, suits,
demands, or causes of action as a result of the permit process, a granted
permit, construction, erection, location, performance, operation, maintenance,
repair, installation, replacement, removal, or restoration of the utility
infrastructure facility. (Ord. 596, 5-24-2019; amd. Ord. 620, 4-27-2021)
CHAPTER 2
WASTEWATER SERVICES
SECTION:
8-2-1: Purpose
8-2-2: Construction, Ownership, Operation And Maintenance
8-2-3: Use Of Public Sewers And Monthly User Fee
8-2-4: Capitalization Fees
8-2-5: Permit Required To Work On Public Sewer
8-2-6: Financing Wastewater Collection System
8-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the health, safety, and welfare of
the public and inhabitants of the City, to protect the aquifer, to foster
quality of development within the community, and to promote economic
development within the community. (Ord. 349, 9-17-2003; amd. Ord. 596, 5-24-
2019)
8-2-2: CONSTRUCTION, OWNERSHIP, OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Applicability: All new subdivisions and construction of new or modified
sewerage systems within the City of Hayden.
   B.   Sewer Construction And Administration Policies: It shall be unlawful
for any person to construct a sanitary sewer main within the jurisdiction of
the City without first having made formal application to the City for approval
and having complied with all requirements of the City and regulatory agencies.
The right to hook into the system may be granted only by written agreement with
the City, which shall have the discretion to accept or deny applications based
upon the existing and anticipated availability of capacity at the regional
facility and in the collector system. Sewer construction and administration
policies are described in more detail as follows:
      1.   The City has prepared a master sewer plan, dated September 30, 2002,
and updated periodically, that presents the proposed layout of sewers in the
City. New developments requiring an extension of the sewer system shall install
sewers in accordance with the depth and alignment presented in the master sewer
plan. The City Engineer may make an adjustment in the plan if it enhances the
capability of the sewer to service the intended area.
      2.   All new subdivisions shall install collection systems and connect to
an existing collector sewer line whether the development is adjacent to a
public sewer or not, unless the City Engineer approves otherwise based upon the
City Engineer's professional opinion that the connection would require an
extension of the sewer line to the property that cannot be accomplished without
placing an undue hardship upon the developer.
      3.   A separate water meter to measure irrigation usage separate from
other water usage shall be installed by all new users or users modifying their
existing use, except for single-family residences, for the purpose of
calculating sewer flows.
      4.   No new building shall be connected to an on site sewer system
without first providing evidence that there is no other way of providing
sewerage service to the property.
      5.   Plans for development extensions of sewer systems shall be submitted
to the City along with the application for services. Said plans shall be
approved if in compliance with the City's "master sewer plan" and "sewer
policies and procedures" and "sewage pump station design policies and
procedures". Any study for compliance with the City's standards by the City's
Engineer shall be at the developer's expense. Developers or landowners are
required to furnish free of charge to the City suitable rights- of-way and/or
easements for construction, operation, and maintenance of new, existing or
future sewer systems. The City reserves the right to require full or part time
inspection of any related construction and/or the developer to expose any
section of sewer to check compliance with applicable standards. The cost of
such inspection and/or excavation shall be at the expense of the developer. No
excavation shall be started until required City fees have been paid and City/
highway encroachment permits have been obtained.
      6.   The City Engineer or the engineer's designee is authorized to draft
sewer policies and procedures and sewage pump station design policies and
procedures, which, when accepted by the City Council, shall be applicable to
extensions of the sewer system.
      7.   No certificate of occupancy will be issued for new or existing
development connecting to new sewerage systems in public right- of-way or
easement until the ownership of the sewer lines and appurtenances are dedicated
to the City free and clear of all liens and encumbrances and accepted by the
City for maintenance.
      8.   The developer shall provide a bond or other guarantee in an amount
equal to twenty five percent (25%) of the construction cost, to provide all
repair of new public sewer systems for a period of one year after written
acceptance by the City.
      9.   The City may adopt connection fees for new service connections or
extensions of public sewer.
   C.   Ownership And Operation Of Facilities; Policy: It shall be the basic
policy of the City of Hayden that all liftstations, sewer mains and trunk
sewers located in public rights-of-way or dedicated easements to the City for
such purposes shall be public sewerage facilities. These sewerage facilities
shall, if the same are accepted in writing by the City, be owned, operated, and
maintained by the City. Building sewers, service lines, service stubs, and
individual pump stations shall be installed, owned, and maintained by
individual users, except at the option of the City. The City shall be granted
an easement for access and the repair, replacement, and operation of the
individual pump stations if the same are accepted in writing by the City. New
sewers in public rights-of-way or easements shall become public sewers when
accepted by the City. (Ord. 349, 9-17-2003; amd. Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-2-3: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS AND MONTHLY USER FEE:
   A.   Applicability: All "users", which are connected to the sewer,
including, but not limited to, all subdivisions, single-family residences,
condominiums, industrial, commercial, residential, recreational vehicle, and
townhouse developments.
   B.   Use Of Public Sewers: The use of the public sewers and collector
systems of the City of Hayden shall be in accordance with the following
requirements:
      1.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
ground water, roof runoff, surface or subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
      2.   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged in
accordance with the City of Hayden Stormwater Ordinance.
      3.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewer:
         a.   Septic tank effluent and/or septage (solids pumped from septic
tanks, holding tanks and RV tanks).
         b.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
         c.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids,
liquids, organic chemicals, or gases in sufficient quantity (either singly or
by interaction with other wastes) to injure or interfere with any sewage
disposal process, constitute any hazard to humans or animals, create a public
nuisance, or create any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment
plant.
         d.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or greater than
8.0 or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard
to structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
         e.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to flow in sewers or other interference with the proper
operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders,
sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood,
unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails,
animal wastes, paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or
ground by garbage grinders.
      4.   Wastes, in particular fats, oils, and grease (FOG), shall not be
discharged by nonresidential sewer users at concentrations in excess of one
hundred fifty milligrams per liter (150 mg/L). The City of Hayden will
periodically sample the effluent from nonresidential users to check for
compliance. If the user fails to meet the one hundred fifty milligrams per
liter (150 mg/L) requirement, the discharge will be retested no sooner than two
(2) weeks but within one month of the violation, at the expense of the sewer
user, and thereafter on a continuing monthly basis until compliance with the
standard is achieved or a date of compliance is established with the City
inspector to include the name of the contractor who will be performing the
necessary modifications. Newly constructed restaurants, delicatessens, schools,
etc., will install separation equipment adequate to ensure that they must meet
the one hundred fifty milligrams per liter (150 mg/L) limit as a precondition
to passing their final plumbing inspection.
      5.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, and wastes if it appears likely in the opinion
of the City that such wastes can harm either the sewers, regional facility or
equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream or ground water or
can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance.
In forming its opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the City will
give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in
relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of
the sewers, nature of the sewage disposal process, capacity of the sewage
disposal system, and other pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are
those listed as hazardous wastes by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
in the EPA priority pollutant list, or other substances deemed unacceptable by
the City, the Panhandle Health District, or the Idaho Department of Health and
Welfare, Division of Environmental Quality.
      6.   The City has the right to refuse connection to the sewerage system
when the system is not in compliance with State, Federal or local laws or
regulations.
      7.   At the time of connecting to the system, the property owner shall
pay a stub installation fee, set by the City Council, for any existing stub or
shall pay for a stub to be installed if a stub needs to be installed to connect
the building sewer to the system, unless the installation of the stub was
accomplished through a Local Improvement District in which the owner of the
property participated.
   C.   Sewer User Charges For Operation, Maintenance And Replacement Of
Sewerage System:
      1.   Purpose: There is hereby established a system of periodic service
charges and fees in order to equitably impose upon all users of public sewerage
systems the costs and expenses of maintenance, operation, replacement and other
expenditures of the sewerage system. Said service charges and fees for purposes
of computation shall be based upon: a) the volume and content of the effluent
discharged into the sewerage system of the City; and b) the actual and expected
costs and expenses of maintenance, operation, replacement, upgrading and repair
of the sewerage system, such charges and fees being determined to be the
benefit derived by each building, structure or user of the collector system and
regional facility.
      2.   User Fee: All users shall be charged an appropriate user fee at such
time as the user connects to the system. The user fee shall be based upon the
following:
         a.   Minimum Service Unit: The basic minimum service unit shall be for
a single-family dwelling. A single-family residence, each unit in a multi-unit
dwelling, and each mobile home in a public and private mobile home park shall
be assessed the minimum service unit.
         b.   Water Usage Fee: All other users shall be charged a fee in such a
manner as to approximate the potential wastewater service requirements, based
upon information available to the City regarding the water usage for that user
or similar users.
         c.   Flow Factors: The City shall have authority, but not the
obligation, to adjust flow factors according to particular special
circumstances; provided, however, that flow factors will not be reduced based
upon claims of seasonal use or vacancy of a particular user.
         d.   Pretreatment: Any user that discharges industrial wastes or other
pollutants may be assessed a surcharge on waste flows containing those
pollutants and shall pretreat the waste prior to discharge.
      3.   Connection:
         a.   When the installation of the sewer line has been accomplished
through a Local Improvement District, all residential, commercial, public or
industrial users shall connect to the sewer within one year after the sewer
service line becomes available. This includes all units in a multi-unit
dwelling, all units in a PUD, and all manufactured/mobile homes in a mobile
home park. Failure to connect to the sewer within the one year period shall be
a violation of this chapter.
         b.   If sewer line extension is the result of private development or
an LID, the City may prepay for any stubs that the City deems reasonably
necessary to serve adjacent lands and the owner of the adjacent land shall pay
to the City the installation fee set by the City Council when the connection
occurs or the property is sold. The owner of the property adjacent to the sewer
infrastructure shall be required to connect to the sewer when the land is
developed (expansion of an existing structure in an amount equal to twenty five
percent (25%) or more of the existing floor space, subdivision or new
construction which changes use) or if the existing septic system fails. Failure
to connect to the sewer shall be a violation of this chapter.
      4.   Billing And Payment:
         a.   User charges billed on a periodic basis as determined by the
City, shall be due to the City within thirty (30) days of billing. Delinquent
bills may be assessed late fees on the unpaid balance as set by resolution.
         b.   Billings for accounts shall be in the name and mailing address of
the owner. A letter of agreement executed by the owner requesting sewer service
and accepting responsibility for sewer charges shall be submitted by the owner
prior to connection to the sewer system and at the time of change of ownership
in order to continue sewer service to the property.
         c.   The owner in whose name the billing is currently being sent shall
be responsible to provide to the City the name and address of any new owner of
the property when a transfer of ownership is made.
         d.   The owner of any such premises using the sanitary sewer system
shall be liable for all fees and charges assessed by the City. Such charges
shall become a lien upon and against the property against which the charge or
fee is levied to the extent permitted by law in the State of Idaho. In case of
nonpayment or delinquency in the payment of the sewer charges of the fees
imposed, the City is authorized upon ten (10) days' notice to the owner,
occupant, or person in charge of premises, to discontinue sewer service and
such sewer service shall remain discontinued until such fees, including a fee
for reestablishment of service has been paid to the City. All fees herein shall
be at the discretion of the City Council. Said fees shall be set by Council
resolution.
      5.   Delegation: The City hereby reserves the right to delegate
administration, performance of operation and maintenance, and user charge
collections to the regional board or to such other third party as may be deemed
appropriate in the discretion of the City.
      6.   Revisions And Appeals To User Charge: Revisions to user charges
shall be based upon total daily flow to the public sewerage system as measured
by a sewer meter or a water meter. Any user may appeal the flow factor or user
charge to the City Administrator within ninety (90) days of the mailing date on
the bill for service that is being disputed. The notice of appeal shall be in
writing, shall contain a factual basis and relevant supporting data for the
appeal, and shall be submitted to the City Clerk. The City Administrator shall
have the power to approve, amend, or deny the appeal and the decision of the
Administrator shall be final. The user charge may be updated as necessary to
reflect actual costs.
      7.   Flow Factor: The City reserves the right to adjust a particular flow
factor from time to time (both with respect to adjustment of capitalization
fees and with respect to assessment of greater or lesser O&M charges) in the
case of a change in use or discharge of a particular user. The City may
negotiate the flow calculation for a new connection and adjust the value after
a reasonable period to verify actual use (typically 2 years), or upon the
receipt of other relevant supporting data. (Ord. 349, 9-17-2003; amd. Ord. 543,
1-27-2015; Ord. 596, 5-24-2019; Ord. 605, 1-14-2020)
8-2-4: CAPITALIZATION FEES:
   A.   Applicability: This section is applicable to all new development within
the City of Hayden that requires a building permit and requires connection to
the Hayden sewerage system and those previously unconnected users that are
required to connect to the City of Hayden sewer system.
   B.   Basis For Determining Capitalization Fees:
      1.   All new users shall pay the appropriate capitalization fee for
existing platted lots at the time the building permit is issued, and for
existing developed parcels prior to connecting to the sewer system; this money
shall be placed in a special fund for utilization by the City of Hayden for
sewer, interceptor, collection, and treatment system construction and
obligations for the regional facility.
      2.   The capitalization fee for residential uses shall be based upon a
minimum service unit. In no case shall the capitalization fee be less than that
for one single-family residence. The capitalization fee for all other users
shall be based upon the anticipated flow, which will be monitored on an annual
basis and adjusted based upon actual flows. Actual flows for capitalization
fees shall be calculated in the same manner as flows for user charges.
      3.   The City reserves the right to adjust a particular flow factor if
the initial flow factors are underestimated. When the initial flow factors have
been underestimated or the use of the property has changed, the City may charge
the user an additional capitalization fee for demonstrated usage of the system
beyond that estimated at the time of connection.
      4.   The capitalization fees rates may be adjusted by resolution of the
City.
      5.   Any additional capitalization fees that are due based upon the
adjusted flows may be paid over a twelve (12) month period in six (6) equal
payments added to the City's sewer utility billing. Extended surcharge payment
periods not to exceed three (3) years may be granted with City Council
approval. (Ord. 422, 6-13-2006; amd. Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-2-5: PERMIT REQUIRED TO WORK ON PUBLIC SEWER:
It is unlawful for any person that is not a certified HARSB operator or City of
Hayden employee to uncover, make any connection with or opening into, use,
alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first
obtaining a written permit approved by the City Engineer. (Ord. 387, 6-28-2005;
amd. Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-2-6: FINANCING WASTEWATER COLLECTION SYSTEM:
   A.   Funding mechanisms: The costs of expanding the City sewer collection
system shall be financed and paid for by one or more of the following:
      1.   The Sewer Capitalization Fund as authorized by the City Council;
      2.   The creation of a local improvement district as provided by Idaho
Code Title 50, Chapter 17; or
      3.   The property owners specifically benefitted by the construction of
the sewer system expansion.
   B.   Lift Stations:
      1.   Designation of Lift Stations: The Public Works Director shall
designate a lift station as temporary, regional, or sub-regional consistent
with the most recent version of the Collection System Master Plan. The Public
Works Director may, upon request when special circumstances exist and verified
by a sewer technical memorandum to amend the Collection System Master Plan,
change the designation of a lift station. If a developer requests the change in
designation, the developer shall bear the cost of the sewer technical
memorandum.
      2.   Installation of Temporary Lift Stations: Temporary lift stations may
only be installed if the installation is approved by the Public Works Director.
The party installing the temporary lift station shall be responsible for all
construction and engineering costs and shall ensure that the temporary lift
station is completed in accordance with City’ s sewer design and construction
policies. Ownership, maintenance and operation of the temporary lift station
shall transfer to City at the time the temporary lift station is accepted as
operational by the City Council.
      3.   All lift stations shall be on property dedicated to the City.
Temporary lift stations may have a reversionary clause to return the property
to the original owner at the time the lift station is removed.
   C.   Expansion of the System and Reimbursement Eligibility:
      1.   Construction: A user may, with prior approval of the City, finance
and construct an expansion to the sewer system, if the expansion is designed
and constructed in accordance with City standards.
      2.   Eligibility Requirements: The developer has the potential to be
reimbursed, as outlined below, for the cost of the sewer benefiting the
developer’ s and other property by entering into a written agreement with the
City, if any of the following apply:
         a.   The expansion is off-site and provides sewer service to other
property (sewer mains along any frontage or on-site are not considered off-
site) and was required to be over-sized or over-depth to serve other
properties;
         b.   The expansion is onsite or on the frontage and is gravity sewer
required by the most recent version of the Collection System Master Plan to be
larger than twelve inches (12") in diameter to serve upstream properties
outside of the development;
         c.   The expansion is onsite or on the frontage and is gravity sewer
required by the most recent version of the Collection System Master Plan to be
deeper than fifteen feet (15') to serve upstream properties. Depth for each
segment is measured as the average depth between manholes measured in 25 foot
increments measured from the finished grade to the invert of the pipe.
Developer’s engineer shall provide a spreadsheet with each sewer segment that
summarizes the depth at the increments and average depth per segment.
         d.   The expansion is a regional permanent lift station.
         e.   The expansion is a sub-regional or temporary lift station which
the City has required to be oversized in order to accommodate an area larger
than the developer’s property. This item also includes force mains that are
required to be oversized to accommodate a larger area than the developer’s
property.
      3.   Application Requirements: To be eligible for reimbursement, the user
must, unless otherwise approved by the Public Works Director, do the following:
         a.   Meet eligibility requirements in C.2. of this section.
         b.   Submit a reimbursement application for sewer collection system
expansion. This application shall be submitted prior to preliminary plat
approval. Details will be listed in the Construction Improvement Agreement and
Master Development Agreement. Applications received after preliminary plat
submittal shall not be considered. For development that does not require
subdivision, the application shall be submitted at the time of site plan
submittal to be considered;
         c.   Design the sewer facilities in accordance with the most recent
version of the Collection System Master Plan and Idaho Department of
Environmental Quality (IDEQ) requirements and receive both City and IDEQ
approval of the sewer construction plans and specifications;
         d.   Construct sewers in accordance with the approved plans and
specifications and in accordance with the City of Hayden quality control and
project certification standards;
         e.   Adhere to procurement requirements set forth in Idaho Code 67-
2805; and
         f.   For lift stations, the design/construction engineer shall be
selected by the developer from the City’s pre-qualified engineering services
roster, current at the time of submittal. The City will act as the contracting
agency.
         g.   The developer may choose any civil engineer licensed in Idaho for
on and off-site sewer main design and construction engineering. The developer
will act as the contracting agency.
   D.   Amount of Reimbursement:
      1.   Off-site gravity extensions serving already developed areas: When
the expansion is upsizing of existing pipes or re-routing areas already served
by City sewer, the amount of reimbursement owed to the developer for off-site
sewer extensions shall be based upon actual construction costs. Engineering
costs for gravity extensions serving already developed areas are not eligible
for reimbursement.
      2.   Over-size or over-depth onsite gravity extensions and off-site
gravity extensions: The amount of reimbursement owed to the developer “over
sizing or over-depth” line extensions shall be determined by multiplying the
percentages listed in the tables below, by the actual construction costs for
the various pipe sizes and depths required for the project. Sewer mains
(onsite, frontage, or offsite) that are not required to be oversized or deeper
to serve others in areas that do not meet the requirements of D.1. are
ineligible for reimbursement.
      3.   Off-site gravity extensions that are neither over-size, over-depth,
nor serve already sewered areas are not eligible for reimbursement.
Table 8-2-6-1 - OVER-SIZE & OVER-DEPTH SEWER PIPELINE REIMBURSEMENT PERCENTAGE
Pipe Depth (Feet) Pipe Diameter (Inches)
                  12 15 18 21-27 30
Pipe Depth (Feet) Pipe Diameter (Inches)
                  12  15  18  21-27 30
15 or less        0%  7%  18% 35%   43%
16                4%  11% 21% 36%   45%
17                9%  14% 24% 38%   46%
18                12% 17% 27% 40%   47%
19                16% 20% 29% 42%   49%
20                19% 23% 31% 43%   50%
21                24% 28% 35% 46%   52%
22                28% 31% 38% 48%   53%
23                32% 35% 41% 50%   55%
24                35% 38% 43% 52%   57%
25                38% 41% 46% 53%   58%
26                42% 44% 48% 55%   60%
27                45% 47% 51% 57%   61%
28                47% 49% 53% 59%   62%
29                50% 52% 55% 60%   64%
30                52% 54% 57% 62%   65%
 
Table 8-2-6-2 - ON SITE SEWER MANHOLE REIMBURSEMENT PERCENTAGE
 
Manhole Depth (Feet) Pipe Diameter (Inches)
                     12 - 18 18 - 24 24 - 30
15 or less           0%      42%     60%
> 15-20              16%     53%     68%
> 20-30              38%     65%     72%
 
      4.   Permanent Lift Stations: The amount of reimbursement owed for the
construction of a permanent lift station shall be based upon actual
construction costs approved by the City.
      5.   Sub-regional or Temporary Lift Station Oversizing: The amount of
reimbursement owed for installation of an oversized temporary lift station or
an oversized sub-regional lift station shall be determined by estimating the
cost of constructing a lift station to serve only the development in accordance
with the City’s sewer design policies, subtracted from the actual construction
costs incurred by the developer. Force main reimbursement is limited to the
additional cost of the pipe and fittings.
      6.   Engineering:
         a.   For regional permanent lift stations, the amount of reimbursement
owed the developer for engineering shall be the actual engineering contract, as
the City is the contracting agency. The developer shall give the City a
retainer for which to pay the Engineer.
         b.   Engineering costs for sewer gravity mains, force mains, sub-
regional lift stations, or temporary lift stations are not reimbursable.
   E.   Developer Agreements and Methods of Reimbursement:
      1.   A written agreement, not to exceed ten (10) years, shall be prepared
which provides for reimbursement of the developer’s costs to provide regional
sewer infrastructure. If justified and approved by the City Council, the
agreement is eligible for (1) one extension of no more than five (5) years. The
agreement will detail the timing of payment by the developer and the timing of
reimbursement by the City. The agreement shall include one of the following
reimbursement types, up to the reimbursement amount:
         a.   Within the Subject Development Only: The developer may choose to
receive collection cap fee reimbursement within its development at the rate of
75% of the fees collected until payment in full or until the agreement expires,
whichever occurs first. Under this option, the developer does not receive any
portion of capitalization fees paid by others outside the development within
the service boundary.
         b.   Within the Service Boundary: The developer may choose to receive
collection cap fee reimbursement within its development and within the service
area of the constructed improvements at the rate of 50% of the collection cap
fees collected until payment in full or until the agreement expires, whichever
occurs first.
      2.   If an agreement already exists to commit a portion of collection
capitalization fees within the basin of a lift station or within the benefited
users of a sewer main, then the developer cannot recoup costs from those users
until either the prior agreement has been fully reimbursed or the prior
agreement expires. (Ord. 620, 4-27-2021)
CHAPTER 3
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
8-3-1: Title
8-3-2: Purpose
8-3-3: Adoption Of Supporting Documentation
8-3-4: Applicability
8-3-5: General Requirements
8-3-6: Performance Standards
8-3-7: Guarantee Of Installation
8-3-8: Prohibited Conduct
8-3-9: Exceptions
8-3-10: Enforcement And Penalty
8-3-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the STORMWATER MANAGEMENT ORDINANCE OF THE CITY
OF HAYDEN, IDAHO. (Ord. 542, 1-27-2015; amd. Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-3-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter shall be to require implementation of surface water
management techniques which rely upon natural on site treatment and recycling
of stormwater as opposed to collection and conveyance of untreated stormwater
into groundwater sources or into surface bodies of water. The underlying
purposes to be achieved by implementation of such regulations are the
protection of groundwater quality through pretreatment of stormwater prior to
infiltration and protection of surface water resources from the effects of
contaminants, sedimentation and erosion. (Ord. 542, 1-27-2015; amd. Ord. 596,
5-24-2019)
8-3-3: ADOPTION OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION:
As an alternative to the standards of this chapter, the Idaho Department of
Environmental Quality's "Catalog of Stormwater Best Management Practices for
Idaho Cities and Counties", as amended and hereby adopted, may be proposed to
be utilized in meeting the requirements or intent of this chapter, subject to
the review and approval of the City. Additionally, the City may adopt, by
resolution, design standards, definitions of terminology, administrative
procedures, etc., intended to implement the general requirements and
performance standards set forth in this chapter. Changes in the design
standards may be accomplished by subsequently adopted resolution. Such design
standards may be complied with in alternative ways that will contribute to
rational achievement of the general requirements and performance standards set
forth in this chapter; provided, that any such changes must be proposed by a
qualified, licensed professional, subject to review and approval by the City.
(Ord. 542, 1-27-2015; amd. Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-3-4: APPLICABILITY:
The achievement of standards, employment of methods and techniques required by
this chapter shall be applicable in the following circumstances:
   A.   New Subdivisions: Development of every new subdivision of land within
the jurisdiction of the City.
   B.   Commercial And Industrial Sites: All commercial and industrial site
development for which grading, site development, construction or building
permits may be required pursuant to the land use regulations of the City.
   C.   Public Projects: All public projects within the jurisdiction of the
City, including, but not limited to, street construction or reconstruction
(modification of the cross section, not to include resurfacing), park
development, building development or other public works construction or
development which could or will affect stormwater drainage patterns within the
jurisdiction. Except as necessary to maintain the continuity of existing
stormwater handling systems, all new construction as outlined in this section,
shall employ the methods for stormwater management required by this chapter and
shall otherwise be designed to minimize adverse impacts upon surface and ground
water quality.
   D.   Land Disturbing Activities: Every building or land development permit
where land disturbing activity is to occur on any part of the sites with a
slope greater than fifteen percent (15%) or on sites less than five hundred
feet (500') from environmentally sensitive areas such as wellhead protection
areas and saturated aquifer recharge areas or on sites less than five hundred
feet (500') distant horizontally from, and located vertically above any surface
water in the form of a perennial or intermittent stream, river, pond, lake,
wetland or similar surface feature which can be determined from USGS 7.5 minute
quadrangle topographic maps, or as recognized by any State or Federal agency.
Stormwater management plans may not be necessary for individual building sites
if runoff from the site has been accommodated by an approved stormwater
management plan for the subdivision in which the site is located. However,
detailed erosion control plans for individual building sites may still be
required to be submitted to the City, who may require mitigating conditions
upon the approval for the related permit activity. A building permit may be
issued for minor additions to existing improvements without the preparation of
a stormwater management plan if the City determines that the requirements of
this chapter can be met by existing site conditions. (Ord. 542, 1-27-2015; amd.
Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-3-5: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
Unless otherwise exempt from compliance with the standards set forth in this
chapter, all development to which this chapter is applicable shall comply with
the following requirements and methods for stormwater management:
   A.   Contaminant Removals:
      1.   Stormwater expected contaminant removals shall be in accordance with
State standards.
      2.   If the proposed development exceeds site limitations for on site
infiltration methods, then an acceptable alternative stormwater collection,
treatment and disposal system in accordance with an approved stormwater
management plan shall be used. Said approved alternative on site stormwater
collection and treatment systems may be proposed subject to specific approval
by the City during the development review process.
   B.   Development: All development subject to this chapter shall be carried
out such that the runoff of storm or other surface waters shall not be
accelerated, concentrated, or otherwise conveyed beyond the exterior property
lines or project boundaries of the project in question, except in compliance
with the provisions of Best Management Practices (BMPs) adopted pursuant to
this chapter or as allowed through joint management of stormwater with
adjoining property owners pursuant to agreement approved by the City. The
quality of surface runoff shall be protected by compliance with the design
standards and BMPs adopted pursuant to this chapter.
   C.   Stormwater Management Plan Required: Each developer developing real
property, unless exempted in this chapter shall develop a comprehensive
stormwater management plan which addresses and complies with the requirements
and standards established by this chapter and the plan criteria, design
standards and BMPs adopted herein or by resolution pursuant to this chapter.
Each plan for stormwater management shall be approved by a qualified, licensed
professional, who shall submit both construction quality design drawings and
supporting calculations for review by the City prior to start of construction.
Each stormwater management plan shall also identify necessary maintenance
requirements to be used in development of a stormwater maintenance plan.
   D.   Stormwater Maintenance Plan Required: Each developer who is required to
or chooses to construct stormwater management systems in accordance with this
chapter shall also establish, including assurance of adequate funding, the
necessary maintenance system, including an acceptable plan for sustained
functioning of the collection and treatment system, which shall become the
ongoing responsibility of the property owner upon which the facility is
located.
   E.   Continued Maintenance: When requested, the developer shall grant the
necessary easements to the local government which may choose to provide
continued maintenance of the system by public authorities or may require the
owner to accomplish the same. The City is hereby authorized to establish a
department of City government to perform maintenance service for stormwater
management system components or to contract for such maintenance in order that
drainage system components can be maintained. Such services shall be financed
by charging fees to owners and/or occupants of real property benefited by such
service.
   F.   Other Applicable Requirements: This chapter shall be applied in a
manner consistent with the procedures set forth in the Zoning Ordinance,
Subdivision Ordinance, Building Code Ordinance, and such other ordinances as
the City may enact to regulate the use and development of land within the City
pursuant to authority granted by Idaho Code title 65, chapter 67. For purposes
of application of the design standards and other related documents and
standards for the City, the City shall be designated as the permit authority.
(Ord. 542, 1-27-2015; amd. Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-3-6: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
The following performance standards shall be applicable to all design,
construction, implementation and maintenance of stormwater management systems
pursuant to the jurisdiction exercised through this chapter:
   A.   Increase In Rate: There shall be no increase in the peak rate of runoff
from the site when compared with the dissipation of stormwater in the
undeveloped state for a 25-year storm of two (2) hour duration. Within project
boundaries, sufficient retention capacity shall be constructed to detain
surface flow to meet the performance standards established by this section.
   B.   Collection Or Concentration: No stormwater shall be collected or
concentrated, except within a channel protected against erosion and containing
energy dissipation measures to prevent further erosion on adjoining lands.
Existing unprotected channels shall be protected against further erosion in the
course of site development. Any site development or construction shall preserve
installed components of a stormwater management plan. All disturbed soils shall
be protected during the course of construction to prevent exposure to
stormwater and to contain eroded materials should contact be made.
   C.   Directed To Infiltration Areas: Any and all collected stormwater shall
be directed to infiltration areas which shall be established with grass and
other approved plant materials or to an acceptable alternative stormwater
management design. In general, grass infiltration areas or their acceptable
alternatives shall be sized to hold and treat the first one-half inch (1/2") of
stormwater runoff from all impervious surfaces. The overall stormwater disposal
system shall have a capacity to handle a 25-year storm based upon the
appropriate Idaho Transportation Department IDF curve, without damage to the
stormwater management system or adjacent land and improvements. (Ord. 542, 1-
27-2015; amd. Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-3-7: GUARANTEE OF INSTALLATION:
No final plat shall be signed until the stormwater management facilities are in
place and functioning as designed or until a guarantee of financial surety is
provided to and accepted by the City. No certificate of occupancy will be
issued until the stormwater management system has been installed and is
functioning as designed. If, in the judgment of the City, project occupancy can
be achieved without harm to the environment or potential occupants, occupancy
may proceed upon receipt of an acceptable guarantee of financial surety to
complete installation when weather conditions or other variables allow. In no
case shall such guarantee be allowed if the incomplete improvements would
result in increased erosion, sedimentation or other damage to the development,
public improvements, subsurface or surface waters, or the proposed stormwater
management system. At any time, the City is authorized to stop work on the
installation of subdivision improvements, to embargo further issuance of
building permits in a development, to stop work on any individual building or
development of any individual building site, or to otherwise take steps
necessary to protect the waters of the State from damage as a result of
development. (Ord. 542, 1-27-2015; amd. Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-3-8: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
No person shall damage, harm, or fail to install, complete, maintain or
otherwise impair the stormwater treatment and conveyance areas or any portion
of a stormwater management system installed pursuant to this chapter. Unless
other provisions are made in the process of development review and approval,
responsibility for maintenance of stormwater system elements remains with the
property owner and violation of these maintenance requirements shall constitute
a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 542, 1-27-2015; amd. Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-3-9: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Exceptions Granted: An exception from the requirements of this chapter
or from the design standards adopted pursuant to this chapter may be granted
only upon a showing of undue hardship due to unique site characteristics. Said
exception may only be granted in such circumstances if the approval of the
exception would not otherwise impair achievement of the standards or purposes
of this chapter, would not impose additional burden upon adjoining or
downstream lands or landowners, or otherwise disrupt the scheme of stormwater
management in the community. It shall be incumbent upon anyone requesting an
exception to provide data showing that alternative methods of stormwater
handling proposed will produce comparable efficacy of the stormwater management
measures required by this chapter. Applications for exceptions to the standards
of this chapter may be applied for as follows.
   B.   Exceptions And Minor Modifications:
      1.   Application for an exception from a particular provision, regulation
or standard of this chapter may be made in writing to the City Engineer.
Application fees for administrative exceptions are as per the current fee
schedule adopted by the City Council.
      2.   Modifications that are considered to be minor in nature, as
determined by the City Engineer, shall not require application or payment of
fees.
      3.   Exceptions and minor modifications may only be granted by the City
Engineer based on the following findings:
         a.   The requested exception or minor modification will not be
injurious to the public safety and welfare; and
         b.   If approved, the requested exception or minor modification will
be equally protective of the public interest, and will otherwise achieve the
identified purposes of this chapter.
      4.   Decisions of the City Engineer may be appealed to the City Council
as provided for in this chapter. (Ord. 542, 1-27-2015; amd. Ord. 596, 5-24-
2019)
8-3-10: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY:
Provisions of this chapter may be enforced in the following manner:
   A.   Fine: Violation of the terms of this chapter may be punishable in
accordance with the standards of Idaho Code section 18-113. Each day of
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   Civil Action: May be enforced by civil action to compel performance and
completion of, or maintenance of, facilities installed pursuant to this
chapter.
   C.   Revocation Or Denial Of Permits Or Certificates: May have building
permits or certificates of occupancy denied or revoked, as the case may be.
Occupancy of a dwelling or building without an approved certificate of
occupancy shall constitute a violation of this chapter in addition to any
Building or Zoning Ordinance from which the occupancy requirement is derived.
(Ord. 542, 1-27-2015; amd. Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
CHAPTER 4
PRETREATMENT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-4-1: General Provisions
8-4-2: Abbreviations
8-4-3: General Requirements
8-4-4: Wastewater Discharge Permit Requirements
8-4-5: Reporting Requirements
8-4-6: Sampling And Analytical Requirements
8-4-7: Compliance Monitoring
8-4-8: Confidential Information
8-4-9: Publication Of Users In Significant Noncompliance
8-4-10: Administrative Enforcement Remedies
8-4-11: Judicial Enforcement Remedies
8-4-12: Supplemental Enforcement Action
8-4-13: Affirmative Defenses To Discharge Violations
8-4-14: Pretreatment Charges And Fees
8-4-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Purpose And Policy:
      1.   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the
publicly owned collection system of the City and enables the City to comply
with all applicable State and Federal laws, including the Clean Water Act (33
USC 1251 et seq.) and the general pretreatment regulations (40 CFR part 403).
The City contracts with the HARSB for treatment. HARSB has their own
Pretreatment Ordinance. The objectives of this chapter are:
         a.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the City's
wastewater collection system that will interfere with the operation of the City
WWCS and HARSB POTW;
         b.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants and subsequent influent
to the City WWCS, which will pass through the POTW, inadequately treated, into
receiving waters or otherwise be incompatible with the POTW;
         c.   To ensure that the quality of the wastewater treatment plant
sludge is maintained at a level which allows its use and disposal in compliance
with applicable statutes and regulations;
         d.   To protect POTW, City WWCS and HARSB personnel who may be
affected by wastewater and sludge in the course of their employment and to
protect the general public;
         e.   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewater and
sludge from the HARSB POTW; and
         f.   To coordinate a pretreatment program with HARSB.
      2.   This chapter shall apply to all users of the City WWCS. This chapter
authorizes the issuance of wastewater discharge permits; authorizes monitoring,
compliance and enforcement activities; establishes administrative review
procedures; requires user reporting; and provides for the setting of fees for
the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the program established
herein.
   B.   Administration: Except as otherwise provided herein, the Superintendent
shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any
powers granted to or duties imposed upon the Superintendent may be delegated by
the Superintendent to other City or HARSB personnel. (Ord. 276, 11-10-1998;
amd. Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-4-2: ABBREVIATIONS:
The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings:
ASPP     Accidental spill prevention plan
BOD      Biochemical oxygen demand
CFR      Code of Federal Regulations
COD      Chemical oxygen demand
COH WWCS City of Hayden wastewater collection system
EPA      U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
gpd      Gallons per day
HARSB    Hayden Area Regional Sewer Board
L        Liter
LEL      Lower explosive limit
mg       Milligrams
mg/L     Milligrams per liter
NPDES    National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
O&M      Operation and maintenance
POTW     Publicly Owned Treatment Works
RCRA     Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
SIC      Standard Industrial Classifications
SWDA     Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 USC 6901 et seq.)
TSS      Total suspended solids
USC      United States Code
 
(Ord. 276, 11-10-1998; amd. Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-4-3: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Prohibited Discharge Standards:
      1.   General Prohibitions: No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the City of Hayden WWCS or POTW any pollutant or wastewater
which causes pass through or interference. These general prohibitions apply to
all users of the City of Hayden WWCS and/or POTW whether or not they are
subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any other national, State or
local pretreatment standards or requirements.
      2.   Specific Prohibitions: No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the City of Hayden WWCS and/or POTW the following pollutants,
substances or wastewater:
         a.   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the City of
Hayden WWCS or POTW, including, but not limited to, waste streams with a
closed-cup flash point of less than one hundred forty degrees Fahrenheit
(140°F) (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21;
         b.   Wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or more than 9.0, or
otherwise causing corrosive structural damage to the City of Hayden WWCS and/or
POTW or equipment;
         c.   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause
obstruction of the flow in the City of Hayden WWCS and/or POTW resulting in
interference, but in no case solids greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any
dimension.
         d.   Pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.),
released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause interference
with the City of Hayden WWCS and/or POTW;
         e.   Wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case
wastewater which causes the temperature at the introduction into the treatment
plant to exceed one hundred four degrees Fahrenheit (104°F) (40°C) unless the
approval authority, upon the request of the City, approves alternate
temperature limits;
         f.   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
         g.   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or
fumes within City of Hayden WWCS and/or POTW in a quantity that may cause acute
worker health and safety problems;
         h.   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the City of Hayden;
         i.   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance or repair;
         j.   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently impart color to the treatment plant's
effluent, thereby violating the HARSB's NPDES permit. Color (in combination
with turbidity) shall not cause the treatment plant effluent to reduce the
depth of the compensation point for photosynthetic activity by more than ten
percent (10%) from the seasonably established norm for aquatic life;
         k.   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except
as specifically approved by the Superintendent in compliance with applicable
State or Federal regulations;
         l.   Stormwater, surface water, ground water, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by the Superintendent;
         m.   Any sludge, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes or from industrial processes;
         n.   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
Superintendent;
         o.   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant's effluent to fail a toxicity test;
         p.   Detergents, surface-active agents, or other substances which may
cause excessive foaming in the City of Hayden WWCS and/or POTW;
         q.   Any liquid, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are or may be sufficient, either alone or by interaction with other
substances, to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
City of Hayden WWCS and/or POTW, or to the operation of the City of Hayden WWCS
and/or POTW. At no time shall two (2) successive readings on an explosion
meter, at the point of discharge into the system (or at any point in the
system), be more than five percent (5%), nor any single reading over ten
percent (10%) of the lower explosive limit (LEL) of the meter;
         r.   Grease, animal guts or tissues, paunch manure, bones, hair, hides
or fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent
lime, stone or marble dusts, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass clippings,
rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood, plastics, gas, tar asphalt
residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel or lubricating oil, mud,
or glass grindings or polishing wastes.
         s.   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES and/
or other disposal system permits.
         t.   Any wastewater, which, in the opinion of the Superintendent, can
cause harm either to the sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment; have an
adverse effect on the receiving stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb,
public property, or constitute a nuisance, unless allowed under special
agreement by the Superintendent (except that no special waiver shall be given
from categorical pretreatment standards).
         u.   The contents of any tank or other vessel owned or used by any
person in the business of collecting or pumping sewage, effluent, septic tank
waste or other wastewater unless said person has first obtained testing and
approval as may be generally required by the HARSB and paid all fees assessed
for the privilege of said discharge.
         v.   Any hazardous wastes as defined in rules published by the State
of Idaho or in EPA rules 40 CFR part 261.
         w.   Persistent pesticides and/or pesticides regulated by the Federal
Insecticide Fungicide Rodenticide Act (FIFRA).
Pollutants, substances or wastewater prohibited by this section shall not be
processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged to the City
of Hayden WWCS and/or POTW.
   B.   Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards: The national categorical
pretreatment standards as amended and promulgated by EPA pursuant to the Act,
and as found at 40 CFR chapter I, subchapter N, parts 405 - 471, are hereby
incorporated and shall be enforceable under this chapter.
   C.   State Requirements: State requirements and limitations on discharges to
the City of Hayden and/or POTW shall be met by all users which are subject to
such standards in any instance in which they are more stringent than Federal
requirements and limitations, or those in this chapter or in other applicable
ordinances.
   D.   Local Limits:
      1.   The following pollutant limits are established to protect against
pass through and interference. No person shall discharge wastewater containing
in excess of the following daily maximum allowable discharge limits:
a. 0.003 mg/L  Arsenic
  IB mg/L     Cadmium
  2.77 mg/L   Chromium
  3.38 mg/L   Copper
  1.2 mg/L    Cyanide
  IB mg/L     Lead
  0.0003 mg/L Mercury
  3.98 mg/L   Nickel
  0.43 mg/L   Silver
  IB mg/L     Zinc
  100 mg/L    Oil and grease (petroleum and vegetable based)
               Discharge limits for listed metal will be calculated on an
  IB          individual basis. Determination of local limits will be based on
               impact on TMDL and treatment process.
 
         b.   A standard five (5) day biochemical oxygen demand of four hundred
milligrams per liter (400 mg/L) or fifty (50) pounds.
         c.   Four hundred milligrams per liter (400 mg/L) of suspended solids
or fifty (50) pounds.
         d.   Nine milligrams per liter (9 mg/L) of total phosphorus or 1.9
pounds.
         e.   Forty milligrams per liter (40 mg/L) of total nitrogen or 8.3
pounds.
         f.   A flow of twenty five thousand (25,000) gallons.
         g.   A chlorine demand of twenty milligrams per liter (20 mg/L).
      2.   The limits as established in subsection D1 of this section apply at
the point where the wastewater is discharged to the City of Hayden WWCS and/or
POTW (end of the pipe). All concentrations for metallic substances are for
"total" metal unless indicated otherwise. The Superintendent may impose mass
limitations in addition to (or in place of) the concentration based limitations
above. Where a user is subject to a categorical pretreatment standard and a
local limit for a given pollutant, the more stringent limit or applicable
pretreatment standard shall apply.
   E.   City's Right Of Revision: The City reserves the right to establish, by
ordinance or in wastewater discharge permits, more stringent standards or
requirements on discharges to the City of Hayden WWCS.
   F.   Special Agreement: The City reserves the right to enter into special
agreements with users setting out special terms under which they may discharge
to the City of Hayden WWCS. In no case will a special agreement waive
compliance with a categorical pretreatment standard or Federal pretreatment
requirement. However, users may request a net gross adjustment to a categorical
standard in accordance with 40 CFR section 403.15. They may also request a
variance from the categorical pretreatment standard from the approval authority
in accordance with 40 CFR section 403.13.
   G.   Dilution: No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in
any way attempt to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for
adequate treatment to achieve compliance with an applicable pretreatment
standard or requirement unless expressly authorized by an applicable
pretreatment standard or requirement. The Superintendent may impose mass
limitations on users which he believes may be using dilution to meet applicable
pretreatment standards or requirements, or in other cases when the imposition
of mass limitations is appropriate.
   H.   Pretreatment Facilities: Users shall provide necessary wastewater
treatment as required to comply with this chapter and shall achieve compliance
with all applicable pretreatment standards and requirements set out in this
chapter within the time limitations specified by the EPA, the State, or the
Superintendent, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities required to
pretreat wastewater to a level acceptable to the City shall be provided,
operated and maintained at the user's expense. Detailed plans showing the
pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the City
for review, and shall be acceptable to the City before construction of the
facility. The review of such plans and operating procedures will in no way
relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary
to produce an acceptable discharge to the City under the provisions of this
chapter.
   I.   Deadline For Compliance With Applicable Pretreatment Requirements:
      1.   Compliance by existing sources covered by categorical pretreatment
standards shall be within three (3) years of the date the standard is effective
unless a shorter compliance time is specified in the appropriate standard. The
City shall establish a final compliance deadline date for any existing user not
covered by categorical pretreatment standards or for any categorical user when
the local limits for said user are more restrictive than the Federal
categorical pretreatment standards.
      2.   New source and new users are required to comply with applicable
pretreatment standards within the shortest feasible time (not to exceed 90 days
from the beginning of discharge). New sources and new users shall install, have
in operating condition, and shall start up all pollution control equipment
required to meet applicable pretreatment standards before beginning to
discharge.
      3.   Any wastewater discharge permit issued to a categorical user shall
not contain a compliance date beyond any deadline date established in EPA's
categorical pretreatment standards. Any other existing user or a categorical
user that must comply with a more stringent local limit which is in
noncompliance with any local limits shall be provided with a compliance
schedule placed in an industrial wastewater permit to ensure compliance within
the shortest time feasible.
   J.   Additional Pretreatment Measures:
      1.   Whenever deemed necessary, the Superintendent may require users to
restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage waste streams from industrial waste
streams, and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the City of
Hayden WWCS and/or POTW and determine the user's compliance with the
requirements of this chapter.
      2.   A wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for flow
equalization.
      3.   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand; except that
such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All interception
units shall be of type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be
so located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such
interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned and repaired regularly, as needed, by
the user at his expense.
      4.   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
   K.   Accidental Spill Prevention Plans: The Superintendent may require any
user to develop and implement an accidental spill prevention plan (ASPP) or
slug control plan. Where deemed necessary by the City, facilities to prevent
accidental discharge or slug discharges of pollutants shall be provided and
maintained at the user's cost and expense. An accidental spill prevention plan
or slug control plan showing facilities and operating procedures to provide
this protection shall be submitted to the City for review and approval before
implementation. The City shall determine which user is required to develop a
plan and require said plan to be submitted within ninety (90) days after
notification by the City. Each user shall implement its ASPP as submitted or as
modified after such plan has been reviewed and approved by the City. Review and
approval of such plans and operating procedures by the City shall not relieve
the user from the responsibility to modify its facility as necessary to meet
the requirements of this chapter.
      1.   Any user required to develop and implement an accidental spill
prevention plan shall submit a plan which addresses, at a minimum, the
following:
         a.   Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges;
         b.   Description of stored chemicals;
         c.   Procedures for immediately notifying the City and POTW of any
accidental or slug discharge. Such notification must also be given for any
discharge which would violate any of the standards in subsections A through D
of this section; and
         d.   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
chemicals (including solvents), and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
      2.   Users shall notify the City and HARSB wastewater treatment plant
immediately after the occurrence of a slug or accidental discharge of
substances regulated by this chapter. The notification shall include location
of discharge, date and time thereof, type of waste, concentration and volume,
and corrective actions. Any affected user shall be liable for any expense, loss
or damage to the City of Hayden WWCS and/or POTW, in addition to the amount of
any fines imposed on the City and HARSB on account thereof under State or
Federal law.
      3.   Within five (5) days following an accidental discharge, the user
shall submit to the Superintendent a detailed written report describing the
cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the City of Hayden WWCS and/or POTW, fish kills, or any other damage
to persons or property, nor shall such notification relieve the user of any
fines, civil penalties or other liability which may be imposed by this chapter
or other applicable law.
      4.   Signs shall be permanently posted in conspicuous places on the
user's premises advising employees whom to call in the event of a slug or
accidental discharge. Employers shall instruct all employees who may cause or
discover such a discharge with respect to emergency notification procedures.
   L.   Septic Tank Wastes: The dumping of untreated septic tank wastes into
the City of Hayden WWCS and/or POTW is strictly prohibited. The City may by
special agreement consider accepting treated septic tank wastes. (Ord. 276, 11-
10-1998; amd. Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-4-4: WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
No significant industrial user shall discharge wastewater into the City of
Hayden WWCS and/or POTW without first obtaining a wastewater discharge permit
from the Superintendent. Any violation of the terms and conditions of a
wastewater discharge permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and
subjects the wastewater discharge permittee to the sanctions set forth in this
chapter. Obtaining a wastewater discharge permit does not relieve a permittee
of its obligation to comply with all Federal and State pretreatment standards
or requirements or with any other requirements of Federal, State and local law.
The Superintendent may require other users, including liquid waste haulers, to
obtain wastewater discharge permits (as necessary) to carry out the purposes of
this chapter.
   A.   Existing SIU: Any SIU that was discharging wastewater into the City of
Hayden WWCS and/or POTW prior to the effective date hereof and that wishes to
continue such discharges in the future shall, within sixty (60) days after
notification by the Superintendent submit a permit application to the City in
accordance with subsection D of this section and shall not cause or allow
discharges to the City of Hayden WWCS and/or POTW to continue after one hundred
eighty (180) days of the effective date hereof, except in accordance with a
wastewater discharge permit issued by the Superintendent.
   B.   New Source And New User: At least ninety (90) days prior to the
anticipated start-up, any new source, which is a source that becomes a user
subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable categorical pretreatment
standard, and any new user considered by the City to fit the definition of SIU,
shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit and will be required to submit to
the City at least the information listed in subsections D1 through D5 of this
section. A new source or new user cannot discharge without first receiving a
wastewater discharge permit from the City. New sources and new users shall also
be required to include in their application information on the method of
pretreatment they intend to use to meet applicable pretreatment standards. New
sources and new users shall give estimates of the information requested in
subsections D1 through D5 of this section.
   C.   Extrajurisdictional Users: Any existing user who is located beyond the
City jurisdiction and who is required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit
shall submit a wastewater discharge permit application as outlined in
subsection A of this section. New source and new users who are located beyond
the City jurisdiction and who are required to obtain a wastewater discharge
permit shall comply with subsection B of this section.
   D.   Application Contents: All users required to obtain a wastewater
discharge permit must submit, at a minimum, the following information. The
Superintendent shall approve a form to be used as a permit application.
Categorical users submitting the following information shall have complied with
40 CFR section 403.12(b).
      1.   Identifying Information: The user shall submit the name and address
of the facility including the name of the operator and owners;
      2.   Permits: The user shall submit a list of all environmental control
permits held by or for the facility;
      3.   Description Of Operations: The user shall submit a brief description
of the nature, average rate of production, and standard industrial
classification of the operation carried out by such industrial user, including
a list of all raw materials and chemicals used or stored at the facility which
are, or could accidentally or intentionally be, discharged to the City of
Hayden WWCS and/or POTW; number and type of employees; hours of operation; each
product produced by type, amount, process or processes, and rate of production;
type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum per day) and
the time and duration of discharges. This description should also include a
schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the City of
Hayden WWCS and/or POTW from the regulated or manufacturing processes.
Disclosure of site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and
details to show all sewers, sewer connections, inspection manholes, sampling
chambers and appurtenances by size, location and elevation.
      4.   Flow Measurement:
         a.   Categorical User: The user shall submit information showing the
measured average daily and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the City
of Hayden WWCS from each of the following:
            (1)   Regulated or manufacturing process streams; and
            (2)   Other streams as necessary to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula of 40 CFR section 403.6(e).
         b.   Noncategorical User: The user shall submit information showing
the measured average daily and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the
City of Hayden WWCS from each of the following:
            (1)   Total process flow, wastewater treatment plant flow, total
plant flow or individual manufacturing process flow as required by the
Superintendent.
The Superintendent may allow for verifiable estimates of these flows where
justified by cost or feasibility considerations.
      5.   Measurements Of Pollutants:
         a.   Categorical User:
            (1)   The user shall identify the applicable pretreatment standards
for each regulated or manufacturing process.
            (2)   In addition, the user shall submit the results of sampling
and analysis identifying the nature and concentration (or mass where required
by the categorical pretreatment standard or as required by the City) of
regulated pollutants (including standards contained in subsections
8-4-3A through D of this chapter, as appropriate) in the discharge from each
regulated or manufacturing process. Both daily maximum and average
concentration (or mass, where required) shall be reported. The sample shall be
representative of daily operations and shall conform to sampling and analytical
procedures outlined in section
8-4-6 of this chapter.
            (3)   The user shall take a minimum of one representative sample to
compile that data necessary to comply with the requirements of this section.
            (4)   Where an alternate concentration or mass limit has been
calculated in accordance with 40 CFR section 403.6(e) for a categorical user
covered by a categorical pretreatment standard, this adjusted limit along with
supporting data shall be submitted as part of the application.
         b.   Noncategorical User:
            (1)   The user shall identify the applicable pretreatment standards
for its wastewater discharge.
            (2)   In addition, the user shall submit the results of sampling
and analysis identifying the nature and concentration in the discharge (or mass
where required by the City) of regulated pollutants contained in subsections
8-4-3A through D of this chapter, as appropriate. Both daily maximum and
average concentration (or mass, where required) shall be reported. The sample
shall be representative of daily operations and shall conform to sampling and
analytical procedures outlined in section
8-4-6 of this chapter.
            (3)   The user shall take a minimum of one representative sample to
compile that data necessary to comply with the requirements of this section.
            (4)   Where the Superintendent developed alternate concentration or
mass limits because of dilution, this adjusted limit along with supporting data
shall be submitted as part of the application.
      6.   Certification: The user shall submit a statement, reviewed by an
authorized representative of the user and certified by a qualified professional
as outlined in subsection E of this section, indicating whether the applicable
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required for the user to meet the applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements.
      7.   Compliance Schedule: If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the applicable pretreatment standards, the user shall submit
the shortest schedule by which the user will provide such additional
pretreatment and/or O&M. The user's schedule shall conform with the
requirements of subsection
8-4-5C of this chapter. The completion date in this schedule shall not be later
than the compliance date established pursuant to subsection
8-4-3I of this chapter.
         a.   Where the user's categorical pretreatment standard has been
modified by a removal allowance (40 CFR section 403.7), the combined waste
stream formula (40 CFR section 403.6(e)), and/or a fundamentally different
factors variance (40 CFR section 403.13) at the time the user submits the
report required by this subsection D, the information required by subsections
D6 and D7 of this section shall pertain to the modified limits.
         b.   If the categorical pretreatment standard is modified by a removal
allowance (40 CFR section 403.7), the combined waste stream formula (40 CFR
section 403.6(e)), and/or a fundamentally different factors variance (40 CFR
section 403.13) after the user submits the information required by subsections
D6 and D7 of this section, then a report containing modified information shall
be submitted by the user within sixty (60) days after the new limit is
approved.
      8.   Other Information: The user shall submit any other information as
may be deemed necessary by the Superintendent to evaluate the wastewater
discharge permit application.
Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and will be
returned to the user for revision.
   E.   Signatory And Certification Requirement: All wastewater discharge
permit applications and user reports must be signed by an authorized
representative of the user and contain the following certification statement:
I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is to the best of my knowledge and belief, true, accurate
and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting
false information, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment for
knowing violations.
   F.   Wastewater Discharge Permit Decisions: The Superintendent will evaluate
the data furnished by the user and may require additional information. Within
thirty (30) days of receipt of a complete wastewater discharge permit
application, the Superintendent will determine whether or not to issue a
wastewater discharge permit. Upon a determination to issue, the permit shall be
issued within thirty (30) days of full evaluation and acceptance of the data
furnished. The Superintendent may deny any application for a wastewater
discharge permit.
   G.   Wastewater Discharge Permit Contents: Wastewater discharge permits
shall include such conditions as are reasonably deemed necessary by the
Superintendent to prevent pass through or interference, protect the quality of
the water body receiving the treatment plant's effluent, protect worker health
and safety, facilitate sludge management and disposal, and protect against
damage to the City of Hayden WWCS and/or POTW.
      1.   Wastewater discharge permits must contain the following conditions:
         a.   A statement that indicates wastewater discharge permit duration,
which in no event shall exceed five (5) years;
         b.   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is
nontransferable without prior notification to and approval from the City, and
provisions for furnishing the new owner or operator with a copy of the existing
wastewater discharge permit;
         c.   Applicable pretreatment standards and requirements, including any
special State requirements;
         d.   Self-monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, submittal of
technical reports, compliance schedules and record keeping requirements. These
requirements shall include an identification of pollutants to be monitored,
sampling location, sampling frequency and sample type based on Federal, State
and local law; and
         e.   Requirement for immediate notification to the City and HARSB
where self-monitoring results indicate noncompliance;
         f.   Requirement to report a bypass or upset of a pretreatment
facility;
         g.   Requirement for the SIU who reports noncompliance to repeat the
sampling and analysis and submit results to the City and HARSB within thirty
(30) days after becoming aware of the violation;
         h.   A statement of applicable civil, criminal and administrative
penalties for violation of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any
applicable compliance schedule.
      2.   Wastewater discharge permits may contain, but need not be limited
to, the following conditions:
         a.   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
         b.   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
treatment works;
         c.   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill
control plans or other special conditions including management practices
necessary to adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated or routine
discharges;
         d.   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the City of Hayden WWCS and/or
POTW;
         e.   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the City of Hayden WWCS and/or POTW;
         f.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment;
         g.   A statement that compliance with the wastewater discharge permit
does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for compliance with all
applicable Federal and State pretreatment standards, including those which
become effective during the term of the wastewater discharge permit;
         h.   Any special agreements the Superintendent chooses to continue or
develop between the City and user;
         i.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Superintendent to
ensure compliance with this chapter, and State and Federal laws, rules and
regulations.
   H.   Wastewater Discharge Permit Appeals: Any person, including the user,
may petition the City to reconsider the terms of a wastewater discharge permit
within ninety (90) days of its issuance.
      1.   Failure to submit a timely petition for review shall be deemed to be
a waiver of the administrative appeal.
      2.   In its petition, the appealing party must indicate the wastewater
discharge permit provisions objected to, the reasons for this objection, and
the alternative condition, if any, it seeks to place in the wastewater
discharge permit.
      3.   The effectiveness of the wastewater discharge permit shall not be
stayed pending the appeal.
      4.   If the City fails to act within ninety (90) days, a request for
reconsideration shall be deemed to be denied. Decisions not to reconsider a
wastewater discharge permit, not to issue a wastewater discharge permit, or not
to modify a wastewater discharge permit, shall be considered final
administrative actions for purposes of judicial review.
      5.   Aggrieved parties seeking judicial review of the final
administrative wastewater discharge permit decision must do so by filing a
complaint with the First Judicial District, State of Idaho.
   I.   Duration Of Permit: Wastewater discharge permits shall be issued for a
specified time period, not to exceed five (5) years. A wastewater discharge
permit may be issued for a period less than five (5) years, at the discretion
of the Superintendent. Each wastewater discharge permit will indicate a
specific date upon which it will expire.
   J.   Modification Of Permit: The Superintendent may modify the wastewater
discharge permit for good cause including, but not limited to, the following:
      1.   To incorporate any new or revised Federal, State or local
pretreatment standards or requirements;
      2.   To address significant alterations or additions to the user's
operation, processes or wastewater volume or character since the time of
wastewater discharge permit issuance;
      3.   A change in the City of Hayden WWCS and/or POTW that requires either
a temporary or permanent reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
      4.   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat
to the City, HARSB's POTW, HARSB personnel, or the receiving waters;
      5.   Violation of any terms or conditions of the wastewater discharge
permit;
      6.   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required report;
      7.   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 CFR section 403.13;
      8.   To correct typographical or other errors in the wastewater discharge
permit; or
      9.   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership and/or operation to
a new owner/operator.
   K.   Transfer Of Permit:
      1.   Wastewater discharge permits may be reassigned or transferred to a
new owner and/or operator only if the permittee gives at least ninety (90)
days' advance notice to the Superintendent and the Superintendent approves the
wastewater discharge permit transfer. The notice to the Superintendent must
include a written certification by the new owner and/or operator which:
         a.   States that the new owner and/or operator has no immediate intent
to change the facility's operations and processes;
         b.   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur;
and
         c.   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
wastewater discharge permit.
      2.   Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer renders the
wastewater discharge permit voidable as of the date of facility transfer.
Provided that the above occurs and that there were no significant changes to
the manufacturing operation or wastewater discharge, the new owner will be
considered an existing user and be covered by the existing limits and
requirements in the previous owner's permit.
   L.   Revocation Of Permit:
      1.   Wastewater discharge permits may be revoked for, but not limited to,
the following reasons:
         a.   Failure to notify the City of significant changes to the
wastewater prior to the changed discharge;
         b.   Failure to provide prior notification to the City of changed
conditions;
         c.   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application;
         d.   Falsifying self-monitoring reports;
         e.   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
         f.   Refusing to allow the City timely access to the facility premises
and records;
         g.   Failure to meet discharge limitations;
         h.   Failure to pay fines;
         i.   Failure to pay sewer charges;
         j.   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
         k.   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater
discharge permit application;
         l.   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of a permitted
facility; or
         m.   If the City has to invoke its emergency provision as cited in
subsection
8-4-10G of this chapter.
         n.   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any
terms of the wastewater discharge permit or this chapter.
      2.   Wastewater discharge permits shall be voidable upon cessation of
operations or transfer of business ownership. All wastewater discharge permits
issued to a particular user are void upon the issuance of a new wastewater
discharge permit to that user.
   M.   Reissuance Of Permit: A user who is required to have a wastewater
discharge permit shall apply for wastewater discharge permit reissuance by
submitting a complete wastewater discharge permit application, in accordance
with subsection D of this section, a minimum of one hundred twenty (120) days
prior to the expiration of the user's existing wastewater discharge permit. A
user whose existing wastewater discharge permit has expired and who has
submitted its reapplication in the time period specified herein shall be deemed
to have an effective wastewater discharge permit until the City issues or
denies the new wastewater discharge permit. A user whose existing wastewater
discharge permit has expired and who failed to submit its reapplication in the
time period specified herein will be deemed to be discharging without a
wastewater discharge permit. (Ord. 276, 11-10-1998; amd. Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-4-5: REPORTING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Final Compliance Report (Initial Compliance Report):
      1.   Within ninety (90) days following the date for final compliance of
an existing significant industrial user with applicable pretreatment standards
and requirements set forth in this chapter, in Federal categorical standards,
or in a wastewater discharge permit, or, in the case of a new source or a new
user considered by the City to fit the definition of SIU, within ninety (90)
days following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the City of
Hayden WWCS and/or POTW, the affected user shall submit to the City a report
containing the information outlined in subsections
8-4-4D4 through D6 of this chapter.
      2.   For users subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits
established by the City in accordance with procedures established in 40 CFR
section 403.6(c), this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user's
long-term production rate. For all other users subject to categorical
pretreatment standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per
unit of production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include
the user's actual production during the appropriate sampling period.
   B.   Periodic Compliance Report:
      1.   Any user that is required to have an industrial waste discharge
permit and performs self-monitoring shall submit to the City during the months
of June and December, unless required on other dates or more frequently by the
City, a report indicating the nature of the effluent over the previous
reporting period. The frequency of monitoring shall be as prescribed within the
industrial waste discharge permit. At a minimum, users shall sample their
discharge at least twice per year.
      2.   The report shall include a record of the concentrations (and mass if
specified in the wastewater discharge permit) of the pollutants listed in the
wastewater discharge permit that were measured and a record of all flow
measurements (average and maximum) taken at the designated sampling locations
and shall also include any additional information required by this chapter or
the wastewater discharge permit. Production data shall be reported if required
by the wastewater discharge permit. Both daily maximum and average
concentration (or mass, where required) shall be reported. If a user sampled
and analyzed more frequently than what was required by the City or by this
chapter, using methodologies in 40 CFR part 136, it must submit all results of
sampling and analysis of the discharge during the reporting period.
      3.   Any user subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits
established by the City or by unit production limits specified in the
applicable categorical standards, shall report production data as outlined in
subsection A2 of this section.
      4.   If the City calculated limits to factor out dilution flows or
nonregulated flows, the user will be responsible for providing flows from the
regulated process flows, dilution flows and nonregulated flows.
      5.   Flows shall be reported on the basis of actual measurement;
provided, however, that the City may accept reports of average and maximum
flows estimated by verifiable techniques if the City determines that an actual
measurement is not feasible.
      6.   Discharges sampled shall be representative of the user's daily
operations and samples shall be taken in accordance with the requirements
specified in section
8-4-6 of this chapter.
      7.   The City may require reporting by users that are not required to
have an industrial wastewater discharge permit if information or data is needed
to establish a sewer charge, determine the treatability of the effluent or
determine any other factor which is related to the operation and maintenance of
the sewer system.
      8.   The City may require self-monitoring by the user or, if requested by
the user, may agree to perform the periodic compliance monitoring needed to
prepare the periodic compliance report required under this section. If the City
agrees to perform such periodic compliance monitoring, it may charge the user
for such monitoring, based upon the costs incurred by the City for the sampling
and analyses. Any such charges shall be added to the normal sewer charge and
shall be payable as part of the sewer bills. The City is under no obligation to
perform periodic compliance monitoring for a user.
   C.   Compliance Schedules For Meeting Applicable Pretreatment Standards:
      1.   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards (e.g., hiring an engineer,
completing preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing contract for
major components, commencing construction, completing construction, etc.).
      2.   No increment referred to in subsection C1 of this section shall
exceed nine (9) months.
      3.   Not later than fourteen (14) days following each date in the
schedule and the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress
report to the City including, at a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date on which it
expects to comply with this increment of progress, the reason for delay, and
the steps being taken by the user to return the construction to the schedule
established. In no event shall more than nine (9) months elapse between such
progress reports.
   D.   Notification Of Significant Production Changes: Any user operating
under a wastewater discharge permit incorporating equivalent mass or
concentration limits shall notify the City within two (2) business days after
the user has a reasonable basis to know that the production level will
significantly change within the next calendar month. Any user not providing a
notice of such anticipated change will be required to comply with the existing
limits contained in its wastewater discharge permit.
   E.   Hazardous Waste Notification:
      1.   Any user that is discharging more than fifteen kilograms (15 kg) of
hazardous wastes as defined in 40 CFR section 261 (listed or characteristic
wastes) in a calendar month or any facility discharging any amount of acutely
hazardous wastes as specified in 40 CFR sections 261.30(d) and 261.33(e) is
required to provide a one time notification in writing to the City, to the EPA
region 10 Office of Waste and Chemicals Management Director, and to the State
of Idaho Division of Environmental Quality. Any existing user exempt from this
notification shall comply with the requirements contained herein within thirty
(30) days of becoming aware of a discharge of fifteen kilograms (15 kg) of
hazardous wastes in a calendar month or any discharge of acutely hazardous
wastes to the City sewer system. Such notification shall include:
         a.   The name of the hazardous waste as set forth in 40 CFR part 261;
         b.   The EPA hazardous waste number; and
         c.   The type of discharge (continuous, batch or other).
      2.   If an industrial user discharges more than one hundred kilograms
(100 kg) of such waste per calendar per month to the sewer system, the
notification shall also contain the following information to the extent it is
known or readily available to the industrial user:
         a.   An identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the
wastes;
         b.   An estimation of the mass and concentration of such constituents
in the waste streams discharged during that calendar month; and
         c.   An estimation of the mass of constituents in the waste streams
expected to be discharged during the following twelve (12) months.
      3.   These notification requirements do not apply to pollutants already
reported under the self-monitoring requirements.
      4.   Whenever the EPA publishes final rules identifying additional
hazardous wastes or new characteristics of hazardous waste, a user shall notify
the City of the discharge of such a substance within ninety (90) days of the
effective date of such regulations.
      5.   In the case of any notification made under this subsection, an
industrial user shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the
volume and toxicity of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has
determined to be economically practical.
   F.   Notice Of Potential Problems, Including Accidental Spills, Slug Loads:
Any user shall notify the City immediately of all discharges that could cause
problems to the City of Hayden WWCS and/or POTW, including any slug loads, as
defined in section
8-1-2 of this title. The notification shall include the concentration and
volume and corrective action. Steps being taken to reduce any adverse impact
should also be noted during the notification. Any user who discharges a slug
load of pollutants shall be liable for any expense, loss or damage to the City
of Hayden WWCS and/or POTW, in addition to the amount of any fines imposed on
the City under State or Federal law.
   G.   Noncompliance Reporting: If sampling performed by a user indicates a
violation, the user shall notify the City and HARSB within twenty four (24)
hours of becoming aware of the violation. The user shall also repeat the
sampling within five (5) days and submit the results of the repeat analysis to
the City within thirty (30) days after becoming aware of the violation; except,
the user is not required to resample if:
      1.   The City performs sampling at the user at a frequency of at least
once per month; or
      2.   The City performs sampling at the user between the time when the
user performs its initial sampling and the time when the user receives the
results of this sampling.
   H.   Notification Of Changed Discharge: All users shall promptly notify the
City in advance of any substantial change in the volume or character of
pollutants in their discharge, including significant manufacturing process
changes, pretreatment modifications and/or the listed or characteristic
hazardous wastes for which the user has submitted initial notification under 40
CFR section 403.12(p).
   I.   Reports From Unpermitted Users: All users not required to obtain a
wastewater discharge permit shall provide appropriate reports to the City as
the Superintendent may require.
   J.   Record Keeping: Users subject to the reporting requirements of this
chapter shall retain and make available for inspection and copying all records
of information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this
chapter and any additional records of information obtained pursuant to
monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements.
Records shall include the date, exact place, method, and time of sampling and
the name of the person taking the samples; the dates analyses were performed;
who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or methods used; and the
results of such analyses. These records shall remain available for a period of
at least three (3) years. This period shall be automatically extended for the
duration of any litigation concerning the user, City of Hayden WWCS and/or
POTW, or where the user has been specifically notified of a longer retention
period by the Superintendent. (Ord. 276, 11-10-1998; amd. Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-4-6: SAMPLING AND ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Sampling Requirements For Users:
      1.   A minimum of four (4) grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide,
total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide and volatile organics. The
Superintendent will determine on a case-by-case basis whether the user will be
able to composite the individual grab samples. For all other pollutants, twenty
four (24) hour composite samples must be obtained through flow-proportional
composite sampling techniques where feasible. The City may waive flow-
proportional composite sampling for any user that demonstrates that flow-
proportional composite sampling is infeasible. In such cases, samples may be
obtained through time- proportional composite sampling techniques or through a
minimum of four (4) grab samples where the user demonstrates that this will
provide a representative sample of the effluent being discharged.
      2.   Samples shall be taken immediately downstream from pretreatment
facilities, if such exist, immediately downstream from the regulated or
manufacturing process, if no pretreatment exists, or at a location determined
by the City and specified in the user's wastewater discharge permit. For
categorical users, if other wastewaters are mixed with the regulated wastewater
prior to pretreatment, the user shall measure the flows and concentrations
necessary to allow use of the combined waste stream formula of 40 CFR section
403.6(e) in order to evaluate compliance with the applicable categorical
pretreatment standards. For other SIUs, for which the City has adjusted its
local limits to factor out dilution flows, the user shall measure the flows and
concentrations necessary to evaluate compliance with the adjusted pretreatment
standards.
      3.   All sample results shall indicate the time, date and place of
sampling, and methods of analysis, and shall certify that the waste stream
sampled is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant
discharges from the user. If a user sampled and analyzed more frequently than
what was required in its wastewater discharge permit, using methodologies in 40
CFR part 136, it must submit all results of sampling and analysis of the
discharge as part of its self-monitoring report.
   B.   Analytical Requirements: All pollutant analyses, including sampling
techniques, shall be performed in accordance with the techniques prescribed in
40 CFR part 136, unless otherwise specified in an applicable categorical
pretreatment standard. If 40 CFR part 136 does not contain sampling or
analytical techniques for the pollutant in question, sampling and analyses must
be performed in accordance with procedures approved by the EPA.
   C.   City Monitoring Of User's Wastewater: The City will follow the same
procedures as outlined in subsections A and B of this section. (Ord. 276, 11-
10-1998; amd. Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-4-7: COMPLIANCE MONITORING:
   A.   Inspection And Sampling: The City shall have the right to enter the
facilities of any user to ascertain whether the purpose of this chapter, and
any wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, is being met and
whether the user is complying with all requirements thereof. Users shall allow
the Superintendent ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes
of inspection, sampling, records examination and copying, and the performance
of any additional duties.
      1.   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the Superintendent will be permitted to enter
without delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
      2.   The Superintendent shall have the right to set up on the user's
property, or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling and/or metering of the user's operations.
      3.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
user at the written or verbal request of the Superintendent and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the user.
      4.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Superintendent access to the
user's premises shall be a violation of this chapter.
   B.   Monitoring Facilities:
      1.   Each user shall provide and operate at its own expense a monitoring
facility to allow inspection, sampling and flow measurements of each sewer
discharge to the City. Each monitoring facility shall be situated on the user's
premises, except, where such a location would be impractical or cause undue
hardship on the user, the City may concur with the facility being constructed
in the public street or sidewalk area, providing that the facility is located
so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked vehicles. The
Superintendent, whenever applicable, may require the construction and
maintenance of sampling facilities at other locations (for example, at the end
of a manufacturing line or a wastewater treatment system).
      2.   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling facility to allow
accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The facility,
including the sampling and measuring equipment, shall be maintained at all
times in a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
      3.   The Superintendent may require the user to install monitoring
equipment as necessary. All monitoring facilities shall be constructed and
maintained in accordance with all applicable local construction standards and
specifications.
      4.   All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality shall be
calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
   C.   Search Warrants: If the Superintendent has been refused access to a
building, structure or property, or any part thereof, and is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
chapter, or that there is a need to inspect as part of a routine inspection
program of the City designed to verify compliance with this chapter or any
wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the
overall public health, safety and welfare of the community, then the
Superintendent shall seek issuance of a search and/or seizure warrant from the
Kootenai County District Court. Such warrant shall be served at reasonable
hours by the Superintendent in the company of a uniformed police officer of
Kootenai County.
   D.   Vandalism: No person shall wilfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface, tamper with, or prevent access to any structure,
appurtenance or equipment, or other part of the City of Hayden WWCS and/or
POTW. Any person found in violation of this requirement shall be subject to the
sanctions set out in this chapter. (Ord. 276, 11-10-1998; amd. Ord. 596, 5-24-
2019)
8-4-8: CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION:
Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys, wastewater
discharge permit applications, wastewater discharge permits and monitoring
programs, and from the City inspection and sampling activities shall be
available to the public without restriction, unless the user specifically
requests and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the City that the
release of such information would divulge information, processes or methods of
production entitled to protection as trade secrets under applicable State law.
When requested and demonstrated by the user furnishing a report that such
information should be held confidential, the portions of a report which might
disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made available for
inspection by the public but shall be made available immediately upon request
to governmental agencies for uses related to the NPDES program or pretreatment
program and in enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the
report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics and other "effluent data"
as defined by 40 CFR section 2.302 will not be recognized as confidential
information and will be available to the public without restriction. (Ord. 276,
11-10-1998; amd. Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-4-9: PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE:
The City shall publish annually, in the largest daily newspaper published in
the Municipality where the POTW is located, a list of the users which, during
the previous twelve (12) months, were in significant noncompliance with
applicable pretreatment standards and requirements. The term "significant
noncompliance" shall mean:
   A.   "Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits", defined here as
those in which sixty six percent (66%) or more of wastewater measurements taken
during a six (6) month period exceed the daily maximum limit or average limit
for the same pollutant parameter by any amount;
   B.   "Technical review criteria (TRC) violations", defined here as those in
which thirty three percent (33%) or more of wastewater measurements taken for
each pollutant parameter during a six (6) month period equals or exceeds the
product of the daily maximum limit or the average limit multiplied by the
applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils and grease, and 1.2 for all
other pollutants except pH);
   C.   Any other discharge violation that the City believes has caused, alone
or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass through
(including endangering the health of City personnel or the general public);
   D.   Any discharge of pollutants that has caused imminent endangerment to
the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the City's exercise of its
emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
   E.   Failure to meet, within ninety (90) days of the scheduled date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a wastewater discharge permit or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction or
attaining final compliance;
   F.   Failure to provide within thirty (30) days after the due date, any
required reports, including base line monitoring reports, reports on compliance
with categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring
reports, and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
   G.   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
   H.   Any other violation which the City determines will adversely affect the
operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program. (Ord. 276, 11-
10-1998; amd. Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-4-10: ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES:
   A.   Notification Of Violation: When the Superintendent finds that a user
has violated (or continues to violate) any provision of this chapter, a
wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the Superintendent may serve upon that
user a written notice of violation via certified letter. Within ten (10) days
of the receipt of this notice, an explanation of the violation and a plan for
the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to include specific
required actions, shall be submitted by the user to the Superintendent.
Submission of this plan in no way relieves the user of liability for any
violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation.
Nothing in this subsection shall limit the authority of the City to take any
action, including emergency actions or any other enforcement action, without
first issuing a notice of violation.
   B.   Consent Orders: The Superintendent may enter into consent orders,
assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents establishing an
agreement with any user responsible for noncompliance. Such documents will
include specific action to be taken by the user to correct the noncompliance
within a time period specified by the document. Such documents shall have the
same force and effect as the administrative orders issued pursuant to
subsections D and E of this section and shall be judicially enforceable. Use of
a consent order shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite for, taking any
other action against the user.
   C.   Show Cause Hearing: The Superintendent may order via a certified letter
a user which has violated or continues to violate, any provision of this
chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, to appear before the Superintendent and
show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. Notice
shall be served on the user specifying the time and place for the meeting, the
proposed enforcement action, the reasons for such action, and a request that
the user show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken.
The notice of the meeting shall be served personally or by registered or
certified mail (return receipt requested) at least fourteen (14) days prior to
the hearing. Such notice may be served on any authorized representative of the
user. A show cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite for,
taking any other action against the user.
   D.   Compliance Orders: When the Superintendent finds that a user has
violated or continues to violate any provision of this chapter, a wastewater
discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, the Superintendent may issue an order to the user responsible
for the discharge directing that the user come into compliance within a time
specified in the order. If the user does not come into compliance within the
time specified in the order, sewer service may be discontinued unless adequate
treatment facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances are installed and
properly operated. Compliance orders may also contain other requirements to
address the noncompliance, including additional self-monitoring, and management
practices designed to minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the
sewer. Issuance of a compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   E.   Cease And Desist Orders:
      1.   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated (or continues
to violate) any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or
order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, or
that the user's past violations are likely to recur, the Superintendent may
issue an order to the user directing it to cease and desist all such violations
and directing the user to:
         a.   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
         b.   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
      2.   Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or
a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   F.   Administrative Fines:
      1.   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated or continues
to violate any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or
order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the
Superintendent may fine such user in an amount not to exceed one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00). Such fines shall be assessed on a per violation, per day
basis. In the case of monthly or other long-term average discharge limits,
fines shall be assessed for each day during the period of violation.
      2.   Unpaid charges, fines and penalties shall, after thirty (30)
calendar days, be assessed an additional penalty of one percent (1%) of the
unpaid balance, and interest shall accrue thereafter as provided by Idaho Code
section
28-22-104, and amendments. A lien against the user's property will be sought
for unpaid charges, fines and penalties.
      3.   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request for
the Superintendent to reconsider the fine along with full payment of the fine
amount within thirty (30) days of being notified of the fine. Where a request
has merit, the Superintendent shall convene a hearing on the matter within
twenty (20) days of receiving the request from the user. In the event the
user's appeal is successful, the payment, together with any interest accruing
thereto, shall be returned to the user. The City may add the costs of preparing
administrative enforcement actions, such as notices and orders, to the fine.
      4.   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   G.   Emergency Suspensions:
      1.   The Superintendent may immediately suspend a user's discharge (after
informal notice to the user) whenever such suspension is necessary to stop an
actual or threatened discharge which reasonably appears to present or cause an
imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons. The
Superintendent may also immediately suspend a user's discharge (after notice
and opportunity to respond) that threatens to interfere with the operation of
the City of Hayden WWCS and/or POTW, or which presents or may present an
endangerment to the environment.
         a.   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall
immediately stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user's
failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the
Superintendent shall take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate
severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the City of
Hayden WWCS and/or POTW, its receiving stream, or endangerment to any
individuals. The Superintendent shall allow the user to recommence its
discharge when the user has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the HARSB that
the period of endangerment has passed, unless the termination proceedings in
subsection H of this section are initiated against the user.
         b.   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any
discharge presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written
statement, describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures
taken to prevent any future occurrence, to the Superintendent prior to the date
of any show cause or termination hearing under subsections C and H of this
section.
      2.   Nothing in this subsection shall be interpreted as requiring a
hearing prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
   H.   Termination Of Discharge (Nonemergency):
      1.   In addition to the provisions in subsection
8-4-4L of this chapter, any user that violates the following conditions is
subject to discharge termination:
         a.   Violation of wastewater discharge permit conditions;
         b.   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
         c.   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents and characteristics prior to discharge;
         d.   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the
purpose of inspection, monitoring or sampling; or
         e.   Violation of the pretreatment standards in section
8-4-3 of this chapter.
      2.   Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its
discharge and be offered an opportunity to show cause under subsection C of
this section why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this
option by the City shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against the user. (Ord. 276, 11-10-1998; amd. Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-4-11: JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES:
   A.   Injunctive Relief: When the Superintendent finds that a user has
violated (or continues to violate) any provision of this chapter, a wastewater
discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, the Superintendent may petition the First Judicial District
Court, State of Idaho, through the City Attorney, for the issuance of a
temporary or permanent injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or compels
the specific performance of the wastewater discharge permit, order, or other
requirement imposed by this chapter on activities of the user. The City may
also seek such other action as is appropriate for legal and/or equitable
relief, including a requirement for the user to conduct environmental
remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
   B.   Civil Penalties:
      1.   A user which has violated or continues to violate any provision of
this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any
other pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable to the City for a
maximum civil penalty of the maximum allowed under State law but not less than
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation, per day. In the case of a
monthly or other long-term average discharge limit, penalties shall accrue for
each day during the period of the violation.
      2.   The Superintendent may recover reasonable attorney fees, court
costs, and other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including
sampling and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred
by the City.
      3.   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration, any
economic benefit gained through the user's violation, corrective actions by the
user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor as justice
requires.
      4.   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
   C.   Criminal Prosecution:
      1.   A user which has wilfully or negligently violated any provision of
this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any
other pretreatment standard or requirement shall, upon conviction, be guilty of
a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than the maximum fine allowed
under State law per violation, per day.
      2.   A user which has wilfully or negligently introduced any substance
into the POTW which causes personal injury or property damage shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      3.   A user which knowingly made any false statements, representations or
certifications in any application, record, report, plan or other documentation
filed, or required to be maintained, pursuant to this chapter, wastewater
discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or who falsified, tampered with,
or knowingly rendered inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under
this chapter shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   D.   Remedies Nonexclusive: The provisions in sections
8-4-9 through
8-4-12 of this chapter are not exclusive remedies. The City reserves the right
to take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a noncompliant
user. The City reserves the right to take other action against any user when
the circumstances warrant. Further, the City is empowered to take more than one
enforcement action against any noncompliant user. These actions may be taken
concurrently. (Ord. 276, 11-10-1998; amd. Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-4-12: SUPPLEMENTAL ENFORCEMENT ACTION:
   A.   Performance Bonds: The Superintendent may decline to issue or reissue a
wastewater discharge permit to any user which has failed to comply with any
provision of this chapter, a previous wastewater discharge permit or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement unless such
user first files a satisfactory bond, payable to the City, in a sum not to
exceed a value determined by the Superintendent to be necessary to achieve
consistent compliance.
   B.   Liability Insurance: The Superintendent may decline to issue or reissue
a wastewater discharge permit to any user which has failed to comply with any
provision of this chapter, a previous wastewater discharge permit or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, unless the
user first submits proof that it has obtained financial assurances sufficient
to restore or repair damage to the City of Hayden WWCS or POTW caused by its
discharge.
   C.   Water Supply Severance: Whenever a user has violated or continues to
violate any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, water
service to the user may be severed. Service will only recommence, at the user's
expense, after it has satisfactorily demonstrated its ability to comply.
   D.   Contractor Listing: Users which have not achieved compliance with
applicable pretreatment standards and requirements are not eligible to receive
a contractual award for the sale of goods or services to the City. Existing
contracts for the sale of goods or services to the City held by a user found to
be in significant noncompliance with pretreatment standards or requirements may
be terminated at the discretion of the City. (Ord. 276, 11-10-1998; amd. Ord.
596, 5-24-2019)
8-4-13: AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Upset:
      1.   For the purposes of this section, "upset" means an exceptional
incident in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with
applicable pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable
control of the user. An upset does not include noncompliance to the extent
caused by operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities,
inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or
improper operation.
      2.   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action
brought for noncompliance with applicable pretreatment standards if the
requirements of subsection A3 of this section are met.
      3.   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset
shall demonstrate, through properly signed contemporaneous operating logs, or
other relevant evidence, that:
         a.   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause of the
upset;
         b.   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
         c.   The user has submitted the following information to the City of
Hayden WWCS or POTW and treatment plant operator within twenty four (24) hours
of becoming aware of the upset. If this information is provided orally, a
written submission must be provided within five (5) days:
            (1)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
            (2)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
            (3)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
      4.   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
      5.   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
applicable pretreatment standards.
      6.   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with applicable pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails.
   B.   Prohibited Discharge Standards: A user shall have an affirmative
defense to an enforcement action brought against it for noncompliance with the
prohibitions in subsections
8-4-3A1 and A2c through A2g of this chapter if it can prove that it did not
know, or have reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in conjunction with
discharges from other sources, would cause pass through or interference and
that either: 1) a local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user
was in compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass
through or interference; or 2) no local limit exists, but the discharge did not
change substantially in nature or constituents from the user's prior discharge
when the City was regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit and, in the
case of interference, was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal
requirements.
   C.   Bypass:
      1.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section:
    BYPASS: Means the intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion
of a user's treatment facility.
   SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE: Means substantial physical damage to property,
damage to the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property damage does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
      2.   Allowance Of Bypass: A user may allow any bypass to occur which does
not cause applicable pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but
only if it also is for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation.
These bypasses are not subject to the provision of subsections C3 and C4 of
this section.
      3.   Notice Of Bypass:
         a.   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the City of Hayden and HARSB at least ten (10) days
before the date of the bypass, if possible.
         b.   A user shall submit oral notice to the City of Hayden and HARSB
of an unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards
within twenty four (24) hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A
written submission shall also be provided within five (5) days of the time the
user becomes aware of the bypass. The written submission shall contain a
description of the bypass and its cause; the duration of the bypass, including
exact dates and times, and, if the bypass has not been corrected, the
anticipated time it is expected to continue; and steps taken or planned to
reduce, eliminate and prevent recurrence of the bypass. The City may waive the
written report on a case-by-case basis, if the oral report has been received
within twenty four (24) hours.
      4.   Bypass Conditions:
         a.   Bypass is prohibited, and the City may take an enforcement action
against a user for a bypass, unless:
            (1)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal
injury or severe property damage;
            (2)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as
the use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate backup equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
            (3)   The user submitted notices as required under subsection C3 of
this section.
         b.   The City may approve an anticipated bypass, after considering its
adverse effects, if the City determines that it will meet the three (3)
conditions listed in subsection C4a of this section. (Ord. 276, 11-10-1998;
amd. Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-4-14: PRETREATMENT CHARGES AND FEES:
The City may adopt reasonable fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and
operating the City's pretreatment program which may include:
   A.   Fees for wastewater discharge permit applications, including the cost
of processing such applications;
   B.   Fees for monitoring, inspection and surveillance procedures, including
the cost of collection and analyzing a user's discharge, and reviewing
monitoring reports submitted by users;
   C.   Fees for reviewing and responding to accidental discharge procedures
and construction;
   D.   Fees for filing appeals;
   E.   Fees charged by HARSB to the City for costs related to the pretreatment
program; and
   F.   Other fees as the City may deem necessary to carry out the requirements
contained herein. These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this
chapter and are separate from all other fees, fines and penalties chargeable by
the City. (Ord. 276, 11-10-1998; amd. Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
CHAPTER 5
MAJOR AND MINOR UTILITY INFRASTRUCTURE
SECTION:
8-5-1: Purpose
8-5-2: Applicability
8-5-3: Preferred Locations
8-5-4: Utilities Compliance Permit Submittal Requirements
8-5-5: Design Standards
8-5-6: Factors Considered In Granting Utility Compliance Permits
8-5-7: Independent Technical And Legal Review
8-5-8: Final Inspection
8-5-9: Compliance
8-5-10: Minor Modifications And Exceptions To Standards
8-5-11: Appeals
8-5-12: Removal Of Abandoned Major Utility Infrastructure
8-5-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of these provisions to delineate restrictions, development
standards and siting criteria, and establish removal procedures in order to
protect the City from the uncontrolled siting of various major and minor
utility infrastructure(s). It is further the purpose of these provisions to:
   A.   Minimize the visual impacts of utility facilities on the community,
particularly in and near Residential Zones;
   B.   Minimize the impact of aerial and/or above ground facilities and their
supporting infrastructure by establishing guidelines and standards for siting,
design and screening;
   C.   Preserve the opportunity for continued and growing service to
accommodate the growing need and demand from utility providers. (Ord. 596, 5-
24-2019)
8-5-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   All above ground utility infrastructure as defined in section
8-1-2 of this title, major and minor infrastructure excluding wireless
telecommunications facilities addressed in chapter 6 of this title requires a
utilities compliance permit, unless expressly noted below.
      1.   New Utility Infrastructures: All new utility infrastructure(s) in
the City are subject to these regulations.
         a.   Utilities compliance permits are required for new utility
infrastructure and buildings associated with the utility infrastructure in all
zones.
         b.   Utility infrastructure review as part of the subdivision process
shall address utility compliance items and shall not require a utility
compliance permit.
         c.   SCADA equipment placed as a part of a building permit for new or
modified water or sewer infrastructure may be permitted with a building permit,
and does not require a utility compliance permit.
         d.   Utility compliance permits shall not be required for replacement
of utility structures, so long as the size (i.e., height, diameter, volume, as
determined by the City) of a replacement structure is not greater than the
existing structure.
      2.   Pre-Existing Utility Infrastructure: Pre-existing utility
infrastructure shall not be required to be modified to meet the requirements of
this chapter.
      3.   Substantial Changes: A modification to existing infrastructure that
substantially changes the physical dimensions of an eligible support structure
if it meets any of the following criteria shall require permits pursuant to
subsection A1 of this section.
         a.   For any support structure, which involves installation of any new
equipment cabinets on the ground if there are no pre-existing ground cabinets
associated with the structure, or involves installation of ground cabinets that
are more than ten percent (10%) larger in height or overall volume than any
other ground cabinets associated with the structure; or
         b.   The substantial change entails any excavation or deployment
outside the current site; or
         c.   The substantial change would defeat the concealment elements of
the structure; or
         d.   The substantial change does not comply with conditions associated
with the siting approval of the construction or modification of the structure,
provided however that this limitation does not apply to any modification that
is non- compliant only in a manner that would not exceed the thresholds
identified in subsections A3a through A3d of this section.
      4.   Exempt Facilities: The following are exempt from this section:
         a.   Ordinary maintenance and repair of the utility infrastructure.
         b.   Facilities and equipment for emergency services including, but
not limited to, the Kootenai County Sheriff's Department, Kootenai County
Emergency Management System, and Northern Lakes Fire Protection District.
         c.   City facilities and Hayden Area Regional Sewer Board when doing
work related to the City's facilities shall be reviewed according to other
permitting processes (i.e., right-of-way encroachment, building, site, etc.).
      5.   Conflicts With Other Regulations: These utility infrastructure
regulations are in addition to other regulations in this Code. In case of a
conflict between regulations, the most restrictive will apply.
      6.   Additional Requirements: An applicant for a major utility
infrastructure after a pre-development meeting and prior to submittal for
permits may be required to:
         a.   Meet with Hayden City Council in a public meeting or workshop;
and/or
         b.   Hold a public informational meeting by providing notice to
property owners/tenants within three hundred feet (300') of the proposed
project site. (Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-5-3: PREFERRED LOCATIONS:
   A.   All new major utility infrastructure proposed to be located in a
Residential Zone or within two hundred feet (200') of a Residential Zone or in
the Central Business District are permitted only after application of the
following siting priorities, ordered from most-preferred (1) to least-preferred
(6);
      1.   City-owned or operated property and facilities; except:
         a.   In the Central Business District; or
         b.   Residential Zones; or
         c.   In public right-of-way within the Central Business District or
Residential Zones within the City of Hayden;
      2.   Light Industrial and Agricultural Zones (L-I, A);
      3.   Commercial Zones (C);
      4.   City rights-of-way in Residential Zones;
      5.   Central Business District (CBD).
      6.   Parcels of land in Residential Zones (R-S, R-1, R-M/F);
The applicant for major utility infrastructure located in a Residential Zone or
within two hundred feet (200') of a Residential Zone or in the Central Business
District shall address these preferences in an alternative site analysis
prepared pursuant to subsection
8-5-4A1 of this chapter. (Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-5-4: UTILITIES COMPLIANCE PERMIT SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   In order to have a complete application for consideration the following
items must be submitted:
      1.   Alternative Sites Analysis:
         a.   For major utility infrastructure in a Residential Zone or within
two hundred feet (200') of a Residential Zone or in the Central Business
District, the applicant must address the City's preferred locations with a
detailed explanation justifying why a site of higher priority was not selected.
         b.   A complete alternative sites analysis provided under this
subsection may include less than three (3) alternative sites so long as the
applicant provides a factually detailed written rationale for why it could not
identify at least three (3) potentially available, higher ranked, alternative
sites.
      2.   Colocation Of Facilities:
         a.   Policy: Whereas the City understands the importance of critical
deployments of utility infrastructure, it is the policy of the City to minimize
the number of support towers and/or utility poles, and to encourage the
colocation of utilities of more than one service provider on a single utility
infrastructure (i.e., water storage, tower, utility pole).
         b.   Requirements For Colocation: Should the applicant of major
utility infrastructure request to allow other transmission equipment owned by
others to colocate with the major utility infrastructure facility where
technically and economically feasible and aesthetically desirable, then the
requirements identified in chapter 6 of this title must be met.
      3.   Documentation:
         a.   Visual Analysis: A color visual analysis that includes to- scale
visual simulations that show unobstructed before-and-after construction daytime
and clear-weather views from at least four (4) angles, together with a map that
shows the location of each view, including all equipment and ground wires.
         b.   Design Justification: A clear and complete written analysis that
explains how the proposed design complies with the applicable design standards
under this chapter to the maximum extent feasible. A complete design
justification must identify all applicable design standards under this chapter
and provide a factually detailed reason why the proposed design either complies
or cannot feasibly comply.
         c.   Noise Study: Verification that the proposed structures and
associated equipment meets subsection
11-11-9B of this Code shall be required. A noise study, if the proposal is in
or within two hundred feet (200') of Residentially zoned property or in the
Central Business District, may be required.
         d.   Building Code Standards: Documentation from an Idaho licensed
professional engineer shall be submitted which shall demonstrate the proposed
facility's compliance with applicable Building Code standards, and describing
the general structural capacity of the proposed facility, including the maximum
number and type of devices that can be accommodated and the basis of the
calculation of capacity.
         e.   Site Approval: The applicant shall provide a copy of site
approval from the FAA, where applicable.
      4.   Other Permits Required: The utility compliance permit is reviewed
concurrently with a variety of other processes to include but not be limited to
a site, building, or right-of-way encroachment permit with their own required
submittals. The utility compliance permit is reviewed and either approved or
denied by the Community Development Director or his/her designee and may be
appealed according to section
8-5-11 of this chapter. A final permit shall meet the requirements of all
permits to be issued.
      5.   Application Fees: An applicant shall submit an application fee in
accordance with the City's then adopted fee schedule. (Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-5-5: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Standards:
      1.   Color: The infrastructure shall be designed to blend into the
architectural detail and coloring of the host structure or surrounding area.
Structures shall be painted a color that best allows it to blend into the
surroundings. The use of grays, blues, greens, dark bronze, browns or other
site specific colors may be appropriate; however, each case should be evaluated
individually.
      2.   Lighting: For water storage structures or other tall infrastructure,
only such lighting as is necessary to satisfy FAA requirements is permitted.
White strobe lighting will not be allowed, unless specifically required by the
FAA. Security lighting for the equipment shelters or cabinets and other on the
ground ancillary equipment is also permitted, as long as it is appropriately
down shielded to keep light within the boundaries of the site. All such
lighting shall be fully shielded, and all lighting shall be contained on the
lot. When lighting is proposed a photometric plan shall be submitted which
demonstrates compliance with these standards. "Fully shielded" lighting shall
meet the definition of subsection
11-4-5 of this Code.
      3.   Site Development Permit: All utility infrastructures shall be
required to obtain a permit and shall be subject to the site development
standards prescribed herein. Site development shall include the following
information:
         a.   Construction drawings showing the proposed method of
installation;
         b.   The manufacturer's recommended installations, if any;
         c.   A site plan meeting the requirements of section
11-4-7 of this Code; and
         d.   The setback distance between the proposed infrastructure and the
nearest residential unit and Residentially zoned properties.
      4.   Building Codes; Safety Standards: To ensure the structural integrity
of utility structure(s), the owner of a utility structure(s) shall ensure that
it is maintained in compliance with standards contained in applicable State or
local Building Codes and the applicable industry standards for utility
structure(s), as amended from time to time. If, upon inspection, the City
concludes that a utility structure(s) fails to comply with such codes and
standards and constitutes a danger to persons or property, then upon written
notice being provided to the owner of the utility structure(s), the owner shall
have thirty (30) days to bring such utility structure(s) into compliance with
such standards and/or identify a plan to bring the infrastructure into
compliance that is acceptable to the City. Should the City determine that
imminent failure or public safety is in jeopardy, the City shall remove the
utility structure(s) at the owner's expense. Failure to bring such utility
structure(s) into compliance within said thirty (30) days shall constitute
grounds for the removal of the utility structure(s) at the owner's expense.
Compliance with this subsection is also subject to the City's Code enforcement
pursuant to the International Building Code, regarding unsafe building and
related provisions.
      5.   Signs: No facilities may bear any signage or advertisement(s) other
than signage required by law or expressly permitted or required by the City.
      6.   Visual Impact: All above-ground utility in Residential Zones and
within two hundred feet (200') of Residential Zones shall be sited and designed
to minimize adverse visual impacts on surrounding properties and the traveling
public to the greatest extent reasonably possible, consistent with the proper
functioning of the above ground aerial and/or utility structure. Such
structures and ancillary equipment enclosures shall be integrated through
location and design to blend in with the existing characteristics of the site.
These structures shall also be designed to either resemble the surrounding
landscape and other natural features where located in proximity to natural
surroundings, or be compatible with the built environment, through matching and
complementary existing structures and specific design considerations such as
architectural designs, height, scale, color and texture or be consistent with
other uses and improvements permitted in the relevant zone.
      7.   Use Of Camouflage Design/Technology: Aesthetic requirements shall
be: a) reasonable and b) no more burdensome than those applied to other types
of infrastructure deployments. The applicant shall provide justification why it
is not employing camouflage technology for all above ground utility
infrastructure. Camouflage design is required for facilities in Residential
Zones, and to the extent shown in subsection A8, table 1 of this section and
elsewhere as provided in this chapter. Concealment techniques must be
appropriate given the proposed location, design, visual environment, and nearby
uses, structures, and natural features. Camouflage design shall be designed and
constructed to substantially conform to surrounding building designs or natural
settings, so as to be visually unobtrusive. Camouflage techniques do not
include incorporating faux-tree designs of a kind that are not native to the
North Idaho region.
      8.   Height Of Proposed Infrastructure (i.e., Water Storage, High
Voltage, Etc.):
      TABLE 1
      NEW MAJOR UTILITY INFRASTRUCTURE CRITERIA
 
                               With Camouflage Design With Approved Minor
                                                      Modification
Zone Category   Maximum Height Maximum Height         Maximum Height
                                                      With Exception5
R-1, R-S, R-M/F 75' 1          75'                    90'
C               90' 2          110'                   132'
CBD             90' 2,3        110'                   132'
L-I, A          120' 4         150'                   180'
 
   Notes:
      1.    If an applicant wants to construct major utility infrastructure in
a Residential Zone or within 200 feet of a Residential Zone, then camouflage
design shall be required.
      2.    An additional 20 feet in height is allowed if applicant uses
camouflage design.
      3.    CBD Zone shall require camouflage design. Preferred location shall
be on top of existing structure.
      4.    An additional 30 feet in height is allowed if applicant uses
camouflage design.
      5.    An additional 20 percent can be added to the height, if the
findings can be met for a minor modification as defined in section
8-5-10 of this chapter. Any additional height exception request shall follow
the process identified in section
8-5-10 of this chapter.
      9.   Setbacks: When a residential structure is located within a 1:1 ratio
of the height of the structure on adjacent or nearby property, the structure(s)
shall meet the required setback for the primary structure of the zone as
established in this title or a minimum of one foot (1') for every foot of
height, whichever produces the greater setback, unless:
         a.   The setback is waived by the owner(s) of the residence(s) within
the setback area and this waiver is recorded with the property; or
         b.   The infrastructure is constructed in such a manner to reduce the
fall area. The issuance of building permits shall be conditioned upon approval
of the major utility infrastructure design by a structural engineer.
      10.   Accessory Equipment: In Residential Zones, all accessory equipment
shall be located or placed (at the applicant's choice) in an existing building,
underground, or in an equipment shelter or cabinet that is: a) designed to
blend in with existing surroundings, using architecturally compatible
construction and colors; and b) located so as to be as unobtrusive as possible
consistent with the proper functioning of the equipment.
      11.   Site Design Flexibility: Individual sites vary in the location of
adjacent buildings, existing trees, topography and other local variables.
Therefore, the utility infrastructure and supporting equipment shall be
installed so as to best camouflage, disguise, or conceal them, to be more
closely compatible with and blend into the setting or host structure, as
determined by the City.
      12.   General Standards And Construction Provisions:
         a.   Building Code: Structures shall be permitted and constructed to
meet current, adopted Building Code requirements.
         b.   FAA Regulations: All structures shall conform to FAA regulations,
if applicable. A description of compliance with all applicable Federal, State
and local laws may be required.
         c.   Distance: If any setback or buffer yard as prescribed within this
Code requires a greater distance than required of this title, the greater
distance shall apply.
         d.   Landscaping, Screening And Fencing: In all zoning districts, the
following shall be required for the zone in which it is located:
            (1)   Equipment shelters and cabinets and other on the ground
ancillary equipment shall be screened with buffer yard and street tree
landscaping as required for the zone in which the infrastructure is located or
with another design acceptable to the City.
            (2)   Artwork may also be used to screen ground equipment. At the
City's discretion, as an alternative to general landscaping and screening
requirements, the applicant, at its expense, may apply an artistic wrap around
the equipment cabinets. Alternatively, where technically feasible, the
applicant shall incorporate the cabinet and other equipment into the base of a
new pole provided there is adequate space in the right-of-way and that ADA
sidewalk accessibility requirements can be met. All provisions of the ADA
(including, but not limited to, clear space requirements) shall be met by the
applicant. All setbacks are to be measured from the property line.
            (3)   A landscaping plan shall be submitted with the site plan
which shall identify the landscaping required for the site to meet those
requirements as identified in section
11-4-4 and
11-4-7 of this Code.
            (4)   Except for locations in the right-of-way, a site-obscuring
fence no less than six feet (6') in height from the finished grade shall be
constructed around the major and/or minor utility infrastructure. Access shall
only be through a locked gate. The fence must include neutral colored slats.
Any fence shall comply with section
11-4-3 of this Code and shall comply with visibility standards identified in
section
6-1-4 of this Code related to the site triangle.
         e.   New Poles: To the extent technically feasible, new poles must be
designed to match the existing street furniture, light fixtures and other
poles, and they shall serve a dual purpose (for example, a new light fixture,
flag pole or banner clips) where applicable.
         f.   Other Published Materials: As reasonably required by the City
from time to time, all other information or materials shall be made publicly
available and shall be designated as part of the application requirements.
(Ord. 596, 5-24-2019; amd. Ord. 619, 4-13-2021))
8-5-6: FACTORS CONSIDERED IN GRANTING UTILITY COMPLIANCE PERMITS:
   A.   Proximity of the utility infrastructure to residential structures and
Residential District boundaries.
   B.   Surrounding topography, tree coverage and foliage, nature of uses on
adjacent and nearby properties.
   C.   Design of the utility infrastructure, with particular reference to
design characteristics that have the effect of reducing or eliminating visual
obtrusiveness.
   D.   No existing structures are located within the geographic area which
meet applicant's engineering requirements.
   E.   The applicant demonstrates that there are other limiting factors not
enumerated herein that render other sites or heights unsuitable.
   F.   All equipment shelters, cabinets, or other on the ground ancillary
equipment shall meet the setback requirement of the zone in which it is
located.
   G.   The applicant has addressed all applicable items within the application
and addressed the applicable items within the Design Standards.
   H.   Preferred site locations. All new major utility infrastructure(s) shall
follow the site location requirements in section
8-5-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-5-7: INDEPENDENT TECHNICAL AND LEGAL REVIEW:
Although the City intends for City staff to review applications to the extent
feasible, the City may retain the services of independent technical and legal
experts of its choice to provide technical and legal evaluations of permit
applications. The third party experts shall have recognized qualifications in
their fields. The applicant shall pay the cost for any independent consultant
fees through a deposit, estimated by the City, paid within ten (10) days of the
City's request. When the City requests such payment, the application shall be
deemed incomplete for purposes of application processing timelines until the
deposit is received. In the event that such costs and fees do not exceed the
deposit amount, the City shall refund any unused portion within thirty (30)
days after the final permit is released or, if no final permit is released,
within thirty (30) days after the City receives a written request from the
applicant. If the actual costs and fees exceed the deposit amount, then the
applicant shall pay the difference to the City before the permit is released.
(Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-5-8: FINAL INSPECTION:
   A.   Prior to completion of the project, the engineer of record shall
provide a certification that the project was constructed according to the
approved plans and specifications.
   B.   A certificate of completion will only be granted upon satisfactory
evidence that the facilities were installed in substantial compliance with the
approved plans and photo simulations. Additionally, all site improvements,
right-of-way encroachment permit requirements, and other building permit
requirements must be completed and approved prior to a certificate of
completion.
   C.   A certificate of occupancy shall be granted upon satisfactory evidence
that the building structure has been constructed in compliance with the
approved plans and all other State and local agency final inspections have been
approved for buildings to be occupied.
   D.   If it is found that the facilities installation does not substantially
comply with the approved plans and photo simulations, the applicant shall make
any and all such changes required bringing the installation into compliance
promptly and in any event prior to operation. (Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-5-9: COMPLIANCE:
   A.   The site and utility facilities, including all landscaping, fencing and
related transmission equipment must be maintained at all times in a neat and
clean manner and in accordance with all approved plans.
   B.   All graffiti on utility facilities must be removed at the sole expense
of the permittee after notification by the City to the owner/operator. The
graffiti must be removed within fourteen (14) days after notification by the
City.
   C.   All camouflage materials (to include paint, artist wraps, etc.) must be
maintained at all times in a neat and clean manner and in accordance with all
approved plans. (Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-5-10: MINOR MODIFICATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS TO STANDARDS:
   A.   Minor Modifications; Exceptions:
      1.   Applicability: Application for an exception from a particular
provision, regulation or standard of this chapter may be made in writing to the
Community Development Director or his/her designee. Application fees for
appeals and minor modifications are identified in the current fee schedule
adopted by the City Council.
      2.   Minor Modifications: Modifications that are considered to be minor
in nature, as determined by the Community Development Director or his/her
designee shall not require application or payment of fees.
      3.   Exceptions: Exceptions may be considered for various aspects of the
site, landscaping, parking and loading, and height of the utility structure.
         a.   Exception requests for up to twenty percent (20%) of the required
standard shall be considered a minor modification and follow subsection A2 of
this section.
         b.   Exception requests of more than twenty percent (20%) and less
than fifty percent (50%) of the required standard shall be considered as a
minor exception in nature and requires a public meeting with City Council.
         c.   Exception requests of more than fifty percent (50%) of the
required standard shall be considered as a major exception in nature and
requires a public hearing with the City Council.
      4.   Exceptions In Residential Zones: For utility infrastructure proposed
to be located in a Residential Zone or within two hundred feet (200') of a
Residential Zone, or in the Central Business District, unless the proposal
qualifies as a preferred location on City-owned or operated property or
facilities, the applicant must also demonstrate that the manner in which it
proposes to fill the gap in coverage, meet capacity requirements, or
technologies of a service network is the least intrusive on the Residential
Zone.
      5.   Application And Submittal Requirements:
         a.   For a minor modification and/or an exception meeting subsection
A3a of this section then the submittal requirements shall be the following:
            (1)   A written statement demonstrating how the exception would
meet the criteria.
            (2)   A site plan, if different from that included within the
utility compliance permit, that describes the proposed facility's design and
dimensions, as it would appear with and without the minor modification or
exception. Elevations showing all components should be shown with and without
the exception.
            (3)   Color simulations before and after construction demonstrating
compatibility with the vicinity, as it would appear with and without the
exception.
         b.   An application and payment of fees as established by resolution
of the City Council shall be required prior to City Council consideration of
exceptions meeting subsections A3b and A3c of this section.
            (1)   The submittal requirements shall be the same as subsection
A5a of this section for minor modification and/or an exception.
      6.   Approval: Exceptions and minor modifications may only be granted
based upon the following findings:
         a.   The exception is consistent with the purpose of the development
standard for which the exception is sought; and
         b.   The requested exception or minor modification is based upon a
unique character or feature of the property or uses, which does not generally
apply to other properties or similar uses subject to the requirement from which
an exception is sought; and
         c.   The requested exception or minor modification will not be
injurious to the public safety and welfare; and
         d.   If approved, the requested exception or minor modification will
be equally protective of the public interest, and will otherwise achieve the
identified purposes of this chapter; and
         e.   If a reduction in the required parking is requested, the
applicant has provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the off street
parking proposed will be adequate to meet the needs of the present use, and
likely future uses; such evidence may include, but is not limited to, a
consideration of on street parking available to serve the subject property; and
         f.   If a reduction in the required setback is requested, the
applicant has provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the exception or
minor modification will not be injurious to the public safety and welfare; and
         g.   If an increase in the allowed height of the utility
infrastructure is requested, the applicant has provided sufficient evidence to
demonstrate that the exception or minor modification will not be injurious to
the public safety and welfare; and
         h.   Based on a visual analysis, the design minimizes the visual
impacts to Residential Zones through mitigating measures, including, but not
limited to, building heights, bulk, color, and landscaping, beyond the adopted
standard.
      7.   Decisions: Decisions of the Community Development Director or his/
her designee may be appealed to City Council as provided for in section
8-5-11 of this chapter. (Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-5-11: APPEALS:
   A.   Procedure:
      1.   Application And Submittal Requirements:
         a.   Any application for an appeal shall be submitted within twenty
one (21) days of the issuance of the approval or disapproval of the utility
compliance permit and shall be accompanied by the application and the fees as
established by resolution of the City Council.
         b.   An application shall include:
            (1)   The applicant's name, address, telephone number and e-mail.
            (2)   Identification of the application which is the subject of the
appeal.
            (3)   A written statement describing his or her standing to appeal.
            (4)   The applicant's statement of grounds for the appeal
addressing why the appellant believes the decision to be unlawful or
inappropriate to the factual circumstances and/or demonstrating how an
exception would meet subsection
8-5-10A6 of this chapter.
      2.   Setting Of Appeal Hearing: Upon the timely filing of an appeal, the
City shall set the date, time and place for the appeal to be heard by the City
Council.
      3.   Burden Of Proof: The appellant shall bear the burden of proving the
decision was unlawful or inappropriate to the factual circumstances presented
to the Director.
      4.   Notice Of Appeal: Appeals of the utility compliance permit decision,
where an applicant requests a reconsideration of the approvals or disapprovals
of the permit shall be subject to a public hearing process as follows:
Payment of the applicable appeal fee and the associated noticing fees. At least
fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of the proposal in compliance
with section
11-1-4D of this Code, shall be published in the official newspaper of the City.
Notice by first class mail, fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing shall also
be provided to property owners and purchasers within three hundred feet (300')
beyond, excluding streets and alleys, or the external boundaries of the land
being considered, and any additional area that may be substantially impacted by
the proposed exception as determined by the City Council. When notice is
required of two hundred (200) or more property owners or purchasers of record,
notice may be given through a display advertisement at least four inches (4")
by two (2) columns in size in the official newspaper of the City at least
fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing date, in addition to site posting on all
external boundaries of the site, in lieu of mailed notice. The applicant shall
bear the responsibility and cost of all legal publications and the public
notice.
      5.   City Council Decision On Appeal:
         a.   After the public hearing, the City Council shall approve,
conditionally approve or disapprove the application as presented. If the
application is approved or approved with modifications, the Council shall issue
a utility compliance permit listing the specific conditions specified by the
City Council for approval.
         b.   Upon granting a utility compliance permit, conditions may be
attached to the utility compliance permit, including, but not limited to, those
addressing the standards of approval identified in subsection
8-5-10A6 of this chapter.
         c.   Upon granting or denying an application, the City Council shall
specify in writing:
            (1)   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the
application;
            (2)   The reasons for approval or denial; and
            (3)   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain
a permit. (Ord. 596, 5-24-2019; amd. Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
8-5-12: REMOVAL OF ABANDONED MAJOR UTILITY INFRASTRUCTURE:
Any infrastructure that is not operated for a continuous period of twelve (12)
months shall be considered abandoned, and the owner of such infrastructure
shall so notify the City in writing and shall remove the same within ninety
(90) days of giving notice to the City of such abandonment. Additionally, upon
written notice from the City that the utility infrastructure has been abandoned
by the owner of such infrastructure for a continuous period of more than twelve
(12) months, the owner shall remove the same within ninety (90) days. If the
removal cannot be accomplished within this timeframe, the owner shall request
an extension and provide a plan to remove the same and the associated timelines
to accomplish the removal. Failure to remove abandoned infrastructure within
said ninety (90) days or the approved timeline of the extension shall be
grounds to remove the infrastructure at the owner's expense, including all
costs and attorneys' fees. Irrespective of any agreement between them to the
contrary, the owner of such unused facility and the owner of the land upon
which the unused facility is located, shall be jointly and severally
responsible for the removal of abandoned unused facilities and facilities
foundation, if any. (Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
CHAPTER 6
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES
SECTION:
8-6-1: Purpose
8-6-2: Applicability
8-6-3: Preferred Tower Locations
8-6-4: Utilities Compliance Permit Submittal Requirements
8-6-5: Eligible Facilities Request For An Existing Tower Or Base Station
Application
8-6-6: Colocation Applications
8-6-7: New Tower Site Applications
8-6-8: Distributed Antenna Systems (DAS) And Small Wireless Facilities (SWFs)
8-6-9: Sharing Of Support Towers And Colocation Of Facilities
8-6-10: Setback Requirements For A Tower
8-6-11: Design Standards
8-6-12: Factors Considered In Granting Utility Compliance Permits
8-6-13: Independent RF Technical And Legal Review
8-6-14: Final Inspection
8-6-15: Compliance
8-6-16: Minor Modification Or Exceptions To Standards
8-6-17: Appeals
8-6-18: Removal Of Abandoned Antennas And Towers
8-6-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of these provisions to delineate restrictions, development
standards and siting criteria, and establish removal procedures in order to
protect the City from the uncontrolled siting of wireless communication
facility infrastructure(s). It is further the purpose of these provisions to:
   A.   Minimize the visual impact of utility facilities on the community,
particularly in and near Residential Zones;
   B.   Minimize the impact of aerial facilities and their supporting
infrastructure by establishing standards for siting design and screening;
   C.   Preserve the opportunity for continued and growing service to
accommodate the growing need and demand from the wireless industry;
   D.   Establish clear guidelines and standards and an orderly process for
review intended to facilitate the deployment of transmission equipment, to
provide advanced communication services to the City, its residents, businesses
and community at large;
   E.   Ensure City zoning regulations are applied consistently with Federal
and State telecommunications laws, rules, regulations and controlling court
decisions; and
   F.   Provide regulations which are specifically not intended to, and shall
not be interpreted or applied to: 1) prohibit or effectively prohibit the
provision of wireless services, 2) unreasonably discriminate among functionally
equivalent service providers, or 3) regulate wireless communication facilities
and wireless transmission equipment on the basis of the environmental effects
of radio frequency emissions to the extent that such emissions comply with the
standards established by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). (Ord.
596, 5-24-2019)
8-6-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   All wireless communication facility infrastructure unless expressly
noted below requires a utilities compliance permit.
      1.   New Towers, Antennas, DAS And SWF: All new towers, antennas, DAS and
SWFs in the City are subject to these regulations, except as otherwise provided
herein.
         a.   Utilities compliance permits are required for new towers and
buildings associated with the utility infrastructure in all zones.
         b.   New antenna arrays meeting the requirements of section
8-6-11 of this chapter may be permitted with a building permit, but without a
utility compliance permit.
         c.   DAS and SWFs are permitted pursuant to section
8-6-8 of this chapter.
      2.   Pre-Existing Utility Infrastructure: Pre-existing utility
infrastructure (i.e., towers or antennas) shall not be required to be modified
to meet the requirements of this chapter.
      3.   Substantial Changes: A modification to existing infrastructure shall
be deemed substantial when it meets the following criteria and shall require
permits pursuant to subsection A1 of this section.
         a.   For towers other than towers in the public rights-of-way, the
substantial change increases the height of the tower by more than ten percent
(10%) or by the height of one additional antenna array with separation from the
nearest existing antenna not to exceed twenty feet (20'), whichever is greater;
for other eligible support structures, it increases the height of the structure
by more than ten percent (10%) or more than ten feet (10'), whichever is
greater. Changes in height should be measured from the original support
structure in cases where deployments are or will be separated horizontally,
such as on buildings' rooftops; in other circumstances, changes in height
should be measured from the dimensions of the tower or base station, inclusive
of originally approved appurtenances and any modifications that were approved
prior to the passage of the Spectrum Act (47 USC 1455 (a)); or
         b.   For towers other than towers in the public rights-of-way, the
substantial change involves adding an appurtenance to the body of the tower
that would protrude horizontally from the edge of the tower more than twenty
feet (20'), or more than the width of the tower structure at the level of the
appurtenance, whichever is greater; for other eligible support structures, it
involves adding an appurtenance to the body of the structure that would
protrude from the edge of the structure by more than six feet (6'); or
         c.   For any support structure, the substantial change involves
installation of more than the standard number of new equipment cabinets for the
technology involved, but not to exceed four (4) cabinets; or, for towers in the
public rights-of-way and base stations, it involves installation of any new
equipment cabinets on the ground if there are no pre-existing ground cabinets
associated with the structure, or else involves installation of ground cabinets
that are more than ten percent (10%) larger in height or overall volume than
any other ground cabinets associated with the structure; or
         d.   The substantial change entails any excavation or deployment
outside the current approved site; or
         e.   The substantial change would defeat the concealment elements of
the eligible support structure.
      4.   Exempt Facilities: The following are exempt from this section:
         a.   FCC licensed amateur (ham) radio facilities;
         b.   Satellite earth stations, dishes and/or antennas used for private
television reception not exceeding one meter (1 m) in diameter;
         c.   A WCF installed upon the declaration of a state of emergency by
the Federal, State or local government, or a written determination of public
necessity by the City; except that such facility must comply with all Federal
and State requirements. The WCF shall be exempt from the provisions of this
chapter for up to one month after the duration of the state of emergency; and
         d.   A temporary, commercial WCF installed for providing coverage of a
special event such as news coverage or sporting event, subject to
administrative approval by the City. The WCF shall be exempt from the
provisions of this chapter for up to one week before and after the duration of
the special event not to exceed a maximum of twenty one (21) days.
         e.   Other temporary, commercial WCFs installed for a period of up to
ninety (90) days, subject to administrative renewals at the City's discretion;
provided that such temporary WCF will comply with applicable setbacks and
height requirements.
         f.   Ordinary maintenance and repair of the utility infrastructure.
         g.   Facilities and equipment, for emergency services including, but
not limited to, the Kootenai County Sheriff's Department, Kootenai County
Emergency Management System, and Northern Lakes Fire Protection District.
         h.   City facilities and Hayden Area Regional Sewer Board when doing
work related to the City's facilities shall be reviewed according to other
permitting processes (i.e., right-of-way encroachment, building, site, etc.).
      5.   Conflicts With Other Regulations: These wireless communication
facility regulations are in addition to other regulations in this Code. In case
of a conflict between regulations, the most restrictive will apply. (Ord. 596,
5-24-2019)
8-6-3: PREFERRED TOWER LOCATIONS:
All new towers proposed to be located in a Residential Zone or within two
hundred feet (200') of a Residential Zone or in the Central Business District
are permitted only after application of the siting priorities, ordered from
most preferred (1) to least preferred (6) as identified in section
8-5-3 of this title.
The applicant for a tower located in a Residential Zone or within two hundred
feet (200') of a Residential Zone or in the Central Business District shall
address these preferences in an alternative site analysis prepared pursuant to
subsection
8-6-4A2 of this chapter. (Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-6-4: UTILITIES COMPLIANCE PERMIT SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   In order to have a complete application for consideration the following
items must be submitted:
      1.   Eligibility Facility Request: An Eligibility Facility Request shall
be required for all WCF to meet FCC requirements related to timeliness of
application reviews and permit issuance. Once the Eligibility Facility Request
is determined based on the following:
         a.   Existing tower or base station per section
8-6-5 of this chapter; and/or
         b.   Colocation Application per section
8-6-6 of this chapter; and/or
         c.   New Tower and/or Site Application per section
8-6-7 of this chapter;
then the utility compliance permit may be reviewed.
      2.   Alternative Sites Analysis:
         a.   For towers in a Residential Zone or within two hundred feet
(200') of a Residential Zone or in the Central Business District, the applicant
must address the City's preferred locations with a detailed explanation
justifying why a site of higher priority was not selected.
         b.   A complete alternative sites analysis provided under this
subsection shall include three (3) alternative sites unless the applicant
provides a factually detailed written rationale for why it could not identify
at least three (3) potentially available, higher ranked, alternative sites.
      3.   Colocation Consent: A written statement will be signed by a person
with the legal authority to bind the applicant and the project owner, which
indicates whether the applicant is willing to allow other transmission
equipment owned by others to collocate with the proposed wireless communication
facility whenever technically and economically feasible and aesthetically
desirable.
      4.   Documentation: Applications submitted under this section for towers
shall include the following materials:
         a.   Requirement For FCC/FAA Documentation: The applicant shall
provide a copy of the applicant's FCC license or registration. The applicant
shall provide a copy of site location approval from the FAA, where applicable.
         b.   Visual Analysis: A color visual analysis that includes to- scale
visual simulations that show unobstructed before-and-after construction daytime
and clear-weather views from at least four (4) angles, together with a map that
shows the location of each view, including all equipment and ground wires.
         c.   Design Justification: A clear and complete written analysis that
explains how the proposed design complies with the applicable design standards
under this chapter to the maximum extent feasible. A complete design
justification must identify all applicable design standards under this chapter
and provide a factually detailed reason why the proposed design either complies
or cannot feasibly comply.
         d.   Noise Study: Verification that the proposed structures and
associated equipment meets subsection
11-11-9B of this Code shall be required. A noise study, if the proposal is in
or within two hundred feet (200') of Residentially zoned property or in the
downtown core, may be required.
         e.   Additional Information Required: Applicants for a tower shall
also submit the following information:
            (1)   A description of compliance with all applicable Federal,
State and local laws.
            (2)   Identification of the entities providing the backhaul network
for the tower(s) described in the application and other cellular sites owned or
operated by the applicant in the Municipality.
            (3)   A description of the suitability and/or non-suitability of
the use of existing towers or other structures to provide the services to be
provided through the use of the proposed new tower.
      5.   Radio Frequency (RF) Emissions Compliance Report: A written report
will be prepared, signed and sealed by an Idaho-licensed professional engineer
or a competent employee of the applicant, which assesses whether the proposed
WCF demonstrates compliance with the RF emissions limits established by the
FCC. If the report is prepared by an employee of the applicant, who is not an
Idaho-licensed professional engineer, the report must be accompanied by
documentation establishing the employee's competence to complete the report.
      6.   Documentation Submitted: Documentation from an Idaho-licensed
professional engineer shall be submitted which shall demonstrate the proposed
facility's compliance with applicable Building Code standards, and describing
the general structural capacity of the proposed facility, including the maximum
number and type of devices that can be accommodated and the basis of the
calculation of capacity. Additionally, a Non-Ionizing Electromagnetic Radiation
Report demonstrating compliance with FCC regulations shall also be submitted.
      7.   Other Permits Required: The utility compliance permit is reviewed
concurrently with a variety of other processes to include but not be limited to
a site, building, right-of-way, Eligible Facilities Request, Colocation
Request, etc., with their own required submittals. A final permit shall meet
the requirements of all permits to be issued.
      8.   Application Fees: An applicant shall submit an application fee in
accordance with the City's then adopted fee schedule. (Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-6-5: ELIGIBLE FACILITIES REQUEST FOR AN EXISTING TOWER OR BASE STATION
APPLICATION:
   A.   Purpose; Application:
      1.   Purpose: This section implements section 6409(a) of the Spectrum Act
(47 USC section 1455(a)), as interpreted by the FCC in its Report and Order No.
18-133 and regulated by 47 CFR section 1.40001, which require a State or local
government to approve any Eligible Facilities Request for a modification of an
existing tower or base station that does not result in a substantial change to
the physical dimensions of such tower or base station. Eligible Facilities
Requests shall be governed solely by the provisions in this section and Federal
law.
      2.   Application Review:
         a.   Application: The City shall prepare and make publicly available
an application form, the requirements for which shall be limited to the
information necessary for the City to consider whether an application would
subsequently require a utilities compliance permit. The City may not require an
applicant to submit any other documentation intended to illustrate the need for
any such wireless facilities or to justify the business decision to modify such
wireless facilities.
         b.   Review: Upon receipt of an application pursuant to this section
which required a utilities compliance permit, the City shall review such
application, make its final decision to approve or disapprove the application,
and advise the applicant in writing of its final decision.
         c.   Timeframe For Review: Within sixty (60) days of the date on which
an applicant submits an application seeking approval of a utilities compliance
permit under this section, the City shall review and act upon the application,
subject to the tolling provisions below.
         d.   Tolling Of The Timeframe For Review: The 60-day review period
begins to run when the application is filed, and may be tolled only by mutual
agreement between the City and the applicant, or in cases where the City
determines that the application is incomplete. The timeframe for review is not
tolled by a moratorium on the review of applications.
            (1)   To toll the timeframe for incompleteness, the City must
provide written notice to the applicant within ten (10) days of receipt of the
application, specifically delineating all missing documents or information
required in the application.
            (2)   The timeframe for review begins running again when the
applicant makes a supplemental submission in response to the City's notice of
incompleteness.
            (3)   Following a supplemental submission, the City will have ten
(10) days to notify the applicant that the supplemental submission did not
provide the information identified in the original notice delineating missing
information. The timeframe is tolled in the case of second or subsequent
notices pursuant to the procedures identified in this section. Second or
subsequent notices of incompleteness may not specify missing documents or
information that was not delineated in the original notice of incompleteness.
         e.   Failure To Act: In the event the City fails to approve or deny a
complete application for a non-SWF under this section within the timeframe for
review (accounting for any tolling), the request shall be deemed granted based
on the following:
            (1)   Height: Maximum as established in subsection
8-6-9A4, table 2 of this chapter; and
            (2)   Minimum design standards; and
            (3)   Site location preference; and
            (4)   Right-of-way, building, and site permits must meet City of
Hayden, and ADA requirements;
provided the applicant notifies the City in writing after the review period has
expired the applicant shall be entitled to pursue all remedies under applicable
law. (Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-6-6: COLOCATION APPLICATIONS:
   A.   For the mounting or installation of an antenna on an existing tower,
building or structure for the purpose of transmitting and/or receiving radio
frequency signals for communications purposes:
      1.   Purpose: This section implements, in part, 47 USC section 332(c)(7)
of the Federal Communications Act of 1934, as amended, as interpreted by the
FCC in its Report and Order No. 18-133. Except when a shorter timeframe is
otherwise required under this chapter, the following timeframes apply to
colocation.
      2.   Application Review:
         a.   Application: The City shall prepare and make publicly available
an application form, the requirements of which shall be limited to the
information necessary for the City to consider whether an application is a
colocation request.
         b.   Review: Upon receipt of an application for a colocation request
pursuant to this section, the City shall review such application, make its
final decision to approve or disapprove the application, and advise the
applicant in writing of its final decision.
         c.   Timeframe For Review: Within ninety (90) days of the date on
which an applicant submits an application seeking approval of a colocation
request under this section, the City shall review and act upon the application,
subject to the tolling provisions below.
         d.   Tolling Of The Timeframe For Review: The 90-day review period
begins to run when the application is filed, and may be tolled only by mutual
agreement between the City and the applicant, or in cases where the City
determines that the application is incomplete.
            (1)   To toll the timeframe for incompleteness, the City must
provide written notice to the applicant within thirty (30) days of receipt of
the application, specifically delineating all missing documents or information
required in the application.
            (2)   The timeframe for review begins running again when the
applicant makes a supplemental submission in response to the City's notice of
incompleteness.
            (3)   Following a supplemental submission, the City will notify the
applicant within ten (10) days that the supplemental submission did not provide
the information identified in the original notice delineating missing
information. The timeframe is tolled in the case of second or subsequent
notices pursuant to the procedures identified in this section. Second or
subsequent notices of incompleteness may not specify missing documents or
information that was not delineated in the original notice of incompleteness.
         e.   Failure To Act: In the event the City fails to approve or deny a
complete application under this section within the timeframe for review
(accounting for any tolling); based on the following:
            (1)   Height: Maximum as established in subsection
8-6-9A4, table 2 of this chapter; and
            (2)   Minimum design standards; and
            (3)   Site location preference; and
            (4)   Right-of-way, building, and site permits must meet City of
Hayden, and ADA requirements;
provided the applicant notifies the City in writing after the review period has
expired the applicant shall be entitled to pursue all remedies under applicable
law. (Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-6-7: NEW TOWER SITE APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Procedure:
      1.   Purpose: This section also implements, in part, 47 USC section 332
(c)(7) of the Federal Communications Act of 1934, as amended, as interpreted by
the FCC in its Report and Order No. 14-153.
      2.   Application Review:
         a.   Application: The City shall prepare and make publicly available
an application form, the requirements of which shall be limited to the
information necessary for the City to consider whether an application is a
request for a new site or tower.
         b.   Review: Upon receipt of an application for a request for a new
site or tower pursuant to this section, the City shall review such application,
make its final decision to approve or disapprove the application, and advise
the applicant in writing of its final decision.
         c.   Timeframe For Review: Within one hundred fifty (150) days of the
date on which an applicant submits an application seeking approval of a request
for a new site or tower under this section, the City shall review and act upon
the application, subject to the tolling provisions below.
         d.   Tolling Of The Timeframe For Review: The 150-day review period
begins to run when the application is filed, and may be tolled only by mutual
agreement between the City and the applicant, or in cases where the City
determines that the application is incomplete.
            (1)   To toll the timeframe for incompleteness, the City must
provide written notice to the applicant within thirty (30) days of receipt of
the application, specifically delineating all missing documents or information
required in the application.
            (2)   The timeframe for review begins running again when the
applicant makes a supplemental submission in response to the City's notice of
incompleteness.
            (3)   Following a supplemental submission, the City will notify the
applicant within ten (10) days that the supplemental submission did not provide
the information identified in the original notice delineating missing
information. The timeframe is tolled in the case of second or subsequent
notices pursuant to the procedures identified in this section. Second or
subsequent notices of incompleteness may not specify missing documents or
information that has not been delineated in the original notice of
incompleteness.
         e.   Failure To Act: In the event the City fails to approve or deny a
complete application under this section within the timeframe for review
(accounting for any tolling), based on the following:
            (1)   Height: Maximum as established in subsection
8-6-9A4, table 2 of this chapter; and
            (2)   Minimum design standards; and
            (3)   Site location preference; and
            (4)   Right-of-way, building, and site permits must meet City of
Hayden, and ADA requirements;
provided the applicant notifies the City in writing after the review period has
expired the applicant shall be entitled to pursue all remedies under applicable
law. (Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-6-8: DISTRIBUTED ANTENNA SYSTEMS (DAS) AND SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES (SWFs):
   A.   Regulations:
      1.   Colocation, or the attachment of facilities to existing structures,
DAS and small cells are allowed in all zones, regardless of the siting
preferences listed in section
8-5-3 of this title, provided the applicant complies with all Federal laws
(such as the Americans With Disabilities Act) and State laws and requirements.
      2.   DAS and SWF in all zones are subject to approval via utilities
compliance permit, right-of-way encroachment permits, building permits and/or
site permits unless their installation requires the construction of a new tower
or building.
      3.   A utilities compliance permit shall not be required for replacement
of utility support structures, so long as the height of a replacement
structure, including antennas, is no more than the greater of:
         a.   Fifteen feet (15') taller than the existing utility support
structure; or
         b.   The minimum height necessary to provide the required safety
clearances from transmission or distribution lines.
      4.   A single permit application may be used for multiple distributed
antennas that are part of a larger overall DAS network. A single permit
application may also be used for multiple SWFs. A single license agreement may
be used for multiple node locations in DAS and/or SWF networks. In no case may
a single permit or license be used for more than five (5) distributed antennas,
SWFs, or node locations. An application is a request for colocation if it does
not involve a substantial increase in the size of a tower as defined as above.
(Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-6-9: SHARING OF SUPPORT TOWERS AND COLOCATION OF FACILITIES:
   A.   Sharing And Colocation:
      1.   Policy: Whereas the City understands the importance of critical
deployments of utility infrastructure (i.e., SWFs, cable, telecommunications,
fiber-optics, etc.), it is the policy of the City to minimize the number of
support towers and/or utility poles, and to encourage the colocation of
utilities of more than one service provider on a single utility infrastructure
(i.e., water storage, support tower and/or utility pole).
      2.   Provisions: No new tower may be constructed within one-half (1/2)
mile of an existing tower, unless it can be demonstrated that the existing
tower is not available or feasible for colocation of an additional wireless
communication facility, or that its specific location does not satisfy the
operational requirements of the applicant. Factors to be considered in
determining whether an applicant has made this demonstration include those
listed in subsection A3 of this section.
      3.   Factors Considered In Granting Utility Compliance Permits For
Towers: The following criteria in determining whether to issue a permit shall
be used:
         a.   Height of the proposed tower.
            (1)   Towers exceeding a height of seventy five feet (75') shall be
able to accommodate colocation of at least one additional service provider.
            (2)   Additional height to accommodate additional colocation may be
approved if the applicant submits information certifying the tower has capacity
for at least two (2) additional service providers.
            (3)   The applicant shall provide a letter indicating their good
faith intent to encourage colocation on the tower.
         b.   Proximity of the utility infrastructure to residential structures
and Residential District boundaries.
         c.   Surrounding topography, tree coverage and foliage, nature of uses
on adjacent and nearby properties.
         d.   Design of the utility infrastructure, with particular reference
to design characteristics that have the effect of reducing or eliminating
visual obtrusiveness.
         e.   No existing structures are located within the geographic area
which meet applicant's engineering requirements.
         f.   Existing towers or structures do not have sufficient structural
strength to support applicant's proposed antenna and related equipment.
         g.   The applicant's proposed antenna would cause electromagnetic
interference with the antenna on the existing towers or structures, or the
antenna on the existing towers or structures would cause interference with the
applicant's proposed antenna.
         h.   The fees, costs, or contractual provisions required by the owner
in order to share an existing tower or structure or to adapt an existing tower
or structure for sharing are unreasonable. Costs exceeding new tower
development are presumed to be unreasonable.
         i.   The applicant demonstrates that there are other limiting factors
not enumerated herein that render existing towers and structures unsuitable.
      4.   Placement Provisions - Towers: Towers shall be located only in those
areas described in table 2 of this subsection, provided that towers that are
proposed to be located in a Residential Zone or within two hundred feet (200')
of a Residential Zone shall be subject to the siting priorities set forth for
preferred tower locations in section
8-5-3 of this title.
      TABLE 2
      NEW WIRELESS COMMUNICATION TOWER CRITERIA
 
                May Be Located   Maximum Stealth      Setback From
Zone            In Public Right- Tower   (Camouflage) Property Lines
Category        Of-Way (ROW)5    Height  Design       (Does Not Apply
                                                      Within ROW)
R-1, R-S, R-M/F Yes              75'1    Required     25', subject to section
                                                      8-6-10 of this chapter
C               Yes              90'2    Optional2    20', subject to section
                                                      8-6-10 of this chapter
CBD             Yes              90'2    Required3     
                                                      20'; 25', subject to
L-I, A          Yes              120'4   Optional4    section
                                                      8-6-10 of this chapter
 
   Notes:
      1.    If an applicant wants to construct a tower in a Residential Zone or
within 200 feet of a Residential Zone, then stealth design shall be required.
      2.    An additional 20 feet in height is allowed if applicant uses
stealth design.
      3.    CBD Zone shall require stealth design. Preferred location shall be
on top of existing structure.
      4.    An additional 30 feet in height is allowed if applicant uses
stealth design.
      5.    Location to be approved per title 7, chapter 2, "Right-Of-Way
Encroachments", of this Code.
(Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-6-10: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS FOR A TOWER:
   A.   Requirements:
      1.   Notwithstanding the setbacks provided for in subsection
8-6-9A4, table 2 of this chapter, when a residential structure is located
within a 1:1 ratio of the height of the tower on adjacent or nearby property,
the support tower structures shall be set back from property lines as required
by that zone or a minimum of one foot (1') for every foot of tower height,
whichever produces the greater setback, unless:
         a.   The setback is waived by the owner(s) of the residence(s) within
the setback area and this waiver is recorded with the property; or
         b.   The tower is constructed with breakpoint design technology. If
the tower has been constructed using breakpoint design technology, the minimum
setback distance shall be equal to one hundred ten percent (110%) of the
distance from the top of the structure to the breakpoint level of the
structure, or the applicable zone's minimum side setback requirements,
whichever is greater. For example, on a one hundred foot (100') tall monopole
with a breakpoint at eighty feet (80'), the minimum setback distance would be
twenty two feet (22') (110 percent of 20 feet, the distance from the top of the
monopole to the breakpoint) or the minimum side yard setback requirements for
that zone, whichever is greater. Provided, that if an applicant proposes to use
breakpoint design technology to reduce the required setback from a residence
(s), the issuance of building permits for the tower shall be conditioned upon
approval of the tower design by a structural engineer.
      2.   All equipment shelters, cabinets, or other on the ground ancillary
equipment shall meet the setback requirement of the zone in which it is
located. (Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-6-11: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Standards:
      1.   Color: The antenna array shall be placed and colored to blend into
the architectural detail and coloring of the host structure. Support towers
shall be painted a color that best allows it to blend into the surroundings.
The use of grays, blues, greens, dark bronze, browns or other site specific
colors may be appropriate; however, each case should be evaluated individually.
      2.   Lighting: For support towers, only such lighting as is necessary to
satisfy FAA requirements is permitted. White strobe lighting will not be
allowed, unless specifically required by the FAA. Security lighting for the
equipment shelters or cabinets and other on the ground ancillary equipment is
also permitted, as long as it is appropriately down shielded to keep light
within the boundaries of the site. All such lighting shall be fully shielded,
and all lighting shall be contained on the lot. When lighting is proposed a
photometric plan shall be submitted which demonstrates compliance with these
standards. "Fully shielded" lighting shall meet the definition of subsection
11-18-5J of this Code.
      3.   State Or Federal Requirements: All towers and antennas must meet or
exceed current standards and regulations of the FAA, the FCC, and any other
agency of the State or Federal government with the authority to regulate towers
and antennas. If such standards and regulations are changed, and if WCF
equipment is added either through colocation or replacement, then the owners of
the towers and antennas governed by this chapter shall bring such towers and
antennas into compliance with such revised standards and regulations within six
(6) months of the effective date of such standards and regulations, unless a
different compliance schedule is mandated by the controlling State or Federal
agency. Failure to bring towers and antennas into compliance with such revised
standards and regulations shall constitute grounds for the removal of the tower
or antenna at the owner's expense.
      4.   Site Development And Building Permit: All utility infrastructures
shall be required to obtain a permit and shall be subject to the site
development standards identified in subsection
8-5-5A3 of this title.
      5.   Building Codes; Safety Standards: To ensure the structural integrity
of towers, the owner of a tower shall ensure that it is maintained in
compliance with standards contained in applicable State or local Building Codes
and the applicable industry standards for towers, as amended from time to time.
If, upon inspection, the City concludes that a tower fails to comply with such
codes and standards and constitutes a danger to persons or property, then upon
written notice being provided to the owner of the tower, the owner shall have
thirty (30) days to bring such tower into compliance with such standards and/or
identify a plan to bring the infrastructure into compliance that is acceptable
to the City. Should the City determine that imminent failure or public safety
is at risk or in jeopardy; the City shall remove the tower at the owner's
expense. Failure to bring such tower into compliance within said thirty (30)
days shall constitute grounds for the removal of the tower at the owner's
expense. Compliance with this subsection is also subject to the City's Code
enforcement pursuant to the International Building Code, regarding unsafe
building and related provisions.
      6.   Signs: No facilities may bear any signage or advertisement(s) other
than signage required by law or expressly permitted or required by the City.
      7.   Visual Impact: All utility infrastructures shall be sited and
designed to meet the site development standards identified in subsection
8-5-5A6 of this title.
      8.   Use Of Stealth Design/Technology: Aesthetic requirements shall be:
a) reasonable and b) no more burdensome than those applied to other types of
infrastructure deployments. The applicant shall provide justification why it is
not employing stealth technology for all above ground utility infrastructure.
Stealth design is required for macrocell facilities in Residential Zones, and
to the extent shown in subsection
8-6-9A4, table 2 of this chapter and elsewhere as provided in this chapter,
concealment techniques must be appropriate given the proposed location, design,
visual environment, and nearby uses, structures, and natural features. Stealth
design shall be designed and constructed to substantially conform to
surrounding building designs or natural settings, so as to be visually
unobtrusive. Stealth design that relies on screening wireless communication
facilities in order to reduce visual impact must screen all substantial
portions of the facility from view. Stealth and concealment techniques do not
include incorporating faux-tree designs of a kind that are not native to the
North Idaho region.
      9.   Building-Mounted Transmission Equipment:
         a.   All transmission equipment shall be concealed within existing
architectural features to the maximum extent feasible. Any new architectural
features proposed to conceal the transmission equipment shall be designed to
mimic the existing underlying structure, shall be proportional to the existing
underlying structure or conform to the underlying use and shall use materials
in similar quality, finish, color and texture as the existing underlying
structure.
         b.   All roof-mounted transmission equipment shall be set back from
all roof edges to the maximum extent feasible consistent with the need for
"line-of-sight" transmission and reception of signals.
         c.   Antenna arrays and supporting transmission equipment shall be
installed so as to camouflage, disguise or conceal them to make them closely
compatible with and blend into the setting or host structure.
      10.   Antenna Arrays: Antenna arrays are permitted in any zone as long as
they are located upon an existing structure (except on single family houses,
duplexes, or signage or a building less than 30 feet in height), that provides
sufficient elevation for the array's operation without the necessity of
constructing a tower or other apparatus to extend the antenna array more than
fifteen feet (15') above the structure. Installation on City property and/or
right-of-way requires a right-of-way encroachment permit as defined in title 7,
chapter 2 of this Code. However, if any support tower is required to achieve
the necessary elevation, then a utilities compliance permit shall be required.
If a new equipment cabinet is to be installed, it must be screened if it is
higher than the existing screened facility.
      11.   WCFs In The Public Rights-Of-Way:
         a.   Utility Support Structure - Mounted Equipment: All pole- mounted
transmission equipment shall be mounted as close as possible to the pole so as
to reduce the overall visual profile to the maximum extent feasible.
         b.   License Or Agreement: For all WCFs to be located within the
right-of-way, the applicant must have a valid utility compliance permit,
license, franchise agreement, right-of-way agreement, encroachment permit or
exemption otherwise granted by applicable law. If the applicant is willing to
install its ancillary facilities underground, that determination shall be
subject to utilities compliance review.
      12.   Accessory Uses:
         a.   Accessory uses shall be limited to such structures and equipment
that are necessary for transmission or reception functions, and shall not
include broadcast studios, offices, vehicle or equipment storage, or other uses
not essential to the transmission or reception functions.
         b.   All accessory buildings shall be subject to applicable building,
site, and right-of-way permits.
         c.   No equipment shall be stored or parked on the site of a tower,
unless used in direct support of the antennas or the tower that is being
repaired.
      13.   Accessory Equipment: In Residential Zones, all accessory equipment
shall be located or placed (at the applicant's choice) in an existing building,
underground, or in an equipment shelter or cabinet that is: a) designed to
blend in with existing surroundings, using architecturally compatible
construction and colors; and b) located so as to be unobtrusive as possible
consistent with the proper functioning of the equipment.
      14.   Site Design Flexibility: Individual sites vary in the location of
adjacent buildings, existing trees, topography and other local variables.
Therefore, the utility infrastructure and supporting equipment shall be
installed so as to best camouflage, disguise, or conceal them, to be more
closely compatible with and blend into the setting or host structure, as
determined by the City.
      15.   General Standards And Construction Provisions: The general
standards and construction provisions shall meet those identified for major and
minor utilities in subsection
8-5-5A12 of this title in addition to all structures shall conform to FCC and
FAA regulations, if applicable. A description of compliance with all applicable
Federal, State and local laws may be required. (Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-6-12: FACTORS CONSIDERED IN GRANTING UTILITY COMPLIANCE PERMITS:
Unless otherwise noted in this section the factors considered in granting
utility compliance permits shall be in accordance with section
8-5-6 of this title. (Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-6-13: INDEPENDENT RF TECHNICAL AND LEGAL REVIEW:
Although the City intends for City staff to review applications to the extent
feasible, the City may retain the services of independent RF and legal experts
of its choice to provide technical and legal evaluations of permit
applications. The third party experts shall have recognized qualifications in
their fields. The expert's review may include, but is not limited to:
   A.   The accuracy and completeness of the items submitted with the
application;
   B.   The applicability of analysis and techniques and methodologies proposed
by the applicant;
   C.   The validity of conclusions reached by the applicant; and
   D.   Whether the proposal complies with the applicable approval criteria set
forth in this chapter.
The applicant shall pay the cost for any independent consultant fees through a
deposit, estimated by the City, paid within ten (10) days of the City's
request. When the City requests such payment, the application shall be deemed
incomplete for purposes of application processing timelines until the deposit
is received. In the event that such costs and fees do not exceed the deposit
amount, the City shall refund any unused portion within thirty (30) days after
the final permit is released or, if no final permit is released, within thirty
(30) days after the City receives a written request from the applicant. If the
costs and fees exceed the deposit amount, then the applicant shall pay the
difference to the City before the permit is released. (Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-6-14: FINAL INSPECTION:
   A.   A certificate of completion will only be granted upon satisfactory
evidence that the facilities were installed in substantial compliance with the
approved plans and photo simulations. Additionally, all site improvements,
right-of-way encroachment permit requirements, and other building permit
requirements must be completed and approved prior to a certificate of
completion.
   B.   A certificate of occupancy shall be granted upon satisfactory evidence
that the building structure has been constructed in compliance with the
approved plans and all other State and local agency final inspections have been
approved for buildings to be occupied.
   C.   If it is found that the facilities installation does not substantially
comply with the approved plans and photo simulations, the applicant shall make
any and all such changes required bringing the installation into compliance
promptly and in any event prior to operation. (Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-6-15: COMPLIANCE:
   A.   All communication facilities must comply with all standards and
regulations of the FCC and any State or other Federal government agency with
the authority to regulate wireless communication facilities.
   B.   The site and utility facilities, including all landscaping, fencing and
related transmission equipment must be maintained at all times in a neat and
clean manner and in accordance with all approved plans.
   C.   All graffiti on utility facilities must be removed at the sole expense
of the permittee after notification by the City to the owner/operator. The
graffiti must be removed within fourteen (14) days after notification by the
City.
   D.   All stealth materials (to include paint, artist wraps, etc.) must be
maintained at all times in a neat and clean manner and in accordance with all
approved plans.
   E.   If any FCC, State or other governmental license or any other
governmental approval to provide communication services is ever revoked as to
any site permitted or authorized by the City, the permittee must inform the
City of the revocation within thirty (30) days of receiving notice of such
revocation. (Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-6-16: MINOR MODIFICATION OR EXCEPTIONS TO STANDARDS:
   A.   Regulations:
      1.   Applicability: Application for a minor modification or an
administrative exception from a particular provision, regulation or standard of
this chapter may be made in writing to the Community Development Director or
his/her designee.
      2.   Minor Modifications: Modifications that are considered to be minor
in nature, as determined by the Community Development Director or his/her
designee shall not require application or payment of fees.
      3.   Exceptions: Exceptions may be considered for various aspects of the
site, landscaping, parking and loading, and height of the wireless
communication facility. Exception requests for up to twenty percent (20%) of
the required standard shall be considered a minor modification and follow
subsection A2 of this section.
      4.   Exceptions In Residential Zones: For utility infrastructure proposed
to be located in a Residential Zone or within two hundred feet (200') of a
Residential Zone, or in the Central Business District, unless the proposal
qualifies as a preferred location on City-owned or operated property or
facilities, the applicant must also demonstrate that the manner in which it
proposes to fill the gap in coverage, meet capacity requirements, or
technologies of a service network is the least intrusive on the Residential
Zone.
      5.   Application And Submittal Requirements:
         a.   A written statement demonstrating how the exception would meet
the criteria.
         b.   A site plan, if different from that included within the utilities
compliance permit, that describes the proposed facility's design and
dimensions, as it would appear with and without the minor modification or
exception. Elevations showing all components should be shown with and without
the exception.
         c.   Color simulations before and after construction demonstrating
compatibility with the vicinity, as it would appear with and without the
exception.
      6.   Findings: Exceptions and minor modifications may only be granted
based upon the following findings.
         a.   The exception is consistent with the purpose of the development
standard for which the exception is sought; and
         b.   The requested exception or minor modification is based upon a
unique character or feature of the property or uses, which does not generally
apply to other properties or similar uses subject to the requirement from which
an exception is sought; and
         c.   The requested exception or minor modification will not be
injurious to the public safety and welfare; and
         d.   If approved, the requested exception or minor modification will
be equally protective of the public interest, and will otherwise achieve the
identified purposes of this chapter; and
         e.   If a reduction in the required parking is requested, the
applicant has provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the off street
parking proposed will be adequate to meet the needs of the present use, and
likely future uses; such evidence may include, but is not limited to, a
consideration of on street parking available to serve the subject property; and
         f.   If a reduction in the required setback is requested, the
applicant has provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the exception or
minor modification will not be injurious to the public safety and welfare; and
         g.   If an increase in the allowed height of the utility
infrastructure is requested, the applicant has provided sufficient evidence to
demonstrate that the exception or minor modification will not be injurious to
the public safety and welfare; and
         h.   Based on a visual analysis, the design minimizes the visual
impacts to Residential Zones through mitigating measures, including, but not
limited to, building heights, bulk, color, and landscaping, beyond the adopted
standard.
      7.   Decisions: Decisions of the Community Development Director or his/
her designee may be appealed to City Council as provided for in section
8-6-17 of this chapter. (Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-6-17: APPEALS:
   A.   Procedure:
      1.   Application And Submittal Requirements:
         a.   Any application for an appeal shall be submitted within twenty
one (21) days of the issuance of the approval or disapproval of the utility
compliance permit and shall be accompanied by the application and the fees as
established by resolution of the City Council.
         b.   An application shall include:
            (1)   The applicant's name, address, telephone number and e-mail.
            (2)   Identification of the application which is the subject of the
appeal.
            (3)   A written statement describing his or her standing to appeal.
            (4)   The applicant's statement of grounds for the appeal
addressing why the appellant believes the decision to be unlawful or
inappropriate to the factual circumstances and/or demonstrating how an
exception would meet subsection
8-6-16A6 of this chapter.
      2.   Setting Of Appeal Hearing: Upon the timely filing of an appeal, the
City shall set the date, time and place for the appeal to be heard by the City
Council.
      3.   Burden Of Proof: The appellant shall bear the burden of proving the
decision was unlawful or inappropriate to the factual circumstances presented
to the Director.
      4.   Notice Of Appeal: Appeals of the utility compliance permit decision,
where an applicant requests a reconsideration of the approvals or disapprovals
of the permit shall be subject to a public hearing process as follows:
Payment of the applicable appeal fee and the associated noticing fees. At least
fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of the proposal in compliance
with section
11-12-4 of this Code, shall be published in the official newspaper of the City.
Notice by first class mail, fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing shall also
be provided to property owners and purchasers within three hundred feet (300')
beyond, excluding streets and alleys, or the external boundaries of the land
being considered, and any additional area that may be substantially impacted by
the proposed exception as determined by the City Council. When notice is
required of two hundred (200) or more property owners or purchasers of record,
notice may be given through a display advertisement at least four inches (4")
by two (2) columns in size in the official newspaper of the City at least
fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing date, in addition to site posting on all
external boundaries of the site, in lieu of mailed notice. The applicant shall
bear the responsibility and cost of all legal publications and the public
notice.
      5.   City Council Decision On Appeal:
         a.   After the public hearing, the City Council shall approve,
conditionally approve or disapprove the application as presented. If the
application is approved or approved with modifications, the Council shall issue
a utility compliance permit listing the specific conditions specified by the
City Council for approval.
         b.   Upon granting a utility compliance permit, conditions may be
attached to the utility compliance permit, including, but not limited to, those
addressing the standards of approval identified in subsection
8-6-16A6 of this chapter.
         c.   Upon granting or denying an application, the City Council shall
specify in writing:
            (1)   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the
application;
            (2)   The reasons for approval or denial; and
            (3)   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain
a permit. (Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
8-6-18: REMOVAL OF ABANDONED ANTENNAS AND TOWERS:
Any antenna or tower that is not operated for a continuous period of twelve
(12) months shall be considered abandoned, and the owner of such antenna or
tower shall so notify the City in writing and remove the same within ninety
(90) days of giving notice to the City of such abandonment. Additionally, upon
written notice from the City that the antenna or tower has been abandoned by
the owner of such infrastructure for a continuous period of more than twelve
(12) months, the owner shall remove the same within ninety (90) days. If the
removal cannot be accomplished within this timeframe, the owner shall request
an extension and provide a plan to remove the same and the associated timelines
to accomplish the removal. Failure to remove an abandoned antenna or tower
within said ninety (90) days shall be grounds to remove the tower or antenna at
the owner's expense, including all costs and attorneys' fees. Irrespective of
any agreement between the owner of a facility and the owner of a building or
land upon which the facility is located to the contrary, they shall be jointly
and severally responsible for the removal of abandoned unused facilities and
the facilities foundation, if any. If there are two (2) or more users of a
single tower, then this provision shall not become effective until all users
cease using the tower. (Ord. 596, 5-24-2019)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
9-1-1: Codes Adopted
9-1-2: Sanitation Requirements
9-1-3: Certificate Of Occupancy
9-1-4: Code For Abatement Of Dangerous Buildings
9-1-5: Fire Code
9-1-6: Mechanical Code And Fuel Gas Code 1  (Rep. by Ord. 540, 12-10-2014, eff.
1-1-2015)
9-1-7: Property Maintenance Code (Rep. by Ord. 492, 12-14-2010, eff. 1-1-2011)
9-1-8: Manufactured Home Installation
 
Notes
1 1. See subsections
  9-1-1F and G of this chapter.
9-1-1: CODES ADOPTED:
The following nationally recognized codes are adopted as the official Building
Codes of the City of Hayden:
   A.   International Building Code: The International Building Code, 2018
edition, prepared by the International Code Council, Inc., as adopted by the
State of Idaho through the Idaho Building Code Board, together with any
amendments or revisions to the International Building Code made by the Idaho
Building Code Board through the negotiated rulemaking process, is adopted with
the following exceptions or amendments:
Section 103.2 Scope and Administration; Department of Building Safety;
Appointment; is deleted
Section 103.3 Scope and Administration; Department of Building Safety;
Deputies; is deleted.
Section 107.1 Scope and Administration; Submittal Documents; General; this
section and exceptions are deleted and shall be replaced with the following
section and exception:
Submittal documents consisting of construction documents, statement of special
inspections, geotechnical reports, structural observation programs, and other
data shall be submitted in .PDF of the plan set with each permit application.
The architectural construction documents shall be prepared by an architect
licensed to practice by the State of Idaho. The building official shall have
the option to stipulate that an Idaho licensed engineer in the appropriate
engineering discipline (structural, mechanical, electrical, civil, geotectonic,
acoustical, etc.) of his or her expertise may submit supplement construction
documents supportive and complementary to the architect's construction
documents. When deemed appropriate by the building official, applications and
construction documents may be submitted by a licensed design professional
acting within his or her field of competency and expertise.
Exception: The building official is authorized to waive the submission of
construction documents and other data not required to be prepared by an Idaho
licensed design professional if it is found that the nature of the work applied
for is such that review of the construction documents is not necessary to
obtain compliance with this code.
Section 406.3.2.1 Special Detailed Requirements Based on Use and Occupancy;
Motor Vehicle Related Occupancies; Private Garages and Carports, Separation;
Dwelling Unit Separation; delete section and replace with the following:
The private garage shall be separated from the dwelling unit and its attic
area, including supporting members with materials approved for one-hour fire-
resistive construction on the garage side and a self-closing, tight-fitting
solid-wood door 13/8 inches in thickness, or a self-closing, tight-fitting 20-
minute fire-rated door, or solid or honeycomb steel doors not less than 13/
8 inches (34.9 mm) thick, or doors in compliance with section 716.5.1 and
716.5.3.1. Openings from a private garage directly into a room used for
sleeping purposes shall not be permitted.
Garages, including the attic space, located less than three (3) feet from a
dwelling unit on the same lot shall be protected with not less than one (1)
layer of 5/8" type `X' gypsum wallboard or equivalent on the garage side.
Section 1202.4 Interior Environment; Ventilation; Underfloor ventilation; add
the following to the end of the section:
A minimum of class I vapor retarder shall be provided in the under floor areas
extending from wall to foundation wall.
Section 1608.2 Structural Design; Snow Loads; Ground snow loads; delete section
and replace with the following:
The roof load shall be designed using site specific ground snow loads and shall
be designed in accordance with accepted engineering practices. The design snow
loads for roofs shall be determined using factors and methodology contained in
the publication, Ground And Roof Snow Loads For Idaho and accompanying map
"ground snow loads for Idaho" by the University Of Idaho, Moscow, Idaho, 1986,
and shall be site specific.
Section 1807.1.6.2 Soils and Foundations; Foundation Walls, Retaining Walls and
Embedded Posts and Poles; Concrete foundation walls; delete items #1 and #2 and
table 1807.1.6.2 and replace items #1 and #2 with the following:
Minimum reinforcement for foundation walls which do not exceed four (4) feet in
height shall be four (4) feet on center for vertical reinforcement and two (2)
feet on center for horizontal reinforcement. Foundation walls over four (4)
feet in height (unless closer spacing is specified by design or engineering
specification) shall be eighteen (18) inches minimum on center for horizontal
and vertical reinforcement. All continuous footings will require a minimum two
(2) continuous horizontal reinforcing bars. Reinforcing bars shall be a minimum
size of #4 and may be a minimum grade forty (40). Foundation walls are
permitted to be otherwise designed by an Idaho licensed engineer.
Foundation walls over eight feet in height shall be designed by an Idaho
licensed engineer.
Section 1809.5 Soils and Foundations; Shallow Foundations; Frost protection;
delete method 1 and replace with the following:
      1.   Extending below the frost line a minimum of 24 inches from the
ground surface to the bottom of the footing
Add a new section 1905.1.9 Concrete; Modifications to ACI 318; Minimum
Reinforcement; as follows:
All continuous footings will require a minimum of two (2) continuous horizontal
reinforcing bars. Footings supporting columns and piers shall contain no less
than two (2) #4 rebar installed each way, not to exceed twelve (12) inches
maximum spacing.
Minimum reinforcement for foundation walls (unless closer spacing is specified
by design or engineering specifications) which do not exceed four (4) feet in
height shall be four (4) feet on center for vertical reinforcement and two (2)
feet on center for horizontal reinforcement. One continuous row of horizontal
#4 rebar shall be located between three (3) inches and six (6) inches of top
and bottom of wall.
Foundation walls over four (4) feet in height (unless closer spacing is
specified by design or engineering specifications) shall be eighteen (18)
inches minimum on center for horizontal and vertical reinforcement. Reinforcing
bars shall be a minimum size of #4 and may be a minimum grade forty (40). One
(1) continuous row of horizontal #4 rebar shall be located between three (3)
inches and six (6) inches of top and bottom of wall. No less than two (2) #4
rebar shall be installed around door, window, and similar sized openings.
Walls over eight feet in height shall be designed by an Idaho licensed
engineer.
   B.   International Residential Code: The International Residential Code
(IRC) 2018 edition and prepared by the International Code Council, Inc.,
together with any amendments or revisions to the International Building Code to
reflect on the 2018 IRC made by the Idaho Building Code Board through the
negotiated rulemaking process, is adopted with the following exceptions or
amendments:
Section R103.2 Scope and Administration; Part 2 - Administration and
Enforcement; Department of Building Safety; Appointment; is deleted.
Section R103.3 Scope and Administration; Part 2 - Administration and
Enforcement; Department of Building Safety; Deputies; is deleted.
Section R106.1.4 Scope and Administration; Part 2 - Administration and
Enforcement; Construction Documents; Information for construction in flood
hazard areas; delete section and replace with the following:
For buildings and structures located in whole or part in flood hazard areas as
established by Hayden City Code Title 13, Chapter 1, Flood Damage Prevention,
construction documents shall include:
      1.   Delineation of flood hazard areas, floodway boundaries and the
design flood elevation, pursuant to the City's adopted Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance.
      2.   The elevation of the proposed lowest floor and the height of the
proposed lowest floor, including basement, above the highest adjacent grade.
Section R301.2.3 Building Planning; Climate and geographic design criteria;
Snow loads; delete the section and replace with the following:
The minimum ground snow load shall be a minimum of sixty (60) pounds per square
foot south of Miles Avenue and seventy (70) pounds a square foot north of Miles
Avenue. The minimum roof design snow load shall be forty (40) pounds per square
foot south of Miles Avenue and fifty (50) pounds per square foot north of Miles
Avenue. No manufactured home, commercial coach or modular building shall be
placed that has not been constructed to withstand a minimum forty (40) pound
per square foot roof load, or the owner has provided for a separate roof cover
that is constructed to provide the required roof load, except that manufactured
homes that are already installed in a location within the city limits at the
time of the passage of this section may remain without having to meet the
minimum roof load set forth herein. Any manufactured home allowed to remain
under this section may be moved to a different location within the city limits
without having to meet the forty (40) pound roof load providing that it meets
all city of Hayden zoning requirements.
Buildings in regions with ground snow loads of greater than 70 pounds per
square foot shall be designed in accordance with accepted engineering practice.
Construction in regions with ground snow loads greater than sixty (60) but not
exceeding seventy (70) pounds per square foot may be either a minimum of 50
pounds per square foot or shall be designed in accordance with accepted
engineering practices. The design snow loads for roofs shall be determined
using factors and methodology contained in the publication, Ground and Roof
Snow Loads for Idaho and accompanying map "ground snow loads for Idaho" by the
University Of Idaho, Moscow, Idaho, 1986 and shall be site specific.
Section R301.2.4 Building Planning; Climate and geographic design criteria;
Floodplain construction; delete section and replace with the following:
Buildings and structures constructed in whole or in part in flood hazard areas
as established in Hayden City Code Title 13, Chapter 1 Flood Damage Prevention
shall be designed in accordance with Section R322, or the Hayden City Code,
whichever is more restrictive. Buildings and structures that are located in
more than one flood hazard area shall comply with the provisions associated
within the most restrictive flood hazard area. Building and structures located
in whole or in part in identified floodways shall be designed and constructed
in accordance with ASCE 24 and Hayden City Code Title 13, whichever is more
restrictive.
Section R302.5.3 Building Planning; Fire Resistant Construction; Dwelling-
garage opening and penetration protection; Other penetrations; delete section
and replace with the following:
Penetrations through the separation required in section R302.5.1 shall be
protected with approved materials to resist the passage of flame and products
of combustion. The materials filling the penetration annular space shall meet
the requirements of ASTM E 814 or UL 1479.
Section R302.6 Building Planning; Fire Resistant Construction; Dwelling-garage
fire separation; delete section and replace with the following:
TABLE R302.6
 
SEPARATION                              MATERIAL
                                        Not less than 5/8-inch Type X gypsum
From the residence and attics           board or equivalent applied to the
                                        garage side
From habitable rooms above the garage   Not less than 2 layers of 5/8-inch Type
and roof/ceiling assemblies             X gypsum board or equivalent
Structure(s) supporting floor/ceiling   Not less than 5/8-inch Type X gypsum
assemblies used for separation required board or equivalent
by this section
                                        Not less than 5/8-inch Type X gypsum
Garages located less than 3 feet from a board or equivalent applied to the
dwelling unit on the same lot           interior side of the exterior walls
                                        that are within this area
 
Garages, including the attic space, located less than three (3) feet from a
dwelling unit on the same lot shall be protected with not less than 5/8" Type X
Gypsum board or equivalent applied to the interior side of exterior walls that
are within this area.
Section R302.6 Building Planning; Fire Resistant Construction; Dwelling-garage
fire separation; Table 302.6 Dwelling Garage Separation; is deleted.
Section R302.7 Building Planning; Fire Resistant Construction; Under Stair
Protection; delete section and replace with the following:
Enclosed accessible space under stairs shall have walls, under stair surface
and any soffits protected on the enclosed side with 5/8-inch type X gypsum
board.
Section R322.1 Building Planning; Flood Resistant Construction; General;
replace section as follows:
Buildings and structures constructed in whole or part in flood hazard areas and
substantial improvement and restoration of substantial damage of building and
structures in flood areas shall be designed and constructed in accordance with
the provisions contained in this section and Hayden City Code Title 13, Chapter
1 Flood Damage Prevention. The design flood elevation shall be the Flood
Protection Elevation as established in Hayden City Code. Building and
structures that are located in whole or in part in identified floodways shall
be designed and constructed in accordance with ASCE 24. Where conflict between
the provisions of the IRC and City Code arise, the more restrictive requirement
shall apply.
Section R403.1.4.1 Foundations; Footings; Minimum depth; Frost Protection;
replace method 1 with the following:
      1.   Extending below the frost line specified in table R301.2(1); with a
minimum twenty-four (24) inches from ground surface to the bottom of a footing.
Section R404.1.3.2 Foundations; Foundation and Retaining Walls; Concrete and
masonry foundation walls; Concrete foundation walls; Reinforcement for
foundation walls; replace the section with the following:
All continuous footings will require a minimum of two (2) continuous horizontal
reinforcing bars. Footings supporting columns and piers shall contain no less
than two (2) #4 rebar installed each way, not to exceed twelve (12) inches
maximum spacing.
Minimum reinforcement for foundation walls (unless closer spacing is specified
by design or engineering specifications) which do not exceed four (4) feet in
height shall be four (4) feet on center for vertical reinforcement and two (2)
feet on center for horizontal reinforcement. One continuous row of horizontal
#4 rebar shall be located between three (3) inches and six (6) inches of top
and bottom of wall.
Foundation walls over four (4) feet in height (unless closer spacing is
specified by design or engineering specifications) shall be eighteen (18)
inches minimum on center for horizontal and vertical reinforcement. Reinforcing
bars shall be a minimum size of #4 and may be a minimum grade forty (40). One
(1) continuous row of horizontal #4 rebar shall be located between three (3)
inches and six (6) inches of top and bottom of wall. No less than two (2) #4
rebar shall be installed around door, window, and similar sized openings.
Walls over eight feet in height shall be designed by an Idaho licensed
engineer.
Section R408.1 Foundations, Under-floor Space, Ventilation; delete section and
replace with the following:
The underfloor space between the bottom of the floor joists and the earth under
any building (except space occupied by a basement) shall have ventilation
openings through foundation walls or exterior walls. The minimum net area of
ventilation openings shall not be less than 1 square foot (0.0929 m2) for each
150 square feet (14 m2) of under-floor space area. One such ventilating opening
shall be within three feet (914 mm) of each corner of the building. The ground
surface of all under-floor spaces shall be provided with a continuous class 1
vapor retarder.
Section R408.2. Foundations, Under-floor Space, Openings for under-floor
ventilation; delete exception.
Part V Mechanical is adopted.
Part VI Fuel Gas is adopted.
Part VII: Plumbing and Part VIII Electrical are not adopted.
Appendices are not adopted except for the following:
Appendix J Existing Buildings and Structures
Appendix K sound transmission.
   C.   International Energy Conservation Code: The International Energy
Conservation Code, 2018 edition, prepared by the International Code Council,
Inc., together with any amendments or revisions to the Building Code made by
the Idaho Building Code Board through the negotiated rulemaking process is
adopted and shall be the Energy Conservation Code of the Municipality with the
following amendments or exemptions:
Section 101.2 Scope and Administration; Scope; add the following language:
Exemption: Unconditioned structures or portions thereof are exempt from the
energy codes adopted herein.
   D.   International Existing Building Code: The 2018 edition of the
International Existing Building Code, as prepared by the International Code
Council, Inc., together with any amendments or revisions made by the Idaho
Building Code
Board through the negotiated rulemaking process, is adopted with the following
amendments or exceptions:
Section 103.2 Scope and Administration; Part 2 Administration and Enforcement;
Appointment; is deleted.
Section 103.3 Scope and Administration; Part 2 Administration and Enforcement;
Deputies; is deleted.
   E.   International Mechanical Code: The 2018 edition of the International
Mechanical Code, as prepared by the International Code Council, Inc., together
with any amendments or revisions made by the Idaho Building Code Board through
the negotiated rulemaking process, is hereby adopted as the Mechanical Code of
the City to provide a minimum standard for all electric wiring, installation of
electrical fixtures, apparatus or electrical appliances, for furnishing light,
heat or power, or other electrical work introduced into or placed in or upon or
in any way connected on any building or structure within the limits of the
City, is adopted with the following amendments or exceptions:
Section 103.2 Scope and Administration; Part 2 Administration and Enforcement;
Appointment; is deleted.
Section 103.3 Scope and Administration; Part 2 Administration and Enforcement;
Deputies; is deleted.
   F.   International Fuel Gas Code: The 2018 edition, as prepared by the
International Code Council, Inc., together with any amendments or revisions
made by the Idaho Building Code Board through the negotiated rulemaking
process, is hereby adopted as the Fuel Gas Code of the City for any
installation of gas appliances and gas piping. Provisions for the issuance of
permits and collection of fees, and all regulations, conditions, provisions and
terms of such code is hereby adopted and made part hereof as if fully set forth
in this chapter.
Section 103.2 Scope and Administration; Department of Inspections; Appointment;
is deleted.
Section 103.3 Scope and Administration; Department of Inspections; Deputies; is
deleted.
   G.   International Swimming Pool And Spa Code: International Swimming Pool
and Spa Code, 2015 edition, is adopted.
   H.   Fees Prescribed: The City Council shall be and hereby is authorized
from time to time to promulgate and prescribe building permit fees by
resolution. (Ord. 577, 1-9-2018; amd. Ord. 616, 12-29-2020)
9-1-2: SANITATION REQUIREMENTS:
At the time of a building permit application, unless adequate sewer facilities
are available, the applicant shall secure a sanitary outhouse to be placed on
the location of where the construction would take place as a condition of
securing a building permit which shall be removed upon completion of
construction and prior to issuance of a final certificate of occupancy. (Ord.
577, 1-9-2018)
9-1-3: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Certificate Of Occupancy Required: It is unlawful for any person to
occupy a dwelling or building without an approved certificate of occupancy.
Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. In
addition to any other requirements concerning the issuance of a temporary
occupancy certificate under the currently adopted Building Codes, no temporary
certificate of occupancy shall be issued until the owner enters into an
agreement with the City for the completion of all required improvements
including, but not limited to, site improvements, frontage improvements, and
off-site infrastructure. The agreement shall provide that all such required
improvements will be completed within an established time period unless the
completion time is extended by the building official and that the owner or his
agent shall secure the agreement by a performance bond, cash, irrevocable
letter of credit, certificate of deposit, funds set aside by trust account of a
lender, owner, title company, or alternate form of surety, any of which must be
in a form acceptable to the City Attorney. The above security, unless waived by
the building official, shall be for one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the
estimated costs of such improvements, or other methodology as determined by the
City and adopted within the City's fee schedule, and shall have a term of six
(6) months beyond the termination date of the agreement.
   B.   Violation: A violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 577, 1-9-2018)
9-1-4: CODE FOR ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS:
The Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, 1997 edition,
prepared by the International Conference of Building Officials (ICBO),
providing a just, equitable, and practicable method whereby buildings or
structures which from any cause, may endanger the life, limb, health, morals,
property, safety or welfare of the general public or their occupants, may be
required to be repaired, vacated or demolished, is hereby adopted and shall be
the Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings of the City of
Hayden. (Ord. 577, 1-9-2018)
9-1-5: FIRE CODE:
The 2015 Idaho Fire Code is adopted as the official Fire Code of the City of
Hayden. The adopted version of the foregoing code shall be deemed superseded by
successive versions of such codes as they are adopted or approved by the State
Fire Marshal effective on the date any such codes are made effective by the
State Fire Marshal. (Ord. 577, 1-9-2018)
9-1-6: MECHANICAL CODE AND FUEL GAS CODE 1 :
(Rep. by Ord. 540, 12-10-2014, eff. 1-1-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsections
  9-1-1F and G of this chapter.
9-1-7: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE:
(Rep. by Ord. 492, 12-14-2010, eff. 1-1-2011)
9-1-8: MANUFACTURED HOME INSTALLATION:
   A.   Installation of a manufactured home, commercial coach or modular home
shall require a setting permit issued by the City.
   B.   No manufactured home, commercial coach or modular building shall be
placed that has not been constructed to withstand a minimum forty (40) pound
per square foot roof load, or the owner has provided for a separate roof cover
that is constructed to provide the required roof load, except that manufactured
homes that are already installed in a location within the City limits at the
time of the passage of this section may remain without having to meet the
minimum roof load set forth herein. Any manufactured home allowed to remain
under this section may be moved to a different location within the City limits
without having to meet the forty (40) pound roof load providing that it meets
all City of Hayden zoning requirements. Construction shall be designed in
accordance with R301.2.3 of the International Residential Code.
   C.   The City may require that applications for mobile/manufactured homes
include plans and specifications which show the footings and foundation to be
in conformance with the manufacturer's specifications or within the provisions
of Idaho Code title 44, chapter 22. The application shall also be accompanied
by a site plan. All mobile/manufactured homes and buildings must be installed
in accordance with all other applicable State laws pertaining to utility
connection requirements. (Ord. 577, 1-9-2018)
CHAPTER 2
IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
9-2-1: Title And Purpose
9-2-2: Definitions
9-2-3: Capital Improvement Plans And Development Impact Fees Adopted
9-2-4: Application
9-2-5: Collection Of Impact Fee
9-2-6: Capital Improvement Projects
9-2-7: Calculation Of Impact Fee
9-2-8: General Methodology For Calculation
9-2-9: Inflationary Adjustment Index For Impact Fee
9-2-10: Administration Of Impact Fee
9-2-11: Credits And Reimbursement
9-2-12: Refunds
9-2-13: Appeals
9-2-14: Extraordinary Impacts
9-2-15: Bonding
9-2-16: Effect On City Development Regulations
9-2-17: Other Powers And Rights Not Affected
9-2-1: TITLE AND PURPOSE:
The provisions of this chapter shall be known as the CITY OF HAYDEN DEVELOPMENT
IMPACT FEE ORDINANCE. The purpose of these regulations is to prescribe the
procedure whereby developers of land shall pay an impact fee as set forth in
this chapter for the purpose of providing the public facilities and system
improvements needed to serve future residents and users of such development. It
is further the purpose of this chapter to:
   A.   Ensure that adequate facilities are available to serve new growth and
development;
   B.   Promote orderly growth and development by establishing uniform
standards by which the city may require that those who benefit from new growth
and development pay a proportionate share of the cost of new public facilities
needed to serve new growth and development;
   C.   Ensure that those who benefit from new growth and development are
required to pay no more than their proportionate share of the cost of public
facilities needed to serve new growth and development and to prevent duplicate
and ad hoc development requirements;
   D.   Collect and expend development impact fees pursuant to the enabling
powers granted by the provision of the Idaho development impact fee act, Idaho
Code title 67, chapter 82;
   E.   Provide the legal and procedural basis for the implementation of
development impact fees within the area of city impact; and
   F.   Ensure that any capital improvement funded wholly or in part with
impact fee revenue shall first be included in an approved capital improvements
plan that lists the capital improvements that may be funded with impact fee
revenues as well as the estimated costs and timing for each improvement. (Ord.
412, 3-14-2006)
9-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to the definitions contained in the Idaho development impact fee
act, the following additional definitions or modifications to the definitions
in the act shall apply, unless another meaning is plainly intended:
EXTRAORDINARY IMPACT: An impact which is reasonably determined by the city to:
   A.   Result in the need for system improvements, the cost of which will
significantly exceed the sum of the development impact fees to be generated
from the project or the sum agreed to be paid pursuant to a development
agreement as allowed by Idaho Code section 67-8214(2);
   B.   Result in the need for system improvements which are not identified in
the capital improvements plan;
   C.   Have an impact which results in a lower than acceptable level of
service.
GROSS FLOOR AREA: The sum of the areas of the several floors of the building or
structure, including areas used for human occupancy or required for the conduct
of the business or use, as measured from the exterior faces of the walls. It
does not include cellars, unenclosed porches, or attics when not used for human
occupancy, nor any floor space in an accessory building, carport, or within the
main building intended or designed for the parking of motor vehicles in order
to meet any city parking requirement, nor nonresidential facilities, arcades,
porticoes, and similar open areas which are located at or near street level,
which are accessible to the general public, and which are not designed or used
as sales, display, storage, service, or production areas.
MOBILE HOME: A structure similar to a manufactured home, but built to a mobile
home code prior to June 15, 1976, the date of enactment of the federal
manufactured housing and safety standards act (HUD code).
UNIT(S) OF DEVELOPMENT: A quantifiable increment of development activity
measured in terms of dwelling units, or other appropriate measurements
contained in the impact fee schedule incorporated in the "report". (Ord. 450,
4-8-2008, eff. 5-8-2008)
9-2-3: CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLANS AND DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES ADOPTED:
Addendum A, entitled “City of Hayden, Idaho, Park & Transportation Development
Impact Fee Methodology Report”, dated July 2022, along with all footnotes,
exhibits, appendices, and other attachments referenced therein, all of which
are by this reference incorporated herein as if set forth fully. A description
of acceptable levels of service for system improvements is described in the
“report”. (Ord. 557, 6-28-2016; amd. Ord. 636, 8-23-2022)
9-2-4: APPLICATION:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter shall apply uniformly to all those who
benefit from new growth and development except as provided below.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following:
      1.   Rebuilding the same amount of floor space of a structure that was
destroyed by fire or other catastrophe, providing the structure is rebuilt and
ready for occupancy within two (2) years of its destruction;
      2.   Remodeling or repairing a structure that does not increase the
number of service units;
      3.   Replacing a residential unit, including a modular building or
manufactured/mobile home, with another residential unit on the same lot,
provided that the number of service units does not increase;
      4.   Placing a temporary construction trailer or office on a lot;
      5.   Constructing an addition on a residential structure that does not
increase the number of service units;
      6.   Adding uses that are typically accessory to residential uses, such
as tennis courts or clubhouse, unless it can be clearly demonstrated that the
use creates a significant impact on the capacity of system improvements;
      7.   Upon demonstration by fee payer by documentation such as utility
bills and tax records, to the installation of a modular building, manufactured/
mobile home or recreational vehicle on that same lot or space for which a
development impact fee has been paid previously, and as long as there is no
increase in service units.
   C.   An exemption must be claimed by the fee payer upon application for a
building permit. Any exemption not so claimed shall be deemed waived by the fee
payer. Applications for exemption shall be submitted to and determined by the
city administrator, or his or her duly designated agent, within ninety (90)
days. Appeals of the city administrator's, or his or her duly designated
agent's, determination shall be made under the provisions of section
9-2-13, "Appeals", of this chapter. (Ord. 412, 3-14-2006)
9-2-5: COLLECTION OF IMPACT FEE:
   A.   The development impact fee shall be paid and collected at the time of
issuance of a building permit, or a manufactured/mobile home installation
permit.
   B.   No building permit or other equivalent city approval shall be issued
for "development", as herein defined, unless the impact fee is paid pursuant to
this chapter.
   C.   A manufactured/mobile home unit may not locate on a manufactured/mobile
home site unless the impact fee is paid pursuant to this chapter or has been
paid on a previous manufactured/mobile home unit on the same site.
   D.   In the event payment is dishonored, the city shall have all lawful
remedies including, but not necessarily limited to, the withholding of utility
services, the imposition of reasonable interest and penalties, the imposition
of liens pursuant to Idaho Code title 45, chapter 5, the withholding of other
city approvals required for the development of other properties owned by the
fee payer, and the issuance of "stop work" orders, and the revocation or
suspension of the building permit. (Ord. 412, 3-14-2006)
9-2-6: CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS:
The capital improvement projects to be financed by the impact fee are those as
listed in the "report", incorporated herein by reference along with all
footnotes, exhibits, appendices, and other attachments referenced. (Ord. 412,
3-14-2006)
9-2-7: CALCULATION OF IMPACT FEE:
   A.   The city shall calculate the amount of the impact fee due for each
building permit and manufactured/mobile home installation permit by the
procedure set forth in the "report".
   B.   The calculation of a development impact fee shall be in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A development impact fee shall not be
deemed invalid because payment of the fee may result in an incidental benefit
to owners or developers within the service area other than the person paying
the fee.
   C.   A development impact fee shall be calculated on the basis of the
performance standard for public facilities adopted in this chapter and in the
"report" that are applicable to existing development as well as new growth and
development. The construction, improvement, expansion or enlargement of new or
existing public facilities for which a development impact fee is imposed must
be attributable to the capacity demands generated by the new development.
   D.   If the development for which a building permit is sought contains a mix
of uses, the impact fee will be calculated for each type of use.
   E.   Prior to making an application for a building permit or manufactured/
mobile home installation permit, a prospective applicant may request in writing
a written certification of the development impact fee schedule or individual
assessment for a particular project which shall establish the development fee
for a period of one year from the date of certification. The certification
shall include an explanation of facilities considered under Idaho Code section
67-8207. The certification shall specify the system improvement(s) for which
the impact fee is intended to be used.
   F.   Individual assessment of impact fees is permitted in situations where
the fee payer can demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that the
established impact fee is inappropriate.
      1.   Individual assessments of development impact fees may be made by
application to the city administrator, or his or her duly designated agent,
prior to receiving building permits, manufactured/mobile home installation
permits, or other necessary approvals from the city. The city administrator, or
his or her duly designated agent, shall evaluate such individual assessments
under the guidelines provided for in subsection F4 of this section. If the
guidelines are met, the individual assessment shall be approved by the city
administrator, or his or her duly designated agent. Any decision regarding a
request for an individual assessment shall be provided in writing to the
applicant and a copy of said decision, along with supporting documentation,
shall be provided to the city council within thirty (30) days of the decision.
      2.   Late applications for individual assessments may be submitted within
thirty (30) days after the receipt of a building permit only if the fee payer
makes a showing that the facts supporting such application were not known or
discoverable prior to receipt of a building permit and that undue hardship
would result if said application is not considered.
      3.   The city administrator, or his or her duly designated agent, shall
render a written decision regarding the individual assessment and forward it to
the city council within thirty (30) days of the date a complete application is
submitted. The decision of the city administrator, or his or her duly
designated agent, shall establish the impact fee for the project in question
for a period of one year from the date said decision becomes final.
      4.   The city administrator, or his or her duly designated agent, shall
evaluate an application for individual assessment and may approve the same if
fee payer has shown by clear and convincing evidence that the established
impact fee is inappropriate and that the following facts and conditions exist:
         a.   Exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or conditions apply to
the development that do not apply generally to other properties in the vicinity
of the development.
         b.   An individual assessment is necessary for the reasonable and
acceptable development of the property.
         c.   The approval of the individual assessment will not be materially
detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to property in the vicinity in
which the development is located.
         d.   The approval of the individual assessment will not adversely
affect the capital improvement plan for the city.
      5.   Appeals to the city administrator's, or his or her duly designated
agent's, determination of individual assessment shall be made to the city
council by the filing of an appeal with the city clerk within thirty (30) days
of the date of mailing, faxing or personal delivery of written notice of the
decision of the city administrator, or his or her duly designated agent. Final
determination regarding the appeal of individual assessments shall be made by
the city council. (Ord. 412, 3-14-2006)
9-2-8: GENERAL METHODOLOGY FOR CALCULATION:
   A.   Report: The amount of the impact fee shall be calculated using the
methodology contained in the "report".
   B.   Proportionate Share: A development impact fee shall not exceed a
proportionate share of the cost of system improvements determined in accordance
with Idaho Code section 67-8207. Development impact fees shall be based on
actual system improvement costs or reasonable estimates of such costs.
   C.   Developers: A developer shall have the right to elect to pay a
project's proportionate share of system improvement costs by payment of
development impact fees according to the fee schedule as full and complete
payment of the development project's proportionate share of system improvement
costs, except as provided in Idaho Code section 67-8214(3). The schedule of
development impact fees for various land users per unit of development shall be
as set forth in the "report".
   D.   Proportionate Share Determination:
      1.   All development impact fees shall be based on a reasonable and fair
formula or method under which the development impact fee imposed does not
exceed a proportionate share of the costs incurred or to be incurred by the
city in the provision of system improvements to serve the new development. The
proportionate share is the cost attributable to the new development after the
city considers the following:
         a.   Any appropriate credit, offset, or contribution of money,
dedication of land, or construction of system improvements;
         b.   Payments reasonably anticipated to be made by or as a result of a
new development in the form of user fees, debt service payments, or taxes which
are dedicated for system improvements for which development impact fees would
otherwise be imposed; and
         c.   All other available sources of funding such system improvements.
      2.   In determining the proportionate share of the cost of system
improvements to be paid by the developer, the following factors shall be
considered by the city:
         a.   The cost of existing system improvements within the service area
or areas;
         b.   The means by which existing system improvements have been
financed;
         c.   The extent to which the new development will contribute to the
cost of system improvements through taxation, assessments, or developer or
landowner contributions, or has previously contributed to the cost of system
improvements through developer or landowner contributions.
         d.   The extent to which the new development is required to contribute
to the cost of existing system improvements in the future.
         e.   The extent to which the new development should be credited for
providing system improvements, without charge to other properties within the
service area or areas;
         f.   Extraordinary costs, if any, incurred in serving the new
development;
         g.   The time and price differential inherent in a fair comparison of
fees paid at different times; and
         h.   The availability of other sources of funding system improvements
including, but not limited to, user charges, general tax levies,
intergovernmental transfers, and special taxation. The city shall develop a
plan for alternative sources of revenue, which shall include, but not
necessarily be limited to, plans generated during the city's annual budget
process, lobbying efforts, tax increment financing, implementation of user fees
and various forms of utilities. (Ord. 412, 3-14-2006)
9-2-9: INFLATIONARY ADJUSTMENT INDEX FOR IMPACT FEE:
This chapter provides for an automatic annual adjustment to the impact fee
based on the constructions materials index for Seattle. The adjustment may
increase or decrease the impact fee depending on the value of the index for
that year. The annual effective date of this fee adjustment shall coincide with
the beginning date of the city's annual budget. (Ord. 412, 3-14-2006)
9-2-10: ADMINISTRATION OF IMPACT FEE:
   A.   Transfer Of Funds To City Finance Officer: Upon receipt of impact fees,
the city finance officer, or his or her duly designated agent, shall be
responsible for placement of such funds into separate accounts as hereinafter
specified. All such funds shall be deposited in interest bearing accounts,
within the capital projects fund, in a bank authorized to receive deposits of
city funds. Interest earned by each account shall be credited to that account
and shall be used solely for the purposes specified for funds of such account.
   B.   Establishment And Maintenance Of Accounts: The city finance officer, or
his or her duly designated agent, shall establish separate accounts and
maintain records for each such account whereby impact fees collected can be
segregated.
   C.   Maintenance Of Records: The city finance officer, or his or her duly
designated agent, shall maintain and keep accurate financial records for each
such account that shall:
      1.   Show the source and disbursement of all revenues;
      2.   Account for all monies received;
      3.   Ensure that the disbursement of funds from each account shall be
used solely and exclusively for the provision of projects specified in the
capital improvements program; and
      4.   Provide an annual accounting for each impact fee account showing the
source and amount of all funds collected and the projects that were funded.
   D.   Use Of Fees: Development impact fees shall only be spent for the public
facility category (i.e., parks, police, fire and circulation) of system
improvements for which the fees are collected and either within or for the
benefit of the service area in which the project is located.
   E.   Review And Modification: Unless the city council deems some other time
period is appropriate, the city shall at least once every five (5) years
commencing from the date of the original adoption of the capital improvements
plan, review the development potential of the area and update the capital
improvements plan in accordance with the procedures set forth in Idaho Code
section 67-8206. The city may make any updates as are deemed necessary as a
result of:
      1.   Development occurring in the prior year;
      2.   Capital improvements actually constructed;
      3.   Changing facility needs;
      4.   Inflation;
      5.   Revised cost estimates for capital improvements;
      6.   Changes in the availability of other funding projects; and
      7.   Such other factors as may be relevant.
   F.   Capital Budget: The city shall annually adopt a capital budget.
   G.   Audit Report: As part of its annual audit process, the city shall
prepare an annual report describing the amount of all development impact fees
collected, appropriated, or spent during the preceding year by category of
public facility and service area.
   H.   State Statute Provisions Applicable: All other requirements of Idaho
Code section 67-8210, regarding earmarking and expenditure of collected
development impact fees, shall apply. (Ord. 412, 3-14-2006)
9-2-11: CREDITS AND REIMBURSEMENT:
   A.   In the calculation of development impact fees for a particular project,
credit or reimbursement shall be given for the present value of any
construction of system improvements or contribution or dedication of land or
money required by the city from a developer for system improvements of the
public facility category (i.e., parks, police, circulation) for which the
development impact fee is being collected. Credit or reimbursement shall not be
given for project improvements unless those improvements are identified in the
"report" as a system improvement. In that event, the credit given will only be
given for those project improvements that are specifically listed in the
"report" and not for any portion of the improvements that would otherwise be
required by zoning, subdivision, or other city regulations.
   B.   If a developer is required to construct, fund or contribute system
improvements in excess of the development project's proportionate share of
system improvement costs, the developer shall receive a credit on future impact
fees or be reimbursed at the developer's choice for such excess construction,
funding or contribution from development impact fees paid by future development
which impacts the system improvements constructed, funded or contributed by the
developer(s) or fee payer. If a credit for the payment of future impact fees is
requested, the credit shall be given only for the public facility category that
received system improvements in excess of the development's proportionate
share.
   C.   If credit or reimbursement is due to the developer pursuant to this
section, the city shall enter into a written agreement, with the fee payer,
negotiated in good faith, prior to the construction, funding, or contribution.
The agreement shall provide for the amount of credit or the amount, time and
form of reimbursement.
   D.   Any person requesting such credit or reimbursement shall submit their
request in writing on a form provided by the city and present documentation of
costs or payments for facilities to the city administrator or his or her duly
designated agent prior to issuance of a building permit or manufactured/mobile
home installation permit. The determination shall be made no more than forty
five (45) days after complete documentation is submitted to the city
administrator or his or her duly designated agent. Any appeal from such a
determination by the city administrator, or his or her duly designated agent,
shall be pursuant to section
9-2-13 of this chapter. (Ord. 412, 3-14-2006)
9-2-12: REFUNDS:
   A.   The current owner or contract purchaser of property on which an impact
fee has been paid may request a refund of such fee if:
      1.   Service is available but never provided;
      2.   The project for which a building permit has been used has been
lawfully altered resulting in a decrease in the amount of the impact fee due;
or
      3.   The city, after collecting the fee when service is not available,
has failed to appropriate and expend the collected development impact fees
pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-8210(4);
      4.   A building permit or permit for installation of a manufactured/
mobile home is denied or abandoned.
   B.   The request for refund must be filed in writing and submitted to the
city administrator, or his or her duly designated agent, on a form provided by
the city for such purpose. The owner shall provide such documentation as the
city administrator, or his or her duly designated agent, may require proving
such satisfaction, reconveyance, or releases from contract sellers, mortgagees,
lien holders, and/or others having an interest in the real property for which
an impact fee has been paid.
   C.   A request for refund must be filed within the time allowed by law.
   D.   Within ninety (90) days of the date of receipt of a request for refund,
the city administrator, or his or her duly designated agent, must provide the
owner, in writing, with a decision on the refund request including the reasons
for the decision. If a right to refund exists, the city is required to send a
refund to the owner of record within ninety (90) days after it is determined
that a refund is due. A refund shall include a refund of interest at one-half
(1/2) the legal rate provided for in Idaho Code section
28-22-104.
   E.   The owner may appeal the determination of the city administrator, or
his or her duly designated agent, to the city council pursuant to the
provisions in section
9-2-13 of this chapter. (Ord. 412, 3-14-2006)
9-2-13: APPEALS:
   A.   A developer or fee payer may appeal the written determination of the
applicability and amount of the development impact fee, or refund, or any
discretionary action or inaction by or on behalf of the city to the city
council.
   B.   The developer or fee payer must file a notice of appeal to the city
council with the city clerk within thirty (30) days following the written
determination, discretionary action, or inaction. When filing an appeal, the
fee payer shall submit a letter providing a full explanation of the request,
the reason for appeal, as well as all supporting documentation.
   C.   The filing of an appeal shall not stay required payment of the impact
fee; however, a fee payer can pay a development impact fee under protest in
order to obtain development approval or building permit.
   D.   Upon voluntary agreement by the fee payer and the city, any
disagreement related to the impact fee for the proposed development may be
mediated by a qualified independent party.
      1.   Mediation may take place at any time during the appeals process, and
participation in mediation does not preclude the fee payer from pursuing other
remedies provided for in this chapter.
      2.   The fee payer and the city shall share mediation costs equally.
(Ord. 412, 3-14-2006)
9-2-14: EXTRAORDINARY IMPACTS:
   A.   In determining the proportionate share of the cost of system
improvements to be paid by the developer, the city administrator, or his or her
duly designated agent, shall consider whether any extraordinary costs will be
incurred in serving the development based upon an "extraordinary impact", as
defined in section
9-2-2 of this chapter. This determination shall be made prior to issuance of
any permit for development and shall be paid prior to any such issuance except
as may be provided pursuant to a private agreement between the parties as
authorized by Idaho Code section 67-8214.
   B.   If the city administrator, or his or her duly designated agent,
determines that the development will result in an extraordinary impact, it
shall advise the fee payer in writing what the extraordinary impact is, the
reason for the extraordinary impact, and the estimated costs to be incurred as
a result of the extraordinary impact.
   C.   Nothing in this chapter shall obligate the city to approve any
development that results in extraordinary impact.
   D.   The fee payer may appeal the determination of an extraordinary impact
or the amount of extraordinary costs incurred in writing by filing a notice of
appeal to the city council with the city clerk pursuant to the terms set forth
in section
9-2-13, "Appeals", of this chapter. When filing an appeal, the fee payer shall
submit a letter providing the reason for the appeal along with supporting
documentation. The city council shall consider the appeal and make a final
determination within ninety (90) days of receipt of the written appeal. (Ord.
412, 3-14-2006)
9-2-15: BONDING:
Funds pledged toward retirement of bonds, revenue certificates, or other
obligations of indebtedness for such projects may include impact fees and other
city revenues as may be allocated by the city council. (Ord. 412, 3-14-2006)
9-2-16: EFFECT ON CITY DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS:
This chapter shall not affect, in any manner, the permissible use of property,
density of development, design and improvement standards and requirements, or
any other aspect of the development of land or provision of capital
improvements subject to the zoning and subdivision regulations or other
regulations of the city, which shall be operative and remain in full force and
effect without limitation with respect to all such development. (Ord. 412, 3-
14-2006)
9-2-17: OTHER POWERS AND RIGHTS NOT AFFECTED:
   A.   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the city from requiring a
developer to construct reasonable project improvements in conjunction with a
development project.
   B.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent or prohibit
private agreements between property owners and developers, the Idaho
transportation department, the city, and other governmental entities in regard
to the construction or installation of system improvements or providing for
credits or reimbursements for system improvement costs incurred by a developer
including interproject transfers of credits or providing for reimbursement for
project improvements which are used or shared by more than one development
project. If it can be shown that a proposed development has a direct impact on
a public facility under the jurisdiction of the Idaho transportation
department, then the agreement shall include a provision for the allocation of
impact fees collected from the developer for the improvement of the public
facility by the Idaho transportation department.
   C.   Nothing in this chapter shall obligate the city to approve development
that results in an extraordinary impact. Extraordinary impacts shall be
determined and processed pursuant to section
9-2-14 of this chapter.
   D.   Nothing in this chapter shall obligate the city to approve a
development request that may reasonably be expected to reduce levels of service
below minimum acceptable levels established in this chapter. To this end, the
city may impose a development impact fee for system improvement costs incurred
subsequent to adoption of this chapter to the extent that new growth and
development will be served by the system improvements.
   E.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to create any additional
right to develop real property or diminish the power of the city in regulating
the orderly development of real property.
   F.   Nothing in this chapter shall work to limit the use by the city of the
power of eminent domain or supersede or conflict with requirements or
procedures authorized in the Idaho Code for local improvement districts or
general obligation bond issues.
   G.   Nothing herein shall restrict or diminish the power of the city to
annex property into its territorial boundaries or exclude property from its
territorial boundaries upon request of a developer or owner, or to impose
reasonable conditions thereon, including the recovery of project or system
improvement costs required as a result of such voluntary annexation. (Ord. 412,
3-14-2006)
CHAPTER 3
FIRE AND EMS DISTRICTS DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
9-3-1: Short Title, Applicability, Findings And Purpose
9-3-2: Definitions
9-3-3: Imposition Of Fire And EMS Impact Fee
9-3-4: Collection Of Fire And/Or EMS District Impact Fees
9-3-5: Exemptions
9-3-6: Individual Assessment Process
9-3-7: Developer Credits And Reimbursement
9-3-8: Methodology For The Calculation Of Fire And EMS District Impact Fees
9-3-9: Extraordinary Impacts
9-3-10: Fee Payer Refunds
9-3-11: Establishment Of District Trust Fund And Accounts
9-3-12: Expenditure Of Fire And EMS Districts Impact Fees
9-3-13: Appeals, Protest And Mediation
9-3-14: Periodic Reviews
9-3-15: Audit
9-3-16: Development Impact Fee Advisory Committee
9-3-17: Enforcement And Collection
9-3-18: City/Districts Intergovernmental Agreement
9-3-19: Miscellaneous Provisions
9-3-20: Punishment
9-3-21: Construction Of Intent
9-3-1: SHORT TITLE, APPLICABILITY, FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Short title. This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the
Northern Lakes Fire Protection District/Kootenai County Fire & Rescue District/
Kootenai County Emergency Medical Services System Development Impact Fee
Ordinance.
   B.   Authority. This ordinance is enacted pursuant to the City’s general
police powers, its authority to enact ordinances, and its authority as provided
by the Idaho Development Impact Fee Act codified at Chapter 82 of Title 67,
Idaho Code (the “Act”) and other applicable laws of the State of Idaho to
impose development impact fees; and the City’s and the Districts’ authority to
enter into an intergovernmental agreement as provided for in IC § 67-8204A to
impose, collect and expend Fire and EMS development impact fees.
   C.   Applicability. Except as otherwise exempted in section
9-3-3, these provisions shall apply to the development of property located
within the boundaries of the City of Hayden, Idaho.
   D.   Findings:
      1.   The Northern Lakes Fire Protection District, Kootenai County Fire &
Rescue District and the Kootenai County Emergency Medical Services System
(KCEMSS) are taxing Districts ("the Districts") organized and existing by
virtue of Chapter 14 of Title 31, Idaho Code, and both Districts' boundaries
include all areas within the city limits of the City and areas surrounding the
City; and
   2.   The Northern Lakes Fire Protection District's and the Kootenai County
Fire and Rescue District's duty and responsibility is to provide protection of
property against fire and the preservation of life, and enforcement of any of
the fire codes and other rules that are adopted by the state fire marshal; and
      3.   The Kootenai County Emergency Medical Services System’s duty and
responsibility is to provide for the protection and preservation of life; and
      4.   The City is experiencing considerable growth and development; and
      5.   The purposes of the Act [IC § 67-8202] are as follows:
         a.   Ensure that adequate public facilities are available to serve new
growth and development;
         b.   Promote orderly growth and development by establishing uniform
standards by which local governments, such as the City and the Districts, may
require those who benefit from new growth and development pay [development
impact fees] their proportionate share of the costs of new public facilities
needed to serve that new growth and development; and
         c.   Establish minimum standards for adoption of development impact
fee ordinances by cities; and
         d.   Ensure that those who benefit from new growth and development are
required to pay no more than their proportionate share of the cost of public
facilities needed to serve that new growth and development and to prevent
duplicate and ad hoc development requirements; and
         e.   To empower cities to adopt ordinances to impose development
impact fees.
      6.   The Act:
         a.   Does not authorize the Districts to enact a development impact
fee ordinance; and b. Does provide, pursuant to IC § 67-8204A, in circumstances
where the City and the Districts are both affected by the considerable growth
and development as is occurring within the City, that the City and the
Districts may enter into the intergovernmental agreement for the purpose of
agreeing to collect and expend development impact fees for system improvements
which provides for a new funding mechanism for those system improvements costs
incurred by the Districts to meet the demand and growth occurring within the
City and which promotes and accommodates orderly growth and development and
protects the public health, safety and general welfare of the residences within
the boundaries of the City.
      7.   New residential growth within the City imposes and will impose
increasing and excessive demands upon the existing Districts’ capital
facilities.
      8.   The tax revenues generated from new residential development within
the City often do not generate sufficient funds to provide the necessary
improvements and expansion of existing Districts’ capital facilities to
accommodate for that new growth.
      9.   New growth within the City is expected to continue, and will place
ever-increasing demands on the Districts to provide and expand the Districts’
capital facilities to serve that new growth.
      10.   Section 67-8204A of the Act authorizes the City to adopt an impact
fee system and to enter into the intergovernmental agreement with the Districts
to offset, recoup, or reimburse the portion of the costs of needed improvements
to the Districts’ capital facilities caused by new growth and development in
the City.
      11.   The creation of an equitable impact fee system facilitated by the
intergovernmental agreement with the Districts, will promote the purposes set
forth in the Act, in that it would:
         a.   ensure that adequate District capital facilities are available to
serve new growth and development;
         b.   promote orderly growth and development by establishing uniform
standards by which the City may require that those who benefit from new growth
and development pay a proportionate share of the cost of new District capital
facilities needed to serve new growth and development in the City;
         c.   establish minimum standards for the adoption of fire and EMS
District impact fees;
         d.   ensure that those who benefit from new growth and development are
required to pay no more than their proportionate share of the cost of District
capital facilities needed to serve new growth and development in the City; and
         e.   prevent duplicate and ad hoc development requirements in the
City.
      12.   The City has formed a Development Impact Fee Advisory Committee in
compliance with IC § 67-8205, and said committee shall perform the duties
required of it pursuant to IC § 67-8205 and § 67-8206(2). It is the City’s
intention that committee will continue to exist and perform those duties
identified in IC § 67-8205 that occur following the adoption of this
Development Impact Fee Ordinance.
      13.   The Districts have planned for the improvement of District capital
facilities in the capital improvements plans.
      14.   The creation of an equitable impact fee system would enable the
City to accommodate new development, and would assist the Districts in
implementing the capital improvements element of the capital improvements plan.
      15.   The City's Development Impact Fee Advisory Committee has provided
guidance regarding the adoption of the Northern Lakes Fire Protection District,
Kootenai County Fire & Rescue District and Kootenai County Emergency Services
Systems' Impact Fee Studies and Capital Improvements Plans (the "capital
improvements plan"). Galena Consulting was hired by the Districts to assist the
Development Impact Fee Advisory Committee in the preparation of the study.
      16.   The methodology used in the capital improvements plan, as applied
through this chapter, complies with all applicable provisions of Idaho law,
including those set forth in IC §§ 67-8204(1), (2), (16) and (23), 67-8207 and
67-8209. The incorporation of the capital improvements plan by reference
satisfies the requirement in IC § 67-8204(16) for a detailed description of the
methodology by which the Fire and EMS impact fees were calculated, and the
requirement in IC § 67-8204(24) for a description of acceptable levels of
service for District system improvements.
      17.   In determining the proportionate share of system improvements
costs, the capital improvements plan has considered:
         a.   the cost of the existing system improvements;
         b.   the means by which the existing system improvements have been
financed;
         c.   the extent to which the new development will contribute to system
improvements costs through taxation, assessment, or developer or landowner
contributions, or has previously contributed to system improvements costs
through developer or landowner contributions;
         d.   the extent to which the new development is required to contribute
to system improvements costs in the future;
         e.   the extent to which the new development should be credited for
providing system improvements, without charge to other properties within the
service area or areas;
         f.   extraordinary costs, if any, incurred in serving the new
development;
         g.   the time and price differential inherent in a fair comparison of
fees paid at different times; and
         h.   the availability of other sources of funding system improvements
including, but not limited to, user charges, general tax levies,
intergovernmental transfers, and special taxation and includes a plan for
alternative sources of revenue.
      18.   The capital improvements plans contain the capital improvements
planned by the Districts during the term of the capital improvements plans, and
such element has been developed in conformance with the requirements of Chapter
82 of Title 67, Idaho Code.
      19.   The capital improvements plans set forth reasonable methodologies
and analyses for determining the impacts of various types of new development on
the Districts’ capital facilities, and determines the cost of acquiring or
constructing the improvements necessary to meet the demands for such facilities
created by new development.
      20.   In accordance with Idaho Code, the capital improvement plan is
based on actual system improvements costs or reasonable estimates of such
costs. In addition, the capital improvements plan uses a fee calculation
methodology that is net of credits for the present value of revenues that will
be generated by new growth and development based on historical funding patterns
and that are anticipated to be available to pay for system improvements,
including taxes, assessments, user fees, and intergovernmental transfers.
      21.   The Fire and EMS impact fees established by this chapter are based
on the capital improvements plan, and do not exceed system improvement costs to
serve new development that will pay the Fire and EMS impact fees.
      22.   The Districts’ capital facilities included in the calculation of
fees in the capital improvements plans will benefit all new residential
development throughout the City, and it is therefore appropriate to treat all
areas of the City as a single service area for purposes of calculating,
collecting, and spending the Fire and EMS impact fees collected from
developers.
      23.   There is both a rational nexus and a rough proportionality between
development impacts created by each type of development covered by this
chapter, the development impact fees assessment of such development covered by
this chapter, and the development impact fees that such developer will be
required to pay.
      24.   This chapter creates a system by which development impact fees paid
by developers will be used to finance, defray, or reimburse a portion of the
costs incurred by the Districts to construct and/or purchase system
improvements in ways that benefit the development for which each development
impact fee was paid within a reasonable period of time after the development
impact fee is paid, and in conformance with IC § 67-8210.
      25.   This chapter creates a system under which development impact fees
shall not be used to correct existing deficiencies for any District capital
facilities, or to replace or rehabilitate existing District capital facilities,
or to pay for routine operation or maintenance of those facilities.
      26.   This chapter creates a system under which there shall be no double
payment of development impact fees, in accordance with IC § 67-8204(19).
      27.   This chapter is consistent with all applicable provisions of the
Act concerning development impact fee ordinances.
   E.   Purpose.
      1.   This chapter is adopted to be consistent with, and to help implement
the capital improvements plan.
      2.   The intent of this chapter is to ensure that new residential
development bears a proportionate share of the cost of system improvements; to
ensure that such proportionate share does not exceed the cost of such system
improvements required to accommodate new development; and to ensure that funds
collected from new development are actually used for system improvements in
accordance with the Act.
      3.   It is the further intent of this chapter to be consistent with those
principles for allocating a fair share of the cost of system improvements to
new development, and for adopting development impact fee ordinances,
established by the Act.
      4.   It is not the intent of this chapter to collect any money from any
new development in excess of the actual amount necessary to offset new demands
for system improvements created by such new development.
      5.   It is the intent of this chapter that any monies collected, as an
imposed Fire and/or EMS impact fee, are deposited in each District’s impact fee
account, are never commingled with monies from a different impact fee account,
are never used for a development impact fee component different from that for
which the fee was paid, are never used to correct current deficiencies in the
District’s capital facilities, and are never used to replace, rehabilitate,
maintain or operate any District capital facilities. (Ord. 637, 8-23-2022; amd.
Ord. 652, 7-9-2024)
9-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the following
meanings, unless another meaning is plainly intended and words and terms
appearing in the singular number includes the plural and the plural the
singular:
                                  Any of one or more interest bearing accounts within the Fire or EMS District’s
ACCOUNTS:                         Development Impact Fee Capital Projects Trust Fund established in section
                                  9-3-9 of this chapter.
ACT:                              The Idaho Development Impact Fee Act as set forth in Chapter 82 of Title 67,
                                  Idaho Code.
                                  The administrative fee charged by the City of Hayden pursuant to the
ADMINISTRATIVE FEE:               Intergovernmental Agreements between the City and the Districts, which will be
                                  subtracted from the impact fees for each District before the impact fees are
                                  transmitted to the Districts.
APPROPRIATE:                      To legally obligate by contract or otherwise commit to the expenditure of funds
                                  by appropriation or other official act of the board of commissioners.
                                  The board of commissioners of the Northern Lakes Fire Protection District,
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS:           Kootenai County Fire & Rescue District or Kootenai County Emergency Medical
                                  Services Systems Board of Commissioners, which are their governing boards.
BUILDING PERMIT:                  The permit required for foundations, new construction and additions.
                                  Improvements with a useful life of ten (10) years or more, by new construction or
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS:             other action, which increases the service capacity of District capital
                                  facilities.
                                  A component of the capital improvements plans identified in the Districts’ CIPs
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS ELEMENT:     adopted by the Districts and the City pursuant to Chapters 65 and 82 of Title 67,
                                  Idaho Code, and as amended, which component meets the requirements of the capital
                                  improvements plan required by the Act.
                                  The Northern Lakes Fire Protection District’s Impact Fee Study and capital
                                  improvements plan, Kootenai County Fire & Rescue District’s Impact Fee Study and
                                  capital improvement plan, and the Kootenai County Emergency Medical Services
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PLAN:        Systems Impact Fee Study and capital improvements plan, recommended by the City’s
                                  Development Impact Fee Advisory Committee and adopted by the Districts and the
                                  City pursuant to the act that identifies District capital facilities for which
                                  Fire and EMS impact fees may be used as a funding source and attached to
                                  Ordinance No. 652 as Exhibit A.
CITY:                             The City of Hayden.
CITY COUNCIL:                     The City council of the City of Hayden.
                                  Any person or legal entity undertaking development including a development that
DEVELOPER:                        seeks an annexation into the City and/or undertakes the subdivision of property
                                  pursuant to IC §§ 50-1301 through 50-1334, as amended.
                                  Any construction or installation of a building or structure, or any change in use
                                  of a building or structure, or any change in the use, character or appearance of
DEVELOPMENT:                      land, which creates additional demand and need for public facilities or the
                                  annexation into the City and/or subdivision of property that would permit any
                                  change in the use, character or appearance of land.
DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL:             Any written duly authorized document from the City which authorizes the
                                  commencement of a development.
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE CAPITAL    The Districts’ individual trust funds established by action of the board of
PROJECTS TRUST FUND (the “TRUST commissioners of the Districts.
FUND”):
                                  A requirement attached to a developmental approval or other City governmental
DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENT:          action approving or authorizing a particular development project including, but
                                  not limited to, a rezoning, which requirement compels the payment, dedication or
                                  contribution of goods, services, land or money as condition of approval.
                                  The Northern Lakes Fire Protection District and Kootenai County Fire & Rescue
DISTRICT/DISTRICTS:               District fire districts, organized and existing by virtue of the Fire Protection
                                  Districts Law, Chapter 14 of Title 31, Idaho Code, and the Kootenai County
                                  Emergency Medical Services System (KCEMSS).
DISTRICT(S) ADMINISTRATOR:        The officer of administration of the District, or her, or his designee.
                                  District facilities, stations, apparatus, vehicles and equipment, which is
                                  identified in Exhibit III-4 of the Northern Lake Fire Protection District capital
                                  improvements plan, Exhibit III-2 of the Kootenai County Fire & Rescue District
DISTRICTS CAPITAL FACILITIES:     capital improvement plan, and Exhibit III-2 of the EMS District capital
                                  improvements plan, and specifically including those related costs including
                                  system improvements costs, but not including maintenance, operations, or
                                  improvements that do not expand their capacity.
EXTRAORDINARY COSTS:              Those costs incurred as result of an extraordinary impact.
                                  An impact, which is reasonably determined by the Districts to:
                                  A.   Result in the need for District system improvements, the cost of which will
                                  significantly exceed the sum of the development impact fees to be generated from
EXTRAORDINARY IMPACT:             the project or the sum agreed to be paid pursuant to a development agreement as
                                  allowed by IC § 67-8214(2), as amended; or
                                  B.   Result in the need for District system improvements which are not identified
                                  in the capital improvements plan.
FEE PAYER:                        The person who pays or is required to pay a Fire and/or EMS impact fee. A fee
                                  payer may include a developer.
                                  A payment of money imposed as condition of development approval to pay for a
                                  proportionate share of the costs of system improvements needed to serve the
                                  development. The term does not include the following:
                                  A.   A charge or fee to pay the administrative plan review, or inspection cost
                                  associated with permits required for development;
                                  B.   Connection or hookup charges;
FIRE AND/OR EMS IMPACT FEE:       C.   Availability charges for drainage, sewer, water or transportation charges
                                  for services provided directly to the development; or
                                  D.   Amounts collected from a developer in a transaction in which the District
                                  has incurred expenses in constructing capital improvements for the development if
                                  the owner or developer has agreed to be financially responsible for the
                                  construction or installation of those capital improvements, unless a written
                                  agreement is made, pursuant to IC § 67-8209(3) as amended, for credit or
                                  reimbursement.
                                  The City of Hayden and Northern Lakes Fire Protection District Intergovernmental
                                  Agreement to Collect and Expend Development Impact Fees for Fire District Systems
                                  Improvements, the City of Hayden and Kootenai County Fire & Rescue District
                                  Intergovernmental Agreement to Collect and Expend Development Impact Fees for
                                  Fire District Systems Improvements, and the City of Hayden and Kootenai County
INTER-GOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT:     Emergency Medical Services System Intergovernmental Agreement to Collect and
                                  Expend Development Impact Fees for EMS District Systems Improvements entered into
                                  by and between the City and the Districts pursuant to IC § 67-8204A for the
                                  collection and expenditure of Fire and EMS impact fees established pursuant to
                                  this chapter and attached to Ordinance No. 652 as Exhibits B, C, & D
                                  respectively.
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE ADVISORY   The City of Hayden Development Impact Fee Advisory Committee formed by the City
COMMITTEE:                        pursuant to IC § 67-8205 to assist in the preparation of and to recommend the
                                  capital improvements plan and any amendments, revisions or updates of the same.
LAND USE ASSUMPTIONS:             A description of the service area and projections of land uses, densities,
                                  intensities and population in the service area over at least a ten-year period.
LEVEL OF SERVICE:                 A measure of the relationship between service capacity and service demand for
                                  public facilities.
                                  A structure, constructed according to HUD/FHA mobile home construction and safety
                                  standards, transportable in one (1) or more sections, which, in the traveling
                                  mode, is eight (8) feet or more in width or is forty (40) body feet or more in
                                  length, or when erected on site, is three hundred twenty (320) or more square
                                  feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a
MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME:         dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to required
                                  utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
                                  systems contained in such structure, except that such term shall include any
                                  structure which meets all the requirements of this subsection except the size
                                  requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a
                                  certification required by the secretary of housing and urban development and
                                  complies with the standards established under 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.
                                  Any building or building component other than a manufactured/mobile home, which
MODULAR BUILDING:                 is constructed according to the International Building Code, as adopted or any
                                  amendments thereto, which is of closed construction and is either entirely or
                                  substantially prefabricated or assembled at a place other than the building site.
                                  The total current monetary value of past, present or future payments,
PRESENT VALUE:                    contributions or dedications of goods, services, materials, construction or
                                  money.
PROJECT:                          A particular development on an identified parcel of land.
                                  Site improvements and facilities that are planned and designed to provide service
PROJECT IMPROVEMENTS:             for a particular development project and that are necessary for the use and
                                  convenience of the occupants or users of the project.
PROPORTIONATE SHARE:              That portion of system improvements costs determined pursuant to IC § 67-8207
                                  which reasonably relates to the service demands and needs of the project.
                                  Land, buildings and equipment used for fire protection, emergency medical and
PUBLIC FACILITIES:                rescue, and water supply production, storage and distribution facilities which
                                  have a useful life of ten (10) years or more.
                                  A vehicular type unit primarily designed as temporary quarters for recreational,
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE:             camping, or travel use, which either has its own motive power or is mounted on or
                                  drawn by another vehicle.
                                  Any defined geographic area within the city limits, including any areas annexed
                                  thereto subsequent to the date of this Agreement, and as identified by the
                                  Districts in which specific public facilities provide service to development
SERVICE AREA:                     within the areas defined, on the basis of sound planning or engineering
                                  principles or both. For the purposes of this chapter, there shall be one service
                                  area encompassing all areas within the city limits that are also within Fire
                                  District and EMS District boundaries, including all subsequently annexed areas.
                                  A standardized measure of consumption, use, generation or discharge attributable
                                  to an individual unit of development calculated in accordance with generally
SERVICE UNIT:                     accepted engineering or planning standards for a particular category of capital
                                  improvements. As specifically used in this chapter, service units include
                                  dwelling units as defined in City code and square feet of nonresidential
                                  development.
                                  Capital improvements to public facilities which are designed to provide service
SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS:              to a service area. For the purpose of this chapter, system improvements are for
                                  District capital facilities.
                                  Costs incurred for construction or reconstruction of system improvements,
                                  including design, acquisition, engineering and other costs, and also including,
                                  without limitation, the type of costs described in IC § 50-1702(h), as amended,
                                  to provide additional public facilities needed to service new growth and
                                  development. For clarification, system improvements costs do not include:
                                  A.   Construction, acquisition or expansion of public facilities other than
                                  capital improvements identified in the capital improvements plan;
                                  B.   Improvements, repair, operation or maintenance of existing or new capital;
                                  C.   Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing capital improvements to
SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS COSTS:        serve existing development in order to meet stricter safety, efficiency,
                                  environmental or regulatory standards;
                                  D.   Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing capital improvements to
                                  provide better service to existing development;
                                  E.   Administrative and operating costs of the Districts and/or the City unless
                                  such costs are attributable to development of the capital improvements plan, as
                                  provided in IC § 678208, as amended; and
                                  F.   Principal payments and interest or other finance charges on bonds or other
                                  indebtedness except financial obligations issued by or on behalf of the Districts
                                  to finance capital improvements identified in the capital improvements plan.
                                  (Ord. 637, 8-23-2022; amd. Ord. 652, 7-9-2024)
 
9-3-3: IMPOSITION OF FIRE AND EMS IMPACT FEE:
   A.   Imposition of impact fee. A Fire and EMS impact fee shall be imposed on
all new development within city limits that are also within Fire District and
EMS District boundaries, including all subsequently annexed areas upon the
effective date of this ordinance.
   B.   Fee schedule. Fire and EMS impact fees shall be calculated in
accordance with the Fee Schedule (produced below), which is based on the Impact
Fee Calculation set forth in the capital improvements plan(s) for the Districts
(see Exhibit III-3 for EMS District and Exhibit III-5 for Fire District)
providing for standard fees based on the total number of dwelling units or
square feet of nonresidential space in the development, unless:
      1.   The fee payer requests an individual assessment pursuant to section
9-3-6 of this chapter; or
      2.   The City and/or the Districts find the development will have an
extraordinary impact pursuant to section
9-3-9 of this chapter. These impact fees are subject to change each year in
accordance with the annual inflationary adjustment provided for in Section 9-3-
3(C) below. The methodology for determining the costs per service unit provided
for in the Fee Schedule is set forth in the capital improvements plan.
Nonresidential square footage, for the purpose of collecting nonresidential
impact fees, shall be the square footage provided in the City’s permit
application and verified in the most recently approved construction plans. If
no permit application is required, as in the case of commercial recreational
vehicle or campground developments, the square footage used for the impact fee
calculations shall be two hundred forty square feet (240 ft2) per individual
site multiplied by the total number of sites to be developed as detailed in the
most recently approved construction plans.
Fee Schedule:
Fee Schedule:
Northern Lakes Fire Protection District Impact Fee:
   Residential: $1,302.00 per residential unit
   Nonresidentia$0.65 per nonresidential square foot
Kootenai County Fire & Rescue District Impact Fee:
   Residential: $1,207.00 per residential unit
   Nonresidentia$0.60 per nonresidential square foot
Kootenai County Emergency Medical Services System Impact Fee:
   Residential: $132.00 per residential unit
   Nonresidentia$0.07 per nonresidential square foot
 
   C.   Annual Inflationary Adjustment. By December 1 of each year, each
District will submit a proposal for inflationary adjustments to the impact
fees. These proposals will be reviewed by City Council for approval or denial.
If the inflationary adjustment is approved by the City on January 1 of each
calendar year, the impact fee will be adjusted to account for the proposed
inflation adjustments. The index most widely used for this purpose is the
Construction Cost Index (CCI) prepared by the Engineering News Record. This
index measures the cost of construction materials and labor and is distinctly
different from the Consumer Price Index. The Districts are required to use this
index in calculating the annual adjustment to the established impact fees to be
included in the Districts’ proposals.
   D.   Developer’s election. A developer shall have the right to elect to pay
a project’s proportionate share of system improvements costs by payment of Fire
and/or EMS impact fees according to the Fee Schedule as full and complete
payment of the development project’s proportionate share of system improvements
costs, except as provided in IC § 67-8214(3), as amended.
   E.   Procedures:
      1.   Building permit. Upon the imposition of the impact fees in
accordance with Subsection A of this Section and upon submittal of complete
building permit plans for the development to the City, the City shall provide
the Fire and/or EMS impact fees for the development in accordance with the Fee
Schedule and this Ordinance upon permit approval and preparation of the
issuance, unless the fee payer requests an individual assessment or the City
and/or Districts find the development will have an extraordinary impact
pursuant to section
9-3-9 of this chapter.
      2.   Exemption. An exemption pursuant to section
9-3-5 of this chapter must be claimed by the fee payer upon application for a
building permit or manufactured home installation permit. Any exemption not so
claimed shall be deemed waived by the fee payer. (Ord. 637, 8-23-2022; amd.
Ord. 652, 7-9-2024)
9-3-4: COLLECTION OF FIRE AND/OR EMS DISTRICT IMPACT FEES:
   A.   Certification. After the Fire and/or EMS impact fees due for a proposed
development have been provided by the City pursuant to the Fee Schedule
attached to the capital improvements plan or calculated by the Districts’
administrators using the individual assessment process, the fee payer may
request from the Districts’ administrators a certification of the amount of
Fire and/or EMS impact fee due for that development. Within thirty (30) days
after receiving such request, the Districts’ administrators shall issue a
written certification of the amount of the Fire and/or EMS impact fee due for
the proposed development. Such certification shall establish the Fire and/or
EMS impact fee so long as there is no material change to the particular project
as identified in the individual assessment application, or the impact Fee
Schedule attached to the capital improvements plan. The certification shall
include an explanation of the calculation of the Fire and/or EMS impact fee
including an explanation of factors considered under Idaho Code Section 67-8207
and shall also specify the system improvement(s) for which the Fire and/or EMS
impact fee is intended to be used
   B.   Payment of fees. The Fire and/or EMS impact fees shall be paid to the
City at the following times:
      1.   If a building permit or manufactured/mobile home setting permit is
required, then at the time before the permit is issued;
      2.   If no building permit or manufactured/mobile home setting permit is
required, then at the time that construction commences, which includes, but is
not limited to, individual commercial recreational vehicle park or campground
sites; or
      3.   At such other time as the developer and the Districts have agreed
upon in writing with notice to the City.
   C.   All Fire and/or EMS impact fees paid to the City, minus the agreed upon
administration fee pursuant to the Intergovernmental Agreements between the
City and the Districts, shall then be delivered to the Districts’
administrators on a once-a-month basis. (Ord. 637, 8-23-2022)
9-3-5: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Exemptions. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the
following:
      1.   Rebuilding the same amount of floor space of a structure which is
destroyed by fire or other catastrophe, provided the structure is rebuilt and
ready for occupancy within two (2) years of its destruction;
      2.   Remodeling or repairing a structure which does not increase the
number of service units;
      3.   Replacing a residential unit, including a manufactured/mobile home,
with another residential unit on the same lot; provided that, the number of
service units does not increase;
      4.   Placing a temporary construction trailer or office on a lot;
      5.   Constructing an addition on a residential structure, which does not
increase the number of service units;
      6.   Adding uses that are typically accessory to residential uses, such
as tennis court or a clubhouse, or shop, unless it can be clearly demonstrated
that the use creates a significant impact on the capacity of system
improvements; or
      7.   The installation of a modular building, manufactured/mobile home if
the fee payer can demonstrate by documentation such as utility bills and tax
records that either:
         a.   a modular building, manufactured/mobile home was legally in place
on the lot or space prior to the effective date of this chapter; or
         b.   a Fire and/or EMS impact fee has been paid previously for the
modular building, manufactured/mobile home on that same lot or space.
   B.   Exemption claim process: An exemption from a Fire and/or EMS impact fee
must be claimed on the application by the developer (fee payer) upon submitting
their application for a building permit, a manufactured/mobile home setting
permit, or application for site plan review for commercial recreational vehicle
parks or commercial campgrounds. Any exemption not so claimed shall be deemed
waived by the fee payer. Upon filing of a request for an exemption, the City
shall transmit the request to the Districts’ administrators for review by
electronic mail to the appropriate Districts’ administrator. Applications for
exemption shall be determined by the Districts’ administrators within thirty
(30) days of receipt of the claim for exemption. (Ord. 637, 8-23-2022)
9-3-6: INDIVIDUAL ASSESSMENT PROCESS:
   A.   In lieu of calculating the amount of the Fire and/or EMS impact fee by
reference to the Fee Schedule attached to the capital improvements plan, a fee
payer may file a request with the City that the amount of the required Fire
and/or EMS impact fee be determined by the Districts’ administrators through an
individual assessment for the proposed development. A request for an individual
assessment process shall involve consideration of studies, data, and any other
relevant information submitted by the fee payer to adjust the amount of the
Fire and/or EMS impact fee. If a fee payer files a request for the use of an
individual assessment, the fee payer shall be responsible for retaining a
qualified professional to prepare the individual assessment that complies with
the requirements of this chapter, at the fee payer’s expense. The fee payer
shall, at the fee payer’s expense, bear the burden of proving by clear and
convincing evidence that the resulting individual assessment complies with the
requirements of this chapter. The fee payer shall bear the burden of proving by
clear and convincing evidence that the resulting individual assessment is a
more accurate measure of its proportionate share of the cost of system
improvements, based on the Districts’ adopted levels of service, than the
development impact fees that would otherwise be due pursuant to the Fee
Schedule attached to the capital improvements plan.
   B.   Each individual assessment shall be based on the same level of service
standards and unit costs for system improvements used in the capital
improvements plan, shall use an average cost (not a marginal cost) methodology,
and shall document the relevant methodologies and assumptions used.
   C.   A request for an individual assessment shall be delivered and filed
with the City at any time that the number of dwelling units in the proposed
development and the types and amounts of development in each non-residential
category identified in the Fee Schedule attached to the capital improvements
plan are known. Upon filing of a request for individual assessment, the City
shall transmit the request to the Districts’ administrators for review by
electronic mail to the appropriate Districts’ administrator. The Districts’
administrators shall issue a written decision within thirty (30) days following
receipt of a completed request for individual assessment together with all
supporting information from the fee payer, so as not to unreasonably delay the
developer’s (fee payer’s) subsequent applications to the City for building
permits.
   D.   Each individual assessment request delivered to the Districts’
administrators may then be accepted, rejected, or accepted with modifications
by the Districts’ administrators as the basis for calculating the Fire and/or
EMS impact fee for the project the request references. The criteria for
acceptance, rejection or acceptance with modifications shall be whether the
individual assessment is a more accurate measure of demand for system
improvements element(s) created by the proposed development, or the costs of
those facilities, than the applicable fee shown in the Fee Schedule attached to
the capital improvements plan.
   E.   The decision by the Districts’ administrators on a request for an
individual assessment shall include an explanation of the calculation of the
Fire and/or EMS impact fee, shall specify the system improvement(s) for which
the Fire and/or EMS impact fee is intended to be used, and shall include an
explanation of those factors identified in IC § 67-8207.
   F.   If an individual assessment request is accepted or accepted with
modifications by the Districts’ administrators then the Fire and/or EMS impact
fee due under this chapter for such development shall be calculated according
to such individual assessment.
   G.   The Districts’ administrators shall provide notice of final
determination of an individual assessment to the developer (fee payer) and the
City by electronic mail. The Districts shall also include to the City, an
instruction of the impact fee to collect from the fee payer, if, after the
Districts’ acceptance of the individual assessment, the impact fee differs from
the Fee Schedule. (Ord. 637, 8-23-2022)
9-3-7: DEVELOPER CREDITS AND REIMBURSEMENT:
   A.   Credits to be issued. When a developer or their predecessor in title or
interest has constructed system improvements of the same category as a
Districts’ capital improvements element, or contributed or dedicated land or
money towards the completion of system improvements of the same category as a
Districts’ capital improvements element, and the District has accepted such
construction, contribution or dedication, the District shall issue a credit
against the Fire and/or EMS impact fees otherwise due for the same Districts’
capital improvements element in connection with the proposed development, as
set forth in this section, credit shall be issued regardless of whether the
contribution or dedication to system improvements was required by the Districts
as a condition of development approval or was offered by the developer and
accepted by the Districts in writing, and regardless of whether the
contribution or dedication was contributed by the developer or by a local
improvement district controlled by the developer.
   B.   Limitations. Credits against a Fire or EMS impact fee shall not be
given for:
      1.   Project improvements; or
      2.   Any construction, contribution or dedication not agreed to in
writing by the Districts prior to commencement of the construction,
contribution, or dedication. Credits issued by the Districts for one capital
improvement element may not be used to reduce the Districts’ impact fee due for
a different capital improvement.
   C.   Valuation of credit at present value:
      1.   Land. Credit for qualifying land dedications shall, at the fee
payer’s option, be valued at the present value of:
         a.   One hundred (100) percent of the most recent assessed value for
such land as shown in the records of the county assessor; or
         b.   That fair market value established by a private appraiser
acceptable to the District in an appraisal paid for by the fee payer.
      2.   Improvements. Credit for qualifying acquisition or construction of
system improvements shall be valued by the District at the present value of
such improvements based on complete engineering drawings, specifications, and
construction cost estimates submitted by the fee payer to the District. The
District administrator shall determine the amount of credit due based on the
information submitted, or, if it determines that such information is inaccurate
or unreliable, then on alternative engineering or construction costs acceptable
to the District as a more accurate measure of the value of the offered system
improvements to the District.
   D.   When credits become effective:
      1.   Land. Approved credits for land dedications shall become effective
when the land has been conveyed to the District in a form acceptable to the
District, at no cost to the District, and has been accepted by the District.
Upon request of the fee payer, the District shall issue a letter stating the
amount of credit available.
      2.   Improvements. Approved credits for acquisition or construction of
system improvements shall generally become effective when
         a.   All required construction has been completed and has been
accepted by the District,
         b.   A suitable maintenance and warranty bond has been received and
approved by the District, and
         c.   All design, construction, inspection, testing, bonding, and
acceptance procedures have been completed in compliance with all applicable
requirements of the District and the State of Idaho. Upon request of the fee
payer, the District shall issue a letter stating the amount of credit
available.
         d.   Acquisitions?
   E.   Credit request procedures:
      1.   Request. In order to obtain a credit against a Fire and/or EMS
impact fee otherwise due, a fee payer shall submit to the City a written offer
of request to dedicate to the District specific parcels of qualifying land or a
written offer to contribute or construct specific system improvements to the
District’s capital facilities in accordance with all applicable state or City
design and construction standards, and shall specifically request a credit
against the type of Fire and/or EMS impact fee for which the land dedication or
system improvements is offered. The City shall then deliver the written offer
of request to the District’s administrator by electronic mail to the
appropriate Districts’ administrator.
      2.   Review. After receipt of the written offer of request for credit,
the District administrator shall review the request and determine whether the
land or system improvements offered for credit will reduce the costs of
providing District capital facilities by an amount at least equal to the value
of the credit. If the District administrator determines that the offered credit
satisfies the criteria and will be acceptable to the board of commissioners,
then the credit shall be issued. The District shall complete its review and
determination of an application within thirty (30) days after receipt of an
application for credit.
      3.   Credits exceeding fee amounts due. If the credit due to a fee payer
pursuant to sections above, exceeds the Fire and/or EMS impact fee that would
otherwise be due from the fee payer pursuant to the chapter (whether calculated
through the Fee Schedule attached to the capital improvement plan or through an
independent assessment), the fee payer may choose to receive such credit in the
form of either:
         a.   A credit against future Fire and/or EMS impact fee due for the
same system improvements; or
         b.   A reimbursement from Fire and/or EMS impact fees paid by future
development that impacts the system improvements contributed or dedicated by
the fee payer. Unless otherwise stated in an agreement with the fee payer, the
Districts shall be under no obligation to use any District funds - other than
Fire and/or EMS impact fees paid by other development for the same system
improvements - to reimburse the fee payer for any credit in excess of Fire and/
or EMS impact fees that are due.
      4.   Written agreement required. If credit or reimbursement is due to the
fee payer pursuant to this section, the District shall enter into a written
agreement with the fee payer, negotiated in good faith, prior to the
contribution, dedication, or funding of the system improvements giving rise to
the credit. The agreement shall provide for the amount of credit or the amount,
time and form of reimbursement, and shall have a term not exceeding ten (10)
years.
      5.   The District administrator’s determination on the written offer of
request for credit shall be provided to the fee payer and the City by
electronic mail. The Districts shall also include to the City, and instruction
of the impact fee to collect from the fee payer, if, after the Districts’
acceptance of the request for credit, the impact fee differs from the Fee
Schedule. (Ord. 637, 8-23-2022)
9-3-8: METHODOLOGY FOR THE CALCULATION OF FIRE AND EMS DISTRICT IMPACT FEES:
   A.   General provisions.
      1.   Accounting principles. The calculation of the Fire and EMS impact
fee within the capital improvement plans and fees schedules shall be in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A development impact
fee shall not be deemed invalid because payment of the fee may result in an
incidental benefit to owners or developers within the service area other than
the fee payer.
      2.   Levels of service. The Fire and EMS impact fee shall be calculated
on the basis of levels of service for public facilities adopted in this chapter
that are applicable to existing development as well as new growth and
development. The construction, improvement, expansion or enlargement of new or
existing public facilities for which the Fire and EMS impact fee is imposed
must be attributable to the capacity demands generated by the new development.
   B.   Methodology; proportionate methodology. The Fire and EMS impact fee
shall not exceed a proportionate share of the cost of the system improvements
determined in accordance with IC § 67-8207, as amended. Fire and EMS impact
fees shall be based on actual system improvements costs or reasonable estimates
of such costs. The amount of the Fire and EMS impact fee shall be calculated
using the methodology contained in the capital improvements plan.
   C.   Proportionate share determination.
      1.   Fire and EMS impact fee shall be based on a reasonable and fair
formula or method under which the Fire and EMS impact fee imposed does not
exceed a proportionate share of the costs incurred or to be incurred by the
District in the provision of system improvements to serve the new development.
The proportionate share is the costs attributable to the new development after
the Districts consider the following:
         a.   Any appropriate credit, offset or contribution of money,
dedication of land or construction of system improvements;
         b.   Payments reasonably anticipated to be made by or as a result of a
new development in the form of user fees and debt service payments;
         c.   That portion of general tax or other revenues allocated by the
District to system improvements; and
         d.   All other available sources of funding such system improvements.
      2.   In determining the proportionate share of the cost of system
improvements to be paid by the developer, the following factors shall be
considered by the Districts and accounted for in the calculation of the Fire
and EMS impact fees:
         a.   The costs of existing system improvements within the service
area;
         b.   The means by which existing system improvements have been
financed;
         c.   The extent to which the new development will contribute to system
improvements costs through taxation, assessments, or developer or landowner
contributions, or has previously contributed to system improvements costs
through developer or landowner contributions;
         d.   The extent to which the new development is required to contribute
to the cost of existing system improvements in the future;
         e.   The extent to which the new development should be credited for
providing system improvements, without charge to other properties within the
service area;
         f.   Extraordinary costs, if any, incurred in serving the new
development;
         g.   The time and price differential inherent in a fair comparison of
fees paid at different times; and
         h.   The availability of other sources of funding system improvements
including, but not limited to, user charges, general tax levies,
intergovernmental transfers and special taxation. (Ord. 637, 8-23-2022)
9-3-9: EXTRAORDINARY IMPACTS:
   A.   In the event the City makes an initial determination that development
may impose extraordinary impact, the City shall provide the City’s initial
determination to the Districts’ administrators. The Districts’ administrators
shall then review and determine whether or not the development application will
impose extraordinary impact.
   B.   If the Districts’ administrators determine that a proposed development
generates extraordinary impact that will result in extraordinary systems
improvements costs, the Districts’ administrators will notify the fee payer and
the City of such Fire and/or EMS impact fee determination within thirty (30)
days after District administrators’ receipt from the fee payer of the
development application and/or the receipt from the City and of the City’s
initial determination. Such notice shall include a statement that the potential
impacts of such development on system improvements are not adequately addressed
by the capital improvements plan, and that a supplemental study, at the fee
payer’s expense will be required.
   C.   Circumstances that may lead to a determination of extraordinary impact
include, but are not limited to:
      1.   An indication the assumptions used in the capital improvements plan
underestimate the level of activity or impact on District capital facilities
from the proposed development or activity.
   D.   Within thirty (30) days following the designation of a development with
extraordinary impact, by the District(s), the Districts’ administrators shall
meet with the fee payer to discuss whether the fee payer wants to:
      1.   Pay for the supplemental study necessary to determine the system
improvements costs related to the proposed development;
      2.   Modify the proposal to avoid generating extraordinary impact; or
      3.   Withdraw the application for certification, building permit or
development approval.
   E.   If the fee payer agrees to pay for the supplemental study required to
document the proposed development’s proportionate share of system improvements
costs, then the Districts and the fee payer shall jointly select an individual
or organization acceptable to both to perform such study. The fee payer shall
enter into a written agreement with such individual or organization to pay the
costs of such study. Such agreement shall require the supplemental study to be
completed within thirty (30) days of such written agreement, unless the fee
payer agrees to a longer time.
   F.   Once the study has been completed, the fee payer may choose to:
      1.   Pay the proportionate share of system improvements costs documented
by the supplemental study; or
      2.   Modify the proposed development to reduce such costs; or
      3.   Withdraw the application.
If the fee payer agrees to pay the system improvements costs documented in the
supplemental study, that agreement shall be reduced to writing between the
Districts and the fee payer prior to review and consideration of any
application for any development approval or building permit related to the
proposed development.
   G.   Notwithstanding any agreement by the fee payer to pay the proportionate
share of system improvements costs documented by the supplemental study,
nothing in this ordinance shall obligate the City to approve development that
results in an extraordinary impact to the Districts. (Ord. 637, 8-23-2022)
9-3-10: FEE PAYER REFUNDS:
   A.   Duty to refund:
      1.   Fire and/or EMS impact fees shall be refunded by the Districts to
the fee payer, or to a successor in interest, in the following circumstances:
         a.   Service is available but never provided;
         b.   A building permit, or permit for installation of a manufactured
home, is denied by the City or abandoned;
         c.   The fee payer pays Fire and/or EMS impact fees under protest and
a subsequent review of the fee paid or the completion of an individual
assessment determines that the fee paid exceeded the proportionate share to
which the Districts were entitled to receive;
         d.   The District(s) collected a Fire and/or EMS impact fee and the
District(s) failed to appropriate or expend the collected fees pursuant to
section below; or
         e.   Failure of the District to commence construction or encumber the
fund in the development impact fee capital projects trust fund.
      2.   Any impact fee paid shall be refunded if the District has failed to
commence construction of system improvements in accordance with this chapter or
to appropriate funds for such construction, within eight (8) years after the
date on which such fee was collected by the District. Any refund due shall be
paid to the owner of record of the parcel for which the Fire and/or EMS impact
fee was paid. The District may hold Fire and/or EMS impact fees for longer than
eight (8) years if the District identifies in writing and in written notice to
the owner of record of the parcel:
         a.   A reasonable cause why the fees should be held longer than eight
(8) years; and
         b.   An anticipated date by which the fees will be expended, but in no
event greater than eleven (11) years from the date they were collected. If the
District complies with the previous sentence, then any Fire and/or EMS impact
fees so identified shall be refunded to the fee payer if the District fails to
commence construction of system improvements in accordance with the written
notice, or to appropriate funds for such construction on or before the date
identified in such writing.
      3.   No refund due for subsequent reduction in size of development or
service units. After a Fire and/or EMS impact fee has been paid pursuant to
this chapter and after a certificate of occupancy has been issued by the City,
no refund of any part of such fee shall be made if the project for which the
fee was paid is later demolished, destroyed, or is altered, reconstructed, or
reconfigured so as to reduce the size of the project or the number of units in
the project.
      4.   Interest. Each refund shall include a refund of interest at one-half
the legal rate provided for in IC § 28-22-104 from the date on which the fee
was originally paid.
      5.   Timing. Requests for refunds must be submitted to the appropriate
District. The Districts shall make a determination of whether a refund is due
within thirty (30) days after receipt of a written request for a refund from
the owner of record of the property for which the fee was paid. When the right
to a refund exists, the Districts shall send the refund to the owner of record
within ninety (90) days after the Districts determine that a refund is due. The
determination and issuance of refunds, along with required interest, shall be
the sole responsibility of the Districts and not the City.
      6.   The Districts shall be solely responsible for addressing payments
made under protest with the Fee Payer once said payments made under protest
have been collected and remitted by the City to the Districts.
      7.   The Districts shall have no right or claim over any Administrative
Fees collected by the City and said collected Administrative Fees cannot be
requested by the Districts from the City in the case of a refund of the impact
fee to the fee payer. Any deficiency to the impact fee as a result of the
Administrative Fee collected by the City shall be covered in full by the
Districts in the case of a refund. (Ord. 637, 8-23-2022)
9-3-11: ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICT TRUST FUND AND ACCOUNTS:
   A.   The trust fund established by each District will be maintained by the
Districts for the purpose of ensuring that all Fire and EMS impact fees
collected, pursuant to this chapter, are used to address impacts reasonably
attributable to new development for which the Fire and EMS impact fees are
paid. The trust fund shall be divided into the accounts. All funds in all
accounts in the trust fund shall be maintained in an interest-bearing account.
The interest earned on each account pursuant to I.C. § 67-8210(1) shall not be
governed by IC § 57-127, as amended, but shall be considered funds of the
account and shall be subject to the same restrictions on uses of collected
impact fees on which the interest is generated.
   B.   Deposit of Fire and EMS impact fees. All monies paid by a fee payer,
pursuant to this chapter, minus the administrative fee collected by the City,
shall be identified as Fire or EMS impact fees and shall be promptly deposited
by the City administrator in the appropriate account of the trust fund.
      1.   First-in/first-out. Monies in each account shall be spent in the
order collected, on a first-in/first-out basis.
      2.   Maintenance of records. The Districts shall maintain and keep
accurate financial records for each account that shall show the source and
disbursement of all revenues, that shall account for all monies received, that
shall ensure that the disbursement of funds from each account shall be used
solely and exclusively for the provisions of projects specified in the capital
improvements plan, and that shall provide an annual accounting for each Fire
and EMS impact fee account showing the source and amount of all funds collected
and the projects that were funded. (Ord. 637, 8-23-2022)
9-3-12: EXPENDITURE OF FIRE AND EMS DISTRICTS IMPACT FEES:
   A.   Expenditures of Fire and/or EMS impact fees collected and deposited in
the trust fund shall be made by the Districts only for system improvements
within the service area for which the impact fee was collected in accordance
with the capital improvements plan.
   B.   Capital improvements plan reimbursement; surcharge. A portion of each
impact fee collected shall be designated as a surcharge for reimbursement for
the cost of preparing the capital improvements plan in accordance with IC § 67-
8208. The surcharge shall not exceed the development’s proportionate share of
the cost of preparing the capital improvements plan.
   C.   Pursuant to the Intergovernmental Agreements between the City and the
Districts, the expenditures of the funds are the sole responsibility of the
individual Districts, and all expenditures must comply with applicable state
codes. (Ord. 637, 8-23-2022)
9-3-13: APPEALS, PROTEST AND MEDIATION:
   A.   Appeals. Any fee payer that is or may be obligated to pay a Fire and/or
EMS impact fee, or that claims a right to receive a refund, reimbursement,
exemption or credit under this chapter, and who is dissatisfied with a decision
made either by the City or by the Districts’ administrators in applying this
chapter, may appeal such decision as follows:
      1.   In the case of a decision made by the City to the City council; and
      2.   In the case of a decision made by the Districts’ administrators to
the board of commissioners.
   B.   The fee payer shall have the burden on appeal of proving by clear and
convincing evidence that the decision was in error.
   C.   In order to pursue the appeal described in this subsection, the fee
payer shall file a written notice of the appeal with the City within thirty
(30) days after the date of the City’s or the District administrator’s
decision, or the date on which the fee payer submitted a payment of the Fire
and/or EMS impact fee under protest, whichever is later. Such written
application shall include a statement describing why the fee payer believes
that the appealed decision was in error, together with copies of any documents
that the fee payer believes support the claim.
   D.   Appeals of the District administrators’ decisions shall be delivered by
the City to the Districts’ administrators.
   E.   The City Council or the Board of Commissioners, as the case may be,
shall hear the appeal within sixty (60) days after receipt of a written notice
of appeal. The fee payer shall have a right to be present and to present
evidence in support of the appeal. The City or District administrator who made
the decision under appeal or his or her representative shall likewise have the
right to be present and to present evidence in support of the decision. The
criteria to be used by the City Council or by the Board of Commissioners in
considering the appeal shall be whether:
      1.   the decision or interpretation made by the City or District
administrator; or
      2.   the alternative decision or interpretation offered by the fee payer,
more accurately reflects the intent of this chapter that new development in the
City pay its proportionate share of the costs of system improvements to
District facilities necessary to serve new development and whether the chapter
has been correctly applied.
The City Council or Board of Commissioners, as the case may be, shall issue a
decision upholding, reversing, or modifying the decision being appealed within
thirty (30) days after hearing the appeal.
   F.   Payment under protest. A fee payer may pay a Fire and/or EMS impact fee
under protest in order to avoid penalty pursuant to Section
9-3-17. A fee payer making a payment under protest shall not be estopped from
exercising the right to appeal provided herein, nor shall such fee payer be
estopped from receiving a refund from the Districts of any amount deemed to
have been illegally collected.
   G.   Mediation.
      1.   Any fee payer that has a disagreement with the City or the District
administrator regarding a Fire and/or EMS impact fee determination that is or
may be due for a proposed development pursuant to this chapter, may enter into
a voluntary agreement with the City and the District(s), as the case may be, to
subject the disagreement to mediation by a qualified independent party
acceptable to both the fee payer and the Districts.
      2.   Mediation may take place at any time following the filing of a
timely appeal pursuant to section 9-3-13(C), or as an alternative to such
appeal, provided that the request for mediation is filed no later than the last
date on which a timely appeal could be filed pursuant to section 19-3-13(C).
      3.   Participation in mediation does not preclude the fee payer from
pursuing other remedies provided for in this section.
      4.   If mediation is requested, any related mediation costs shall be
shared equally by the fee payer and the Districts, as the case may be, and a
written agreement between the fee payer and the Districts regarding the payment
of such costs shall be executed prior to the commencement of mediation.
      5.   In the event that mediation does not resolve the issues between the
Districts and the fee payer, the fee payer retains all rights to seek relief
from a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 637, 8-23-2022)
9-3-14: PERIODIC REVIEWS:
   A.   Review and modification of capital improvements plan. Unless the Board
of Commissioners deems some other period is appropriate, the Board of
Commissioners shall, at least once every five (5) years, commencing from the
date of the original adoption of the capital improvements plan, review the
development potential and update the capital improvements plan in cooperation
with the City and in accordance with the procedures set forth in IC § 67-8206,
as amended. Each update shall be prepared by the Districts’ administrators in
consultation with the City’s Development Impact Fee Advisory Committee.
   B.   Annual review. The Districts shall annually adopt a capital budget.
(Ord. 637, 8-23-2022)
9-3-15: AUDIT:
   A.   As part of their annual audit process, the Districts shall prepare an
annual report:
      1.   describing the amount of all Fire or EMS impact fees collected,
appropriated or spent during the preceding year by category of public facility;
and
      2.   describing the percentage of taxes and revenues from sources other
than the Fire and/or EMS impact fees collected, appropriated or spent for
system improvements during the preceding year by systems improvements category
of Districts capital facilities.
Said annual report shall be transmitted to the City Administrator. (Ord. 637,
8-23-2022)
9-3-16: DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE ADVISORY COMMITTEE:
   A.   Committee name. The committee is known and shall continue to be known
and designated as the “City of Hayden Development Impact Fee Advisory
Committee” (hereinafter in this chapter referred also as “Advisory Committee”
or “Committee”).
   C.   Membership. The members on the Committee shall be appointed by the City
Council for a term of three (3) years or until someone is appointed in his/her
place, and there shall not be fewer than five (5) members of which two (2) or
more members shall be active in the business of development, building or real
estate and at least two (2) or more members shall not be active in the business
of development, building or real estate. Members must reside within the City of
Hayden. No members shall be employees or officials of the City of Hayden or the
Districts.
      1.   Any vacancy occurring on the Committee during the year shall be
filled during the year, by appointment of the City Council and confirmed by the
Board of Commissioners of the Districts.
   D.   Charge. The Advisory Committee shall serve as an advisory committee to
the City Council and the Board of Commissioners of the Northern Lakes Fire
Protection Districts, Kootenai County Fire & Rescue District, and Kootenai
County Emergency Medical Services System and is charged with the following
responsibilities:
      1.   Assist the City and the Northern Lakes Fire Protection Districts,
Kootenai County Fire & Rescue District, and Kootenai County Emergency Medical
Services System in adopting land use assumptions; and
      2.   Review the capital improvements plan; and
      3.   Monitor and evaluate implementation of the capital improvements
plan;
      4.   File with the Districts, District Administrators and the City Clerk,
at least annually, with respect to the capital improvements plan a report of
any perceived inequities in implementing the capital improvements plan or
imposing the Fire and/or EMS impact fees;
      5.   Advise the City Council and the Board of Commissioners of the
Northern Lakes Fire Protection District, Kootenai County Fire & Rescue
District, and Kootenai County Emergency Medical Services System of the need to
update or revise land use assumptions, capital improvements plan and Fire and/
or EMS development impact fees; and
      6.   The Northern Lakes Fire Protection District, Kootenai County Fire &
Rescue District, and Kootenai County Emergency Medical Services System shall
make available to the advisory committee, upon request, all financial and
accounting information, professional 24 Ordinance #652 Fire and EMS Impact Fees
reports in relation to other development and implementation of land use
assumptions, the capital improvements plan and periodic updates of the capital
improvements plan.
   E.   Advisory Committee organization. The City shall appoint a staff
position to act as a liaison to the Advisory Committee in order to provide the
committee with needed information for the committee’s review and to provide for
its compliance with the Open Meeting Law (Chapter 2 of Title 74 Idaho Code).
      1.   The advisory committee shall select its officers, which include a
chairman, vicechairman and a secretary of the committee.
      2.   The Chairman shall conduct the meetings of the committee. The duties
of the Chairman shall be performed by the Vice-Chairman in the absence of the
Chairman or as delegated by the Chairman. The Chairman and the Vice-Chairman
shall be members of the committee.
      3.   The District administrator shall serve as the Secretary of the
committee and shall take minutes and post agenda notices required by the Open
Meeting Law. The Secretary is not a member of the committee.
      4.   The committee shall establish a regular meeting schedule.
      5.   The agenda of each meeting shall include the approval of the minutes
of the last meeting and the secretary shall provide a copy of the approved
minutes to the City Council and the Board of Commissioners.
      6.   A minimum of three (3) members of the required five (5) must be
present to constitute a quorum. If more than five (5) members are active at any
given time, then fifty (50) percent of the membership of the committee shall
constitute a quorum. Once a quorum is established for a meeting, the subsequent
absence of a member present for creating the quorum shall not dismiss the
quorum.
      7.   A majority vote of those present at any meeting is sufficient to
carry motions.
   F.   Reporting. The Advisory Committee reports directly to the Northern
Lakes Fire Protection District, Kootenai County Fire & Rescue District, and
Kootenai County Emergency Medical Services System Boards of Commissioners and
to the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   G.   City Council and Northern Lakes Fire Protection District/Kootenai
County Fire & Rescue District/Kootenai County Emergency Medical Services System
Board of Commissioners Review of Committee's Reports and Recommendations. The
Planning and Zoning Commission/City Council and the Northern Lakes Fire
Protection District, Kootenai County Fire & Rescue District, t and Kootenai
County Emergency Medical Services System Boards of Commissioners shall each
consider the advisory committee's recommended revision(s) at least once every
twelve (12) months. The Advisory Committee's recommendations and the City
Council's and Boards of Commissioners' actions are intended to ensure that the
benefits to a development paying Fire and/or EMS impact fees are equitable, so
that the Fire and/or EMS impact fee charged to the development shall not exceed
a proportionate share of system improvements costs, and that the procedures for
administering Fire and EMS impact fees remain efficient. (Ord. 637, 8-23-2022;
amd. Ord. 652, 7-9-2024)
9-3-17: ENFORCEMENT AND COLLECTION:
   A.   When any Fire and/or EMS impact fee is due pursuant to this chapter, or
pursuant to the terms of any written agreement between a fee payer and the
Districts, and such Fire and/or EMS impact fee has not been paid in a timely
manner, the City, or Districts’ administrators on behalf of the Districts, may
exercise any or all of the following powers as applicable to their authority,
in any combination, to enforce the collection of the Fire and/or EMS impact
fee:
      1.   Withhold building permits, manufactured home setting permits, or
other City development approval related to the development for which the Fire
and/or EMS impact fee is due until all Fire and/or EMS impact fees due have
been paid, and issue stop work orders, and revoke or suspend a building permit.
      2.   Withhold utility services from the development for which the Fire
and/or EMS impact fee is due until all Fire and/or EMS impact fees due have
been paid; and
      3.   Add interest to the Fire and/or EMS impact fee not paid in full at
the legal rate provided for in IC § 28-22-104, as amended, plus five (5)
percent per annum beginning on the date at which the payment of the Fire and/or
EMS impact fee was due until paid in full. All interest charged by the City for
nonpayment of impact fees shall be paid to the City and shall be transmitted to
the City’s general fund as the sole property of the City. The Districts shall
have no right or claim over any interest collected by the City and said
collected interest cannot be requested by the Districts from the City in the
case of a refund of the impact fee to the fee payer.
      4.   Impose a penalty of five (5) percent of the total Fire and/or EMS
impact fee (not merely the portion dishonored, late or not paid in full) per
month beginning on the date at which the payment of the Fire and/or EMS impact
fee was due until paid in full. All penalties charged by the City of nonpayment
of impact fees shall be paid to the City and shall be transmitted to the City’s
general fund as the sole property of the City. The Districts shall have no
right or claim over any penalties collected by the City and said collected
penalties cannot be requested by the Districts from the City in the case of a
refund of the impact fee to the fee payer.
      5.   Impose a lien pursuant to the authority of IC § 67-8213(4) for
failure to timely pay a Fire and/or EMS impact fee following the procedures
contained in Idaho Code Title 45, Chapter 5. (Ord. 637, 8-23-2022)
9-3-18: CITY/DISTRICTS INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT:
   A.   The City is a governmental entity that is empowered by the Act to adopt
development impact fee ordinances and as such is authorized, by IC § 67-8204A,
to enter into the intergovernmental agreement with the Districts for the
purpose of agreement to collect and expend Fire and/or EMS Districts impact
fees for system improvements as provided in this chapter.
   B.   The City and the Districts have entered into the intergovernmental
agreements, which are in full force and effect upon effective date of this
Ordinance.
   C.   The intergovernmental agreements comply with this chapter and requires
the Districts to be governed by and to fully abide by the provisions of this
chapter and Idaho Code.
   D.   Any amendments of the intergovernmental agreement shall be implemented
by corresponding relevant amendments of this chapter, if needed, which
amendments shall not apply to any Fire and/or EMS impact fees then not expended
and currently held in the trust fund. (Ord. 637, 8-23-2022)
9-3-19: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the Districts from requiring a
developer to construct reasonable project improvements, as are required by the
fire codes and other rules that are adopted by the state fire marshal, in
conjunction with a development.
   B.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent or prohibit
private agreements between property owners or developers, the Idaho
Transportation Department and governmental entities in regard to the
construction or installation of system improvements or providing for credits or
reimbursements for system improvements costs incurred by a developer including
inter-project transfers of credits or providing for reimbursement for project
improvements which are used or shared by more than one (1) development project.
Any credit or reimbursement determinations shall be the responsibility of the
Districts. The City shall recognize credits, to be subtracted from the impact
fee due, only upon receipt of the Districts’ written determination and
calculation of the credit due to the fee payer.
   C.   Nothing in this chapter shall obligate the City to approve development
that results in an extraordinary impact.
   D.   Nothing in this chapter shall obligate the Districts to approve any
development request, which may reasonably be expected to reduce levels of
service below minimum acceptable levels established in this chapter.
   E.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to create any additional
right to develop real property or diminish the City in regulating the orderly
development of real property within its boundaries.
   F.   Nothing in this chapter shall work to limit the use by the City of the
power of eminent domain or supersede or conflict with requirements or
procedures authorized in the Idaho Code for local improvement districts or
general obligation bond issues.
   G.   Nothing herein shall restrict or diminish the power of the City to
annex property into its territorial boundaries or exclude property from its
territorial boundaries upon request of a developer or owner, or to impose
reasonable conditions thereon, including the recovery of project or system
improvements costs required as a result of such voluntary annexation.
   H.   The Districts shall develop a plan for alternative sources of revenue,
which shall include but not necessarily be limited to plans generated during
the Districts’ annual budget process, lobbying efforts, tax increment
financing, and implementation of user fees, administrative and regulatory fees
and other forms of revenue.
   I.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, that portion of a
project for which a complete application for a building permit has been
received by the City, prior to the effective date of this chapter, shall not be
subject to the Fire and/or EMS impact fee imposed by this chapter. If the
resulting building permit is later revised or replaced after the effective date
of the ordinance codified in this chapter, and the new building permit(s)
reflects a development density, intensity, development size or number of units
more than ten (10) percent higher than that reflected in the original building
permit, then the Fire and/or EMS impact fee may be charged on the difference in
density, intensity, development size or number of units between the original
and the revised or replacement building permit.
   J.   Any monies, including any accrued interest not assigned to specific
system improvements within such capital improvements plan and not expended
pursuant to section
9-3-12 or refunded pursuant to section
9-3-11 shall be retained in the same account until the next Districts’ fiscal
year.
   K.   If either District discovers an error in the capital improvements plan
that results in assessment or payment of more than a proportionate share of
system improvements costs on any proposed development, the Districts
administrator shall:
      1.   Adjust the Fire and/or EMS impact fee to collect no more than a
proportionate share; or
      2.   Discontinue the collection of any Fire and/or EMS impact fees until
the error is corrected by ordinance.
   L.   If Fire and/or EMS impact fees are calculated and paid based on a
mistake or misrepresentation, they shall be recalculated by the Districts or
fee payer. Any amounts overpaid by a fee payer shall be refunded by the
Districts within thirty (30) days after the Districts’ acceptance of the
recalculated amount, with interest at the legal rate provided for in IC § 28-
22-104 from the date on which the fee was paid. Any amounts underpaid by the
fee payer shall be paid to the Districts from the fee payer within thirty (30)
days after the Districts’ administrator’s acceptance of the recalculated
amount, as recalculated by the Districts or the fee payer, with interest at the
legal rate provided for in IC § 28-22-104 from the date on which the fee was
paid. All issuing of refunds shall be the responsibility of the Districts. In
the case of an underpayment to the Districts, the administrator may request the
City in writing and the City may withhold issuance of the building permits or
development approval for the project for which the Fire and/or EMS impact fee
was paid until such underpayment is corrected, and if amounts owed to the
Districts are not paid within such thirty-day period, the Districts’
administrators may also ask the City in writing to and the City may revoke any
building permits or development approval issued in reliance on the previous
payment of such Fire and/or EMS impact fee and the District may refund such fee
to the fee payer.
   M.   The Advisory Committee that was established during the preparation of
the capital improvements plan shall continue in existence. (Ord. 637, 8-23-
2022)
9-3-20: PUNISHMENT:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by up to one hundred eighty (180) days in the county
jail, and/or a one thousand dollar ($1,000.00) fine, or both. Knowingly
furnishing false information to any official of the City or the Districts
charged with the administration of this chapter, including without limitation,
the furnishing of false information regarding the expected size, use or impacts
from a proposed development, shall be a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 637,
8-23-2022)
9-3-21: CONSTRUCTION OF INTENT:
All provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this chapter shall
be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the Act and
the City Council and the Boards of Commissioners may be fully carried out.
(Ord. 637, 8-23-2022)
CHAPTER 4
SIGN REGULATIONS 1
(Rep. by Ord. 464, 1-27-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 11, chapter 5 of this code.
CHAPTER 5
ROAD NAMING AND ADDRESSING
SECTION:
9-5-1: General Provisions
9-5-2: Street Naming
9-5-3: Addressing Procedures
9-5-4: Street Signs
9-5-5: Enforcement
9-5-6: Administrative Provisions
9-5-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Title: This chapter shall be known as the ROAD NAMING AND ADDRESSING
ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF HAYDEN, IDAHO.
   B.   Authority: This chapter is authorized under the provisions of article
12, section 2 of the Idaho constitution and by title 50, chapter 13 and title
67, chapter 65 of the Idaho Code, as amended or subsequently codified.
   C.   Purpose: This chapter further implements portions of the city of Hayden
comprehensive plan and supplements the Hayden zoning and subdivision
ordinances. Its purpose is to provide the residents of the city with a uniform
and standardized system of road naming and addressing to:
      1.   Minimize future road name and addressing conflicts.
      2.   Provide a database for city records and enhanced 911 service.
      3.   Expedite property identification by emergency services.
      4.   Comply with the published U.S. postal service publication 28.
   D.   Jurisdiction: These regulations shall apply to the naming of all public
and common private roads and the addressing of all structures and parcels
within the incorporated city limits of Hayden.
   E.   Applicability: This chapter shall apply to all property and to all
public and private roads within the city.
   F.   Implementation And Responsibilities: The city engineering department
shall have the authority to implement, administer, and enforce provisions of
this chapter. For the purposes of addressing, the engineering department will
hold and maintain all addressing data. The engineering department is authorized
to cooperate with Kootenai County and emergency service providers in
administering this chapter. Authority under this chapter includes, but is not
limited to:
      1.   Assigning address numbers in accordance with this chapter and the
Hayden "Addressing Standards And Application Manual".
      2.   Approving new street names.
      3.   Maintaining the addressing database to include mapping.
      4.   Assembling, updating, and maintaining an official list of all street
names throughout the city for use by all jurisdictions.
      5.   Providing, in the appropriate format, assigned address information
to Kootenai County geographic information system (GIS), the local telephone
exchange provider, and the local U.S. post office.
      6.   Providing assistance and information regarding addressing to local
jurisdictions. This includes the creation and maintenance of the Hayden
property address guide in cooperation with Kootenai County and emergency
services providers.
   G.   Guidelines Of Interpretation: Words used in the present tense include
the future; words used in singular number include the plural and vice versa.
The word "shall" is mandatory, the word "should" is directory, and the word
"may" indicates the use of discretion. Unless the subject matter clearly
requires otherwise, the words or phrases used shall have the meanings commonly
appropriate to their context and the purposes of this chapter. (Ord. 444, 12-
11-2007)
9-5-2: STREET NAMING:
   A.   General Road Naming Provisions: Streets, proposed with a subdivision or
through other processes, shall be named and the names approved by the city and
Kootenai County GIS.
In selecting street names, the following provisions shall be employed:
      1.   Centerline alignment road name standards should be observed for
noncontinuous roads, unless there is no possibility for extension of the road
to make it a continuous through road.
      2.   Names of similar pronunciation and/or spelling shall be prohibited
(example: Briar Lane, Brier Lane).
      3.   Variations of the same name with a different road designation shall
be prohibited within the first word of the two (2) word title or in the road
extension (example: Pine Road, Pine Drive, White Pine Road, White Lilly Lane).
      4.   No road name shall consist of more than two (2) words or contain
more than fourteen (14) letters, excluding the road direction (N, S, E, and W)
and extension (street, lane, court, etc.).
      5.   No road shall have more than one name.
      6.   No road name shall contain the words north, south, east, or west or
any combination thereof, within the road name. All named roads that extend from
incorporated areas into unincorporated areas shall retain the same name.
      7.   Roads that have a definite north-south directional course should be
designated as a "street".
      8.   Roads that have a definite east-west directional course should be
designated as an "avenue".
      9.   Roads that do not have a definite directional course should be
designated as a "road", "drive", "trail", "way", or "lane".
      10.   A dead end road or cul-de-sac less than one thousand feet (1,000')
in length, when not an extension of an existing road or a continuation of a
proposed road, should be called a "court".
      11.   A road that has its ingress and egress on the same road should be
designated a "loop".
      12.   A road that circles back upon itself should be designated as a
"circle".
      13.   Special scenic routes or park drives may be designated "parkway"
upon review and approval by the city engineer.
      14.   A newly established road, which has less than a one hundred twenty
five foot (125') centerline alignment offset from an existing road
intersection, shall continue the same road name. A newly established road,
which has more than a one hundred twenty five foot (125') centerline offset
from an existing road intersection, shall be assigned a new name.
      15.   Roads, public or private, shall be named according to the
regulations in this chapter when serving or potentially serving three (3) or
more users.
      16.   Duplicate road names are prohibited within the city. Existing
duplicated names shall be corrected in accordance with this chapter to the
greatest extent that is practical.
      17.   For the purposes of addressing developments with multiple buildings
in a complex (commercial, industrial, office, residential or combination
thereof), a road centerline may be established and named from which to assign
addresses. For instance, within a commercial shopping center or multi-family
development, a fire lane or main drive may be established and named for
addressing purposes so that addresses may be derived from the designated road
centerline.
   B.   Naming New Roads Or Naming Unnamed Roads: Any new road to be
established within the city, public or private, or any existing unnamed road,
public or private, shall require a road name approved by the city engineering
department and Kootenai County (for E911 purposes).
      1.   In the case of plats, approved road names shall be specified on the
final plat map.
      2.   In the case of other new roads or naming of unnamed roads, the owner
or owners and/or contract buyers of properties abutting said road, may
petition, in writing on a form provided by the city, to the city engineer, to
request an official name for a new road. The city engineer shall give due
consideration to any and all road name petitions, only after all road naming
requirements of this chapter are met. The city engineer shall officially
designate the road name having the greatest percentage of approval in the event
a fifty one percent (51%) approval is not obtained.
The engineering department shall give consideration to any street name requests
only after all street naming requirements of this chapter are met. Once a name
request is approved, the name will be added to the official street name list.
The applicant shall be responsible for the cost of the sign and installation.
   C.   Renaming Of Existing Duplicated Road Names: Where duplicate names
exist, roads may be renamed by the city engineer to eliminate duplication. The
city engineer shall decide which roads shall be renamed using the following
criteria:
      1.   When the road was originally named.
      2.   The number of improved properties served by the road.
      3.   Other factors as deemed appropriate to promote community health and
safety.
   D.   Official Designation Of Existing Road Names: With the adoption of this
chapter, all road names properly named shall be designated as the official road
names. By resolution, the city council should confirm the approved list of
street and road names. Subsequent adjustments and changes may be made by
further resolutions.
   E.   Renaming Of Other Roads: In cases where property owners request to
change the name of a road which has an existing city approved name, the
property owners may petition the city council for such a change. Property owner
initiated requests under this subsection shall require seventy five percent
(75%) approval of property owners abutting the road and the payment of an
applicable fee. Changes may be authorized by the city council when it is found
to be in the public interest and meets the naming requirements of this chapter.
   F.   Controversial Or Disputed Street Names: The city engineer shall have
the discretion to refer any disputed road name, addressing issues, or
controversial road name changes to the city administrator for resolution. (Ord.
444, 12-11-2007)
9-5-3: ADDRESSING PROCEDURES:
   A.   General Addressing Procedures: Addressing along the city roads shall be
based on the address grid established by Kootenai County, which is:
Kootenai County shall be divided into four (4) quadrants with the address
origination point located at the southwest corner of Section 13, Township 50
North, Range 4 West, B.M., being approximately the intersection of Northwest
Boulevard and Government Way in the city of Coeur d'Alene as follows:
      1.   To the north, from the origination point as defined above, to the
Kootenai County's north boundary.
      2.   To the east, from the origination point as defined above, to the
Kootenai County's east boundary.
      3.   To the south, from the origination point as defined above, through
the center of Coeur d'Alene Lake to Kootenai County's south boundary.
      4.   To the west, from the origination point as defined above, to the
center of the Spokane River, then westerly down the center of the Spokane River
to Kootenai County's west boundary.
      5.   From the point of beginning, one thousand six hundred (1,600)
address numbers will be added as each section line is crossed (approximately
1,600 units per mile).
   B.   Address Numbers: Address numbers shall be clearly readable from the
street, and shall contrast with background color pursuant to the international
fire code. If a structure is more than seventy five feet (75') from the street,
or is otherwise not clearly visible from the road, its address shall be posted
at the intersection of its access and the public or private road. The address
sign shall be no less than four feet (4') or more than six feet (6') above the
ground on a substantial, maintained post or standard. The view of the address
from the road must be unobstructed. All primary letters, numbers, and symbols
shall be a minimum of four inches (4") in height, with a one-half (1/2) stroke,
and shall be contrasting with the background color.
Property owners are responsible for displaying proper address identification in
accordance with this chapter.
   C.   Address Number Assignments: The following are basic standards for
addressing:
      1.   Address numbers will run consecutively to the north, south, east,
and west from the point of beginning.
      2.   From the point of beginning, one thousand six hundred (1,600)
address numbers will be designated per linear mile.
      3.   All addresses shall be defined with a direction letter (N, S, E, W)
following the address number, pursuant to the grid defined in subsection A of
this section (address grid) (example: 8930 N. Government Way).
      4.   Even numbers shall appear on the south and east side of roads and
odd numbers on the north and west sides.
      5.   If a building (commercial, industrial, office, residential or
combination thereof) has a number of entrances, each serving a separate
occupant, then the building may be assigned an address and the individual units
shall be assigned subunit numbers or individual addresses may be assigned to
each entrance.
      6.   A building (commercial, industrial, office, residential or
combination thereof) with one main entrance shall be assigned one number with
the owner of the structure responsible for providing designated individual
subunit numbering.
      7.   Manufactured home parks shall be assigned one number for each lot
within the park based on the addressing system coordinates. Roads within the
manufactured home park shall be signed according to section
9-5-4 of this chapter.
      8.   For multiple buildings in a development (commercial, industrial,
office, residential or combination thereof), it may be appropriate to establish
a private road centerline for addressing purposes. Buildings would then be
addressed using the established road centerline in accordance with numbering
procedures in this chapter.
      9.   Projects requiring site plan review shall be assigned addresses as
part of the site plan review process. The arrangement of buildings and
vehicular travel aisles and the implications to addressing should be considered
when reviewing site plans.
      10.   All addressing plans shall be reviewed and approved by Kootenai
County GIS department to ensure conformance to emergency services protocols.
For effective and efficient emergency services and enhanced 911, it is
important to provide consistent and uniform addressing procedures throughout
the county. In addition to the basic standards for addressing set forth in this
chapter, the city of Hayden property addressing guidelines to be adopted by
resolution by the city council shall be followed to provide solutions to
addressing situations that do not fall within the type of streets or scenarios
that are provided in this chapter.
   D.   Addressing Along Roads: A diagonal or meandering road shall be assigned
numbers depending upon the address baseline that it most favors.
      1.   Circle and loop road direction designations shall be determined by
the road's predominate direction (N, S, E, W).
         a.   For circle roads, the numbering shall start at the intersection
point of the road closest to the address origination point and shall proceed in
a clockwise direction using a consecutive numerical order with the odd/even
numbers based on the starting point of the circle road as if the road were
straight.
         b.   For loop roads, the beginning of the road is designated by the
closest intersection to the origination point and increases numerically to the
point that is the farthest from the origination point.
      2.   Properties with structure(s), or bare land parcels, that have a
driveway shall be assigned an address based on a primary access point on a
named road or common driveway.
      3.   Properties that have multiple driveways shall have a designated
primary access point. If this primary access point is not designated by the
property owner, the city engineer shall make the official determination and
designate a primary access point that will be used for address assignment.
      4.   All plats produced as a result of subdivisions, minor subdivisions,
planned unit developments, condominium, or other projects that require the
establishment of primary access points from public or private roads for
driveways shall have predesignated primary access points. These points shall be
utilized to assign addresses to the associated parcels. The primary access
points shall be verified by the city engineering department prior to final plat
processing, and also verified by the building department prior to the receipt
of a certificate of occupancy for new structures to determine the actual
address. (Ord. 444, 12-11-2007)
9-5-4: STREET SIGNS:
Road signs shall be placed, constructed and installed in conformance with the
city of Hayden standards for public works construction as adopted by the city
council and the "Manual Of Uniform Traffic Control Devices" (MUTCD).
Specifically, public road signs shall be green with white lettering. Private
road signs shall be blue with white letters. (Ord. 444, 12-11-2007)
9-5-5: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Violations: It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Erect or install a street name sign not in accordance with this
chapter; or
      2.   Remove, alter, change, or deface a street name sign or address
identification erected or installed as provided herein; or
      3.   Place or post addresses not approved by this chapter; or
      4.   Fail to place an address visible from the road.
   B.   Penalties: Any person who violates or fails to comply with any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of an infraction punishable by a
fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
In the event that violations of this chapter are not corrected within fifteen
(15) days of written notice, the city may perform the work and bill the
property owner(s). (Ord. 444, 12-11-2007)
9-5-6: ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Administrative Procedures: The city council may, by resolution, adopt
formal administrative procedures; create fee schedules, etc., to facilitate
implementation of the purpose and intent of this chapter.
   B.   Appeals: Appeals concerning interpretation or administration of this
chapter may be filed by any affected person. Such appeals shall be filed within
a reasonable time of the action being appealed, not to exceed thirty (30) days,
by filing with the city engineer a notice of appeal specifying the grounds of
the appeal. The city engineer shall schedule the item for review by the city
administrator to be commenced within a reasonable period of time after receipt
of a completed notice of appeal and shall give due notice to any affected
party. The city engineer shall transmit to the city administrator all paper
that constitutes the record upon which the action appealed was taken. The city
administrator shall decide the appeal. The decision of the city administrator
may be appealed to the city council.
Enforcement actions may not be appealed. (Ord. 444, 12-11-2007)
CHAPTER 6
DEMOLITION
SECTION:
9-6-1: Permit Required
9-6-2: Permit Fee
9-6-3: Application
9-6-4: Restrictions
9-6-5: Violations
9-6-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
All individuals, persons, firms, or corporations participating in any
demolition of a structure or moving of a structure shall apply for and obtain a
permit from the city prior to commencing work on such demolition or moving of a
structure and shall comply with all other requirements of this chapter. For the
purposes of this section, a "structure" shall be defined as any construction
that would require a building permit under either the international building
code or the international residential code, except for decks. (Ord. 390, 7-12-
2005)
9-6-2: PERMIT FEE:
At the time of application for a permit, the applicant shall pay a fee in an
amount to be set by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 350, 10-14-2003)
9-6-3: APPLICATION:
The application shall be on the form provided by the city and shall contain, at
a minimum, the following:
   A.   The name and address of the property owner;
   B.   The name and address of the person or company performing the demolition
or moving;
   C.   The name and address of the person or company that will be hauling the
demolition waste or the waste resulting from the structure being moved;
   D.   The times of day and the routes that will be used to haul the
demolition debris from the demolition site or the structure being moved;
   E.   The location where the demolition waste or waste resulting from the
structure being moved will be deposited;
   F.   The type of waste to be hauled;
   G.   The location to where the structure is being moved. (Ord. 390, 7-12-
2005)
9-6-4: RESTRICTIONS:
The following restrictions shall apply to the demolition of a structure:
   A.   All demolition waste or waste resulting from a structure being moved
shall be removed from the site promptly and the site filled and leveled. Upon
receipt of notice from the city that the waste shall be removed and the site
leveled and filled by a date certain, the permittee shall comply with the
requirements of such notice.
   B.   No demolition waste or waste resulting from a structure being moved
shall be placed, dropped or spilled in the public right of way during the
demolition or the hauling of the waste.
   C.   The routes for hauling demolition waste or the structure being moved
shall be limited to those specified in the permit.
   D.   No demolition or move of a structure shall be done until the utilities
are disconnected and the city sewer service is properly capped.
   E.   All demolition waste or waste resulting from a structure being moved
shall be properly disposed of in accordance with state and federal regulations.
   F.   Any structure being moved to a new location within the city limits
shall be placed upon a permanent foundation within thirty (30) days from the
date the building is placed on the site and shall meet all applicable local,
state and federal codes. (Ord. 390, 7-12-2005)
9-6-5: VIOLATIONS:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 445, 1-22-2008)
CHAPTER 7
GENERAL BUILDING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-7-1: Construction Site Requirements
9-7-1: CONSTRUCTION SITE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Site Requirements: The building contractor, during the building
construction process, and the developer during the subdivision construction
process, shall without further order and at the contractor's or developer's
expense, be responsible to:
      1.   Keep the property on which work is in progress free from
accumulation of waste material or rubbish caused by the contractor's or
developer's employees or agents or by the work, and at all times during the
building or development construction period shall maintain the public rights-
of-way, easements, sidewalks and the surfaces of streets and roads adjacent to
the property being developed free and clear of construction materials, waste
materials or dirt from the construction site;
      2.   Take appropriate action to control dust caused by the builder or
contractor's operations. This shall include, but not be limited to, watering of
exposed areas, cleaning of roadways, etc.;
      3.   Refrain from burning any construction materials on the site or
having an open fire for any other purposes; and
      4.   Be responsible to dispose of all construction waste from the site in
a lawful manner.
      5.   If the site plan or subdivision construction plan has not been
either submitted or approved, the developer may apply for, and the City at its
discretion may issue, a site disturbance permit which allows for some portion
of site work to commence. The site disturbance permit may be conditioned by the
City with items such as a specific area of disturbance and required site
controls, and may allow any of those actions the City determines appropriate to
proceed with prior to site or construction plan approval, such as the
following:
         a.   Staging of materials and equipment, clearing of vegetation or
organic plant material above the earth surface, grubbing of vegetation or
organic plant material below the earth surface, mass grading which involves cut
and fill activity for mass movement of soil but does not including compaction
or shaping of site feature, obtaining financial sureties to ensure site clean-
up and restoration, and the like.
         b.   Generally a site disturbance permit will not allow work in the
right-of-way, rough grading, or final grading work, though the City may allow
these at its discretion. (Ord. 578, 1-9-2018)
   B.   Continuing Obligation: All obligations of the building contractor and
developer set out in this section shall be a continuing obligation from the
start of construction until a certification of occupancy or acceptance of the
subdivision improvements, whichever is applicable, is issued.
   C.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall be applicable:
    BUILDING CONTRACTOR: The person or company named on the building permit
application as the builder.
   DEVELOPER: The owner of property being developed through the subdivision
process.
   RUBBISH: Junk, trash or debris.
   WASTE MATERIAL: Lumber scraps and other building materials, including
electrical and plumbing materials, which are no longer intended to be
incorporated into the building.
   D.   Notice: Prior to initiating prosecution for violation of this section,
City staff shall attempt to provide notice to the contractor. Said notice shall
describe the location of the property as accurately as possible and shall
specify the nature of the violation and provide the contractor twenty four (24)
hours to abate the violation. Said notice shall be posted upon a conspicuous
place on the building site or delivered to the contractor.
   E.   Stop Work Order: The building official and the City Engineer are
authorized to issue a stop work order on the building or construction site
until such time as the contractor or developer complies with the notice. (Ord.
471, 4-14-2009)
TITLE 10
LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1
SHORT PLATS 1
(Rep. by Ord. 339, 4-8-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 12 of this code.
CHAPTER 2
COMMUNITY FORESTRY
SECTION:
10-2-1: Short Title
10-2-2: Intent And Purpose
10-2-3: Definitions
10-2-4: Applicability
10-2-5: Public Tree Management Program
10-2-6: Removing Public Trees
10-2-7: Authority
10-2-8: Unlawful Practices Prohibited For Public Trees
10-2-9: Certified Arborist Required
10-2-10: Controller Responsibilities For Public Trees
10-2-11: Care Of Private Trees
10-2-12: Violations
10-2-13: Violation And Penalties
10-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the CITY OF HAYDEN COMMUNITY FORESTRY
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 332, 12-16-2002)
10-2-2: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
This chapter is intended to encourage the preservation, expansion, protection,
and proper maintenance of the community forest of Hayden. Enhancing the beauty
of the city, stimulating the planting and growing of desirable trees, and
educating the public about the community forest are the primary goals of this
chapter.
It is also intended that the "Hayden Tree Standards Manual", developed by the
community forestry commission of the city, be used as a guide for best
management practices in tree planting, care, and maintenance. (Ord. 332, 12-16-
2002)
10-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms shall be defined as set forth below when used in this
chapter:
COMMUNITY FOREST: The total of all public and private trees and shrubs within
the city of Hayden.
CONTROLLER: Every person (owner, agent, tenant, occupant, or lessee) who
exercises care, custody, and control of private real property that abuts a
right of way upon which a public tree or shrub is located.
DISEASED TREE: A tree or part thereof which has become blighted, defaced,
infested with harmful insects or has become significantly diseased.
HAYDEN COMMUNITY FORESTRY COMMISSION 1 : An advisory commission appointed by
the mayor and approved by the city council to assist the city in the management
of its community forest.
INJURIOUS PEST OR DISEASE: Refers to organisms capable of seriously damaging
the form or structural integrity of a tree.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, association, company,
or organization of any kind.
PRIVATE TREE: A tree that is not a public tree.
PRUNING: The removal of plant parts, dead or alive, in a careful and systematic
manner so as not to damage other parts of the plant or the tree as a whole.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Any property owned by the city of Hayden, other than public
right of way.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: Improved or unimproved public property owned by, dedicated
to, or deeded to the public for its use for the purpose of providing vehicular,
pedestrian, and other public use.
PUBLIC TREE OR SHRUB: A tree or shrub that is situated in such a manner that
any part of the tree trunk or shrub base at ground level is on public property
or a public right of way.
ROOT ZONE: Is generally considered to be equal to the circumference of the
canopy in full leaf.
SHRUB: Generally means a multiple stemmed woody plant whose height at maturity
is from three (3) to fifteen feet (15').
STREET: That portion of a public right of way which is improved, maintained,
and intended for use by vehicles to provide traffic circulation, primary access
to abutting properties, and parking.
STREET TREES: All public trees located within public rights of way.
TOPPING: The severe cutting back of limbs within a tree's crown to such a
degree that only stubs remain or the removal of the top part (trunk and limbs)
of a coniferous tree, thereby removing a significant portion of the normal
crown.
TREE: A woody plant usually having one main stem or trunk and many branches. It
usually exceeds fifteen feet (15') in height at maturity. However, its failure
to achieve such height at maturity shall not preclude its inclusion as a tree.
TREE SERVICE: Commercial services provided for trees, including, but not
limited to: planting, removal, pruning, or engaging in technical arboricultural
practices.
TREE STANDARDS: The specifications concerning the planting, care, and
maintenance of trees as contained in the "Hayden Tree Standards Manual". (Ord.
332, 12-16-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 2, chapter 2 of this code.
10-2-4: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall apply to any trees and shrubs located in public rights of
way and on public property as well as to those trees and shrubs located on
private property that have been declared to be a public nuisance under section
10-2-12 of this chapter. (Ord. 332, 12-16-2002)
10-2-5: PUBLIC TREE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM:
The city administrator, or the administrator's designee, will provide support
staff, as needed, for the activities of the community forestry commission. In
addition, the city administrator, or the administrator's designee, is
responsible for ensuring the following components of the community forestry
program are carried out and enforced:
   A.   Completing and updating a city public tree inventory.
   B.   Preparing and implementing the city's public tree management plan (tree
planting, maintenance, and removal; checking on tree health; etc.).
   C.   Preparing an annual community forestry budget.
   D.   Educating city residents on the proper care of trees.
   E.   Implementing and enforcing the city of Hayden community forestry
ordinance. (Ord. 409, 2-14-2006)
10-2-6: REMOVING PUBLIC TREES:
Before removing a public tree or trees, a private individual must obtain
permission from the city to do so. The application for a permit to remove a
public tree or trees shall address the following items:
   A.   Whether the tree is harboring injurious pests or diseases to the extent
that it is a potential hazard to the Hayden community forest.
   B.   Whether the tree constitutes an irresolvable public safety hazard,
including, but not limited to, interfering with overhead utility lines,
obstructing the vision of a motor vehicle operator, or potentially breaking or
falling and causing injury to humans or property damage.
   C.   Any other factor deemed to be in the public interest.
   D.   Any tree(s) removed without prior permission or for the convenience of
the abutting landowner must be replaced by the party responsible for its
removal with a tree(s) of equivalent value in a location(s) approved by the
city. In the event no appropriate planting location can be identified at time
of removal, equivalent replacement value of the tree(s) shall be paid to city
and placed in trust to be used for future tree planting. See "Hayden Tree
Standards Manual" for methods of determining equivalent value. Additionally,
any person responsible for unauthorized removal of a public tree or who
receives approval to remove a public tree for the convenience of the abutting
landowner shall be financially responsible to the city for the value of the
tree removed. Any such funds shall be dedicated to community forest
improvement.
The city administrator or the administrator's designee will evaluate the
application before issuing a permit. During the evaluation process, advice may
be sought from a certified arborist, if necessary. (Ord. 332, 12-16-2002)
10-2-7: AUTHORITY:
The city has the authority to oversee, provide assistance for, and require
compliance by controllers in the execution of their responsibilities as set
forth in section
10-2-10 of this chapter.
The city has the authority to ensure the protection of public trees during any
construction or maintenance work. (Ord. 332, 12-16-2002)
10-2-8: UNLAWFUL PRACTICES PROHIBITED FOR PUBLIC TREES:
Public trees constitute an asset that belongs to every community resident.
Pursuant to this chapter it is hereby deemed unlawful and shall constitute a
violation of this chapter, punishable by infraction penalty not to exceed one
hundred dollars ($100.00) and/or by appropriate civil remedy for any person to
do the following to a public tree without the express prior written
authorization of the city administrator or the city administrator's designee:
   A.   Topping a tree by the improper pruning or severe cutting back of limbs
within a tree's crown or the removal of the top portion of the trunk of a
coniferous tree.
   B.   Cut down, destroy, or materially damage any public tree.
   C.   Attach devices or structures, e.g., tree houses or signs, to, on, or
within trees on public property.
   D.   Dispose of or apply substances in concentrations which are toxic to
trees within the proximity of the root zone of trees on public property,
whether such disposal or application is on public or private property.
   E.   Damage public trees through construction operations involving
compaction of, excavation of, or filling of soils within the root zone of
public trees, whether such activities are on public or private property.
   F.   Damage a public tree by significantly pruning or disturbing its root
system, whether such disturbance takes place on public or private property.
   G.   Harm a public tree by defacing or injuring the bark, limbs, roots, or
trunk by cutting, burning, chopping, applying substances or other means of
inducing harm to the shape or vitality of the tree.
   H.   Remove or break cultural devices such as bracing, cabling, guying,
implant capsules, irrigation facilities, stakes, or protective devices for
public trees.
   I.   Fail to immediately remove from sidewalks and streets debris from
removal or maintenance of either public trees or private trees.
   J.   Fail to clean up all other debris from removal or maintenance of public
trees within a reasonable time of completion of the removal or maintenance.
   K.   Fail to replace a public tree which was removed without prior
permission.
   L.   Fail to plant public trees in accordance with the "Hayden Tree
Standards Manual".
   M.   Planting improper species in the wrong location as required by this
chapter. Such planting shall be in accord with the "Tree Standards Manual"
approved by the city council. (Ord. 361, 6-8-2004)
10-2-9: CERTIFIED ARBORIST REQUIRED:
   A.   When the pruning of public trees is undertaken by utilities and/or
professional tree care operators, including any business performing tree care
or trimming for a fee or compensation, such work shall be done under the direct
supervision of a person qualified as a certified arborist by the International
Society of Arboriculture. Compliance with this standard shall require that the
certified arborist visit the site of the work to prescribe the pruning to be
done and to actively monitor the pruning operation. This requirement shall not
prohibit an adjoining home or business owner from carrying out minor pruning on
public trees immediately adjoining his or her property so long as such minor
pruning does not alter the essential shape of the tree or does not violate any
of the specific prohibitions established by this chapter.
   B.   Any business pruning public trees for a fee or compensation must have
in effect at the time the work is done a policy of liability and property
damage insurance covering the work done and listing the city of Hayden as an
additional insured in a sum not less than that provided by Idaho Code, section
6-926 et seq.
   C.   Any business pruning public trees shall be responsible for the work
performed under the provisions of this chapter and shall comply with the
requirements noted in the "Hayden Tree Standards Manual". In addition, all such
businesses shall:
      1.   Utilize safety measures and equipment to protect the public as
prescribed by law;
      2.   Obtain permits required for tree removal; and
      3.   Comply with all applicable ordinances of the city of Hayden and all
applicable county, state, and federal laws. (Ord. 332, 12-16-2002)
10-2-10: CONTROLLER RESPONSIBILITIES FOR PUBLIC TREES:
Minor care and maintenance of trees and landscaping as defined in "Hayden Tree
Standards Manual" in rights of way may be done by landowner of the adjacent
property (the controller). Before carrying out major pruning of a public tree,
a controller must obtain written permission to do so from the city
administrator or the administrator's designee. The controller's request for
permission to carry out major pruning of a public tree should be in writing and
should explain why the pruning is necessary and describe the objectives and, to
the extent practical, the details of the proposed pruning. Reference should be
made to the "Hayden Tree Standards Manual" for guidance on how to care for
public trees.
Assistance from the city in carrying out these responsibilities will be
provided to the extent practical, if requested. (Ord. 332, 12-16-2002)
10-2-11: CARE OF PRIVATE TREES:
   A.   City landowners with private trees on their land are responsible for
doing the following to help ensure the health of public and private trees and
to protect the public safety. Suggestions for how to do this work will be
available from the city administrator or the administrator's designee or the
community forestry commission if requested.
      1.   Maintain private trees so they will not endanger the public or
become hazardous to public rights of way, public utilities, or other public
property.
      2.   Control injurious pests or diseases that may reasonably be expected
to harm other trees or shrubs by removing debris or trees harboring injurious
pests or diseases from their private property or by using other legally
approved methods to eradicate injurious pests or diseases. Such methods shall
not cause undue harm to the environment.
   B.   The city administrator or the administrator's designee is authorized to
take such steps as he or she may deem necessary, including the initiation of
civil legal action, to protect the community forest from actions or inaction
regarding private trees.
   C.   Retention or neglect of a private tree which harbors injurious pests or
diseases which could reasonably be expected to endanger the health or vitality
of the Hayden community forest shall be deemed a violation of this chapter
which shall be subject to the remedies and penalties otherwise set forth
herein. (Ord. 332, 12-16-2002)
10-2-12: VIOLATIONS:
The following are hereby declared violations pursuant to this chapter:
   A.   Any tree or shrub which harbors injurious pests or disease which
reasonably may be expected to harm other trees or shrubs;
   B.   Any tree or shrub which obstructs the free passage of pedestrian or
vehicular traffic or which significantly obstructs a streetlight or traffic
control device;
   C.   Any tree or shrub or portion thereof which obstructs the view in the
vision clearance triangle as defined in section
6-1-4 of this code and Idaho Code 49-221;
   D.   Any tree or shrub which, by reason of location or condition,
constitutes an imminent danger to the health, safety, or welfare of the general
public;
   E.   Planting an improper species of tree on public land in circumstances
and location where physical conflict will result.
Right to inspect trees and shrubs suspected to be in violation of this chapter.
The city administrator or the administrator's designee shall have the authority
to enter onto private property whereon there is reasonable cause to believe
there is located a tree or shrub that is suspected to be a violation as defined
herein. Entry onto private land will only occur after notification of the
landowner and receipt of a grant of permission or if a warrant has been issued
by a court of competent jurisdiction. The city administrator or the
administrator's designee will make reasonable efforts to schedule a meeting
with the private landowner or his or her representative to observe suspected
violative trees or shrubs. The objective will be to seek a cooperative solution
to any existing or potential violations.
It is unlawful and shall be an infraction to take action to prevent, delay, or
otherwise interfere with the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. The
city may also initiate civil legal action to enforce provisions of this
chapter.
The following are the prescribed means of abating violations under this
chapter:
   A.   Any tree in violation of this chapter shall be pruned, removed, or
otherwise treated in whatever fashion called for by the city administrator or
the administrator's designee in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter.
   B.   The city administrator or the administrator's designee shall cause a
written notice of the violation and the need for its correction to be
personally served or sent by certified mail, with return receipt requested, to
the person listed as the owner of record of the property where the violation is
located.
   C.   In the event the violation is not abated by the date specified in the
notice, the city administrator or the administrator's designee is authorized to
cause the abatement of said violation. In addition, the owner of the property
on which the violation is located shall be subject to prosecution under this
chapter or any other portion of this code or the Idaho Code. Nothing in this
provision shall be construed to exempt any person from the requirement of
obtaining proper authorization for actions affecting public trees required by
this chapter. (Ord. 332, 12-16-2002)
10-2-13: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of an infraction and may be punished by a fine of not more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00). Each violation, including the removal of each public
tree, may be considered a separate violation. Should any person be found guilty
in any court of competent jurisdiction or otherwise plead guilty to an alleged
violation hereof, the court may order restitution if the Hayden community
forest is diminished or harmed as a consequence of such violation. A
restitution recommendation for a damaged or removed tree(s) shall not exceed an
amount calculated using the equivalent value determination formulas contained
in the "Hayden Tree Standards Manual". Such restitution amount shall be
recommended to the prosecutor by the city administrator or the administrator's
designee. The city may also seek restitution by civil action.
   B.   The city may undertake civil legal action in a court of competent
jurisdiction to seek to enjoin conduct which violates the provisions of this
chapter or to recover the reasonable costs of actions deemed necessary to bring
about compliance herewith. Said actions may also seek restitution for damages
and costs incurred to remedy the consequences of violation.
   C.   Replacement of a public tree shall be required when removal of a public
tree without authorization from the city administrator or the administrator's
designee has occurred. Replacement shall follow the procedures set forth in
this chapter. Said obligation of replacement shall be in addition to other
sanctions required by this chapter. Replacement may be required at a location
different from the place of removal. (Ord. 332, 12-16-2002)
CHAPTER 3
PRIVATE STREETS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Applicability
10-3-2: General Standards
10-3-3: Construction And Design Standards
10-3-4: Ownership, Maintenance, And Access Requirements
10-3-1: APPLICABILITY:
Private streets may be permitted, at the discretion of the City Council, in the
following circumstances:
   A.   Private streets meeting all standards and requirements of this chapter
may be permitted in minor subdivisions, and subdivisions of fifteen (15) or
less residential lots or residential units, however, in no case shall they
serve more than fifteen (15) residential lots or fifteen (15) residential
units;
   B.   Private streets may be allowed in planned unit developments, without
regard to the number of lots or units served, provided they meet all standards
and requirements of this chapter and the planned unit development ordinance.
Emergency access roads, internal circulation roads within multi- family
dwelling complexes, aisleways within shared parking lots, alleys, and private
driveways are exempt from the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 578, 1-9-
2018)
10-3-2: GENERAL STANDARDS:
Private streets may be permitted only if the City Council determines that the
private street is in conformance with each of the following standards:
   A.   Unique or special circumstances exist with respect to the proposed use,
design, location, topography, or other features of the development or its
surroundings such that private streets will serve to enhance the overall
serviceability of development; or, when the parcel shape, site topography, and/
or surrounding topography would not allow street design to meet City public
street standards;
   B.   The private street provides safe and effective movement of both
vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
   C.   The private street provides adequate access for service and emergency
vehicles;
   D.   The private street does not adversely affect access, connectivity, or
sound transportation planning to adjacent property and to area wide
transportation networks;
   E.   The private street does not landlock or diminish the development
potential of adjacent property due to topography, existing structures or parcel
layout;
   F.   Other than to provide emergency access, the private street does not
connect one public street to another, in such a way as to encourage travel
through the development served by the private street;
   G.   The use or alignment of the private street does not interfere with the
continuity of public streets; and
   H.   An appropriate mechanism, meeting the requirements of section
10-3-4 of this chapter, has been established for the maintenance and repair of
the private street. (Ord. 559, 7-12-2016)
10-3-3: CONSTRUCTION AND DESIGN STANDARDS:
Private streets shall conform to the following construction and design
requirements:
   A.   All private street construction shall be in accordance with the City of
Hayden structural standards for streets, including compacted subgrade, ballast,
base course and asphaltic concrete mat thickness, utilizing the appropriate
traffic index as based upon use.
   B.   Construction plans shall demonstrate adequate treatment of stormwater
runoff on private lands via grassy swales, or other stormwater treatment method
as may be approved by the City Engineer.
   C.   Private streets shall be constructed in accordance with City structural
standards for public streets, excepting that the minimum width of pavement, and
requirements for curbs and sidewalks for private streets will be according to
the following table:
 
Use         Lots/Units       Minimum Width Of Sidewalk Or Path  Curbs
                             Pavement
            15 or fewer lots                  4 feet minimum
Residential and 15 or fewer  24 feet          width, at least 1 Not required
            units                             side
            Greater than 15  Planned unit development only (in accordance with
Residential lots or greater  performance standards)
            than 15 units
                             26 feet, or as
                             required to      5 feet minimum
Commercial/ 6 or fewer lots  accommodate      width, adjacent   6 inch vertical
industrial                   truck movement   to all lots       or rolled
                             and turning      served
                             radii
Commercial/ Greater than 6   Planned unit development only (in accordance with
industrial  lots             performance standards)
 
   D.   Private streets serving more than fifteen (15) residential lots or
fifteen (15) residential dwelling units, and private streets serving more than
six (6) commercial or industrial lots will only be permitted within planned
unit developments.
   E.   Private streets in planned unit developments may be permitted, with
flexibility in design standards related to width of pavement, curbs, sidewalks,
and swales, provided that the private street meets the following performance
standards:
      1.   Width Of Pavement: The public street standard provides adequate
width for emergency vehicle access, and on street parking in residential areas.
If a private street is proposed for a width of less than the public street
standard, the developer must demonstrate:
         a.   Adequate parking has been provided in residential areas to allow
for overflow (100 percent of the off street parking requirements contained
within title 11, chapter 4 of this Code shall be required for residential units
on streets where on-street parking is limited);
         b.   Adequate width to accommodate emergency vehicle access around a
standing vehicle has been provided (minimum width of 24 feet on a two-way
residential street, and 26 feet on a two-way commercial/industrial street with
no on street parking; minimum width of 30 feet on a two-way street with parking
on 1 side). Additionally, private streets serving commercial and/or industrial
lots must demonstrate adequate width to accommodate truck maneuvering
requirements and turning radii.
         c.   Developer will be required to provide and maintain "no parking"
signage, as appropriate for the width of the proposed street, as part of the
subdivision improvements. Enforcement of "no parking" zones shall be the
responsibility of the property owners' association (as described in section
10-3-4 of this chapter).
      2.   Pedestrian Accessibility: The public street standard provides
adjacent pedestrian access to all street frontage lots. The proposed design
must provide comparable pedestrian accessibility.
      3.   Curb Requirements: The public street standard provides for six inch
(6") vertical curbing in commercial and industrial zones, and vertical or
rolled curbs in residential areas to prevent parking in the drainage swales,
and/or adjacent sidewalks, to reduce the cost of future maintenance and/or
extend the life of the pavement, and to enhance the aesthetics of the street.
If a private street is proposed with a modified design for curbing, the
developer must demonstrate that:
         a.   The design provides a similar degree of protection of swales and
sidewalks as standard curbs;
         b.   The design proposed will provide continuity of design with
surrounding properties and enhance the long term serviceability of the proposed
development, or will otherwise enhance the aesthetics of the development.
   F.   All private streets longer than one hundred fifty feet (150') in length
shall originate in a public right-of-way and terminate in a public right-of-way
by way of a loop, or at one of the following turnaround areas if approved by
the City Engineer and Fire Marshal:
      1.   A cul-de-sac;
      2.   A hammerhead/tee type turnaround;
      3.   Other such turnaround design as may be approved by Fire Marshal and
the City Engineer upon a finding of functional equivalency to specific terminal
designs as authorized by subsection F1 or F2 of this section.
   G.   Traffic signs required for safe pedestrian and vehicle traffic,
including, but not limited to, designated parking and no parking areas, speed,
stop, and such other signs as may be deemed necessary, shall be provided by the
developer and maintained by the property owners' association (as described in
section
10-3-4 of this chapter). All required signage shall conform to MUTCD standards.
Construction drawings shall include a plan for signage for review and approval
by the City Engineer.
   H.   Private streets shall conform to all other City of Hayden public street
standards.
   I.   All private streets shall, during the progress of construction, be
inspected and tested, at the expense of the owner or developer, by a qualified
inspector, in order to ensure compliance with the construction and design
standards as set forth in this section, and consistent with the construction
drawings as set forth by the registered professional engineer and approved by
the City Engineer, and sound engineering and construction practices. Reports of
such inspections and tests shall be submitted, together with a certification of
such compliance, for the review and approval of the City Engineer, prior to
occupancy of any dwellings served thereby. (Ord. 559, 7-12-2016; amd. Ord. 578,
1-9-2018; Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
10-3-4: OWNERSHIP, MAINTENANCE, AND ACCESS REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Property Owners' Associations Required: Subdivisions developed with
private streets must establish and maintain a property owners' association that
includes the owners of all property served by the private street(s).
      1.   The association shall own and be responsible for the maintenance of
private streets, associated drainage facilities, and other commonly owned
properties and improvements.
      2.   The developer shall provide written assurance to the City that the
association has perpetual existence and will be responsible for maintenance
during its existence.
      3.   The association documents shall be filed of record prior to the
signing of the final plat.
      4.   A legal instrument providing a mechanism for funding the perpetual
maintenance of the street shall be recorded with the County prior to the
recordation of the final plat. (Ord. 559, 7-12-2016)
   B.   Private Street Lot Required: Private streets must be legally described
as a separate lot owned by the property owners' association unless the City
Engineer waives this requirement upon a determination by him/her that the
development would be better served by an easement providing similar
functionality. The location of the private street shall be clearly depicted on
the face of the plat, and notes shall be included on the face of the plat which
shall: (Ord. 578, 1-9-2018)
      1.   Act to convey to each property owner within the subdivision to be
served by the private street the perpetual right of ingress and egress over the
described private street;
      2.   Provide that such perpetual easement shall run with the land.
   C.   Easements Required:
      1.   An easement encompassing the street lot shall be granted to the City
and other political subdivisions and public utilities providing effective use
of the property for utilities and maintenance of the same.
      2.   The easement shall also provide the City with right of access for
any purpose related to the exercise of governmental service or function,
including, but not limited to, fire and police protection, inspection, and Code
enforcement.
      3.   The easement shall permit the City to remove any vehicle or obstacle
within the street that impairs emergency access.
      4.   Easements for dry utilities, including electric, telephone and cable
shall also be provided in accordance with the City public street standards.
      5.   The City may additionally require public access easements for
sidewalks and/or pedestrian/bicycle paths, in order to maintain pedestrian and
nonvehicular connectivity.
   D.   Protection Of Public Health, Safety And Welfare: The Mayor may, in the
reasonable exercise of his/her discretion, direct the owners or the entity
responsible for the maintenance of any private street approved in accordance
with the provisions of this section to undertake such repair and maintenance
activities as it may determine is necessary to protect the public health,
safety, or welfare and make such expenditures from the funds reserved therefor
as may be required. The owner or entity responsible shall be deemed, as a
condition of approval of any such private street, to have agreed to comply with
any such order and to reimburse the City of all its costs, including attorney
fees, incurred in obtaining or enforcing any such directive. Any directive
entered by the Mayor pursuant to this subsection may be enforced by a court of
competent jurisdiction, and the City shall be entitled to recover its costs and
attorney fees incurred in connection therewith. (Ord. 559, 7-12-2016)
TITLE 11
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: General Rules
11-1-2: Definitions
11-1-3: Development Agreements
11-1-4: Administration And Enforcement
11-1-5: Notice Of Violation And Stop Work Order
11-1-6: Official Zone District Map: Establishment Of Zones
11-1-7: Amendments
11-1-8: Exception Request
11-1-9: Appeal Of Administrative Decision
 
The zoning regulations as herein established have been made in accordance with
a comprehensive plan for the purpose of promoting the health, safety, and
general welfare of the residents of the City of Hayden. Accordingly, land use
regulations will be applied in ways that respect public needs, minimize
conflicts with nearby land uses, and protect the private property rights of
other landowners. The zoning regulations shall implement the goals and policies
of the comprehensive plan and have been made with reasonable consideration,
among other things, for the character of the district and its peculiar
suitability for particular uses, and with a view of conserving the value of
buildings and encouraging the most appropriate use of the land throughout the
incorporated area of the City of Hayden. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-1-1: GENERAL RULES:
The rules and definitions contained in this chapter shall be observed and
applied, except when the context clearly indicates otherwise.
   A.   Tense; Plurals: Words used in the present tense shall include the
future and words used in the singular number shall include the plural number
and the plural the singular;
   B.   Shall: The word “shall” is to be mandatory and not discretionary;
   C.   May: The word “may” is permissive;
   D.   Lot: The word “lot” shall include the word “piece” and “parcel”;
   E.   Building: The word “building” includes all other structures of every
kind regardless of similarity to buildings and the phrase “used for” shall
include the phrases “arranged for”, “designed for”, “maintained for”, and
“occupied for”.
   F.   Setback Encroachments: Building setbacks shall not be less than the
minimum dimension specified for each zoning district, except as follows:
      1.   Cornices, canopies, eaves, chimneys, steps or other similar
architectural features not providing additional floor space within a building
may extend into the required side, front or rear yard setback or building
separations as measured from the foundation, provided they do not encroach by
more than two feet into the required setback, nor encroach into a public or
private right-of-way or public utility easement. For those structures located
in a zone district where the 15' front yard setback is allowed; these features
may not encroach any closer than 15' from the property line.
      2.   Rear decks and platforms 42" or lower may extend into the required
rear yard setback up to 10', and no upright support members may be extended
higher than the 42" of the deck. At no time shall a deck or platform be
enclosed to create additional square footage of the habitable structure without
first obtaining approval of the City through the building permit process.
      3.   Structures completely below natural grade may extend into the
required setback not more than half of the required setback.
      4.   When in-ground pools are within the rear yard, they may extend into
the required rear yard setback not more than one-half the measurement of the
required setback. For pool locations other than in the rear yard, the in-ground
pool must be located outside of the setback areas.
      5.   The height limitations contained in the schedule of district
regulations do not apply to spires, belfries, cupolas, ventilator, chimneys,
flag poles, sports netting, or other structures or appurtenances usually
required to be placed above the roof level and not intended for human
occupancy. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Zoning Use Definitions:
                                     Except as may be further restricted, an accessory dwelling unit is a dwelling unit that
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU):       is incidental and subordinate to the principal use of the premises and does not alter the
                                     essential characteristic of the use.
                                     The tilling of soil, horticulture, floriculture, forestry, viticulture, raising crops,
AGRICULTURE:                         beekeeping, livestock, farming, dairying and animal husbandry including all uses
                                     customarily accessory and incidental thereto; but excluding slaughterhouses, fertilizer
                                     works, boneyards and commercial feedlots.
AIRPORT, AIRCRAFT LANDING FIELD:     Any area of land or water that is used or intended for use by aircraft and including the
                                     necessary appurtenant structures or facilities located thereon.
                                     A room or suite of rooms in a multiple-family facility designed or used as a single
APARTMENT:                           living unit and provided with living, sleeping, kitchen and bathroom facilities, usually
                                     leased or rented.
ASPHALT AND CONCRETE READY MIX       A location where asphalt and/or concrete batch plants make hot mix asphalt, other forms
PLANT:                               of coated road stone, and concrete ready mix. These plants combine various ingredients
                                     based on engineered design standards for specific types of asphalt and concrete mixes.
ASSEMBLAGE:                          To fix or join together (in a clean, quiet atmosphere free of noise, odor, and soot and
                                     smoke) manufactured parts that are produced at another site, to make a complete product.
                                     A building or distinct part thereof, or complex of buildings where senior and/or
                                     individuals with disabilities reside or where daily care is provided. These facilities
ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY:            generally provide the following: supervision or assistance with activities of daily
                                     living, administration of medication, and coordination of services by outside or inside
                                     healthcare providers, and monitoring of resident activities to help ensure their health,
                                     safety, and well-being. Also known as nursing, rest, and convalescent homes.
AUCTION ESTABLISHMENT:               A building or portion of a building used for the public sale of goods, merchandise, or
                                     equipment to the highest bidder.
                                     An outdoor space where junk, waste, discarded, or salvaged materials are stored or
                                     handled, including automobile wrecking yards, and yards for used building materials, and
                                     places, or yards for storage of salvaged building and structural steel materials and
                                     equipment, including used machinery, trailers or construction equipment or parts thereof;
                                     excluding yards or establishments for the sale, purchase or storage of used cars or
AUTO WRECKING YARD, JUNKYARD:        machinery in operable condition, and the processing of used, discarded or salvaged
                                     materials as a part of a permitted manufacturing operation on the same premises. An “auto
                                     wrecking yard” and “junkyard” are further defined as any use of premises, excluding fully
                                     enclosed buildings, on which two or more motor vehicles not in operable condition are
                                     standing more than 28 days, or on which used motor vehicles, or parts thereof, are
                                     dismantled or stored.
                                     The activity of decomposing organic matter generated on any area of land or lot by a
BACKYARD COMPOSTING:                 homeowner, tenant, occupant, or property owner. Backyard composting shall process
                                     material generated primarily on site. Backyard composting shall be operated in a nuisance
                                     free manner. No commercial purpose may be associated with backyard composting.
                                     An establishment that provides banking services, lending or similar financial services to
BANK, FINANCIAL INSTITUTION:         individuals and businesses. This definition includes those institutions engaged in the
                                     on-site circulation of cash money and check-cashing facilities, but shall not include
                                     bail bond brokers. The establishment may or may not have a drive-thru facility.
                                     A single-family residence, occupied by the property owner or caretaker year round, which
BED AND BREAKFAST FACILITY (Boarding provides a maximum of five sleeping rooms (not including the occupant’s sleeping room(s))
or Rooming House):                   for the lodging of overnight transient guests for a fee, and which includes the serving
                                     of a meal.
                                     A metalsmith who creates objects from wrought iron or steel by forging the metal, using
BLACKSMITH SHOP:                     tools to hammer, bend, and cut; to create objects such as gates, grilles, railings, light
                                     fixtures, furniture, sculpture, tools, agricultural implements, decorative and religious
                                     items, cooking utensils and weapons.
BOTTLING AND DISTRIBUTION PLANT:     A commercial enterprise whose output is the bottling of beverages for distribution.
BREWERY, DISTILLERY, WINERY:         An establishment for production of alcoholic liquors, but does not include food service
                                     establishments that produce such products only for on-site sale.
BUILDING MATERIALS, HAY, GRAIN, BULK A retail business that sells large, bulky, or heavy goods including building materials
GARDEN SUPPLY, HEAVY MATERIALS:      and agricultural goods, such as hay, grain, bulk garden supplies, tools and equipment.
BUS STATION:                         Any premises for the transient housing or parking of buses and the loading and unloading
                                     of passengers.
CALL CENTER:                         A centralized office used for receiving or transmitting a large volume of enquiries by
                                     telephone.
CARETAKER RESIDENCE:                 A dwelling on a nonresidential property occupied by a person, and the immediate family of
                                     the person, who oversees or guards the operation.
CAR WASH:                            A facility for the cleaning of automobiles, providing either self-serve facilities or
                                     employees to perform washing operations.
                                     Land used or dedicated to the internment of human or animal remains including columbaria,
CEMETERY:                            mausoleums, mortuaries, and associated maintenance facilities when operated in
                                     conjunction with, and within the boundaries of such cemetery.
                                     A building providing for government functions and services, including but not limited to
                                     federal, provincial, regional and municipal offices, public schools and colleges,
CIVIC:                               publicly owned and operated hospitals, fire halls, community halls, libraries, museums,
                                     parks, cemeteries, jails and prisons, courts of law, waterworks facilities, and sewage
                                     facilities.
CLUB, LODGE, SOCIAL HALL:            A building of which the primary use is a meeting place used by members of the community
                                     to gather for social, cultural, entertainment, recreational, or religious purposes.
COFFEE/ESPRESSO STAND:               A beverage service establishment where drive-up window service is the primary customer
                                     access.
                                     A garden on a single piece of land gardened collectively by a group of people for fresh
COMMUNITY GARDEN:                    food or flowers. Can also include educational gardens where gardening, landscaping,
                                     nutrition, and cooking are taught.
COMMUNITY RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT      A residential treatment center, sometimes called a rehab, is a live-in health care
FACILITY:                            facility providing therapy for substance abuse, mental illness, or other behavioral
                                     problems.
CONSTRUCTION COMPONENTS:             The manufacture or fabrication of construction components such as bricks, cement blocks,
                                     windows, doors, cabinetry, etc.
CONCERT HALL/DANCE HALL:             A business operating in an area, whether indoors or out where amplified sound or music is
                                     provided for entertainment.
                                     A building designed with multiple dwelling units, and platted for each unit to be owned
CONDOMINIUM:                         separately. The unit may or may not contain a proportionate share in the common space or
                                     may or may not have dedicated land associated with the dwelling unit.
                                     A lot or portion of a lot or parcel, or a building or a portion of a building used to
CONTRACTOR’S OFFICE AND STORAGE:   store and maintain construction equipment and other materials and facilities customarily
                                     required in the building trade by a construction contractor. Such lot, portion of lot or
                                     building includes office area directly related to the function of the contractor.
                                     An establishment generally less than 5,000 square feet engaged in the sale of convenience
CONVENIENCE STORE:                   goods, such as pre-packaged food items, tobacco, over the counter drugs, periodicals, and
                                     other household goods. Additionally, the retail sale of petroleum products may be
                                     dispensed through gasoline pumps and other supplies for motor vehicles may be sold.
                                     A facility designed and used to house, sequester, or confine incarcerated individuals,
CORRECTIONAL FACILITY:               persons subject to a pre-trial order, on probation or parole. A correctional facility
                                     shall conform to the provisions of Hayden City Code
                                     11-7-4.
                                     A building design with one dwelling unit for use and occupancy by no more than one
COTTAGE:                             family. Each dwelling unit shall be platted on an individual lot with a shared open space
                                     or green court.
                                     A facility where adults regularly receive care, maintenance, and supervision
                                     unaccompanied by a guardian or custodian, regardless of whether the facility does or does
DAYCARE, ADULT:                      not provide any educational instruction. This use excludes: (1) Care of operator’s legal
                                     wards or relatives; (2) Occasional personal guests; and (3) Any facility providing
                                     overnight custodial services for lodging and/or boarding.
DAYCARE, ANIMAL:                     See definition in Hayden City Code
                                     4-3-3.
                                     A child care facility for more than six children within the operator’s residence; or that
DAYCARE CENTER, MINOR:               is outside the operator’s residence. Daycare Centers when operated within a residence may
                                     have a maximum of 25 children and require a conditional use permit.
DAYCARE, HOME, MINOR:                A child care facility for six or fewer children that is an accessory use to a primary
                                     residential use.
                                     An establishment, whether it be the primary or an accessory use, other than automobile
DRIVE-UP ESTABLISHMENT:              service station or parking lot, that is designed to allow the occupants of a motor
                                     vehicle to make purchases or receive services at a window or service area while remaining
                                     in the vehicle.
DWELLING:                            A building, or portion thereof, containing one or more dwelling units. The term does not
                                     include any trailer, mobile home, motel, hotel, guesthouse or boarding house.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY:           See multi-family building definition.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY:             A building designed as one dwelling unit for use and occupancy by no more than one
                                     family. This also includes any group residences as defined by Idaho Code 67-6531.
DWELLING, TWO- and THREE FAMILY:     A building designed with more than one, but not more than three dwelling units.
                                     One or more rooms designed for, or used as a residence for, not more than one family,
                                     including all necessary household employees of such family, and constituting a separate
DWELLING UNIT:                       and independent housekeeping unit, with a single kitchen permanently installed. The term
                                     does not imply or include such type of occupancy as a lodging or boarding house, club,
                                     sorority, fraternity or hotel.
                                     Metal fabrication facilities start with flat sheets of metal and through a process cut,
FABRICATION AND MACHINE SHOP:        punch out, bend, weld, powder coat, and assemble finished parts. Machine shops start with
                                     blocks of metal (round, square, or rectangular solid rods or tubing) and create finished
                                     parts through sawing, milling, drilling, and turning process.
                                     Any event:
                                     A.   At which two or more persons offer new or used personal property or merchandise for
                                     sale or exchange; and
FARMER’S MARKET, FLEA MARKET, SWAP B.   At which the event is held more than six times in any 12 month period.
MEET:                                C.   The term “swap meet” is interchangeable and applicable to “flea markets”, “indoor
                                     swap meets”, or their similar terms, regardless of whether these events are held inside a
                                     building or outside in the open. The primary characteristic is that these activities
                                     involve a series of sales sufficient in number, scope, and character to constitute a
                                     regular course of business.
FIRING RANGE:                        A controlled area of activity, indoors or outdoors, generally designed for the
                                     discharging of firearms at targets.
FOSTER HOME; GROUP HOME; INSTITUTION A place, home, building, or location providing care for nine (9) or more unrelated
FOR MINOR CHILDREN:                  children as a member of the household for the purpose of providing substitute parental
                                     care.
FUELING STATION, COMMERCIAL:         Repositories of fuel that have located to service commercial vessels.
FUNERAL HOME, CREMATORY, OR          A facility in which deceased human bodies are kept and prepared for burial or cremation.
MORTUARY:
GROUP HOME:                          See definition of foster home; group home; institution for minor children.
                                     Public Building(s) or Complex: A building or buildings owned or used by the federal,
GOVERNMENT BUILDING:                 state, county or city government, or any political subdivision, agency or instrumentality
                                     thereof.
GROCERY:                             A market where food and related items are sold.
GROOMING, SMALL ANIMAL:              Grooming for small animals on an appointment basis, with drop off and pick up on the same
                                     day.
HEALTH CLUB:                         A club for leisure and fitness activities.
                                     A business activity which results in a product or service that is conducted as an
HOME OCCUPATION:                     accessory use by an immediate member of the family residing within the dwelling place,
                                     and which meets all of the conditions as required by this title.
                                     An institution devoted primarily to the maintenance and operation of facilities for the
                                     medical or surgical care of human patients for 24 hours or more. The term “hospital” does
HOSPITAL:                            not include clinic, convalescent, nursing, or boarding homes, or any institution
                                     operating solely for the treatment of mentally ill persons, drug addicts, alcoholics, or
                                     other types of cases necessitating forcible confinement of patients.
                                     See definition of animal hospital/clinic in Hayden City Code
HOSPITAL, ANIMAL:                    4-3-3. May include commercial grooming and boarding services is limited to short-term
                                     care incidental to the treatment clinic and must be a secondary use of the property.
                                     A building, or group of buildings on the same premises whether detached or in connected
                                     rows, containing 6 or more sleeping or dwelling units with garage space or parking space
HOTEL/ MOTEL:                        located on the premises and designed for, or occupied by, travelers. The term includes,
                                     but is not limited to, any buildings or building groups designated as motor lodges,
                                     tourist courts or by any other title or sign intended to identify them as providing
                                     lodging to motorists.
                                     A building housing any facility, however named, whether operated for profit or not,
INSTITUTION:                         operating for the treatment of mentally ill persons, drug addicts, alcoholics or other
                                     types of cases necessitating forcible confinement of patients.
INSTITUTION FOR MINOR CHILDREN:      See definition of foster home; group home; institution for minor children.
                                     Any premises, or portion thereof involved in the business of boarding, breeding, buying,
                                     letting for hire, or training for a fee, on which cats and/or dogs are maintained,
KENNEL, COMMERCIAL:                  harbored, possessed, fostered, boarded, bred or cared for and which may have commercial
                                     grooming and similar accessory uses. Also see definition in Hayden City Code
                                     4-3-3.
                                     Any premises, or portion thereof, at which cats, dogs and small household domestic
                                     animals, as outlined in subsections
KENNEL, RESIDENTIAL:                 4-3-6(A)(1) and (A)(2) of this Code, are maintained, harbored, fostered or cared for as
                                     part of a rescue operation without compensation. Also known as residential pet rescues.
                                     No more than 15 animals in total may be living and/or fostered on site at any one point
                                     in time, this includes resident animals and rescued animals in combination.
                                     A facility that provides pathological testing or manufacturing of prosthetics and
LABORATORY, MEDICAL/DENTAL:          orthopedic appliances, or that provides dental services including the manufacturing of
                                     orthodontic appliances, crowns, and dentures.
                                     An establishment where laundry or dry cleaning is dropped off by customers or picked up
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING SERVICE:    by customers and that also includes on-site laundry and/or cleaning activities, including
                                     related operation of equipment and machinery. Establishments that do not include on-site
                                     cleaning activities are classified as “general personal services”.
LAUNDRY, INDUSTRIAL:                 An industrial facility where fabrics are cleaned on a commercial or wholesale basis.
LIBRARY AND CULTURAL FACILITIES:     A permanent facility for storing and loaning of books, periodicals, reference materials,
                                     audio and videotapes, and other similar media.
                                     An area, other than a street, used for the display and sale of more than two new or used
                                     automobiles, trucks, trailers, mobile homes, boats, farm machinery or other machinery or
LOT, OUTDOOR SALES:                  equipment in operating condition in any 30 day period and where no repair work is done
                                     except that necessary for completion of the sale. Said repair work shall be performed in
                                     a garage or an enclosed building.
LUMBER MILL, SAWMILL, PULP MILL:     Mills that convert round wood products into primary wood products, like lumber, pellets,
                                     sheathing, wood pulp, etc.
MAJOR UTILITY INFRASTRUCTURE:        See definition in section
                                     8-1-2 of this Code.
                                     A structure constructed since June 15, 1976, that bears the seal of the U.S. Department
                                     of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) indicating it has met the manufactured home
                                     construction and safety standards of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
                                     or the Building Code and when erected on site is built on a permanent foundation when
MANUFACTURED HOME:                   connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air
                                     conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein, except that such term shall
                                     include any structure which meets all the requirements and which the manufacturer
                                     voluntarily files a certification required by the Secretary of Housing and Urban
                                     Development and complies with the standards established under 42 USC 5401 et seq.
                                     An area, tract, plot or site of land of at least five acres in size containing two or
MANUFACTURED HOME COMMUNITY:         more manufactured homes or spaces for manufactured homes, developed, located and
                                     maintained for dwelling purposes.
MANUFACTURING, LIGHT:                The processing, packaging, treatment or fabrication of goods and merchandise in a clean,
                                     quiet atmosphere, free of noise, odor, dust and smoke.
MEDICAL RESEARCH FACILITY:           A facility designed for the purpose of conducting medical research.
MINI-STORAGE:                        See definition of self-service storage.
MINOR UTILITY INFRASTRUCTURE:        See definition in section
                                     8-1-2 of this Code.
MOBILE FOOD VENDOR:                  See definition of Mobile Food Establishment in Hayden City Code
                                     3-7-4.
MOBILE HOME:                         A structure similar to a manufactured home, but built to a state Mobile Home Code which
                                     existed prior to the Federal Manufactured Housing and Safety Standards Act (HUD Code).
                                     General repairs to vehicle engine, transmission or drive-train; rebuilding or major
MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIR, MAJOR:         reconditioning of work or damaged motor vehicles or trailers; collision service,
                                     including body, frame or fender straightening or repair, and overall painting of motor
                                     vehicles or trailers.
MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIR, MINOR:         Incidental repairs, replacement of parts, and minor service to motor vehicles, but not
                                     including any operation specified as “Motor Vehicle Repair - Major”.
MULTI-FAMILY BUILDING:               A building or portion thereof, containing four or more dwelling units excluding attached
                                     single family townhome units located on individual lots.
NEWSPAPER AND PRINTING               An enclosed facility for the printing and distribution of newspapers, newsletters, and
ESTABLISHMENT:                       other similar media that is printed on newsprint-type paper for sale and general
                                     circulation.
                                     A use which was lawfully established and maintained at the time this title was adopted,
                                     but which, because of the application of this title to it, no longer conforms to the use
NONCONFORMING USE:                   regulations of the zone in which it is located. A nonconforming building or nonconforming
                                     position of the building shall be deemed to constitute a nonconforming use of the land on
                                     which it is located.
                                     A facility for business and professional services, such as accountants, architects,
OFFICE, BUSINESS/ PROFESSIONAL:      attorneys, insurance brokers, realtors, investment counselors, but not including medical
                                     or personal services.
                                     A facility for a group of one or more physicians for the examination and treatment of
                                     human patients, primarily engaged in furnishing, on an outpatient basis, chiropractic,
OFFICE, MEDICAL:                     dental, medical, surgical, medical imaging, or other services to individuals. Patients
                                     are not kept overnight except under emergency conditions. Ancillary laboratory facilities
                                     may be included.
OPTICIAN:                            A business that fits and sells lenses, eyeglasses, and other optical instruments.
                                     An area where customers are encouraged to examine and/or experience merchandise in their
OUTDOOR SALES DISPLAY:               typical configuration and/or manner of use. This use is distinct from “outdoor storage”
                                     or junkyard as elsewhere defined.
                                     The short-term or long-term storage of equipment, products, supplies, and materials,
OUTDOOR STORAGE:                     outside an enclosed building, and not for the purpose of outdoor sales display, in an
                                     area as an accessory to a primary use.
                                     An open, graded and surfaced area, other than a street or public way, to be used for the
                                     storage, for limited periods of time, of operable passenger automobiles and commercial
PARKING LOT, COMMERCIAL:             vehicles, and available to the public, whether for compensation, free or as an
                                     accommodation to clients or customers. “Surfaced area” as used herein means hard surface
                                     including asphalt, concrete or similar material.
PARKING LOT, OFF-SITE ACCESSORY:     An off street parking area for motor vehicles not less than 9' x 20' in area having
                                     access to a public street, alley or private driveway.
                                     A detached accessory building or a portion of a main building, including carports, on the
PARKING GARAGE, PRIVATE:             same lot as a facility, or other lot as may be permitted by this title, for the housing
                                     of vehicles of the occupants of the facility.
PARKING GARAGE, PUBLIC:              A building available for use by the public for the storage of motor vehicles, with or
                                     without a fee and not directly related to a specific land use.
                                     Park and open space uses focus on natural areas, large areas consisting mostly of
                                     vegetative landscaping, or outdoor recreation, community gardens, or public squares.
PARKS, RECREATION, and OPEN SPACE:   Lands tend to have few structures. Accessory uses may include clubhouses, playgrounds,
                                     maintenance facilities, concessions, caretaker’s quarters, and parking. Specific use
                                     types include, but are not limited to: Forest Reserve, Recreation Area, Golf Course, Park
                                     or Playground, Public Plaza.
PARK, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE/          Any area, tract, plot or site of land, whereupon two or more recreational vehicles or
CAMPGROUND:                          travel trailers are placed, located, and maintained for temporary living quarters on a
                                     temporary basis.
                                     A facility that provides individualized services generally related to personal needs.
PERSONAL SERVICE:                    These include, but are not limited to, beauty and health care services, such as hair and
                                     nail salons, and barber shops, tattoo parlors, body piercing or massage establishments.
PHARMACY:                            A location where prescription drugs are sold. May also include the sale of non-
                                     prescription drugs and personal care items.
                                     A business where photography is practiced on a professional level for portraiture and for
PHOTOGRAPHY STUDIO:                  various commercial and industrial applications, including the preparation of photographs
                                     for advertising, illustration, display, and record-keeping.
PRINTING, PUBLISHING &               The business of making copies of printed materials.
REPRODUCTIONS:
RAILROAD CLASSIFICATION YARDS:       A railway yard found at some freight train stations, used to separate railway cars onto
                                     one of several tracks.
RAILROAD TRANSPORTATION LINES OR     A branch line is a secondary railway line which branches off a more important through
SPURS:                               route, usually a main line. A very short branch line may be called a spur line.
                                     Commercial, non-profit, or civic indoor and/or outdoor facilities used for recreation and
RECREATION FACILITIES:               physical fitness such as gyms, athletic clubs and recreation centers, which may include
                                     accessory uses such as facility/ground rentals, events, food and beverage services such
                                     as restaurants, cafes, and coffee shops, and similar uses.
                                     A building that people regularly attend to participate in or hold religious services,
RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION:               meetings, and other activities. Uses related to and operated by a religious institution
                                     may include a rectory, school, thrift store, homeless shelter, or similar, and may be
                                     located on the same parcel or an adjacent parcel to the religious institution.
RESTAURANT, WITH OR WITHOUT A DRIVE- Any land, building or part thereof, other than a boarding house, where meals are provided
UP WINDOW:                           for compensation, including, among others, such uses as café, cafeteria, coffee shop,
                                     lunchroom and dining room.
                                     A business which (1) during the normal course of business primarily distributes any
                                     tobacco product or provides any equipment or material used for the consumption of
RETAIL TOBACCO BUSINESS:             tobacco, (2) lawfully may permit smoking indoors, and (3) does operate a smoking area on
                                     premises owned, operated, or used by the business, whether indoors or outdoors, during
                                     any portion of its hours of operation.
SALES, RETAIL:                       A location where the product created is sold directly to consumers. A single retail use
                                     in one stand-alone building or tenant space.
SALES, WHOLESALE:                    A location where the product created is sold in bulk to restaurants, grocery stores, and
                                     other establishments.
                                     An institution of learning, whether public or private, that offers instruction to a group
                                     of children in those courses of study required by the State Board of Education. This
SCHOOL:                              definition includes nursery school, kindergarten, elementary school, junior high school,
                                     senior high school, or any special institution of learning under the jurisdiction of the
                                     Idaho Department of Education, but it does not include a vocational or professional
                                     school or any institution of higher education, including a college or university.
SCHOOL, PRIVATE COMMERCIAL:          A school, regardless of whether it is operated for profit, primarily devoted to
                                     instruction, in dance, music, drama, art, languages, martial arts training, and business.
                                     An institution for conducting instruction in the technical, commercial or trade skills,
SCHOOL, TRADE OR INDUSTRIAL:         secretarial training, medical-dental technician training, beauticians, barbers,
                                     electronics, and automotive technician training.
                                     An educational institution offering advanced instruction in an academic or business
                                     field, beyond the secondary level, including trade schools or business colleges, except
SCHOOL, UNIVERSITY:                  those whose function is primarily commercial in nature with the training or schooling an
                                     incidental activity. This includes all accessory uses, such as dormitories, parking lots,
                                     etc.
                                     An establishment with pay-per-use clothes washing and drying machines where customers
SELF-SERVICE LAUNDRY:                launder their own clothes. May include accessory retail sales of laundry soap and similar
                                     items, primarily for use on the premises.
                                     A building or group of buildings or portions thereof which are designed or used
SELF-SERVICE STORAGE:                exclusively for storage of excess property of an individual, family or business.
                                     Buildings are divided into individually accessed units. This shall not be deemed to
                                     include the day to day operations of businesses of any kind.
                                     Premises where gasoline, motor oils, lubricants, and grease for the operation of motor
SERVICE STATION:                     vehicles are directly retailed to the public and may include tires, accessories,
                                     services, and minor motor vehicle repairs.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS;          An adult arcade, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult theater,
NONRETAIL:                           escort agency, nude model studio, or sexual encounter center.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS; RETAIL:  An adult book, novelty, or video store.
SHELTER, ANIMAL:                     See definition in Hayden City Code
                                     4-3-3.
                                     A small shopping center that typically features an approximately 2,500 square foot
SHOPPING CENTER, CONVENIENCE         groceries/sundries store as an anchor tenant and may also provide other services such as
COMMERCIAL:                          gasoline sales, dry cleaners, coffee shop, dentist office, beauty shop, day care, etc. A
                                     convenience shopping center may have an average building area ranging from 15,000 to
                                     35,000 square feet and occupy one to three acres.
                                     A moderate sized shopping center, planned and developed as a unit, typically composed of
SHOPPING CENTER, NEIGHBORHOOD        a grocery up to 60,000 square feet in size, and usually containing additional smaller
COMMERCIAL:                          tenants serving a local market area. A neighborhood shopping center may have a gross
                                     floor area ranging from 35,000 to 100,000 square feet and may occupy up to 10 acres.
                                     A group of commercial establishments, planned and developed as a unit, typically
                                     featuring an approximately 50,000 square foot or greater grocery store and/or department
SHOPPING CENTER, COMMUNITY           store or volume discount retail outlet as an anchor tenant/s and may include freestanding
COMMERCIAL:                          buildings containing restaurants or other commercial uses. A community shopping center
                                     has a gross floor area of over 100,000 square feet but no more than 300,000 square feet
                                     and typically occupies from 10 to 25 acres.
                                     A group of commercial establishments, planned, developed, owned, and managed as a unit
SHOPPING CENTER, REGIONAL            related in location, size and types of shops to the trade area that the unit serves; it
COMMERCIAL:                          provides on-site parking in definite relationship to the type and size of stores. The
                                     major tenant is one or more full line department stores. Size of the center can range
                                     between 300,000 square feet to over one million square feet of gross leasable area.
SOCIAL EVENT CENTER:                 A structure or other physical site with improvements, necessary to accommodate a specific
                                     activity.
                                     A.   Any subordinate building, such as a detached garage, incidental to and located on
                                     the same lot on which a principal building exists or which is under construction. The
                                     accessory building shall not be occupiable unless the principal building is occupiable;
                                     and
                                     B.   Structure subordinate in area, extent, or purpose to the principal building, or
STRUCTURE, ACCESSORY:                principal uses served; and
                                     C.   Contributes to the comfort, convenience or necessity of occupants of the principal
                                     building or use served; and
                                     D.   Is located on the same lot as the principal building or principal use served with
                                     the single exception of such accessory off street parking facilities as are permitted to
                                     be located elsewhere than on the same lot with the building or use served.
                                     A building in which is conducted the principal use of the lot upon which it is situated,
STRUCTURE, PRINCIPAL BUILDING:       such as a single family dwelling, a townhome, a twin-home, multi-family structure, or a
                                     non-residential structure for the primary use allowed in the zone designation.
                                     A building or buildings owned or used by the federal, state, county or city government,
STRUCTURE, PUBLIC BUILDING OR        or any political subdivision, agency or instrumentality, thereof, where not otherwise
COMPLEX:                             specifically defined by Hayden Municipal Code. Public buildings or complexes (not owned
                                     by the City of Hayden) shall be subject to Hayden City Code
                                     11-7-4.
                                     A tannery is the place where tanning or the process of treating skins and hides of
TANNERY/TAXIDERMY:                   animals to produce leather occurs. Taxidermy is the art of preserving an animal’s body
                                     via mounting or stuffing, for the purpose of display or study.
TAVERN, LOUNGE, BREW PUB:            A building where alcoholic beverages are sold for consumption on the premises, not
                                     including restaurants where the principal business is serving food.
TEMPORARY USES, CONSTRUCTION/        A moveable or modular structure or trailer used for the storage of construction materials
SUBDIVISION OFFICE:                  and/or the offices or work spaces for construction managers or workers during the time a
                                     principal or accessory building is being constructed.
TEMPORARY USES, HARDSHIP USE FOR     See Hayden City Code
DEPENDENT RELATIVE:                  11-2-5(I)
TEMPORARY USES, PARKING:             A temporary parking lot for non-required parking where new building construction is
                                     planned.
TEMPORARY USES, SALES TRAILER:       A moveable or modular structure or trailer temporarily used for sale of real estate
                                     within the same development.
TEMPORARY USES, SEASONAL USES:       Uses such as fireworks stands, Christmas tree lots, and food and flower stands.
THEATER:                             A building used primarily for the presentation of live stage productions, performances,
                                     or motion pictures.
TOWNHOME:                            A building designed with no more than three dwelling units. Each dwelling unit shall be
                                     platted on an individual lot.
                                     A detached single-family dwelling unit, other than a manufactured home or manufactured
                                     building with all the following:
                                     A.   Designed for long term occupancy and containing sleeping accommodations, a flush
                                     toilet, a tub or shower bath and kitchen facilities with plumbing and electrical
TRAILER HOME:                        connection for attachment to outside;
                                     B.   Designed to be transported after fabrication on its own wheels or a flatbed or other
                                     trailers or detachable wheels; and
                                     C.   Arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling complete and ready for
                                     occupancy except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location of
                                     foundation supports, connection to facilities and the like.
TRAILER, TRAVEL:                     A vehicular portable structure designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation
                                     and vacation uses.
TRANSIT TERMINAL:                    A passenger terminal or loading facility for a privately or publicly owned transit
                                     system, including a private shuttle service.
                                     An area or building where cargo is stored and where trucks, including tractors and
TRUCKING TERMINAL:                   trailer units, load and unload cargo on a regular basis. The use may include facilities
                                     for the temporary storage of loads prior to shipment. The use shall also include truck
                                     stops or fueling stations where primarily diesel fuel is sold.
                                     A facility used for the dispatch, parking, maintenance or repair of trucks that are owned
TRUCK TRANSPORT FACILITY,            by the business and that are used to transport goods from one off site location to
COMMERCIAL:                          another off site location which is located on a lot that is no greater than five acres in
                                     size. This is subject to the development standards of
                                     11-2-5 of this title.
                                     A facility used for the dispatch, parking, maintenance or repair of trucks that are owned
TRUCK TRANSPORT FACILITY,            by the business and that are used to transport goods from one off site location to
INDUSTRIAL:                          another off site location. If located on a lot that is greater than five acres in size, a
                                     special use permit shall be required. This is subject to the development standards of
                                     11-2-5 of this title.
                                     A farm or garden operated for commerce, where the growing of the produce is to be sold
URBAN FARM (GARDEN):                 (or donated in the case of not-for-profit farms) as opposed to being grown for personal
                                     consumption. An urban farm can utilize space such as raised beds, rooftops, planting
                                     boxes, etc. to maximize area within a non-agriculture zone for the farm.
                                     An activity or use so designated in any given zone, and which may occur without special
USE, PERMITTED:                      action by the Planning and Zoning Commission, subject to provisions of the zone in which
                                     it is located.
USE, PRINCIPAL:                      The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from a subordinate or accessory use.
                                     “Prohibited uses” in specific zones are those uses not specifically enumerated as
USE, PROHIBITED:                     permitted uses or conditional uses. “Prohibited uses” are listed in this title for
                                     purposes of clarity and emphasis only.
                                     A use listed among those classified in any given zone but permitted to locate only after
                                     review by the Planning and Zoning Commission and the granting of a “special use” permit
USE, CONDITIONAL (SPECIAL):          imposing such performance standards as will make the use compatible with other permitted
                                     uses in the same vicinity and zone and assure against imposing excessive demands upon
                                     public utilities and facilities.
VEHICLE CLEANING, SERVICING, REPAIR  See definition for Motor Vehicle Repair Major and Minor.
AND CUSTOMIZATION:
VEHICLE SALES:                       See definition of lot, outdoor sales.
VENDOR:                              Any person, partnership, organization or corporation who exchanges, sells, or offers for
                                     sale or exchange any personal property at a swap meet.
WELDING/SHEET METAL SHOP:            See Fabrication and Machine Shop.
WOODWORKING/ CABINET MANUFACTURING:  Woodworking is the activity or skill of making items from wood, and includes cabinet
                                     making, wood carving, joinery, carpentry, and woodturning.
 
   B.   Measurement Definitions:
ACREAGE:      Any tract or parcel of land which has not been subdivided or platted, in common
              ownership having an area of one acre or more.
AREA,         The space within the setback lines remaining on a lot after the minimum open
BUILDABLE:    space requirements of this chapter have been complied with.
AREA, GROSS
FLOOR         The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors inside the exterior
(Applying to  walls of a building or a portion thereof.
Floor Area
Ratio):
AREA, GROSS   The entire square foot area of floor space of a building which is enclosed and
FLOOR         subject to heating and/or air conditioning, less:
(Applying to  A.   Any space used and occupied by central mechanical and/or electrical
Parking       equipment, elevator, escalator, conveyors, dumbwaiters, lifts, chutes, trash
Ratio):       disposal units, and fuel storage spaces; and
              B.   Public right of way and other similar enclosed spaces open to the public.
              The vertical distance measured from the average elevation of the proposed
BUILDING      finish grade at the front of the building to the highest point of the roof for
HEIGHT:       a flat roof, to the deck line of a mansard roof or the average height of the
              highest gable of a pitch or hip roof.
BUILDING      A line established by this title to govern the placement of buildings with
LINE:         respect to highways, streets and alleys. The front line shall be the front line
              as shown upon official plats of the property in all subdivisions platted.
CALIPER:      The diameter of a tree or shrub trunk measured six inches above grade.
              A unit of measurement of the intensity (loudness) of sound. Sound level meters
DECIBEL:      which are employed to measure the intensity of sound are calibrated in
              “decibels”.
DENSITY:      A unit of measurement; the number of dwelling units per acre of land.
DENSITY,      The number of dwelling units per acre of total land to be developed including
GROSS:        public right-of-way.
              The number of dwelling units per acre of land when the acreage involved
DENSITY, NET: includes only the land devoted to residential uses, excluding public right-of-
              way.
              A.   Depth of a lot shall be considered to be the distance between the
              midpoints of straight lines connecting the foremost points of the side lot
LOT           lines in front and the rearmost points of the side lot lines in the rear; and
MEASUREMENTS: B.   Width of a lot shall be the distance between the side lot lines and, at
              any point, shall not be less than the required continuous frontage for the zone
              in which the lot resides.
              The space on a lot required to be left open and unoccupied by buildings or
SETBACK:      structures, either by the front, side, or rear yard requirements of the zoning
              ordinance or by delineation on a record subdivision map.
SIGN, GROSS   See measurement of sign area and allowable signage size in Hayden City Code 11-
AREA OF:      5.
YARD, FRONT:  A yard extending along the full length of the front lot line between the side
              lot lines.
YARD, REAR:   A yard extending along the full length of the rear lot line between the side
              lot lines.
YARD, SIDE:   A yard extending along a side lot from the front yard to the rear yard.
 
   C.   Building Definitions:
ALTERATIONS,   Any change, other than incidental repairs, which should prolong the life of the
STRUCTURAL:    supporting members of a building or structure, such as bearing walls, columns, beams
               and girders.
               That portion of a building between floor and ceiling, which is partly below and
BASEMENT:      partly above grade, but so located that the vertical distance from grade to ceiling
               is no more than six feet.
BERM:          An earthen mound designed to provide visual interest, screen undesirable views, and/
               or decrease noise.
               A combination of physical space and vertical elements, such as plants, berms, fences,
BUFFER:        or walls, the purpose of which is to separate and screen incompatible land uses from
               each other.
BUILDING:      Any structure built for support, shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, or movable
               property of any kind and which is permanently or semi-permanently fixed to the land.
BUILDING,      A building separated on all sides from the adjacent open space or from other
COMPLETELY     buildings or other structures by a permanent roof and by exterior walls or party
ENCLOSED:      walls pierced only by windows and normal entrance or exit doors.
BUILDING,      A building surrounded by an open space on the same lot.
DETACHED:
BUILDING,      A building erected prior to the effective date hereof or one for which a legal
EXISTING:      building permit has been issued.
BUILDING,      Any building which does not conform to the requirements of this title.
NONCONFORMING:
CAPACITY:      The maximum amount of people which may be contained in a building or structure.
CARPORT:       A structure open on at least two sides used to house or protect motor vehicles which
               are owned or operated by the occupants of the principal building.
DECIDUOUS:     A plant with foliage that is shed annually.
EVERGREEN:     Any broadleaf or coniferous tree, shrub, or ground cover that holds foliage year
               round.
GARAGE,        A building or portion thereof, except a public garage, used or designed to be used
PRIVATE:       for the storage of motor vehicles.
GRASSY SWALE:  A shallow, grassed, linear depression with gently sloping sides used as percolation
               areas to treat stormwater runoff in conjunction with dry wells.
               Ground covers are low growing plants used in the landscape to cover large areas of
               ground. They are often used to create blankets of foliage in and around shrubs and
               trees to unify the landscape or as a filler between features such as stepping stones,
               shrubs and trees. In addition, they are for erosion control on slopes or banks, or as
               a lawn substitute in areas too shady to support the growth of turf grasses. This
GROUND COVER:  group of plants encompasses everything from vines to low growing perennials and
               shrubs, but does not generally include turf grasses. Heights range from one inch to
               24" tall. Some fast growing annuals can also be considered ground covers for large
               flowerbeds. Ground cover shall be of live plant material. Gravel, colored rock, walk
               on bark, and similar materials shall be used in combination with a living ground
               cover in all non-turf areas as a mulch to control weeds and conserve or retain water
               until a living ground cover has achieved the coverage desired.
               Any building or building components, other than a mobile home, which is constructed
MANUFACTURED   according to standards contained in the Building Code as adopted or amendments
BUILDING:      thereto, which is of closed construction and is either entirely or substantially
               prefabricated or assembled at a place other than the building site.
PLANTING AREA: An area of land to be planted such that it will be fully utilized under the
               conditions of this section.
               The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing building for the purpose of
REPAIR:        its maintenance. The word “repair” or “repairs” shall not apply to any other change
               in structure such as would be required by additions to or remodeling of such
               structure.
               A method of reducing the impact of noise and unsightly intrusions with less offensive
SCREEN:        or more harmonious elements, such as plants, berms, fences, walls, or an appropriate
               combination thereof.
SHRUB:         A woody plant, smaller than a tree, consisting of several small stems from the ground
               or small branches near the ground, may be deciduous or evergreen.
STORY:         Must conform to the definition and provisions therein of “story”, as stated in the
               definitions and abbreviations chapter of the building code.
STORY, FIRST:  Must conform to the definition and provisions therein of “story, first”, as stated in
               the definitions and abbreviations chapter of the building code.
               An object constructed or erected which requires location on the ground or is attached
STRUCTURE:     to something having a location on the ground, including towers, smokestacks, overhead
               transmission lines, but not including fences or walls used as fences less than eight
               feet in height.
 
   D.   Miscellaneous Definitions:
              A change in the wording, context or substance of this title, or change of the zone
AMENDMENT:    boundaries upon the zoning map, which map is part of this title when adopted by
              resolution, passed by the City Council in the manner prescribed herein.
              A point of access onto a publicly dedicated and maintained road for which approval
APPROACH:     has been given by the City, the appropriate highway district or the Idaho
              Transportation Department.
COMPREHENSIVE A plan, or any portion adopted by the City Council including such things as the
PLAN:         general location and extent of present and proposed housing, commercial uses,
              transportation, parks and other community facilities.
DENSITY       The requirements for each land use district to encourage, protect and preserve the
PROVISIONS:   health, safety and general welfare of the area through standards which include
              yards, height, bulk, lot area, lot coverage and occupancy limitations.
              One who is related by direct bloodline, marriage, adoption, unmarried partner
DEPENDENT     relationship or court ordered guardianship, and has been determined by a licensed
RELATIVE:     physician to be physically or mentally incapable of caring for themselves and/or
              their property.
              A vehicular access to a lot or lots that provides vehicular and pedestrian access
              to a maximum of five dwelling units located on privately owned property. All
DRIVEWAY:     access shall meet the requirements of Northern Lakes Fire Protection District and
              City of Hayden design standards, policies, and City code. Such driveways may
              require ingress and egress, stormwater and utility easements,
ENGINEER,     The engineer who reviews permit applications for the City of Hayden, Idaho.
CITY:
              An individual or two or more persons related by blood, marriage, or legal
              adoption, or a group of not more than five unrelated persons, excluding servants;
FAMILY:       or any combination of related and unrelated persons producing an aggregate of no
              more than five persons living together as a single housekeeping unit in a single
              dwelling unit.
HEALTH        The Panhandle Health District (Region I).
DISTRICT:
HIGHWAY       The agencies which have jurisdiction over secondary roads in Kootenai County.
DISTRICT:     Authority results from the powers vested by Idaho Code, title 40, chapter 6.
              For purposes of this title, a “lot” is a parcel of land of at least sufficient
              size to meet minimum zoning requirements for use, coverage, and area, and to
              provide such yards and other open spaces as are herein required. The act of the
              county assessor assigning a parcel number to land does not create a lot of record.
              Such lot shall conform to the provisions of section 11-2 of this title, and may
              consist of:
LOT:          A.   A single lot of record;
              B.   A portion of a lot of record;
              C.   A combination of complete lots of record, of complete lots of record and
              portions of lots of record, or of portions of lots of record; or
              D.   A parcel of land described by metes and bounds, provided that in no case of
              division or combination shall any residential lot or parcel be created which does
              not meet the requirements of this title.
LOT, CORNER:  A lot which is bound on two or more sides by street lines; where the angle of
              intersection does not exceed one hundred 135°.
LOT COVERAGE: The area of a lot occupied by the principal building or buildings and accessory
              buildings.
LOT,          A lot other than a corner lot or reversed corner lot.
INTERIOR:
              Nonrectangular lots, lots with three sides or more than four sides, and other
              nonstandard lots requiring special measurement techniques in order to achieve the
LOT,          purpose of setback requirements, i.e., the appropriate separation of structures
IRREGULAR:    from streets and other properties. Setbacks for irregular lots shall be determined
              by the community development director or his/her designee and shall be in general
              conformance with the pattern of setbacks of the adjacent properties.
              The boundary property line encompassing a lot. The front lot line is the boundary
              line which abuts a public or private street. For a corner lot, the owner may
LOT LINE:     select either street line as the front lot line. The rear lot line is the lot line
              or line most nearly parallel to and most remote from the front property line. All
              other lot lines are side lot lines. An interior lot line is a side line in common
              with another lot.
              A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office of the county
LOT OF        recorder, or a lot or parcel described by metes and bounds, the description of
RECORD:       which has been so recorded. The act of the county assessor assigning a parcel
              number to land does not create a lot of record.
              An open, graded and surfaced area, other than a street or public way, to be used
LOT, PARKING: for the storage, for limited periods of time, of operable passenger automobiles
              and commercial vehicles, and available to the public, whether for compensation,
              free or as an accommodation to clients or customers. “Surfaced area”
LOT, REVERSED A corner lot, the rear of which abuts upon the side of another lot, whether across
CORNER:       an alley or not.
              A lot other than a corner lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately
LOT, THROUGH: parallel streets. On a through lot both street lines shall be deemed as front lot
              lines.
LOT,          A lot or parcel that adjoins or abuts the high water mark of a lake, river or
WATERFRONT:   stream.
NOISE:        The intensity, duration and character of sounds, from any and all sources.
              A building, or portion thereof, which was lawfully erected or altered and
NONCONFORMING maintained at the time this title was adopted, but which because of the
BUILDINGS:    application of this title to it, no longer conforms to the use, height, or area
              regulations of the zone in which it is located.
NOXIOUS       A material which is capable of causing injury to living organisms by chemical
MATTER:       reaction or is capable of causing detrimental effects upon the physical or
              economic well- being of individuals.
NUISANCE:     A use of property or course or conduct that interferes with the legal rights of
              others by causing damage, annoyance or inconvenience.
OPEN SPACE:   Any open area, including, but not limited to, the following: parks, yards,
              playgrounds, beaches, waterways, parkways, and streets.
PARCEL:       A unit of land of contiguous quantity in the ownership of one person and
              constituting a portion of a separate tract of land.
PARTICULATE   Any material except uncombined water that exists in a finely divided form as a
MATTER:       liquid or solid at standard conditions of temperature and pressure.
              Including boats and boat travel trailers, pickup campers or coaches (designed to
RECREATIONAL  be mounted on automotive vehicles), motorized dwellings, tent trailers, and the
EQUIPMENT:    like, and cases or boxes used for transporting recreational equipment, whether
              occupied by such equipment or not.
SIGN:         See Hayden City Code
              11-5-3.
SIGN,         See Hayden City Code
TEMPORARY:    11-5-3.
SPACE, OFF    Open off street hard surfaced area of land other than a street as a public way,
STREET        the principal use of which is for the standing, loading and unloading of motor
LOADING AND   vehicles, tractors and trailers to avoid undue interference with public streets
UNLOADING:    and alleys.
              A public right of way which provides vehicular and pedestrian access to adjacent
              properties, the dedication of which has been officially accepted by the City of
STREET:       Hayden. The term “street” also includes the terms highway, thoroughfare, parkway,
              road, avenue, boulevard, lane, place, and may be classified in the transportation
              plan with a typical section as arterial, collector, local, or alley street
              section.
              A privately owned and maintained right of way that provides vehicular and
              pedestrian access. This definition does not include emergency access roads,
STREET,       driveways serving no more than five dwelling units, driveways to nonoccupiable
PRIVATE:      utility infrastructure, internal circulation roads within multi-family dwelling
              complexes, aisleways within shared parking lots, alleys, and private streets in
              existence prior to the effective date hereof.
TOXIC         Those materials which are capable of causing injury to living organisms by
MATERIALS:    chemical means when present in relatively small amounts.
              A modification of the requirements of the Zoning Ordinance as to the lot size, lot
              coverage, width, depth, front yard, side yard, rear yard, setbacks, parking space,
              height of buildings, or other ordinance provision affecting the size or shape of a
              structure or the placement of the structure upon lots, or the size of lots. A
VARIANCE:     variance shall not be considered a right or special privilege, but may be granted
              to an applicant only upon a showing of undue hardship because of characteristics
              of the site and that the variance is not in conflict with the public interest.
              Prior to granting a variance, notice and an opportunity to be heard shall be
              provided to property owners adjoining the parcel under consideration.
YARD:         An open space other than a court, on a lot, unoccupied and unobstructed from the
              ground upward, except as otherwise provided in this title. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
 
11-1-3: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS:
    A.   Purpose: The purpose and intent of this section is to encourage
private participation in comprehensive planning and allow for zoning amendments
that are designed to address the specific character of a parcel of property,
the needs of the surrounding neighborhood and the public infrastructure needs,
by placing conditions upon that zoning amendment that provide for mitigation of
the impact of development upon the community.
   B.   Authority: In the event that a requested amendment to the zoning
designation of a parcel of property will, in the opinion of the City Council,
have a substantial impact on the public infrastructure or will require
buffering between the subject parcel and adjacent neighborhood if the request
were to be granted, the City Council is hereby authorized to condition approval
of the zoning amendment upon a written development agreement providing for
mitigation of the impact on the infrastructure and the property surrounding the
subject parcel.
   C.   Form of Agreement: The development agreement shall be in a form
approved by the City Council. It shall specify the duration of the agreement,
the permitted uses of the property, the density or intensity of use, the
maximum height and size of proposed buildings, provisions for reservation or
dedication of land for public purposes, buffering requirements and
infrastructure improvement requirements that are necessary to mitigate the
impact of the zone change. The development agreement may include conditions,
terms, restrictions and requirements for discretionary actions, provided, that
such conditions, terms, restrictions and requirements for discretionary actions
shall not prevent development of the land for the uses and to the density or
intensity of development set forth in the agreement. The agreement may provide
that construction shall be commenced within a specified time and that the
project or any phase thereof be completed within a specified time.
   D.   Recording: All development agreements shall be recorded at the expense
of the subject property owner and the terms of the agreement shall run with the
land and be binding on subsequent property owners.
   E.   Modification and Termination: Development agreements may not be amended
or terminated without the City first providing notice and holding a public
hearing pursuant to the hearing procedures for adoption of the Comprehensive
Plan under the Local Planning Act.
   F.   Enforcement: If the property owner fails to comply with the terms of
the development agreement, the City Council may, following notice and public
hearing, terminate the agreement and reverse the zoning designation. The City
Council is also authorized to enforce the terms of the agreement through civil
action for injunctive relief.
   G.   Periodic Review: Compliance with the development agreement may be
reviewed on a periodic basis following the procedures set forth herein:
      1.   Written notice of the periodic review shall be given in writing to
the property owner of the subject property at least 15 days in advance of the
time at which the review will be conducted.
      2.   An investigation will be conducted as to whether or not there has
been good faith compliance.
      3.   If the person who is authorized by the City to conduct the
investigation finds that there has not been such compliance, written findings
shall be provided to the City Administrator together with a recommendation as
to whether the development agreement should be terminated or modified or
enforced as written.
      4.   Upon receipt of the findings and recommendation, the matter shall be
placed on the Council agenda for public hearing pursuant to the notice and
hearing procedures set out in the Local Planning Act for adoption of the
comprehensive plan.
      5.   Nothing in this section is intended to preclude a review on a more
frequent basis upon the receipt by the City of a complaint that the terms of
the development agreement have been violated.
   H.   Discretionary Authority: Approval of a zoning amendment under this
section is at the discretion of the City Council. The City Council may set fees
to cover costs of processing the development of such an agreement. (Ord. 619,
4-13-2021)
11-1-4: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   In the interpretation and application of the provisions of this title
the requirements will be held to be minimum requirements. When this title
imposes a greater restriction upon the use of buildings or premises or requires
larger spaces than are imposed by other codes, resolutions, rules and
regulations, or covenants, the provisions of this title shall control. The
provisions of this title shall be interpreted as shown on the official zoning
map on file in the City Clerk’s Office, in compliance with this title as
adopted and the City of Hayden Comprehensive Plan.
   B.   Application: Applications shall be submitted online electronically to
the Community Development Department and/or the designee of the Department. The
submittal will request sufficient and detailed information to assist the staff
and other decision- making bodies with determining if the application is
consistent with the standards of approval for the related action.. All
applications shall be signed by the property owner or their duly authorized
agent, so signified by filing an affidavit of representation. The application
shall be accompanied by a certificate of a title insurance company licensed
under the laws of the State of Idaho dated no later than 30 days prior to the
date of application.
   C.   Schedule Of Fees, Charges And Expenses: The Council shall establish by
resolution a schedule of fees, charges and expenses and a collection procedure
for the various permits and approvals related to the administration and
enforcement of this title requiring investigations, inspections and reporting,
application processing and reviews, meetings, legal advertising, postage, staff
reports, hearings, written decisions, legal assistance, and other expenses. The
schedule of fees shall be retained in the Office of the City Clerk and may be
altered or amended only by the Council. Until all applicable fees, charges and
expenses have been paid in full, no action shall be taken on any application or
appeal. The cost of the title reports, postage, mailings and other items as
specified in the adopted fee schedule shall be the sole responsibility of the
applicant.
   D.   Hearing Notices:
      1.   Written Notices: All required written notices under this title shall
provide at a minimum the following information:
         a.   The address of the property, or another general description by
which the public can identify the property;
         b.   The present land use of the property;
         c.   A description of the proposed action; and
         d.   The date, time and place of the public hearing (if applicable).
      2.   Notice Signs: The applicant shall pay for the installation of the
public notice sign to be placed by the City that meets the following
specifications:
         a.   The sign shall contain the following information:
            (1)   The first line shall read “NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING”;
            (2)   A description of the proposed action; and
            (3)   The date, time and place of the public hearing. The lettering
shall be of sufficient size to be easily readable to the motoring public;
         b.   The sign shall be installed on the property adjacent to the most
heavily traveled public way;
         c.   The sign shall be of sufficient size and location to be easily
readable by the motoring public;
         d.   The sign shall be posted and maintained on-site by the applicant
for the time period specified in this Code for the related application; and
         e.   The City shall remove the sign no later than seven days following
the public hearing.
   E.   Enforcement: All departments, officials and employees of the City of
Hayden vested with the duty of authority to issue permits shall conform to the
provisions of this title; and any such permit or approval issued in conflict
with the provisions of this title shall be null and void. It shall be the duty
of the Community Development Director and/or their designee, to enforce the
provisions of this title pertaining to the erection, construction,
reconstruction, moving, conversion, alteration, addition, location or use of
any building or structure.
   F.   Violations:
      1.   All new construction, building improvements, alterations, or
enlargements, and all new or altered uses of land, undertaken after the
effective date hereof, and all new uses or occupancy of premises within the
City, shall conform with the requirements, character, and conditions as to use,
height, and area for each of the several zones as described in this title. No
person shall design, erect, construct, establish, move into, alter, enlarge, or
use, or cause or permit to erected, constructed, established, moved into,
altered, enlarged, or used, any building, structure, improvement, or use of
premises located in any zone described in this title in any manner contrary to
the provisions herein.
      2.   Any person(s), firm or corporation violating any of the provisions
of this title shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and each such person
shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion
thereof during which any violation of any of the provisions of this title is
committed, continued, or permitted. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-1-5: NOTICE OF VIOLATION AND STOP WORK ORDER:
   A.   Noncompliance: The City shall not issue permits unless existing and
intended structures, the parcel of land, and uses of the buildings and land,
conform in all respects with the applicable provisions of this Code. Whenever
any construction or site work is not in compliance with this title, specific
conditions of approval, or other related laws, ordinances or requirements, the
City may issue a Notice of Violation and order any work stopped by written
notice. Such Notice of Violation or Stop Work Order may be served on any
persons engaged in doing or causing such work to be done, and upon such
service, persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by the City to
proceed. If no persons are present, the Stop Work Order shall be posted in a
conspicuous location at the site.
   B.   Notice of Violation: A copy of the Notice of Violation shall be mailed
to the property owner of record and any known holder of any legal interest in
the property, if applicable. The notification shall include:
      1.   The property owner and the legal description of the parcel, as well
as the street address, if any;
      2.   A detailed description of the nature of the violation;
      3.   A description of remedial actions that could be undertaken to
resolve the violation; and
      4.   The length of time allotted to resolve the violation.
      The property owner shall have 45 days from the date the Notice of
Violation was mailed to resolve the violation. If resolution does not occur
within those 45 days, the Notice of Violation may be recorded in the Office of
the County Recorder, with a copy mailed to the owner.
   C.   Appeals: The Notice of Violation shall also advise the owner of the
process for appeals of Notices of Violation and Stop Work Orders. An owner or a
holder of any legal interest in the property may appeal a Notice of Violation
or Stop Work Order pursuant to section
1-1-5 of this Code. The appeal shall be heard in accordance with subsection
1-1-5(B) of this Code. If the appeal is denied (i.e., the action is affirmed),
the City Council shall specify an exact number of days to gain compliance with
this title before the Notice of Violation is recorded, and may add or remove
conditions of remedial action. If the appeal is approved (i.e., the action is
reversed), the City Council shall specify actions to be taken to release the
violation.
   D.   Fees: Prior to or at such time as a violation is resolved, the owner
shall pay the fee specified in the current adopted fee schedule unless the
enforcement action was reversed by the City Council or a court of competent
jurisdiction. Upon payment of such fees or a determination that payment of fees
is not necessary, the City shall cause a Release of Notice of Violation to be
recorded in the Office of the County Recorder. The release shall contain all of
the information contained in the Notice of Violation, as well as the corrective
action taken to resolve the violation. A copy of the release shall be mailed to
the owner.
   E.   Complaints: Any affected person may file a written complaint alleging
that a violation of this Code has occurred. Such complaint, stating fully the
causes and basis thereof, shall be filed with the City Clerk. The City shall
investigate the allegations made in the complaint, and, if it appears that
there is reasonable cause to find that the alleged violation did occur, shall
take action thereon as provided in this chapter.
   F.   Penalties: Penalties for failure to comply with or violations of the
provisions of Title 9 (Building Regulations), 10 (Land Use & Development), 11
(Zoning Regulations), or 12 (Subdivision Regulations) of this Code shall be as
follows:
      1.   A first violation of any of the provisions of title 9, 10, or 11 of
this Code, or failure to comply with any of their requirements shall constitute
an infraction punishable as set forth in subsection
1-3-1 (B) of this Code.
      2.   A second or subsequent conviction for violation of any of the
provisions of title 9, 10, or 11 of this Code, or failure to comply with any of
their requirements within 12 months of the first violation shall constitute a
misdemeanor punishable as set forth in subsection
1-3-1(C) of this Code, with a maximum fine of $1000.00 and 180 days in jail.
      3.   Each day on which a violation continues shall be considered a
separate violation for purposes of both civil and criminal action. The
landowner, tenant, sub divider, builder, or any other person(s) who commits,
participates in, assists in, or maintains such violation may be found guilty of
a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City Council or
any other public official or private citizen from taking such lawful action as
is necessary to restrain or prevent any violation of title 9, 10 or 11 of this
Code, or of Idaho Code.
   G.   The City Attorney or other attorney who represents the City may also
take civil action in District Court to prevent, restrain, correct, or abate any
action taken, or which may be taken, in violation of title 9, 10, 11, or 12 of
this Code, to vacate any subdivision or condominium plat recorded in violation
of title 12 of this Code, or to otherwise enforce the provisions of this Code.
In addition to other actions that may be ordered by the court, if the City
prevails, the violator shall pay to the City all fees associated with the
violation then due and owing. The City may also seek the imposition of a civil
penalty in an amount not to exceed $1,000.00 per violation per day, with a
total maximum civil penalty of $10,000.00.
   H.   In cases where multiple individuals, firms, corporations or agents
participated in violating Title 9, 10 or 11 of this Code, they may be held
jointly and severally liable for any remedies, penalties or payments.
   I.   The City may withhold issuance of permits for subdivisions, lots, or
parcels of land that are in violation of any provision of Title 9, 10, 11, or
12 of this Code. Withholding of permits may be appealed in accordance with
section 1-1-5 of this Code. Applications for approvals authorized by this title
will not be scheduled for hearing until all violations of this Code are
corrected, except when the purpose of the approval is to correct the violations
of this Code then existing. These requirements may be appealed in accordance
with section
1-1-5 of this Code. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-1-6: OFFICIAL ZONE DISTRICT MAP: ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES:
   A.   The City is hereby divided into zones, as shown on the official zoning
map, which, together with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this title. If, in accordance with the
provisions of this title, changes are made in zone boundaries or other matter
portrayed on the official zoning district map, such changes shall be entered on
the official zoning district map promptly after the amendment has been approved
by the Council.
      1.   No changes of any nature shall be made in the official zoning
district map or matter shown thereon except in conformity with the procedures
set forth in this title. Any unauthorized changes of whatever kind by any
person or persons shall be considered a violation of this title.
      2.   Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the official
zoning district map which may from time to time be made or published, the
official zoning district map which shall be located in the Office of the City
Clerk shall be the final authority as to the current zoning status of land and
water area, buildings and other structures in the City.
      3.   In the event that the official zoning district map becomes damaged,
destroyed, lost or difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of
changes and additions, the Council may by resolution adopt a new official
zoning district map which shall supersede the prior official zoning district
map. The new official zoning district map may correct drafting or other errors
or omissions in the prior official zoning district map, but no such corrections
shall have the effect of amending the original official zoning district map or
any subsequent amendment thereof. Map shall contain the following statement:
“This is to verify that this Official Zoning District Map supersedes and
replaces the Official Zoning District Map adopted (date of adoption of map
being replaced).”
      4.   Unless the prior official zoning district map has been lost, or has
been totally destroyed, the prior map or any significant parts thereof
remaining, shall be preserved, together with all available records pertaining
to its adoption or amendment.
   B.   Rules For Interpretation Of Zone Boundaries: When uncertainty exists as
to the boundaries of a zone as shown on the official zoning district map, the
following rules shall apply to zone boundaries:
Approximately Following Shall Be Construed To Follow
Approximately Following                          Shall Be Construed To Follow
Centerline of streets, highways or alleys        The centerlines
Platted lot lines                                The lot lines
City limits                                      City limits
Railroad lines                                   Midway between the main tracks
Shorelines                                       Actual shorelines
Centerline of streams, rivers, canals, lakes, or The centerlines
other bodies of water
Township or section lines                        Township or section lines
 
      1.   Boundaries indicated as parallel to extensions of features indicated
in the table of this section, shall be so construed.;
      2.   When physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the official zoning district map, or in the other
circumstances not covered in the table of this section, the Council shall
interpret the district or zone boundaries;
      3.   Where a zone boundary line divides a lot which was in single
ownership at the time of passage hereof, the Council may permit, as a special
exception, the extension of the regulations for either portion of the lot not
to exceed fifty feet (50') beyond the district or zone into the remaining
portion of the lot.
   C.   Application Of Zone Regulations: The regulations set by this title
within each zone shall be minimum regulations and shall apply uniformly to each
class or kind of structure or land use. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-1-7: AMENDMENTS:
Whenever the public necessity, convenience, and general welfare or good zoning
practices require, the City Council may, by ordinance and subject to procedures
provided by law, amend, supplement, change or repeal the regulations,
restrictions and boundaries or classification of property.
   A.   New And Unlisted Uses: It is recognized that new types of land use will
develop and forms of land use not anticipated may seek to locate in the City of
Hayden. In order to provide for such changes and contingencies, a determination
as to the appropriate classification of any new or unlisted use, or a use for
which the Community Development Director cannot make a determination that it is
similar to other uses, and therefore is a prohibited form of land use, shall be
made as follows:
      1.   The question concerning any new or unlisted use shall be accompanied
by a statement of facts listing the nature of the use, including, but not
limited to, whether it involves dwelling activity, sales, processing, type of
project, storage, enclosed or open storage, anticipated employment and the
amount of noise, odor, fumes, dust, toxic materials and vibration likely to be
generated;
      2.   The Council shall consider the nature and describe the performance
of the proposed use and its compatibility with the uses permitted in the
various districts and determine the type of zone within which such use should
be permitted.
   B.   Amendment To Zoning Map: An amendment to change the zoning map may be
initiated by the council, or an application to amend the zoning map may be made
by the owner or contract buyer of the subject property by filing an application
and a petition electronically with the Community Development Department as
specified herein. Application fees, advertisement and notice costs shall be
paid by the applicant.
   C.   Amendment To Text Of Zoning Ordinance: An amendment to the text of the
zoning ordinance may be initiated by the City Council, or an application to
amend the text may be made by filing an application and petition in writing
filed electronically with the Community Development Department as specified
herein. Application fees, advertisement and notice costs shall be paid by the
petitioner.
   D.   Application For Zone Map Change: Application for amendments to the
official zoning map shall contain at least the following information:
      1.   Name, address and telephone number of applicant;
      2.   Present land use;
      3.   Present zoning district;
      4.   Proposed land use;
      5.   Proposed zoning district;
      6.   A vicinity map (drawn to a readable scale) showing property lines,
thoroughfares, linear feet measurements for all parcels of land within three
hundred feet (300') beyond, excluding streets and alleys, of the external
boundaries of the land being considered, and the existing zoning district for
each parcel;
      7.   A list of all property owners and purchasers and their mailing
addresses who are within 300' of the external boundaries, streets and alleys
excluded, of the land being considered and keyed to the vicinity map;
      8.   A certificate of a reputable title insurance company licensed under
the laws of the state of Idaho, listing the names and addresses of the record
owners or contract purchasers as shown by the records of the office of the
county recorder, and all persons to whom the property is assessed upon the tax
rolls of the county assessor of Kootenai County within the land being
considered. The cost of the title report shall be the sole responsibility of
the applicant.
      9.   A statement on how the proposed amendment meets the standards of
approval specified in subsection 11-1-7(E)(6) of this chapter.
   E.   Amendment Procedures:
      1.   Agency and Public Notice: Once the City staff has reviewed the
application and the staff has determined that the application is complete and
that sufficient information regarding the proposal can be provided, notice will
be provided to involved public agencies, as identified by the City. This notice
shall allow 14 days for agency comment and the results of the agency comment
shall accompany and be incorporated in summary in the staff report. At least 15
days prior to the hearing notice of the amendment, shall be published in the
official newspaper of the City of Hayden, and additional notice by first class
mail shall be provided to property owners and purchasers within 300', excluding
streets and alleys, of the external boundaries of the land being considered;
and any additional area that may be impacted by the proposed change as
determined by the Council. When notice is required to 200 or more property
owners or purchasers of record, notice may be given through a display
advertisement at least four inches by two columns in size in the official
newspaper of the City at least 15 days prior to the hearing date, in addition
to site posting on all external boundaries of the site, in lieu of mailed
notice.
      2.   Planning and Zoning Commission Public Hearing: At, or prior to, the
public hearing, the City staff will provide a report to the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
      3.   Planning and Zoning Commission Recommendation: After the Planning
and Zoning Commission has reviewed the amendment at the public hearing, the
commission shall forward a written recommendation to the City Council. The
commission shall recommend approval or disapproval of the amendment as soon as
practicable.
      4.   City Council Public Hearing: No additional agency notice shall be
required in advance of this public hearing, unless the Planning and Zoning
Commission recommendation consists of a material change from what was
requested. All other noticing requirements shall follow those identified in 11-
1-7(E)(1). At, or prior to, the public hearing, the City staff will provide a
report to the City Council.
      5.   City Council Decision: Upon receipt of the Written Recommendation
from the Planning and Zoning Commission, and public hearing notice, the
amendment request will be placed on the next available City Council agenda. The
City Council, upon receipt of the recommendations from the Planning and Zoning
Commission, and after opportunity to review the file and minutes from the
Planning and Zoning Commission public hearing, and after receiving testimony at
a public hearing with the City Council shall act upon the request.
         a.   The City Council prior to adopting, revising, or rejecting the
amendment to the zoning ordinance or map, and having made no material change
from what was presented at the Planning and Zoning Commission and/or City
Council public hearing, shall make a decision.
         b.   Upon granting or denying an application to amend the text of the
zoning ordinance or the zoning map, the City Council shall specify in writing:
            (1)   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the
application;
            (2)   The reasons for approval or denial; and
            (3)   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain
a permit.
         c.   In the event that City Council shall approve an amendment, such
an amendment shall thereafter be made a part of this title upon the preparation
and passage of an ordinance and/or the City zone map duly amended as identified
by the decision.
      6.   Additional Public Hearing: Following the City Council’s public
meeting hearing, if the City Council makes a material change from what was
presented at the public hearing(s), further notice and an additional public
hearing shall be provided before the City Council makes a final decision.
      7.   Standards Of Approval: If the request meets the following standards
of approval, the City Council may adopt the ordinance amendment:
         a.   The Commission shall consider the existing zoning district or
regulations, and may recommend approval, conditional approval, modification, or
denial of the proposal or the commission may defer action until completion of
such studies or plans as may be necessary to determine the advisability of the
proposal.
         b.   The City Council may impose conditions upon rezoning where such
conditions are required to ensure that proposed uses of the area are consistent
with community needs and its public health, safety, and general welfare. The
Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend conditions upon rezoning for the
City Council’s consideration.
         c.   Amendments to the zone map and zone text shall be in accordance
with the Future Land Use Map and the goals and policies found in the Hayden
Comprehensive Plan.
         d.   Amendments to the zone map and zone text shall align with the
zone district’s purpose and intent.
         e.   Amendment to the zone map and zone text shall be consistent with
the neighborhood contexts.
      8.   Amendment to Comprehensive Plan: If the request is not in accordance
with the adopted comprehensive plan, the City Council may adopt or reject an
amendment to the comprehensive plan under the notice and hearing procedures
provided in section 67-6509, Idaho Code. After the comprehensive plan has been
amended as hereinafter provided for, the City Council shall hold a public
hearing and make a decision on the proposed zoning amendment. (Ord. 619, 4-13-
2021; amd. Ord. 631, 5-10-2022; Ord. 645, 3-23-2023)
11-1-8: EXCEPTION REQUEST:
   A.   Application for an exception from a particular provision, regulation,
or design standard may be made as an administrative exception. Neither the
number, size, location nor maintenance of existing parking and loading spaces
shall be altered or reduced below the requirements specified for the use except
if authorized with the approval of an exception request. Application fees for
administrative exceptions are as per the current fee schedule adopted by the
City Council.
   B.   Modifications that are considered to be minor in nature, as determined
by the Community Development Director or his/her designee shall not require
application or payment of fees.
   C.   Exceptions may be considered for the number and/or type of required
parking spaces and loading spaces, the location of the parking area with
respect to the facility being served, and/or design standards for items such
as, lighting, landscaping, parking, circulation, etc. Exception requests for
more than thirty five percent (35%) of the required standard shall be subject
to an open public meeting before the Planning and Zoning Commission. Exception
requests for more than fifty percent (50%) of the required standard shall be
subject to a public hearing process before the Planning and Zoning Commission
as identified in Hayden City Code
11-1-7E.1.
   D.   Exceptions and minor modifications may only be granted based upon the
following findings:
      1.   The requested exception is based upon a unique character or feature
of the property or use, which does not generally apply to other properties or
similar uses subject to the requirement from which an exception is sought;
      2.   The requested exception will not be injurious to the public safety
and welfare;
      3.   If approved, the requested exception or minor modification will be
equally protective of the public interest, and will otherwise achieve the
identified purposes of this chapter; and
      4.   If a reduction in required parking is requested, the applicant has
provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the off street parking
proposed will be adequate to meet the needs of the present use, and likely
future uses; such evidence may include, but is not limited to, a consideration
of on street parking available to serve the subject property.
   E.   Decisions of the Community Development Director or his/her designee or
Planning and Zoning Commission may be appealed to City Council as provided for
in this title. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-1-9: APPEAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE DECISION:
   A.   General Provisions:
      1.   The Council shall hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there
is error in any order, requirement, recommendation or determination made by
department officials and employees in the enforcement of this title;
      2.   Appeals to the Council concerning interpretation or administration
of this title may be taken by any person aggrieved.
   B.   Procedures:
      1.   Appeals shall be filed within a reasonable period of time, not to
exceed 65 days, in accordance with
1-1-5 of this code;
      2.   Notice of Appeal: Notice of an appeal shall be provided by the same
means applicable to the original application.
      3.   Optional Stay of Action: At the hearing, any affected party may
appear in person, by agent or attorney.
      4.   At the hearing, any affected party may appear in person, by agent or
attorney.
   C.   Appeal Stay Proceedings: An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance
of the action appealed from, unless the Council, after the notice of appeal is
filed with it, that by reason of facts stated in the appeal, a stay would, in
their opinion cause imminent peril to life and property. In such cases,
proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a restraining order which may be
granted by the courts after having due cause shown.
   D.   Process Of Appeal: It is the intent of this title that all appeals
involving interpretation and enforcement shall first be presented to the
Council of the City of Hayden and that recourse from the decision of the
Council shall be to the courts as provided by law. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
CHAPTER 2
ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Restrictions And Uses Prohibited
11-2-2: Purpose Of Each Zone District
11-2-3: Site Area And Building Setback Requirements - Table
11-2-4: Uses Permitted, Conditional Use Permit, Development Standards Cross
Reference
11-2-5: Development Standards Specific To Type Of Use
11-2-6: Central Business District
11-2-7: Neighborhood Commercial Nodes
11-2-8: Mixed Use Design Standards
11-2-9: Residential Multi-Family Zone
11-2-9-1: Term
11-2-9-2: Purpose
11-2-9-3: Restrictions
11-2-9-4: Site Area
11-2-9-5: Uses Permitted
11-2-9-6: Uses Prohibited
11-2-9-7: Building Setback Requirements
11-2-9-8: Special Uses
11-2-1: RESTRICTIONS AND USES PROHIBITED:
   A.   Restrictions: No building or premises shall be used, nor shall any
building or structure hereafter be erected or altered (unless provided in this
title) except for one or more of the following uses in accordance with the
following standards; provided, however, that those standards shall not be in
conflict with Idaho Code.
   B.   Uses Prohibited: Any use not explicitly permitted or conditionally
permitted through a conditional use permit, unless determined to be similar by
the City, in the zoning district is prohibited. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-2-2: PURPOSE OF EACH ZONE DISTRICT:
The comprehensive plan outlines the preferred land uses that will shape the
city. The future land use map of the comprehensive plan outlines a picture of
Hayden through the designation of land into eight different categories, and
these categories are defined as follows:
Zone (abbreviation) Description
Zone (abbreviation)            Description
                               The Agriculture zone provides for activity which
                               generally occurs on the outskirts of Hayden,
Agriculture (A)                where large, undeveloped lots are primarily used
                               for farming and agricultural pursuits as defined
                               herein.
                               The Commercial zone provides for most types of
Commercial (C)                 businesses, as well as, for retail and wholesale
                               sales and service.
                               The Light Industrial zone provides for light
                               manufacturing, processing and distribution, and
Light Industrial (LI)          wholesale/retail sales in an environment that is
                               clean, quiet and free of noise, odor, dust and
                               smoke.
                               The Mixed Residential zone provides for a range
                               of residential structures, including single
Mixed Residential (MR)         family, two-family, and three-family dwelling
                               units as well as accessory dwelling units on
                               individual lots.
                               The Mixed Use zone provides for both residential
                               multi-family (four units or more per structure)
Mixed Use (MU)                 and commercial land use types, creating a
                               flexible environment for either one or the other
                               or both.
                               The Recreation zone provides for parks and open
Recreation                     space that provide opportunities for public
                               enjoyment of the outdoors.
                               The Residential Suburban zone provides for
Residential Suburban (RS)      single family residential on larger lots and
                               minimal agricultural uses.
                               The Single Family Residential zone provides for
                               the classic Hayden neighborhood where single
Single Family Residential (R1) family homes on smaller lots are permitted.
                               Accessory dwelling units are permitted, but two-
                               family dwellings are not.
 
Throughout the City of Hayden are two types of overlay districts which are
intended to supplement the underlying land use or community areas. The two
types of overlay districts are the Central Business District and the
Neighborhood Commercial Node. The overlay districts intent are defined below:
 
Overlay      Intent
District
Central      The Central Business District is intended to provide supplemental land
Business     use, development and design standards that promote a pedestrian oriented
District     mix of commercial uses, including small scale retail, restaurants, and
(CBD)        professional services with residential uses intermixed, within the
             community center in support of a sustainable “downtown” business core.
             The Neighborhood Commercial Nodes are intended to be at street
             intersections that typically feature a handful of small- and medium-sized
Neighborhood businesses; where the intersections primarily serve the needs of the
Commercial   immediate surrounding area. The character of the node is defined by the
Node (NCN)   limited scale of businesses operating in these locations; and they
             maintain a building typology and pedestrian orientation that is
             appropriate for the surrounding residential neighborhoods.
(Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-2-3: SITE AREA AND BUILDING SETBACK REQUIREMENTS - TABLE:
To facilitate the vision of the comprehensive plan, each zone district has
minimum site standards related to the area of the site as seen in the table
below. When looking at the cell, the first number is for the principal
structure and the second number is for the accessory structure (i.e. In the R1
zone, the house has a side yard setback of 10'; whereas the accessory structure
has a side yard setback of 5').
 A C CBD LI MU          MR                           R1 RS
            MF C MF & C SFD Duplex Town home Cottage
                             MU          MR
         A     C   CBD LI    MF  C   MF  SFD    Duplex Town Cottage R1     RS
                                     & C               home
Front    25';  20' 10' 20'   20' 20' 20' 25';   25';   25'  25'(2)  25';   25';
Setback  35'                             35'    35'    (2)          35'    35'
Side                                     10';   7.5'   7.5'         10';
Setback  10'   10' 0'  10'   10' 10' 10' 5'     (3);   (3 ) 7.5'    5'     10'
                                                5'
Rear     25';  10' 0'  10'   20' 20' 20' 25';   25';   25'  25'(2)  25'    25';
Setback  10'                             5'     5'     (2)          5'     10'
Flanking
Side     15'   15' 10' 15'   15' 15' 15' 15'    15'    15'  15'     15'    15'
Setback
Max      35’;455560’ 454545  35’; 35’; 35’35’   35’; 35’;
Height   20’*        (4)           ’ 20’(120                  20’(120’(1)
Max Lot  35%                 70%         40%    60%    70%          45%    35%
Coverage
Min Lot  5                               5500   7000                8,250  21,780
Size     acres                           sf     sf                  sf     sf
Min
Public
or       20'   30' 30' 30'   30' 30' 30' 20'    20'    20'          20'    20'
Private
Street
Frontage
ADU      Yes   No  No  No    No  No  No  Yes    No     No   No      Yes    Yes
Allowed
 
Notes:
(1)   Accessory structure height may be increased if an ADU is within the
structure. A setback of 1' vertically for every 2' horizontally must be applied
to the structure over 20' up to the setback required of the principal use when
adjacent to a Residential Use, and in no case may the height be more than that
allowed by the principal use.
(2)   Front and Rear Yard setbacks may be adjusted for each dwelling unit so
that that minimum combined setback is 40'; but at a minimum where the garage is
located the setback shall be 25'. In no case shall the minimum setback be less
than 10'.
(3)   A minimum of 15' building setback between buildings, with no less than a
minimum of 5' setback from the property line (i.e. 5' and 10', 7.5' for both
lots, or something in the middle).
(4)   When the building is located within 300' of a residential zoning district
or is within the Airport Runway Protection Zone established in the Coeur
d’Alene Airport Master Plan, the maximum building height shall be 45'.
   A.   Side and rear yard setbacks of non-residential buildings may be reduced
from those identified in the table above if both the National Building Fire
Code and the International Building Codes are met.
   B.   During the planning process of the updates to the Comprehensive Plan,
Sewer Master Plan, Transportation Master Plan, and Park Master Plan maximum
residential density was assumed as follows:
      1.   Mixed Residential may not be greater than eight dwelling units per
acre.
      2.   Mixed Use and Central Business District may not be greater than
twenty 12-dwelling units per acre or 12-15 dwelling units per acre with design
standards; however, should the combination of uses exceed the assumptions in
the currently adopted Sewer Master Plan, a sewer tech memo and/or
transportation analysis may be required.
(Ord. 619, 4-13-2021; amd. Ord. 624, 10-12-2021; Ord. 645, 3-23-2023)
11-2-4: USES PERMITTED, CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT, DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS CROSS
REFERENCE:
Table Organization: In Table: Allowed Uses, land uses and activities are
classified into general “use categories” and specific “use types” based on
common functional, product, or physical characteristics such as the type and
amount of activity, the type of customers or residents, how goods or services
are sold or delivered, and site conditions. This classification provides a
systematic basis for assigning present and future land uses into appropriate
zoning districts. This classification does not list every use or activity that
may appropriately exist within the categories. Certain uses may be listed in
one category when they may reasonably have been listed in one or more other
categories.
   A.   Explanation Of Table Abbreviations:
      1.   Allowed Uses: “A” in a cell indicates that the use is allowed
without a conditional use permit; however, allowed uses are subject to all
applicable regulations of this code. Use-specific standards are noted through a
cross reference in the last column of the table. Cross references refer to use
standards in this chapter and these standards apply in all districts unless
otherwise specified.
      2.   Conditional Uses: “C” in a cell indicates that in the respective
zoning district the use is allowed only if reviewed and approved in accordance
with the procedures of Hayden City Code 11-7: Conditional Use Permit.
Conditional Use Permits are subject to all other applicable regulations of this
Code, including the use-specific standards in this chapter and the requirements
of Hayden City Code 11-4, General Standards of Development. A “C” in a given
zone does not constitute an authorization or an assurance that such use will be
permitted. Rather, each Conditional Use Permit application shall be evaluated
by the Planning and Zoning Commission at a public hearing as to its probable
effect on adjacent properties and surrounding areas, among other factors, and
may be approved or denied as the findings indicate appropriate.
      3.   An “A/C” in a cell indicates that in the respective zoning district
the use is allowed based on a certain criteria and/or when that criteria is
exceeded requires a conditional use permit. For example in the Residential (R-
1) zone an accessory structure less than 3000 square feet is allowed outright;
however, a building equal to or in excess of 3000 square feet requires a
conditional use permit.
      4.   Prohibited Uses: A blank cell indicates that the use is prohibited
in the respectable zoning district. When a category is split between two uses,
a prohibited use is indicated with a dash. (i.e. “Animal Daycare (Small/Large)”
under MU.
Table: Allowed Uses
Use Category/Type A C CBD L-I MU MR R-1 R-S NCN Additional Regulations
Table: Allowed Uses
Use Category/Type                    A  C  CBD L- MU MR R-1 R-S NCN Additional
                                               I                    Regulations
Accessory dwelling unit              A               A  A   A       11-2-5(A)
Caretaker residence                     C      C  C
Dwelling, single-family              A     A         A  A   A
Manufactured home                    A               A  A   A       11-2-5(G)
Manufactured home community (see        C            C  C           11-3-5
pud)
Zero lot line (single family
courtyard home - lot with land):                     A
townhome, condo, cottage
Multi-Family Living
Dwelling, two & three-family               A         A
Dwelling, four or more family              A      A
Condominium                                A      A
Apartment                                  A      A
Group Living
Boarding or rooming house/bed and    C  C         A  C  C   C       11-2-5(C)
breakfast
Convalescent home, nursing home         A         A  A  C   C
Community residential facility                    A  C  C   C
Community treatment facility            A         A  C  C   C
Foster homes, group homes, etc.      A            C  A  C   C
Public/Institutional Uses
Child And Adult Care
Adult day care (< or =/ > 8 beds)       A         A/ A/ A/C A/C C
                                                  C  C
Child care home (1-6 children)       A            A  A  A   A   C
Group child care home (7-12          C     A      C  C  C   C   C
children)
Group child care center (7 or more      A  A      A/ A/ A/C A/C C
children)                                         C  C
After-school child care in school       A  A      A  A  A   A   A
building
Communication Facility
Microcell wireless communication     A  A  A   A  A  A  A   A       8-4 or 8-5
facility (wcf)
Community Service
Cemetery                             C                      C
Club, lodge, social hall                A  C   C  C  C  C   C   C
Correctional facility                   C      C                    11-2-5(D)
Mortuary, crematory, funeral homes      C      A  C
Public buildings and/or complex      C  A  A   A  A  C  C   C   C    
                                                                    11-2-5(J)
Recreation center (public/private)      A/ A/A A/ A/ A/ A/C A/C C
                                        A      A  A  C
Religious institution                C  A  C   C  A  C  C   C   C
Uses related to and operated by a       C  C   C  C  C  C   C   C
religious institution
Education
Library and cultural facilities      C  A  A   A  A  C  C   C       11-7-4
School                               C  A  C      A  A  C   C       11-7-4
Private commercial school            C  A  C      A  A  C   C
Trade or vocational school           C  A  C   A  C  C  C   C
University                           C  A  C      A  C  C   C       11-7-4
Health Care
Hospital                                C
Laboratory, medical/dental              A  A   A  A             C
Medical office                          A  A   A  A             C
Parks, Recreation And Open Space
Golf course                          C                  C   C
Golf driving range                   C  C      C  C  C  C   C
Park or playground                   A  A  A      A  A  A   A
Public plaza or open space              A  A      A  A  A   A   C
Transportation
Bus station, terminal - transit         A      A  A
Utility
Railroad transportation lines or     C         C
spurs; railroad classification yards
Sewage treatment plant                         C
Utility infrastructure, minor        A  A      A  A  A  A   A       8-4 OR 8-5
Utility infrastructure, major        A  A      A  A  A  A   A       8-4 OR 8-5
Utility shop or storage facility               A
Commercial
Agricultural Uses
Agricultural uses, beekeeping
(commercial), farming, stables, tree A
farming
Animal raising and/or keeping        A                  C   A       4-3
Bakery, wholesale                    C  A      A
Community garden                     A  A      C  A  A  A   A   C
Greenhouse/nursery                   A  A      A  C         C
Roadside stands less than 300 sf     A  A         A         A
Urban farm                           A  A      A  A
Animal-Related Business
Animal daycare (small/large)         A/ A/     A/ C/                4-3
                                     A  C      C  -
Animal hospital/clinic               A  A/     A/ A                 4-3
                                        C      C
Animal shelter                                 A                    4-3
Kennel, residential                  C                  C   C   C   4-3
Boarding kennel                      C         C                    4-3
Small animal grooming                   A      A  A             C
Financial Service
Bank, financial institution             A  A      A             C
Food And Beverage Service
Restaurants with no drive-up window     A  A   A  A             C
Restaurant, with drive-up window        A  C   A  A             C   11-4-6
Tavern/lounge/brew pub                  A  A   A  A             C   3-2
Office
Call centers                            C         C
Office, business or professional        A  A   A  A             C
Personal Services
Personal service                        A  A      A             C
Laundry and dry cleaning service        A      A  A
Massage establishment                   A         A             C
Printing, publishing & reproductions    A  A   A  A
Tattoo parlors & body piercing          A      A  A
Recreation And Entertainment
Concert or dance hall/within 300' of    A/ C   C  C
residential use or zone                 C
Firing range, indoor                    A  C
Recreation, commercial - indoor or
outdoor, i.e. health club, amusement    A  C   C  A  C  C   C   C
park, bowling alley, swimming pool,
etc.
Racecourse/racetrack                    A      C
Sexually oriented businesses, non-             A                    3-5
retail
Social event center                     C  C   C  C
Theater                                 A  A      A
Retail (Sales)
Auction establishment (without/with  A/ A  A/C A
onsite sales)                        C
Building materials, hay, grain, bulk    A      A
garden supply, heavy materials
Convenience store/with gasoline         A  A      A             C
service
Drive-up establishment                  A  C                        11-4-6
Farmer’s market, flea market, swap    C  C   C  C             C   11-2-5(E)
meet
Grocery                                 A  A      A             C
Pharmacy                                A  A      A             C
Retail store (< or = / > 60,000 sf      A/ A/C                  C
gfa)                                    C
Retail sales directly related to the           A
onsite light manufacturing
Sexually oriented business, retail      A                           3-5
Shopping center                         A
Vehicles And Equipment
Auto emission van test site                    A
Automotive, heavy machinery,
trailer, and equipment sales or         A      A
rental lot
Automobile parts, accessories and       A      A
tires
Fueling station, commercial                A      A
Motor vehicle repair                    A      C  C
Parking lot or garage                   A  C   A
Service station - gas station/          A      A  C
repair/car wash
Vehicle customization                   C      A
Visitor Accommodations
Hotel/motel                             A  C      A
Recreation vehicle park/campground
Industrial
Industrial Service
Contractor shop, solid fuel and         A  C   A
lumber
Industrial services, i.e. battery
rebuilding, blacksmith, welding and            A
fabrication, newspaper and printing,
etc.
Manufacturing And Production
Assemblage                              A      A
Asphalt and concrete ready mix plant           A
Brewery, distillery, winery             A  A   A                C
Bottling and distribution plant                A
Fabrication/machine shop                       A
Lumber-, saw-, or pulp mill                    A
Manufacturing, light - i.e.
fertilizer, bricks, windows,            C      A
concrete blocks, ceramics, etc.
Processing plants, feed mills,
packing plants for the purpose of    C         C
processing packing and storage of
agricultural products
Tannery, sandblasting & cutting,
metal workings, welding, sheet                 A
metal, woodworking, cabinet
manufacturing, etc.
Mining And Extraction
Mining, dredging, loading and
hauling of sand, dirt, gravel or               C
other aggregate
Storage
Bulk storage of corrosive, acid,
alkali, explosive or flammable                 C
materials or products
Explosives - storage and                       C
manufacturing
Storage - accessory to the processes
on the premises, indoor, outdoor,              A                    11-2-5(I)
self-storage
Wholesale business                             A
Warehouse And Freight Movement
Cold storage/food locker                A      A
Freight forwarding                             A
Truck stop                              C      A
Truck transport facility (< or = 5      A/     A/                   11-2-5(L)
acres / > 5 acres)                      -      C
Towing company                          C      C
Warehouse, wholesale/distribution              A
business
Waste And Salvage
Auto wrecking yard, junkyard                   C                    11-2-5(B)
Composting facility                            C
Recycling drop-off center                      A
Sanitary landfill, incineration                C
Accessory Uses
Accessory structure (< or = 3,000 sf A/ A/     A/    A/ A/C A/C
/ > 3,000 sf)                        A  A      A     C
Accessory indoor storage of
corrosive, acid, alkali, explosive             C
or flammable materials or products
Accessory outdoor storage            A  A      A                    11-2-5(I)
Accessory retail sales & service        A      A
related to the primary use
Beekeeping, hobby                    C                      C
Home occupation (class a/ class b)   A/ A/ A/C A/ A/ A/ A/C A/C     11-2-5(F)
                                     C  C      C  C  C
Storage, accessory to a principal    A  A      A  A  A  A   A   C
use
Temporary Uses
Construction office, temporary       A  A  A   A  A  A  A   A
Seasonal uses                        C  A  C                    C
Temporary hardship use for dependent C     C      C  C  C   C       11-2-5(K)
relative
Temporary parking lots                  A      A  A  A
Temporary voting place                  A      A  A  A
 
   A.   Multi-family in CBD is allowed in the second or higher stories of a
Commercial Mixed Use Building or to the rear of the property as a secondary use
to a primary use of Commercial. Design Standards for CBD are in
11-2-6 and for NCN are in
11-2-7.
   B.   The Mixed Use zone designation shall be categorized into two separate
sub-categories, such that all land assigned a Mixed Use zone designation is
contained in one of the two sub-categories. Such sub-categories are based on
geographic location within the Future Land Use Map identified in the City’s
adopted Comprehensive Plan and more particularly defined below:
      1.   Mixed Use Type I (MU-1): This sub-category includes all parcels
within the Mixed Use land use designation along Government Way, Highway 95,
Hayden Avenue, and Prairie Avenue, excluding any parcels which meet the
criteria for inclusion in the MU-2 designation as defined in
11-2-4(B)(2)(b)); and
      2.   Mixed Use Type II (MU-2): This sub-category includes all parcels
within the Mixed Use land use designation and are depicted as being contiguous
with the proposed Huetter Corridor. Contiguity is determined by the Mixed Use
land use designation of the Future Land Use Map and not by current zone
designation boundaries, parcel boundaries, or distance from the proposed
Huetter Corridor. If a parcel is designated as Mixed Use on the Future Land Use
Map, but is separated from the proposed Huetter Corridor by another intervening
Future Land Use Map designation, it is within the MU-1 zone designation.
         a.   Residential uses shall not be allowed within the MU-2 zone
designation until such time as the Huetter Corridor has received Notice to
Proceed with Construction Approval or other similar approval which guarantees
the construction of the Huetter Corridor, except:
            (1)   As expressly allowed in a Zoning Development Agreement, or
            (2)   As part of an approved Planned Unit Development.
         b.   Once the Huetter Corridor has received Notice to Proceed with
Construction Approval or other similar approval, which guarantees the
construction of the Huetter Corridor, any use containing multi-family dwelling
units proposed in the MU-2 zone designation, shall require a conditional use
permit.
         c.   Should the location of the proposed Huetter Corridor change from
its location as depicted on the Future Land Use Map, the boundaries of the MU-
2 zone designation may shift accordingly such that it is always defined by
areas designated as Mixed Use on the Future Land Use Map that are contiguous
with the actual proposed location of the Huetter Corridor. (Ord. 619, 4-13-
2021; amd. Ord. 633, 6-14-2022; Ord. 645, 3-23-2023)
11-2-5: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS SPECIFIC TO TYPE OF USE:
These development standards are specific to the type of use proposed and are
not dependent on the zone which they are to be constructed. Use standards are
standards applicable to particular uses or developments that have the potential
to adversely affect surrounding property or the public health, safety, or
welfare if not developed and operated in accordance with strict standards, or
are allowed by or require a special use permit. Should the use require a
conditional use permit, site plans, narratives and other materials which
demonstrate compliance with the following development standards shall be
required to be submitted as part of the application.
   A.   Accessory Dwelling Units: Accessory dwelling units (ADU) shall comply
with the following criteria:
      1.   The ADU shall not exceed 1,000 square feet. When it is within the
same structure and exceeds 1,000 square feet the structure is classified as a
duplex and is only allowed pursuant to the district regulations of the zone
that it is located in;
      2.   Only one ADU is allowed per lot;
      3.   No new or separate approach from a public or private road shall be
permitted. Existing driveways used by the principal dwelling or existing
structure (if it is to be converted to an ADU) shall also serve as the approach
for the ADU;
      4.   The access to the ADU shall be a minimum of 12’ wide and a minimum
unobstructed height of 13.5’ to accommodate emergency service vehicles; and
should the ADU be located more than 150’ from a public or private road, then a
turnaround meeting the Northern Lakes Fire Protection District and the City
Engineer's requirements shall be provided.
      5.   Open space and setback requirements of the underlying zone shall be
met, excepting that the ADU shall be set back a minimum of 30' from the front
property line and 10' from the side and rear property line. The ADU may be
attached to the principal dwelling, may be a stand-alone structure, or may be
constructed within an accessory structure. In all cases, it must have an
entrance that is separate from that of the principal dwelling;
      6.   Home occupation Class A is permitted within an ADU;
      7.   The ADU shall be considered a single-family dwelling separate from
the principal dwelling for the purpose of calculating sewer usage and
capitalization fees;
      8.   Water and sewer utilities shall be connected to the utilities of the
principal residence.
   B.   Automotive Wrecking And Junk Yards: Shall have a Type I landscape
buffer installed on all property boundaries.
   C.   Bed & Breakfast Facility:
      1.   Maximum of five guest rooms (defined as sleeping and bath rooms) for
the lodging of paying guests, but in no case shall more than 40% of the gross
floor area of the residence be used for guest rooms.
      2.   Additional criteria that must be met with respect to transportation:
         a.   That sufficient off-street parking is available for the entire
facility in accordance with this Code;
         b.   That the provision of the required off street parking, including
paving and lighting, is compatible with the character of the neighborhood;
         c.   That the proposed uses will not have an adverse effect on the
residential activities in the area with regard to traffic generation, parking
and noise levels; and
      3.   No sales of any products unless they are clearly incidental to the
services provided or the products are produced on the premises.
   D.   Correctional Facilities:
      1.   Allowed only by conditional use permit (Hayden City Code
11-7-4) on property having a Comprehensive Plan land use designation as
Commercial or Light Industrial;
      2.   Must be located on a parcel of land that is five acres or more in
size;
      3.   Must not be located within 10 miles of another correctional
facility;
      4.   No structure, fence or outdoor area shall be located within 2,500
feet of a property line that abuts a residential district;
      5.   Must meet the design standards of a public building or complex as
identified in Hayden City Code
11-2-5(J).
   E.   Farmer’s Market, Flea Market, And Swap Meet:
      1.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to an event held not
more than six calendar days per calendar year which is:
         a.   Organized and operated for religious, educational, hospital, or
charitable purposes;
         b.   Operated out of a residential dwelling including, but not limited
to, garage, yard, moving and estate sales and private auctions; or
         c.   “Vehicle sales” as defined in this title.
      2.   Location: Allowed only on private property, with property owner’s
(or owner’s agent) written consent. Allowed on public ways, with prior approval
of the City for a special event.
      3.   General Requirements: All underlying standards and requirements
(i.e. hours of operation, landscaping, off street parking, setbacks, signage)
of the underlying zone shall be met.
      4.   Prepared food and beverages for sale shall comply with Panhandle
Health District regulations;
   F.   Home Occupation: Home occupations are divided into two categories:
 
Home Occupation Class A                 Home Occupation Class B
No non-resident worker.                 Maximum of one non-resident worker.
Customer by appointment only.           Non-scheduled customers with
                                        overlapping vehicle traffic.
One customer visiting at a time         Multiple customers at the same time
Conditional Use Permit is required when
more than one Class A home occupation   Conditional Use Permit is required.
is located on the lot.
Permitted in an ADU.                    Not permitted in an ADU.
 
      1.   All home occupations shall comply with the following:
         a.   The home occupation shall be secondary to the residential use of
the property.
         b.   Not more than 25% of the gross floor area of the actual dwelling
unit may be dedicated to the conduct of the home occupation.
         c.   A home occupation conducted on the premises must be fully
enclosed within the residence or accessory building.
         d.   No outside storage of goods, equipment, materials or other
instruments of production or packaging of any kind related to the home
occupation shall be permitted.
         e.   No home occupation shall create a need for additional parking or
traffic beyond that required for the primary single-family residential use
other than delivery traffic.
         f.    There shall be no change in appearance of the dwelling structure
that would alter the residential character of the premises.
         g.   The home occupation and associated storage shall not occupy
garage space required for off street parking for the residence.
         h.   Vehicles used in the operations of the home occupation that are
rated by the manufacturer for a maximum gross weight in excess of 10,000
pounds’ gross weight shall not be operated out of the premises or park on the
property or adjacent street.
         i.   No toxic, explosive, flammable, combustible, corrosive,
etiologic, radioactive, or other restricted materials in excess of those levels
allowed by the current edition of the Fire Code in effect in the City of Hayden
shall be used or stored on the site.
      2.   Prohibited uses as home occupations include the following:
         a.   Repair and or servicing, storing or painting of automobiles,
trucks, boats, recreational vehicles, snowmobiles, motorcycles, trailers, and
ATVs.
         b.   Any use requiring sewage pretreatment in accordance with Title 8
of this code.
         c.   Any business creating external noise, odors, vibrations, or other
potential nuisance factors including levels of customer traffic that could have
the effect of disrupting peaceful occupancy of neighboring dwelling.
   G.   Manufactured Home:
      1.   Development Standards For Manufactured Home On Individual Lot:
         a.   Shall be multi-sectional and enclose a space of not less than
1,000 square feet;
         b.   Shall have a pitched roof with a slope no less than three feet in
height for each 12' in width;
         c.   Shall have exterior siding and roofing which in color, material
and appearance is similar to the exterior siding and roofing material commonly
used on residential dwellings within the community or which is comparable to
the predominant materials used on surrounding dwellings as determined by the
Community Development Director or his/her designee;
         d.   Shall obtain a building permit from the City of Hayden. The home
shall be permanently affixed with the running gear and towing hitch removed,
and set upon a foundation approved as required by Idaho Code, and having an
anchoring system that is totally concealed under the structure;
         e.   Shall have a poured concrete or mortared masonry enclosure, or
approved all weather wood enclosure, as approved by the Hayden City building
inspector, which surrounds the entire perimeter of the structure and completely
encloses the crawl space and ventilation space;
         f.   Shall be placed on an excavated and backfilled foundation and
enclosed at the perimeter such that the home is located not more than 12" above
grade;
         g.   Used manufactured homes will be permitted if they meet the
requirements of the definition of Manufactured Home of this title;
         h.   Shall be, upon completed setup, assessed as real property and
taxed as such on the required records;
         i.   Shall comply with State of Idaho manufactured home installation
standards.
      2.   Development Standards For Manufactured Homes Within An Existing
Manufactured Home Park:
         a.   Shall be one or more sections and enclose a space of not less
than 400 square feet in size.
         b.   Shall meet the requirements of subsections 1.b. through 1.i. of
this section.
   H.   Outdoor Sales Display: Outdoor sales display of merchandise for sale is
permissible provided that the following criteria are met:
      1.   All display areas must conform to the setback regulations of the
applicable zone.
      2.   Items must not obstruct vision sight lines from any public right-of-
way or driveway.
      3.   Items shall be displayed in a neat and orderly manner.
      4.   Items shall be removed from boxes and clearly displayed.
      5.   Items shall be placed on a hard, compacted surface such as asphalt,
or concrete.
      6.   Outdoor sales display for garden centers may be placed on a gravel
surface. Dust suppressants shall be applied at minimum once annually and more
often as needed to suppress dust and tracking.
      7.   Items shall not be placed in required parking, circulation, and
stormwater facilities, though they may be placed in overflow parking areas.
   I.   Outdoor Storage: All outdoor storage shall comply with the following
requirements and follow the requirements of section
11-4-6.
      1.   General:
         a.   No property, or part thereof, shall be used as a storage area for
any purpose other than storage of materials used in connection with the normal
operation of the permitted uses in the applicable zone, except that property
may be used for the storage of materials used in the construction of the
individual building on the property.
         b.   All storage, unless allowed outright pursuant to this Code, shall
be accessory to the permitted use on the site.
            (1)   In a planned unit development, storage is allowed as a
primary use on a lot so long as the storage site is only utilized by internal
property owners and not external customers. Storage sheds and equipment storage
within a PUD may span across lot boundaries so long as those lots are located
within a designated storage area that meets all other standards of this Code.
            (2)   The storage of inoperable railroad cars and inoperable truck
trailers used for storage may be permitted only under conditional use permit
and must comply with setback requirements and lot coverage requirements.
         c.   All storage areas must conform to the minimum building setback
regulations of the applicable zone.
         d.   Items shall be displayed in a neat and orderly manner.
         e.   Items cannot be placed in required parking, circulation, and
stormwater facilities, though they may be placed in overflow parking areas.
         f.   All manufacturing, assembly, repair, or work activity must take
place inside an enclosed building.
      2.   Location: Outdoor storage shall be limited to the rear and side
yards of the property; it shall never be allowed in the front yard of the
principal structure.
      3.   Screening: All storage shall be wholly within a building or shall be
entirely screened by a six foot tall, sight obscuring fence, landscaping, or
combination thereof, in conformance with section
11-4-4, so as to conceal these areas from surrounding land uses and from
adjoining public streets.
      4.   Surfacing:
         a.   Items must be placed on a hard, compacted surface such as
asphalt, concrete, or gravel.
         b.   Storage and parking of motor vehicles shall be surfaced with
concrete or asphalt.
         c.   Stormwater drainage and treatment is required for all surfaced
areas (paved and unpaved).
         d.   All access drives, maneuvering and parking areas, and storage of
motorized vehicles shall be constructed with a non-permeable material such as
concrete or asphalt. An appropriate alternative may be approved by the
Community Development Director.
         e.   Access along street frontage of the site shall be to a point
where the screening of the outdoor storage area begins.
         f.   A maintained graveled surface that is dustless and weed free may
be utilized for enclosed outdoor storage. The gravel shall meet the City
regulations for 3/4" minus crushed aggregate and shall be spread and compacted
to a uniform layer having a minimum depth of four inches after all topsoil and
other unsuitable material have been removed. Use of gravel must be approved by
the Community Development Department to ensure compliance with best management
practices. Dust suppressants shall be applied at minimum once annually and more
often as needed to suppress dust and tracking.
         g.   Refuse and garbage collection areas shall:
            (1)   Be paved with asphalt or concrete;
            (2)   Be screened from view by a minimum six foot tall sight
obscuring fence or landscaping. This fencing or landscaping can be installed
either around the perimeter of the collection area or the perimeter of the
property;
            (3)   Not attract rodents or other vermin;
            (4)   Not generate odors or liquid runoff beyond the property line;
and
            (5)   Not permit blowing of paper and other lightweight waste.
      5.   Restrictions:
         a.   The site shall not be used as an auto wrecking yard, junkyard as
defined in section
11-1-2.
         b.   The storage of inoperable or not currently licensed vehicles
shall not be allowed on a property for longer than 28 days after which, the
vehicle must be stored within a six foot sight obscuring fence, hedge, or
shrubs, or within a completely enclosed building, including doors.
   J.   Public Buildings Or Complexes:
      1.   Allowed only by a memorandum of understanding between the City and
the governmental entity regarding required on and off-site improvements;
      2.   Allowed per the zoning code as identified in this title;
      3.   All signage shall comply with the 11-5 Sign Code;
      4.   Facility shall comply with all applicable local, state, and federal
codes and regulations relative to such operation;
      5.   Off-street parking for the entire facility shall be provided in
accordance with Hayden City Code
11-4-6.
   K.   Temporary Hardship Use For Dependent Relatives:
      1.   Definitions: A “dependent relative”, for the purpose of this
section, shall be defined as: one who is related by direct bloodline, marriage,
adoption, unmarried partner relationship or court ordered guardianship; and has
been determined by a licensed physician to be physically or mentally incapable
of caring for themselves and/or their property. Dependency shall be determined
by the City prior to issuance of a building permit.
      2.   General Requirements: A temporary hardship use for dependent
relatives will be treated as a conditional use and be heard by the Planning and
Zoning Commission. One “manufactured home” as defined in section
11-1-3 of this title shall be permitted as a temporary hardship use for
dependent relative(s), as defined in subsection A of this section provided
that:
         a.   The temporary hardship use shall be placed on a lot, inclusive of
the primary dwelling site, having a minimum size of eight thousand two hundred
fifty (8,250) square feet;
         b.   Only one temporary hardship use shall be permitted on a lot
having a minimum size of eight thousand two hundred fifty (8,250) square feet;
         c.   The living quarters of the temporary hardship use shall be
occupied by either the dependent relative(s) or by the person(s)/family
providing care;
         d.   The owner of the real property on which the temporary hardship
use is located shall be the sponsor when making a request for a manufactured
home permit;
         e.   A written statement shall be provided by the sponsor from a
licensed physician stating that the person(s) in question is physically or
mentally incapable of caring for themselves and/or their property;
         f.   It shall be the responsibility of the sponsor to record a notice
with the Community Development Director stating that the temporary hardship
use, which is located on the property of the sponsor:
            (1)   Is temporary, and is to be removed upon termination of
occupancy of either the dependent relative(s) or person(s)/family providing
care;
            (2)   Is temporary, and is to be removed upon sale or lease of
property of the sponsor;
            (3)   Provides living quarters for the dependent relative(s) or
person(s)/family providing care, who is named in the permit; and
            (4)   Is not considered a use which is to be transferred with the
property of the sponsor when said property of the sponsor is sold or leased; A
copy of the recorded notice shall be submitted upon request by the applicant
before the permit is issued;
         g.   It shall be the responsibility of the sponsor to submit a
statement stating that the location of the temporary hardship use is not in
conflict with any recorded, restrictive covenant or plat dedications upon
request for a permit;
         h.   Before issuance of the permit, it shall be the responsibility of
the sponsor to show proof of approval by Panhandle Health District of a
wastewater disposal system for the temporary hardship use;
         i.   The temporary hardship use shall be in compliance with all
frontage and setback requirements of the Residential Zone(s);
         j.   The permit for the temporary hardship use shall be renewed every
year by the sponsor. Compliance with the provisions of this section and the
manufactured home permit shall be certified by the sponsor at the time of
renewal. Failure to renew the permit or permits within the stated time period
shall constitute a violation of this title;
         k.   It shall be the responsibility of the sponsor to file a release
of the notice required by subsection 2(f) of this section, signifying that the
temporary hardship use has been concluded. The sponsor shall remove the
temporary hardship use from the property within forty-five (45) days; and
         l.   The care provider may be administratively changed upon written
application to and approval by the City Development Director. Any change in
dependent relative(s) requires processing of a new temporary hardship use
permit.
   L.   Truck Transport Facility: Standards for Truck Transport Facility based
on Zone Designation are as follows:
 
Commercial                      Light Industrial
Lot must be five acres or less. Conditional use permit required for lot greater
                                than five acres.
May include indoor and/or outdoor warehousing.
No more than five trucks/acre.
Facility must have direct access to and travel within those portions of the
City road system have the Federal functional classification of principal
arterial, minor arterial, or collector.
If travel through a residential neighborhood, no more than two trucks per hour
between 10 PM and 6 AM.
 
(Ord. 542, 1-27-2015; amd. Ord. 619, 4-13-2021; Ord. 624, 10-12-2021))
11-2-6: CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT:
   A.   District Boundary And Applicability:
      1.   These regulations shall apply to all property located within the
following area:
      All parcels of property that have any frontage on either side of
Government Way from the north side of Nita Avenue, with the line extended from
Nita Avenue on the east to the north boundary line of the property directly to
the west, to the south side of Dakota Avenue.
   B.   In the Central Business District (CBD), no building or premises shall
hereafter be used, nor shall any building or structure hereafter be erected or
altered (unless provided for in this title), except for one or more of the uses
as defined in Hayden City Code
11-2-4 “Uses Permitted, Conditional Uses Permit, Development Standards Cross
Reference” in accordance with the following restrictions and standards.
   C.   Restrictions:
      1.   Any use not explicitly permitted, unless determined by the City to
be similar to other allowed uses, in this zoning district is prohibited.
      2.   Exterior Displays and Outdoor Storage Prohibited: Exterior display
and storage of merchandise and materials is prohibited, excepting the following
outdoor activities:
         a.   Outdoor eating areas.
         b.   Outdoor produce stands, flower markets and flower stands that are
an extension of the interior use.
         c.   Plant nurseries, including outdoor activities associated
therewith.
         d.   Temporary displays of merchandise or wares (limited in duration
to 1 week per month, and not to exceed a total of 4 weeks per year).
   D.   Development Standards:
      1.   Frontage Requirements: All lots defined by this chapter shall have a
minimum frontage of 30' on a public or private street, or shared driveway,
where an access easement has been duly recorded.
      2.   Building Setback Requirements: The following building setback shall
apply in the Central Business District Zone to all buildings constructed after
the effective date hereof:
         a.   Setback Requirements:
            (1)   A minimum building setback of 10' shall be required along all
street frontages, with the setback measured from the edge of the right of way/
property line to the front of the building.
            (2)   For the portions of the property between the face of the
building and from the right of way/property line that are not used for parking,
circulation, or similar uses, the additional area must be utilized for
landscape and/or hardscape improvements.
            (3)   A minimum setback of five feet shall be required for rear or
side yards directly adjacent to an alley or shared private driveway.
            (4)   No minimum setback shall be required for rear or side yard,
where no alley exists, provided the construction meets minimum separations as
established in the applicable building and fire codes.
      3.   General Building Development Standards: The following development
standards shall apply in the central business district zone to all buildings
constructed after the effective date hereof:
         a.   Building Height: The maximum height of all buildings within the
district shall not exceed 55'. For the purpose of this section, building height
shall be measured from the finished grade of the street facing facade. Rooftop
mechanical equipment shall not be considered part of the building for height
calculation purposes.
         b.   Rooftop Mechanical Equipment:
            (1)   Shall be set back a minimum of 15' from the street facing
building edge; and
            (2)   Shall be screened from view of the adjacent street or
sidewalk. Screening may be accomplished utilizing one of the following
techniques:
               (a)   Provide parapets that are at least as tall as the tallest
equipment;
               (b)   Incorporate an architectural screen around the equipment;
or
               (c)   Set the equipment back from the building edge a minimum of
three feet for every one foot of building height, but in no case by less than
15' as required above.
      4.   Landscaping and Screening:
         a.   Landscaping And Hardscape Requirements: Landscaping, which shall
include hardscape and plantings of trees, ornamental bushes and shrubs, flowers
and vegetative ground coverings, must be installed and maintained on a minimum
of 15% of each lot or development site within the central business district,
with said landscaping to be installed as a required site development
improvement. Hardscape, for this purpose, shall apply to such “fixtures” as
masonry patios, walkways, planters, benches, bike racks, water features, and
public art displays. In no case shall the area of hardscape elements applied to
this landscaping requirement constitute more than one-third of the total
required landscaping area.
         b.   Design Standards: All plantings shall meet the quality,
condition, and species requirements as detailed in this title, the city’s
adopted “Tree Standards Manual”, and other landscape design standards as may be
adopted by the City Council.
         c.   Street Trees: Trees planted near public sidewalks or curbs shall
be of a species selected from the city’s approved street tree list, and
installed in a manner which prevents physical damage to sidewalks, curbs,
gutters, and other public improvements. Commercial root barriers may be used to
reduce the potential for root damage.
         d.   Ground Cover: Ground cover may be of live plant material, or
washed rock mulch, walk on bark, and similar materials in combination with
living plants, in all non-turf areas as a mulch to control weeds and conserve
or retain water until the living plants have achieved desired coverage. Non-
plant materials may be approved for use in limited areas through the site
design review process.
         e.   Plant Materials: Plant material selection shall emphasize
moderate to low water use plants.
         f.   Screening Required: All exterior garbage collection areas,
recycling collection areas, and mechanical equipment shall be screened from
view with a site obscuring fence, wall, or landscaping sufficient to completely
screen the subject area from public view and the view of surrounding
properties.
         g.   All landscaped areas shall be irrigated.
      5.   Parking Requirements and Standards within the CBD: All parking areas
within the CBD shall conform to the parking requirements and design standards
detailed in chapter 4 of this title.
      6.   Exterior Lighting Standards:
         a.   Display windows shall be constructed with internal lighting.
         b.   All exterior and outdoor lighting, including parking lot, street,
pedestrian, and exterior building lighting, shall be fully shielded. “Fully
shielded” lighting shall be defined as lighting that is constructed in such a
manner that all light emitted by the fixture, either directly from the lamp or
a diffusing element, or indirectly by reflection or refraction from any part of
the luminaire, is projected below horizontal.
         c.   Parking lot lighting shall not exceed a maximum height of 28',
and shall meet design standards as detailed in this title.
         d.   Pedestrian lighting shall not exceed a maximum height of 15'.
         e.   All street and pedestrian lighting proposed to be located within
the public right of way shall require approval by city staff as consistent with
the design of existing street and pedestrian lighting fixtures located on
Government Way within the central business district.
         f.   The following types of exterior lighting shall be prohibited:
            (1)   Colored light bulbs, excepting seasonal lighting displays;
            (2)   Internally lit awnings or canopies, unless the awning/canopy
is made of opaque material; and
            (3)   Metal halide, mercury vapor, neon or fluorescent tube
lighting.
   E.   Architectural Design Standards:
      1.   Applicability:
         a.    Architectural design standards shall apply to all new
construction and renovations which shall be defined as an activity or series of
activities within a three year time period which are equal to or exceed 50% of
the assessed value (per the latest structural value as determined by the
Kootenai County assessor) of the existing structures excepting those project
types specifically exempted.
         b.   The following project types shall be exempt from design standards
detailed in this section:
            (1)   Interior remodels;
            (2)   Normal or routine maintenance and repair of buildings,
ancillary structures, parking lots, and pedestrian areas;
            (3)   Any type of construction that does not require a building
permit;
            (4)   Temporary structures as allowed per zoning code, and
emergency structures; and
            (5)   Wholly residential buildings.
      2.   Architectural Design Requirements: The following architectural
design features shall be required in all new construction and renovations that
are subject to the requirements of this section.
         a.   Prohibited Materials: The following materials shall be prohibited
for use on the building facade:
            (1)   T-111 or similar sheet materials;
            (2)   Stucco clad foam (EIFS);
            (3)   Vinyl siding;
            (4)   Asphalt shingles;
            (5)   Log siding and construction; and
            (6)   Mirrored, translucent, or otherwise nontransparent windows.
         b.   Color Palette: The following limitations and restrictions in the
color palette shall be required:
            (1)   Each building shall be limited to no more than three
principal facade colors.
            (2)   Bright colors that have intense and bright hues (such as
primary or neon colors) shall be prohibited as principal facade colors.
            (3)   For the purpose of these requirements, “principal facade
color” shall be defined as any color encompassing greater than 30% of the
building facade (excluding the area of windows for the purpose of this
calculation).
         c.   Design Goals: The design proposed by the developer must be
demonstrated to incorporate design elements which meet the objectives of each
of the following design goals:
            (1)   Pedestrian Oriented Ground Floors: To design street and
sidewalk facing storefronts to be inviting and easily accessible to passersby;
to ensure that the ground floor promotes a sense of interaction between
activities in the building and activities in the public realm.
            (2)   Reinforced Corner: To create dynamic public gathering spaces
and building entries where streets intersect; to enhance way finding and the
comprehension of the downtown (applicable only to projects located on a corner
at the intersection of 2 streets).
            (3)   Human Scale Building Facade: To design building facades to a
“human scale” by including details, materials, and workmanship that is
aesthetically appealing as well as comfortable for, and at, the scale of
pedestrians.
            (4)   Facade Articulation: To have street facing and front building
facades that create a clear and distinct breakup of the mass, utilizing bands,
changes in colors, and/or changes in materials. This goal applies to buildings
of all heights and numbers of stories.
            (5)   Cohesive Architectural Elements: To enhance the experience of
passing motorists, pedestrians, and bicyclists by incorporating architectural
design elements into the ground floor street facing and front building facades
(and alley facing facades where feasible).
            (6)   Semipublic Spaces: To create safe, friendly and more intimate
gathering zones (that relate to the functions inside the building) while
allowing people to stop, sit, people watch and dine (applicable only to
buildings located on lots with public street frontage).
            (7)   Weather Protection: To protect pedestrians from sun, wind,
and rain.
            (8)   Materials: To use building materials and construction to
evoke a sense of permanence; incorporate materials that are compatible with the
surrounding built and natural environment, utilizing indigenous materials, when
possible.
            (9)   Color Palette: To enliven and enhance the built environment,
accentuate and harmonize with the building’s architecture, as well as to
complement surrounding structures.
      3.   Permit Review Process:
         a.   Application Requirements: A completed administrative
architectural design review checklist, submitted concurrently with the building
permit and site plan application shall be required. Said application shall list
all design elements which are incorporated into the project design to address
each of the applicable design criteria, as detailed above.
         b.   Process: Administrative design review is completed by city staff
concurrently with the site plan and building plan reviews.
         c.   Standards for Approval:
            (1)   The proposal incorporates all architectural design
requirements; and
            (2)   The applicant has demonstrated that the proposal addresses
each of the applicable architectural design criteria, utilizing elements or
approaches identified for each criteria.
         d.   Decision:
            (1)   Upon granting or denying an application, the city staff shall
specify in writing the basis of decision, the reasons for approval or denial,
and the actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain approval.
            (2)   An affected party may appeal the decision to the City
Council. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-2-7: NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL NODES:
   A.   All proposed neighborhood nodes as identified on the Future Land Use of
the currently adopted Comprehensive Plan shall require a conditional use
permit.
   B.   Conditions of approval must ensure that the commercial use abutting the
existing residential use mitigates the more intense use and must include the
following design standards:
      1.   If the building does not abut the sidewalk, there must be a walkway
between the sidewalk and the primary entrance.
      2.   Surface parking should be located to the rear or to the side of the
principal building. All parking areas within the NCN shall conform to the
parking requirements and design standards detailed in chapter 4 of this title.
      3.   Trash areas must be completely enclosed by a six foot tall site
obscuring fence or landscaping. Dumpsters must have rubber lids.
      4.   Buildings must be designed with a residential character, including
elements such as pitched roofs, lap siding, and wide window trim.
      5.   Lighting greater than one foot-candle is prohibited. All lighting
fixtures shall be a “cutoff” design to prevent spillover and must meet the
residential lighting standards in Hayden City Code
11-4-5.
      6.   Wall mounted signs are preferred, but monument signs no higher than
six feet are allowed. Roof mounted signs and pole signs are not permitted. All
signage must meet Hayden City Code 11-5.
      7.   Exterior signs shall not be internally lighted, but may be
indirectly lighted; however, internal signage may be of neon signage meeting
Hayden City Code requirements for Commercial signage.
      Additional conditions may be applied to meet the standards of approval
and the vision as defined in the comprehensive plan. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-2-8: MIXED USE DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Applicability:
      1.   Mixed Use zone designation design standards shall apply to all
properties with a Mixed Use Type I (MU-1) or Type II (MU-2) zone designation.
These standards shall apply to all new construction and renovations of the
existing structures which shall include either a residential, a non-residential
or combination of uses excepting those project types specifically exempted.
      2.   The following project types shall be exempted from design standards
detailed in this section:
         a.   Interior remodels of the same use;
         b.   Normal or routine maintenance and repair of buildings, ancillary
structures, parking lots, and pedestrian areas;
         c.   Any type of construction that does not require a building permit;
         d.   Temporary structures as allowed per zoning code, and emergency
structures; and
         e.   Wholly residential structures of five dwelling units or less
within one residential building on one lot.
   B.   Design Goals:
      1.   The design proposed by the developer must be demonstrated to
incorporate design elements which meet all of the following objectives:
         a.   The ground floor promotes a sense of interaction between
activities in the building and activities in the near community.
         b.   To have street facing and front building facades that create a
clear and distinct breakup of the mass. This goal applies to all buildings of
all heights and number of stories.
         c.   On sites where two or more buildings are located on the same
project site, the buildings shall be designed with variation between building
setbacks and/or placement to create variation and reduce repetitive
streetscapes.
         d.   To have cohesive architectural elements into the ground floor
street facing, front building facades, secondary streets, etc.
         e.   To create safe, friendly, and more intimate gathering zones in
common open spaces.
         f.   To include landscaping and lighting throughout the building site
to build architectural cohesiveness to the surrounding community.
         g.   To provide for compatible building and site design at an
appropriate neighborhood scale.
         h.   To provide direct and convenient access to schools, parks, and
neighborhood services.
         i.   To provide both formal and informal community gathering places
and connections to neighborhoods and other employment areas. The Mixed Use zone
should encourage walking as an alternative to driving, and provide more
employment and housing options.
   C.   Design Requirements:
      1.   Landscaping, lighting, off-street parking and loading, and site plan
shall be provided in accordance with Hayden City Code § 11-4. Signs shall
comply with the provisions of Hayden City Code § 11-5.
      2.   For those properties within 300' of an existing signalized
intersection or future intersection which is identified as a controlled
intersection (i.e. interchange, signalized, or roundabout) in the Capital
Improvement Plan of the adopted Transportation Strategic Plan, a minimum of 10%
of the project's ground floor area must be developed and maintained as a
commercial use.
         a.    That commercial building space may be separate from or included
as part of a residential structure within a portion of the ground floor.
         b.   For those project sites which have more than one zone
designation, the commercial use calculation shall be from those structures
within the Mixed Use Zone Designation.
      3.   The following requirements apply to structures with both residential
and commercial uses:
         a.   Mixed use buildings may have commercial uses on all stories, but
in the case where a Commercial use is required by
11-2-8(C)(2) this commercial use must be on the ground floor and is not
replaced by commercial use in another location of the building unless approved
by the Planning and Zoning Commission at a regularly scheduled public meeting.
The Commission shall determine if the request meets the design goals of the
mixed use zone.
         b.   For those structures where the primary use is a commercial use,
the structure could have less than four apartments within the mixed use
structure.
      4.   For those structures located where the site is either a secondary
lot (one with less than 50' of street frontage or the residential component of
the site is set back 150 feet or more from the frontage road), no ground floor
commercial use shall be required. Parking and associated residential accessory
uses for the residential component of the site must be setback 150' within the
secondary use and/or lot area to meet this requirement.
      5.   Those structures with multi-family dwelling units shall be a maximum
of two stories when the adjacent zone designation is mixed residential or
single-family residential. Setbacks to the structure taller than two stories
shall be determined by a 1' horizontal to 1' vertical ratio (45° to the
vertical) as shown by line A. No portion of the third story may be within this
area abutting the adjacent zone designation of mixed residential or single-
family residential.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c03a9915f27a0dc69b1264aa1383896c25df03e9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1900.png]
      6.   A minimum of 90 cubic feet of private storage space shall be
provided for each dwelling unit outside of such unit, unless a private attached
garage serving only the unit is provided; such storage space shall be fully
enclosed and lockable.
      7.   All roof-mounted equipment shall not be visible from any abutting
lot or any street, except solar energy equipment. This shall be accomplished in
a manner that is architecturally integrated with the main building.
      8.   A joint commercial/office/residential owner's association (POA)
recorded declaration of conditions, covenants, and restrictions (CC&Rs) and/or
recorded common area maintenance (CAM) agreement is required for all mixed use
developments. The required CC&Rs or CAM shall address the assignment of
required parking spaces and the identification of maintenance responsibilities.
      9.   New developments require the construction of usable private and/or
common open space which shall be subject to site plan review. Examples of these
spaces may include, but are not limited to the following:
         a.    Common open space: Playgrounds, clubhouse, recreation rooms,
pools/spas, community gardens, picnic areas, gazebos, landscaped areas with
paths, water features, sports courts, dog park, natural open space area, etc.
         b.    Private open space: Fenced yards, patios, decks, balconies, etc.
      10.   Density Allowances: In all cases, all other design standards shall
be required. The transportation impact analysis and the sewer master plan
analysis shall address the increased number of units as proposed in accordance
with the model analysis for this zone.
         a.   The base allowance of 12 dwelling units per acre, may be
increased by one dwelling unit per acre for each additional common open space
amenity provided in the complex up to a maximum number of 15 dwelling units per
acre.
         b.   Alternatively, the base allowance of 12 dwelling units per acre,
may be increased by 2 dwelling units per acre if the site is completely
screened with a Type I landscaping buffer along the perimeter of the site and
the site is either a secondary lot (one with less than 50' of street frontage)
or the residential component of the site is set back 150 feet or more from the
frontage road.
         c.   Total density may be calculated by either A or B above, or a
combination of both but may not exceed a total density of more than 15 dwelling
units per acre.
Examples of Density Increases for 10. (A-C)
 Dwelling Units/Acre Number of Dwelling Units
Examples of Density Increases for 10. (A-C)
                                  Dwelling Units/Acre Number of Dwelling Units
A)   Example: 5 acre site
Patio, deck, and/or balcony       12                  Less than or equal to 60
Add a playground                  13                  Less than or equal to 65
Add a playground and gazebo       14                  Less than or equal to 70
Add a playground, gazebo and      15                  Less than or equal to 75
garden
B)   Example: 3 acre site; secondary lot
Patio, deck, and/or balcony       12                  Less than or equal to 36
Add a Type I landscaping buffer   14                  Less than or equal to 42
C)   Example: 4 acre site; multi-family is located 175' from frontage road
Patio, deck, and/or balcony       12                  Less than or equal to 48
Add a Type I landscape buffer     14                  Less than or equal to 56
Add a Type I landscape buffer and 15                  Less than or equal to 60
a playground
Add a Type I landscape buffer and
a playground, gazebo, & sport     15                  Less than or equal to 60
court
 
      11.   For those properties within the Mixed Use zone, and also within the
Central Business District or the Neighborhood Commercial Node Overlay
Districts, these standards must be met in conjunction with the those found in
Hayden City Code §
11-2-6 and
11-2-7 respectively.
   D.   Permit Review Process:
      1.   Application Requirements: A complete building permit, site plan, and
narrative to address the requirements of this section and the City Code. Said
application shall list all design elements which are incorporated into the
project design to address each of the applicable design criteria, as detailed
above.
      2.   Process: Administrative design review is completed by City staff
concurrently with the site plan and building plan reviews.
      3.   Standards of Approval:
         a.   The proposal incorporates all design requirements according to
Hayden City Code
11-2-8(C); and
         b.   The applicant has demonstrated the proposal addresses each of the
applicable design goals according to Hayden City Code
11-2-8(B).
      4.   Decision:
         a.   Upon granting or denying an application, the City staff shall
specify in writing the basis of decision, the reasons for approval or denial,
and the actions, if any, the applicant could take to obtain approval.
         b.   An affected party may appeal the decision to the City Council
following the guidance in Hayden City Code. (Ord. 624, 10-12-2021; amd. Ord.
633, 6-14-2022)
11-2-9: RESIDENTIAL MULTI-FAMILY ZONE:
11-2-9-1: TERM:
This chapter will expire on September 28, 2022. (Ord. 623, 9-28-2021)
11-2-9-2: PURPOSE:
The Residential Multi-Family (R-MF) Zone is established to provide higher
density residential housing areas served by collector and arterial street. This
zone shall be characterized by buildings or groups of buildings containing
multi-family dwelling units. (Ord. 623, 9-28-2021)
11-2-9-3: RESTRICTIONS:
In the Residential Multi-Family (R-MF) Zone, no building or premises shall be
used, nor shall any building or structure hereafter be erected or altered
(unless provided in this title) except for one or more of the following uses in
accordance with the following standards. (Ord. 623, 9-28-2021)
11-2-9-4: SITE AREA:
The following site area requirements apply in the R-MF Zone:
   A.   On any parcel of land or lot of whatever size a minimum of 65% of the
area of the site shall be left in open space free from all structures; and
   B.   The maximum height of buildings shall not exceed 35' except that
nondwelling structures may exceed this height by conditional use permit. The
maximum height of accessory buildings shall not exceed 20'.
   C.   The minimum lot size for a single family residential dwelling is 8,250
square feet and each lot requires a minimum frontage of 20' on a public or
private street. If a lot fronts on the bulb end of a cul-de-sac, the minimum
frontage for that lot shall be 26' measured at curb line with a minimum 40' of
width at front yard setback line.
   D.   The minimum lot size for a two family residential dwelling is 9,900
square feet and each lot requires a minimum frontage of 20' on a public or
private street. If a lot fronts on the bulb end of a cul-de-sac, the minimum
frontage for that lot shall be 26' measured at curb line with a minimum 40' of
width at front yard setback line.
   E.   The minimum lot size for a three family residential dwelling unit or
more is 15,000 square feet and each lot requires a minimum frontage of 30' on a
public or private street. If a lot fronts on the bulb end of a cul-de-sac, the
minimum frontage for that lot shall be 30' measured at curb line with a minimum
40' of width at front yard setback line. (Ord. 623, 9-28-2021)
11-2-9-5: USES PERMITTED:
   A.   The following uses and ones similar in nature, as determined by the
City, are permitted;
      1.   For single-family residences, an accessory dwelling unit meeting the
standards of section
11-2-5(A) of this title for accessory dwelling units.
      2.   Home daycares.
      3.   Home occupations Class A, as established in section
11-2-5(F) of this title. Limited to single-family dwelling only.
      4.   Major and minor utility infrastructure.
      5.   One multi-family residential dwelling per lot consisting of not more
than four (4) dwelling units with the usual accessory buildings and private
garages. Accessory buildings and private garages shall not exceed 1,500 square
feet.
      6.   One single family residential dwelling per lot with the usual
accessory buildings and private garages provided that the minimum lot size,
frontage, site areas, building setback and off street parking requirements are
met for the Zone under which that particular R use would be classified.
      7.   One two family dwelling per lot with the usual accessory buildings
and private garages. Accessory buildings and private garages not to exceed 1500
square feet.
      8.   Temporary sales, development offices or storage facilities for
subdivision or building sites.
   B.   Development and use standards for this zoning district are established
in this title. (Ord. 623, 9-28-2021)
11-2-9-6: USES PROHIBITED:
Any use not explicitly permitted, unless determined to be similar by the City,
in this zoning district is prohibited. (Ord. 623, 9-28-2021)
11-2-9-7: BUILDING SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
 
                Principle Structures            Detached Accessory Building 2
Front Yard      15 feet1 single-family dwelling 35 feet
                25 feet all other structures
Side Yard       10 feet                         5 feet
Flanking Street 15 feet                         15 feet
Rear Yard       25 feet                         5 feet
 
Notes:
   1.   The required minimum setback to the face of the attached garage is 25
feet. No additional intrusion of features such as canopies, decks, chimneys,
cornices, and the like are allowed into the 15 foot front yard setback.
   2.   Accessory buildings that are attached to the principal structure shall
meet the required setbacks of the principal structure. When detached, an
accessory structure shall be a minimum of five feet from the principal
structure.
(Ord. 623, 9-28-2021)
11-2-9-8: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses and ones similar in nature, as determined by the City, are
permitted if authorized by approval of a conditional use permit:
   A.   Accessory buildings in excess of 1,500 square feet but no greater than
2,001 square feet.
   B.   Assisted living facilities.
   C.   Bed and breakfast facilities.
   D.   Churches.
   E.   Community assembly halls.
   F.   Daycare centers and preschools.
   G.   Foster homes, group homes, institutions for minor children.
   H.   Home occupations Class B, as established in section
11-2-5(F). Limited to single-family dwellings only.
   I.   Multi-family dwellings, five or more units.
   J.   Parks and recreational facilities, private.
   K.   Public buildings or complexes.
   L.   Schools.
   M.   Temporary hardship use for dependent relatives - allowed only as
accessory to single-family residences. (Ord. 623, 9-28-2021)
CHAPTER 3
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
11-3-1: Purpose
11-3-2: Nonconforming Lots Of Record
11-3-3: Nonconforming Structures
11-3-4: Nonconforming Uses Of Structures Or Of Structures And Premises In
Combination
11-3-5: Nonconforming Uses Of Land - Manufactured Home Park
11-3-6: Repairs And Maintenance
11-3-1: PURPOSE:
Within the district or zone established by this title or amendments that may
later be adopted there exist:
   A.   Lots;
   B.   Structures;
   C.   Uses of land and structures; and
   D.   Characteristics of use;
which were lawful before this title was passed or amended, but which would be
prohibited, regulated or restricted under the terms of this title or future
amendment, it is the purpose of this title to permit these nonconformities to
continue until they are removed. It is further the purpose of this title that
nonconformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended, and not be
used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the
same zone or district.
Nonconforming uses are declared by this title to be incompatible with permitted
uses in the zones or districts involved. A nonconforming use of structure and
land in combination shall not be extended or enlarged after passage of this
title or its amendment by attachment on a building or premises, or by the
addition of other uses, of a nature which would be prohibited generally in the
zone or district involved.
To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this title shall be deemed to require a
change in the plans, construction, or designated use of any building on which
actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the amendment of this title and
upon which actual building construction has been carried on diligently. “Actual
construction” is hereby defined to include the placing of construction
materials in its permanent location, or demolition or removal of an existing
building has been substantially begun preparatory to rebuilding, such
excavation or demolition or removal shall be deemed to be actual construction
provided that work shall be carried on diligently. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-3-2: NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD:
In any zone or district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, a
single-family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any
single lot of record at the effective date of adoption or amendment hereof,
notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this title. This
provision shall apply even though such lot fails to meet the requirements for
acres or width, or both that are generally applicable in the zone or district.
Variances of yard or setback requirements shall be obtained only through action
of the Council. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-3-3: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment
hereof that could not be built under the terms of this title by reason of
restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, yards, its location on lot, or
other requirements concerning the structure, the structure may be continued so
long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
   A.   A legal nonconforming use shall not be changed except to a use that
complies with the regulations of the zoning district in which the subject
property lies or to diminish its nonconformity. No structure may be enlarged or
altered in such a way which increases its nonconformity;
   B.   Should such a structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the zone or
district in which it is located after it is moved.
   C.   Single-family residential dwellings lawfully permitted and constructed
within any zone district which have not converted to a conforming use may be
maintained, repaired, or reconstructed regardless of the percent of damage
provided the dwelling meets the height, setback and lot coverage requirements
of the residential zone district. Additionally, accessory buildings which are
allowed with single-family dwellings may be maintained, repaired, or
reconstructed regardless of the percent of damage provided they meet the
height, setback and lot coverage requirements of the residential zone district.
(Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-3-4: NONCONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES OR OF STRUCTURES AND PREMISES IN
COMBINATION:
Where at the time of passage of this title, lawful use of land, structures, or
premises in combinations exists which would not be permitted by the regulations
imposed by this title, the lawful use may be continued so long as it remains
otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
   A.   No existing structure or use of land devoted to a use not permitted by
this title in the zone or district in which it is located shall be enlarged,
extended, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in
changing the use of the structure to a use permitted in the zone or district in
which it is located;
   B.   Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time of
adoption or amendment hereof, but no such use shall be extended to occupy any
land outside such building. No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or
increased or extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the
effective date of adoption or amendment hereof:
   C.   If no structural alterations are made, any nonconforming use of a
structure, use of land, or structure and premises, may as a special exception
be changed to another nonconforming use provided that the Council, either by
general rule or by making findings in the specific case shall find that the
proposed use is equally appropriate or more appropriate to the zone or district
than the existing nonconforming use. In permitting such change, the Council may
require appropriate conditions and safeguards in accordance with the provisions
of this title;
   D.   Any structure, use of land, or structure and land in combination, in or
on which a nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter
conform to the regulations for the zone or district, and the nonconforming use
may not thereafter be resumed;
   E.   No additional structure not conforming to the requirements of this
title shall be erected in connection with such nonconforming structure, use of
land, or structure and premise, in combination.
   F.   When a nonconforming use of a structure, use of land, or structure and
premises in combination, is discontinued or abandoned for 12 consecutive months
and an owner or his authorized agent permits or allows an approved or unlawful
intervening use of the owner’s property, the structure, or structure and
premises in combination, shall not thereafter be used except in conformity with
the regulations of the zone or district in which it is located.
   For purposes of this section, “designed purpose” means the use for which the
improvements were originally intended, designed and approved pursuant to any
applicable planning and zoning ordinances. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-3-5: NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND - MANUFACTURED HOME PARK:
The following improvement and redevelopment standards apply to legal non-
conforming manufactured home parks:
   A.   An existing manufactured home park shall not be enlarged or increased
to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date of the
adoption or amendment hereof;
   B.   An existing manufactured home park shall not be moved in whole or in
part to any portion of the lot other than that occupied by such use at the
effective date of adoption or amendment hereof;
   C.   Replacement of existing manufactured homes:
      1.   If a manufactured home is removed for any period of time, any
subsequent replacement shall be as follows:
         a.   The replacement structure shall be consistent with the definition
of a manufactured home pursuant to section
11-2-5(H) of this title or shall be a single family dwelling unit meeting the
requirements of the International Residential Code.
         b.   If the replacement structure is a manufactured home, it shall
meet the requirements of section
11-2-5(H) of this title.
         c.   If the replacement structure is a single family dwelling unit
meeting the requirements of the International Residential Code, the replacement
structure shall meet the requirements of subsections
11-2-5(H)(1)(a-c) of this title in terms of minimum size, pitched roof slope
and exterior siding and roofing standards.
         d.   Where interior lot lines are not present, replacement structures
shall be located no closer than the distance allowed by the International
Residential Code between structures. In areas where an existing structure is
being replaced that is non-conforming to required setbacks or lot coverage, the
replacement structure shall be sized and placed in a manner that is equally or
less non-conforming relative to lot coverage and setback requirements.
         e.   So that no greater number of manufactured homes or residential
units shall be allowed than lawfully exist in the park, permits for replacement
structures shall only be authorized for a unit which is being replaced.
   D.   No additional structure not conforming to the requirements of this
title shall be erected in connection with such nonconforming use of land. (Ord.
619, 4-13-2021)
11-3-6: REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE:
On any nonconforming structure or portion of a structure containing a
nonconforming use, work may be done on ordinary repairs such as walls,
fixtures, wiring or plumbing, provided that the cubic content existing when it
became nonconforming shall not be increased.
If a nonconforming structure or portion of a structure containing a
nonconforming use becomes physically unsafe or unlawful due to lack of repairs
and maintenance, and is declared by any duly authorized official to be unsafe
or unlawful by reasons of physical condition, it shall not be thereafter
restored, repaired, or rebuilt except in conformity with the regulations of the
zone or district in which it is located. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL STANDARDS OF DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
11-4-1: Purpose
11-4-2: Dust Control Standards
11-4-3: Fences, Walls And Hedges Standards
11-4-4: Landscape Standards
11-4-5: Lighting Standards
11-4-6: Parking Standards
11-4-7: Site Plan Standards
11-4-8: Vibration Standards
11-4-9: Zone Regulation Application Standards
11-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish the standards that apply to uses
without regard to the zone designation. Site plans, subdivision plans,
narratives, and other materials which demonstrate compliance with the following
development standards shall be required to be submitted by the developer
(applicant, developer, and/or owner) for review by City staff. (Ord. 619, 4-13-
2021)
11-4-2: DUST CONTROL STANDARDS:
   A.   No development shall generate dust, smoke, odors, or other airborne
pollutants that travel beyond its property line, except as permitted by State
and Federal air quality standards.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit particulate
matter to be handled, transported or stored without taking reasonable
precautions to prevent the particulate matter from becoming airborne.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit a building or
its appendages or a road to be constructed, altered, repaired, or demolished
without taking reasonable precautions to prevent particulate matter from
becoming airborne.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person, including the owner or person in
control of real property to cause or allow particulate matter to be deposited
upon a paved roadway open to the public without taking every reasonable
precaution to minimize deposition. Reasonable precautions shall include, but
are not limited to, the removal of particulate matter from equipment prior to
movement on paved streets and the prompt removal of any particulate matter
deposited on paved streets.
   E.   The City may attach conditions to a permit requiring mitigation for
dust control. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-4-3: FENCES, WALLS AND HEDGES STANDARDS:
   A.   Fences, walls, and hedges shall be permitted in required yards in
accordance with the following regulations:
      1.   All fences and walls greater than six feet in height shall conform
to the currently adopted Building Code and other applicable provisions of this
Code.
      2.   No fence, wall or hedge shall be erected within the vision triangle
pursuant to subsection
6-1-4(A) of this Code.
      3.   For residential land uses, with the exception of fences used to
enclose large livestock, no electric, barbed or razor wire fencing shall be
allowed. Barbed or razor wire fences are permitted in Commercial and Industrial
Zones only as the top section of a security fence and shall be located a
minimum of 72" and maximum of 96" above grade.
   B.   For residential uses in all zoning districts, the following shall
apply:
      1.   Fences, walls, and hedges not greater than six feet in height shall
be permitted on or within all rear and side yard property lines and on or
within all front yard setback lines.
      2.   Fences, walls, and hedges not greater than four feet in height shall
be permitted in any required front yard. However, wire or rail type fences used
to enclose large livestock, i.e., horses, cows, etc., may be five feet high as
a permitted use. Livestock fencing shall be marked in a manner that is clearly
visible to the public.
   C.   For nonresidential uses in Nonresidential Zoning Districts, the
following shall apply:
      1.   Fences, walls, and hedges not greater than four feet in height shall
be permitted in any required front yard.
      2.   Fences, walls, and hedges on or within the rear or side yard
property lines shall have no height restriction except where abutting a
residential use, the maximum height is six feet.
   D.   Exceptions to these height and material standards may be considered as
a conditional use permit. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-4-4: LANDSCAPE STANDARDS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to:
      1.   Provide a visual buffer and physical separation between land uses of
varying intensities;
      2.   Reduce unwanted light, glare, and noise;
      3.   Enhance the visual appeal of Hayden;
      4.   Retain existing natural vegetation; and
      5.   Implement the goals and policies of the Comprehensive Plan.
   The requirements of this section shall apply to new development; expansions
of or alterations to existing uses; changes of use; and as required by other
title of this code.
   B.   Prior to issuance of a building permit, a landscape and irrigation plan
shall be submitted to the Community Development Department for review and
approval by the City. The plan may be combined with the parking plan, civil
plan, or architectural plan.
   C.   Maintenance: The continuing maintenance of any improvement required for
compliance with any development or use standard of this title shall be
required. This provision applies to:
      1.   Off-street parking and loading areas;
      2.   Improvements required for on-site stormwater treatment systems
(grass swales);
      3.   Landscaped areas, including any required buffers; and
      4   Any other improvement required for compliance with this title.
      5.   The maintenance of landscaped areas includes irrigation, maintenance
of the irrigation system, and weed and pest control.
      Any trees and shrubs used in the landscaping and screening of a zone or
use shall be maintained in a healthy growing condition. The owner of the
property shall bear primary responsibility for maintenance of landscaping. Dead
or dying trees and shrubs shall be replaced within six months and the planting
area shall be maintained reasonably free of weeds and trash.
      If stormwater treatment areas (grass swales) are used in part to fulfill
the requirements of this section, the property owner shall bear primary
responsibility for maintenance. All grassed areas shall be kept trim and
maintained reasonably free of weeds and trash. Dead or dying grass shall be
replaced within 30 days.
      The City of Hayden is authorized to notify the owner or the owner’s agent
if any installed landscaping as required in this section is not being
adequately maintained, and the specific nature of the failure to maintain. The
City shall send the property owner or the respective agent two written notices,
each with a 15 day response period. The notices shall specify the date by which
the said maintenance must be accomplished and shall be addressed to the
property owner or agent’s last known address. No response from the property
owner or the respective agent shall constitute a violation of this title and
City Council may take appropriate action.
   D.   General Requirements:
      1.   Sight Distance Triangle Adjacent to Public Rights-Of-Way and Points
of Access: No landscaping, structures, or other items shall impair vision at a
corner as required by section
6-1-4 of this Code or a point of access. In these areas, all landscaping shall
be planted and maintained at a height no greater than three feet above the
centerline street grade. Trees may be permitted if the trunks are kept free of
branches below 10' above the centerline street grade.
      Preservation of Existing Trees: All trees on a site shall be retained to
the maximum extent possible. Credit may be given for incorporating existing
trees into the design if it meets the intent of this section, survives through
the first year, and is continually maintained in a healthy condition.
Exceptions:
         a.   When the tree(s) will be hazardous or may otherwise damage the
structure, streets, or sewer, water or utility lines.
         b.   When the tree(s) will not likely survive the impacts of the
construction due to its condition, age, disease, increased or decreased
exposure, or location outside of a natural grouping.
   E.   Landscape Types: The City of Hayden has four primary landscape types to
address a variety of buffering requirements related to noise, light, glare, and
incompatible uses; while still addressing a goal of preserving existing
vegetation and enhancing the visual aesthetics of the project area. In general,
each type has a tree component, a shrub component, and a ground cover component
as shown in the Standard Drawings as adopted by the City of Hayden and defined
below:
 
Landscaping Type Width of Landscaping Description or Purpose
                                      Buffers between incompatible uses that
Type I           20'                  create a noise and sight obscuring
                                      barrier.
Type II          10'                  Buffers to create a visual separation
                                      between similar uses.
                                      Transparent buffers to provide visual
Type III         5'                   relief between compatible uses and to
                                      soften the appearance of parking areas.
                                      Buffers to create a visual separation
Type IV          10'                  between the property and the adjacent
                                      street
 
   F.   Buffer Width Reduction: The width requirements of each landscape type
may be reduced when a berm or fence is included in the buffer. The width
reduction may be up to twice the height of the berm, but with a maximum
permitted width reduction of 10' and the berm cannot be narrower than five feet
in width as measured at the base. The combined maximum height of the berm and
fence or wall shall not exceed six feet, unless allowed by a conditional use
permit.
   G.   The following table sets forth the type of required landscaping to be
installed by the proposed use and according to the standard drawings approved
by the City:
Zoning/Use of Proposed Site Abutting Land Zoned As Landscaping Type
Zoning/Use of Proposed Site  Abutting Land Zoned As           Landscaping Type
Commercial (C)               Residential - R1 or MR           Type I
                             Residential - RS, R1 or MR       Type I
Light Industrial (LI)        Agriculture (A), Mixed Use (MU), Type II
                             & Commercial (C)
Mixed Use (MU) - Residential Residential - RS, R1, or MR      Type II
Only                         Commercial (C) or Light          Type I
                             Industrial (LI)
Mixed Use (MU) - Commercial  Residential - R1 or MR           Type I
Only
Mixed Use (MU) - Mixed       All zones except Agriculture (A) Type II
Residential Suburban (RS)    All zones                        Type III
Parking Perimeter            All zones                        Type III
Planned Unit Development     All zones                        Type II
Public Street Frontage       All Zones                        Type IV
 
   H.   Plant Sizes and Spacing for Installation: Plants shall be sized and
spaced to achieve the desired buffer within 2 years of planting and shall be
maintained to continue the desired buffer as a requirement of any approved
plan. Generally speaking, deciduous trees shall be two inches in caliper,
multi-stemmed trees and evergreen trees shall be six feet in height, small
shrubs shall be 12" and all other shrubs shall be 18" in height at the time of
planting.
   I.   Consolidation Of Landscaping Types and/or Stormwater Swales: To reduce
the overall land requirements for green space, combining required types of
landscaping, and/or combining stormwater infiltration areas (grass swales) with
landscape areas, as required by this section, may be permitted in compliance
with the provisions of Best Management Practices (BMPs) adopted pursuant to
this title. Applications for exception and modifications from the standards of
this chapter may be applied for using the process and standards established in
subsection
11-1-7 of this title.
   J.   Irrigation of Landscaping and/or Stormwater Swales: All landscaped
areas including buffer strips and drainage infiltration facilities shall be
provided with an automated irrigation system. Routine maintenance of joint
stormwater areas on private property shall be the responsibility of the
individual owner. Structural or functional maintenance of joint stormwater
areas shall be the responsibility of the homeowner’s association. (Ord. 619, 4-
13-2021)
11-4-5: LIGHTING STANDARDS:
These design standards are intended to reduce the problems created by
improperly designed and installed outdoor lighting. It is intended to reduce
problems of glare, minimize light trespass, and help reduce the energy and
financial costs of outdoor lighting by establishing regulations which limit the
area that certain kinds of outdoor-lighting fixtures can illuminate and by
limiting the total allowable illumination of lots located in Hayden.
   A.    Applicability:
      1.   All business, residential, and community driveway, sidewalk, and
property luminaires should be installed with the idea of being a “good
neighbor”, with attempts to keep unnecessary direct light from shining onto
abutting properties or streets.
      2.   Lighting provided for freeways, expressways, limited access
roadways, and roads on which pedestrians, cyclists, and parked vehicles are
generally not present. The primary purpose of roadway or highway lighting is to
help the motorist remain on the roadway and help with the detection of
obstacles within and beyond the range of the vehicle’s headlights.
   B.   Zones Established: The street-lighting system and the City is divided
into separate zones to reflect the intensity of illumination required to
provide safe travel and protection of property within each zone. These zones
shall be as follows:
      1.   Highway Illumination Zone: The Highway illumination zone shall
include all areas requiring illumination along the streets where there is no
direct benefit accruing to any particular improved real property owner or
occupant. Such zone includes freeway interchanges, the limited access portions
of U.S. Highway 95 from Aqua Avenue to Lancaster Road, and other such areas as
determined by the City Engineer and/or Public Works Director, where no direct
benefit is accrued to any particular improved real property.
      2.   High Illumination Intensity Zone: The high illumination intensity
zone includes areas requiring 20,000 lumen lights to provide for public safety
and the safety of the improved real property. The streets in this zone carry
the highest traffic volumes. This zone shall include improved real property
with frontage on the following streets: Government Way, Hayden Avenue, Prairie
Avenue between Wayne Drive and Cornerstone Drive, and other such areas as
determined by the City Engineer and/or Public Works Director, where no direct
benefit is accrued to any particular improved real property.
      3.   Moderate Illumination Intensity Zone: The moderate illumination
intensity zone includes areas requiring 10,000 lumen lights to provide for the
general public safety and the safety of improved real property. The streets in
this zone do not have the traffic volume of the high illumination intensity
zone, but have greater traffic volumes than residential areas. This zone shall
include improved real property with frontage on the following streets:
Honeysuckle Avenue between Wayne Drive and Davis Circle, Orchard Avenue between
Government Way and Hess Street, Dakota Avenue between Government Way and
Highway 95, Lacey Avenue between Government Way an Highway 95, Wyoming Avenue
between Government Way and Highway 95, Lancaster Road between Government Way
and Warren Street, Ramsey Road between Prairie Avenue and Lancaster Road, and
other such areas as determined by the City Engineer and/or Public Works
Director, where no direct benefit is accrued to any particular improved real
property.
      4.   Central Business District Illumination Intensity Zone: This
illumination intensity zone has been established by the existing luminaires
within the district. Any changes to the existing lighting requires approval of
the City Engineer and/or Public Works Director.
      5.   Residential Illumination Intensity Zone: The residential
illumination intensity zone includes areas requiring less than 10,000 lumen
lights to provide for general public safety and the safety of improved real
property. The residential illumination intensity zone includes all improved
real property not included in subsections A, B, C and D of this section.
   C.   Criteria and Standards for Street Lighting: The following streetlight
criteria and standards have been applied and shall hereafter apply to provide
uniform lighting within each zone sufficient for public safety and the
protection of improved real property:
      1.   In the highway illumination zone, lights shall be placed at all
intersections and at all highway overpasses; provided, however, that the
placement of such lights shall be determined by the City Engineer in
conformance to the policies and purposes expressed in this chapter.
      2.   In moderate and high illumination intensity zones lights shall be
placed at every intersection where practical. Where blocks are longer than
1,800', an additional light shall be placed near the middle of the block.
      3.   In the residential illumination intensity zone, lights shall be
placed at intersections where practical. Where blocks exceed 600' in length,
lights shall, where practical, be placed so that no property frontage is a
distance of more than 300' from the nearest light.
   D.   On site, or site specific lighting shall meet the following standards:
      1.   Parking lot lighting (or building lighting directed into site
circulation, pedestrian, or parking areas) shall comply with the following
requirements:
         a.   Lighting shall be energy-efficient and shielded or recessed so
that:
            (1)   The light source (i.e. the bulb) is not visible from off-
site;
            (2)   Glare and reflections are confined to the maximum extent
feasible within boundaries of the site.
            (3)   Each light fixture shall be directed downward and away from
adjoining properties and rights-of-way.
            (4)   A minimum illumination of 0.2 foot-candles per square foot is
required.
            (5)   No lighting shall produce an illumination level greater than
1.0 foot-candles on adjacent residential lots or parcels.
            (6)   No permanently installed lighting shall blink, flash or be of
unusually high intensity or brightness, as determined by the Community
Development Director or his/her designee.
            (7)   Outdoor fixtures shall be limited to a maximum height of 18'
or the height of the nearest building, whichever is less.
         b.   When parking lot lighting is proposed, a photometric plan shall
be submitted which demonstrates compliance with these standards.
      2.   Residential on-site lighting (i.e. accessory building lighting)
shall comply with the standards as identified above.
   E.   Exceptions to the standards above may be granted where the intent of
this section is met for the following exterior applications where the lighting
is equipped with a control device is independent of the control of the non-
exempt lighting. For areas within 300 feet of the airport property boundary,
approval of the proposed exception must be approved by the Coeur d’Alene
Airport.
      1.   Specialized signal, directional, and marker lighting associated with
transportation.
      2.   Advertising signage or directional signage.
      3.   Lighting integral to equipment or instrumentation and installed by
its manufacturer.
      4   Theatrical purposes, including performance, stage, film production,
and video production.
      5.   Athletic playing areas where lighting is equipped with hoods or
louvers for glare control.
      6.   Temporary lighting.
      7.   Lighting for industrial production, material handling,
transportation sites, and associated storage areas where lighting is equipped
with hoods or louvers for glare control.
      8.   Theme elements in theme and amusement parks.
      9.   Roadway lighting required by governmental authorities.
      10.   Lighting used to highlight features of public monuments and
registered landmark structures.
      11.   Lighting for swimming pools and water features.
   F.   Standards to be considered when reviewing lighting plans, may include
but are not limited to the following:
      1.   Factors to consider when reviewing the temporary/permanent special
lighting request:
         a.   Public and/or private benefits that will result from the
temporary lighting;
         b.   Any annoyance or safety problems that may result from the use of
the temporary lighting; and
         c.   Duration of the temporary nonconforming lighting.
      2.   Has sustained every reasonable effort to mitigate the effects of
light on the environment and the surrounding properties, supported by a signed
statement describing the mitigation measures. Such statement shall be
accompanied by the calculations required for the Performance Method.
      3.   All fixtures used for lighting shall be fully shielded as defined in
this Code, or be designed or provided with sharp cut-off capability, so as to
minimize up-light, spill-light, and glare.
      4   All events shall be scheduled so as to complete all activity before
or as near to 10:30 p.m. as practical, but under no circumstances shall any
illumination of the playing field, court, or track be permitted after 11:00
p.m. except to conclude a scheduled event that was in progress before 11:00
p.m. and circumstances prevented concluding before 11:00 p.m. (Ord. 619, 4-13-
2021)
11-4-6: PARKING STANDARDS:
   A.   The Parking Standards purpose is to:
      1.   Require the provision of off street parking and loading facilities
at the time of construction, reconstruction, expansion, and/or change in use,
for all land use types within the City of Hayden;
      2.   Specify the minimum off street parking and loading facility
requirements for each of the permitted uses;
      3.   Mitigate traffic congestion on public streets;
      4   Reduce the practice of using public streets for the purpose of
loading and unloading goods;
      5.   Provide design standards for storage and display lots; and
      6.   Provide design standards which allow for parking organization, weed
and dust control, and related measures.
   B.   Applicability: At the time of construction, reconstruction, expansion
of any structure or use, the change in use or increase in intensity of use, or
at the time of site improvement, off street parking, loading spaces, and
storage and display lots shall be provided in accordance with the applicable
provisions of this title. Land uses in existence prior to the effective date
hereof may be continued as a nonconforming use subject to other provisions of
this chapter concerning provision of off street parking.
   C.   General Requirements:
      1.   Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements:
         a.   New Construction, Reconstruction, Expansions and Change in Use:
Off street parking and loading spaces meeting the standards detailed in this
chapter shall be required. The number of required off street parking and
loading spaces shall be determined based upon parking ratios detailed in Hayden
City Code
11-4-6(C)(8) as provided in this section and may exclude:
            (1)   Any space occupied by central mechanical and/or electrical
equipment, elevator, escalator, public access stairways, lifts, chutes, trash
disposal units and fuel storage spaces;
            (2)   For multi-tenant structures, shared public lobbies, hallways
and entries, and similar enclosed spaces open to the general public.
         b.   When several uses are encompassed within a single structure,
parking requirements shall be based upon the relative proportion of gross floor
space attributable to each use.
         c.   ADA Accessible Parking Spaces: Where off street parking spaces
are required by this title there shall also be required parking spaces for
persons with disabilities as provided in the Americans with Disabilities Act.
The required number of accessible parking spaces shall be included in the
number of spaces determined by facility use.
      2.    Determination of required Parking Spaces:
         a.   Regulations and Standards Required: If any of the provisions,
regulations or standards of this chapter do not specifically pertain to a
particular use, or if they are not clearly stated for a particular use or uses,
the Community Development Director or his/her designee shall determine the
regulations and standards to be required. In making such a determination, the
following shall be considered:
            (1)   Parking generation, giving particular attention to attendance
potential at any facility.
            (2)   Location of the facility and the peak hours of operation.
            (3)   Extent and frequency of loading/unloading operations.
            (4)   The number of employees and patrons during peak period(s).
            (5)   If shared use parking is proposed:
               (a)   The hours and days of operation of the respective uses.
               (b)   The combined projected traffic generated by each use.
               (c)   The required number of spaces for each use.
               (d)   The average distance of the parking area to the entrance
of the Facility being served.
            (6)   Any other factors that would affect parking and loading
requirements.
         b.   Exceptions and Minor Modifications: Application for an exception
from a particular provision, regulation, or standard of this chapter may be
made in accordance with Hayden City Code
11-1-7.
      3.   Street Parking Excluded: No portion of any public right-of-way shall
be used in satisfying the minimum parking requirements established by this
chapter
      4.   Parking Spaces Must Be Available: Required off street parking areas
shall not be used for any purpose that would at any time prevent their intended
use as parking spaces by occupants and patrons of the facility being served. No
required parking area may be used for both parking and loading.
      5.   Tandem Parking and Loading Prohibited: Except for single- family
dwelling units, the design and development of tandem parking and loading spaces
shall not be allowed in meeting the minimum space requirements of this chapter.
A required space shall not be blocked by another space such that a vehicle will
be able to enter and leave the space at any time without having to cross
another required space and without having to make unreasonable turning
movements.
      6.   Off-Site Parking And Loading Requirements: Whenever any required
parking or loading areas are located on a site which is not within the property
limits of the facility being served, the owners of the facility and the land
providing the offsite space shall prepare and execute an agreement for approval
by the City and shall address the following:
         a.   The agreement shall guarantee the maintenance and reservation of
the offsite areas for the duration of the use of the facility being served in
accordance with Hayden City Code
11-4-6 (C).
         b.   The agreement shall include a legal easement, it shall be
recorded, and it shall run with the land. The agreement shall not be terminable
without notice to the City.
         c.   Termination of the agreement, or any change in use or increase in
use during the term of the agreement, shall require reevaluation of parking
requirements for the subject properties.
         d.   Agreements involving the use of the public right-of-way for
parking and/or loading shall require the approval of the City Council and shall
be considered under at least one of the following circumstances:
            (1)   When there is a City Council approved street corridor plan;
or
            (2)   When there is a special agreement such as a master
development agreement, deferred improvement agreement or similar instrument
that authorizes such use.
      7.   Maintenance of All Parking and Loading Areas Required: All paved
areas intended for use by the owners, employees, and the general public and
required by this chapter shall be maintained on a regular basis. Regular
maintenance shall include, but not be limited to, pavement repair and seal
coating; pavement marking and striping; removal of dust, leaves and litter;
removal of snow and ice; maintaining landscaped areas; and maintaining signs,
fences, wheel stops, curbs, walks, drainage facilities and any other
appurtenances pertinent to the requirements of this chapter and the zoning
ordinance.
      8.   Required Off Street Parking Spaces:
 
Residential Uses                        Required Spaces
Residential Dwellings, single- family,  2 per dwelling unit (where the garage
multi-family, detached, attached,       is a 2 or more space garage, then 1
townhome, condominium, apartments       space may be used to meet this
                                        requirement)
Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU)           1 per ADU
Detached housing, group                 1 per sleeping room
Home occupation, as per residential use 2 per dwelling unit
Other                                   Per Community Development Director or
                                        designee
 
      Note: If on-street parking is removed, the lost parking spaces shall be
replaced.
Civic Uses Required Spaces
Civic Uses                          Required Spaces
Administrative                      4 per 1,000 square feet
Childcare or nursery                3.5 per 1,000 square feet
Community assembly                  10 per 1,000 square feet
Community Center                    4 per 1,000 square feet
Community organization              4 per 1,000 square feet
Elementary school                   3 per 1,000 square feet
High school                         3 per 1,000 square feet
Hospitals/healthcare                3.5 per bed
Library                             3.5 per 1,000 square feet
Middle or junior high school        1.5 per 1,000 square feet
Museum or art gallery               2 per 1,000 square feet
Nursing and convalescent facilities 1.5 per 1,000 square feet
Religious assembly                  8 per 1,000 square feet
Other                               Per Community Development Director or
                                    designee
 
Commercial / Recreational / Industrial Uses Required Spaces
Commercial / Recreational /          Required Spaces
Industrial Uses
Automotive fleet storage, attendant  1 per employee and 1 per vehicle
parking, rental vehicles
Banks/financial services             5 spaces per 1,000 square feet and 5
                                     queuing spaces (with drive-through)
Bed and breakfast facilities         2 spaces for the occupant/caretaker & 1
                                     space for each guestroom
Bowling alleys                       5 spaces per alley
Childcare center                     3.5 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Dry cleaners                         1.5 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Fast food restaurant with drive-     10 per 1,000 square feet and 5 queuing
through                              spaces
Fast food restaurant without drive-  12.5 per 1,000 square feet
through
Gasoline sales                       1 parking space per pump and 2 queuing
                                     spaces per pump per side
General/Medical/Professional office  5 per 1,000 square feet
Golf course                          8 per hole and as required per accessory
                                     uses
Health/fitness facility              5 per 1,000 square feet
Hotel/motel                          1.2 spaces per unit and as required per
                                     accessory uses
Manufacturing                        2 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Self-storage                         1 space per 100 storage units and
Parks, Open Space                    Per Community Development Director or
                                     designee
Retail sales                         5 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Service establishments (including    5 spaces per 1,000 square feet
automotive/vehicular repair service)
                                     10 spaces per 1000 square feet or 1 space
Sit down restaurant                  per every 2 seats, whichever is greater
                                     (including any outdoor seating)
Skating rink                         5 spaces per 1,000 square feet
                                     1 space per 2,000 square feet and over
Storage                              20,000 square feet is 1 space per 3,000
                                     square feet
Supermarket                          4 spaces per 1,000 square feet
                                     1 space per vendor in addition to
Swap Meet                            required 5 spaces per 1,000 square feet
                                     of retail sales area
Tavern/bar                           15 spaces per 1,000 square feet (includes
                                     any outdoor seating)
Tennis, handball and racquetball     3.5 spaces per court
courts
Theaters, auditoriums, and stadiums  1 space per 4 seats
Vehicular cleaning and quick vehicle 3 spaces per bay, and 5 queuing spaces
servicing and repair
Warehousing                          1 space per 1,000 square feet
Other                                Per Community Development Director or
                                     designee
The required number of ADA accessible parking spaces shall be determined based
upon the total parking spaces required by the combined uses related to the
parking lot.
a.   Total Parking In Lot         Required Minimum Number of Accessible
                                     Spaces (Additional)
   1 to 25                        1
   26 to 50                       2
   51 to 75                       3
   76 to 100                      4
   101 to 150                     5
   151 to 200                     6
   201 to 300                     7
   301 to 400                     8
   401 to 500                     9
   501 to 1,000                   2 percent of total
   1,001 and over                 20 plus 1 for each 100 over 1,000
b.   Van Accessible Parking Spaces: One out of every eight required accessible
parking spaces shall comply with van accessibility requirements; in no case,
however, shall there be provided less than one van accessible space.
 
   9.   Nonresidential Uses in the Central Business District or the
Neighborhood Commercial Node: The Central Business District and the
Neighborhood Commercial Node are an overlay district which allows for certain
reductions in the required parking should certain conditions exist. Each
condition reduction can be reviewed separately, or in combination as follows:
 
                                                                                 Example of
                                                                                 Application of
Type of Non-Residential Required Parking Reduction                               Reduction if
                                                                                 Conditions Are
                                                                                 Met
                                                                                 Required
                                                                                Non-        25
                                                                                 Residential
                                                                                 Parking
1.   The required number of onsite parking spaces within the district shall be(Required
reduced to 75% of parking space requirements for all nonresidential uses.        Spaces) X   19
                                                                                 (0.75)
                                                                                 (Required
                                                                                 Space) X
2.   If parking lot layout incorporates a shared approach with a joint access (0.75) X    14
and parking agreement between adjacent lots, an additional 25% reduction.        (0.75) =
                                                                                 for both
                                                                                 reductions
                                                                                 (Required
                                                                                 Space) X
3.   If the subject property is located within one thousand feet (1,000') of a(0.75) X
public or commercial parking lot open for use by the general public, an          (0.75) X    13
additional 10% reduction.                                                        (0.90) =
                                                                                 for all
                                                                                 three
                                                                                 reductions
Type of Residential Required On-Site Parking Reduction: Required on-site parking may be reduced
by up to 50% if the developer provides dedicated offsite parking within 500' of the subject
use, with such dedicated off-site parking being equal to the reduction in the number of on-site
parking spaces being proposed
All other uses: On-site parking requirements may be waived, if the developer provides dedicated
off-site parking spaces equal to the number of required parking spaces within 1,000' of the
subject property.
 
      10.   Paving Requirements:
         a.   General Standards:
            (1)   Paving of Driveways, Approaches, Parking, Loading, and
Maneuvering Areas: All driveways, approaches, parking, loading and maneuvering
areas required of this chapter shall be paved with hot mix asphalt, or
concrete.
         b.   Residential Uses:
            (1)   New single-family, duplexes, accessory structures, and
additions of 50% or greater of the existing gross floor area of a structure
(including the gross floor area of the garage), shall be served by a paved
driveway, paved approach, and paved parking spaces as required.
            (2)   New accessory structures constructed within a residential
zoning district with an eight foot wide or larger door or opening with a depth
of 15' or greater (as measured opposite of the door/opening) shall be served by
a paved or concrete approach from the edge of the developed public or private
right-of-way to the property line; and a paved or gravel driveway from the edge
of the approach to a point aligned with the rear wall of the dwelling, said
paved or graveled driveway is not required to exceed 60' as measured from the
property line. The Community Development Director or his/her designee may
consider and administratively approve modified standards and specifications as
per Hayden City Code
11-1-7.
         c.   Surfacing of Non-residential Outdoor Storage: Outdoor storage
shall be surfaced, as herein provided:
            (1)   All outdoor storage lots that are used for the purpose of
storage of motorized vehicles shall be paved according to the requirements of
this chapter.
            (2)   Storage lots that are used for the purpose of storing
supplies and materials may be paved with asphalt or concrete or surfaced with a
maintained, dustless, weedless gravel and follow the requirements of section
11-2-5(C).
            (3)   Storage lots where heavy mobile equipment (including, but not
limited to, farming implements, logging equipment and/or construction
equipment, and tracked equipment) is displayed, stored or used for the movement
of materials:
               (a)   The actual area used for the storage, display, or use of
the heavy equipment may be surfaced with compacted crushed aggregate, provided
that the unpaved area is maintained in a neat, dustless and weedless condition.
The gravel shall meet the City regulations for 3/4" minus crushed aggregate and
shall be spread and compacted to a uniform layer having a minimum depth of four
inches after all topsoil and other unsuitable material have been removed.
               (b)   Said lots shall be served by paved approaches, driveways,
vehicular maneuvering areas and parking spaces meeting the requirements of this
chapter.
         d.   Surfacing of Outdoor Sales Display: Outdoor Sales Display shall
be surfaced, as herein provided:
            (1)   All outdoor sales display of merchandise shall be paved with
concrete or asphalt, except as provided below:
               (a)   Outdoor sale areas for greenhouse/nursery materials may be
surfaced with a maintained, dustless, weed free gravel.
            (2)   Said lots shall be served by paved approaches, driveways,
vehicular maneuvering areas and parking spaces meeting the requirement of this
chapter.
      11.   Parking Lot Grades and Drainage:
         a.    All off street parking shall be paved such that no surface shall
exceed five percent and no longitudinal drainage gradient shall be flatter than
one-half percent.
         b.   Approach grades shall be safe and convenient and shall be
designed in accordance with the Idaho Standards for Public Works Construction
(as amended) for driveway grade standards; however, the City Engineer may allow
exceptions from this standard based on site specific circumstances.
         c.   Parking spaces for persons with disabilities shall be as level as
possible but in no case shall the parking space, adjacent aisle, driveway or
designated pathways exceed a gradient of two percent in any direction.
         d.   All parking and loading areas shall provide for proper drainage
of surface water to approved drainage areas or structures.
         e.   Surface drainage shall be retained on site to the extent that
site runoff shall not exceed runoff from the site in its undeveloped condition.
      12.   Parking Lot Location Requirements and Proximity To Use: The
distance between parking areas and the use being served shall meet the
following requirements:
         a.   Residential: Required parking shall be located on site for
residential uses except in the Central Business District.
         b.   All other uses: Required parking shall be located not farther
than 300' from the entrance to the facility being served, unless continuous
parking is provided (except in the Central Business District).
         c.   Loading berths for an activity shall be located on the same lot
as the activity served, or on a contiguous lot within the same zoning district.
Property within the right-of-way shall not be used to meet the need for a
loading berth except with the express written authorization of the City Council
who shall take into account safety concerns, traffic congestion, other loading
demands on the road system, pedestrian-vehicle conflicts, and the like in their
decision-making and if the authorization is granted, the City Council may apply
conditions as deemed necessary to the approval. Loading berths and service
areas shall be allowed to be located at the front of buildings in an area
visible from the roadway only by administrative authorization of the Community
Development Director or his/her designee who is authorized to place conditions
on the approval to mitigate the visual impacts such as requiring the use of
fences, hedges, and other screening mechanisms.
      13.   Parking Space Requirements: In general the parking space
requirements are identified below; however the specific details can be found in
accordance with the City’s Design Standards Manual, as may be adopted by the
Hayden City Council.
         a.   Standard Dimensions: Off street parking spaces shall meet the
minimum dimensions of 9' x 20' for a standard space, 8' x 23' for a parallel
space, and 10' x 23' where parking abuts a building.
         b.   ADA Accessible Parking Spaces:
            (1)   Access Aisles: Every designated accessible space requires an
adjacent access aisle. This aisle must be on either side of each space and can
be shared by two designated accessible space.
            (2)   Location: The spaces for persons with disabilities shall be
located as near as practical to a primary accessible entrance.
            (3)   Signage: All designated accessible spaces shall be signed.
      14.   Aisleways, Driveways, Turning Radii, and Dimensions:
         a.   Access Requirements and Standards: All required off street
parking areas shall be located, designed, constructed and maintained to provide
access at all times. Driveway approaches shall be located, designed and
constructed according to the City’s current standards and policies.
            (1)   Access to a public street shall require an encroachment
permit and a guarantee for work to be performed in a public right-of- way, as
detailed in title 7, chapter 2 of this Code.
            (2)   The number of approaches serving an individual lot or parcel
may be restricted to a single two-way approach, and in some cases, joint use
approaches serving two or more lots may be required.
            (3)   The width of an approach shall be determined according to the
City standards, and shall meet the requirements of the local fire protection
district.
            (4)   The location and design of approaches shall be approved by
the City Engineer or his/her designee in accordance with the Access Management
Policy as adopted by the City.
      15.   Bicycle Parking Requirements:
         a.   Permanently installed bicycle racks shall be required in the
Central Business District and Commercial Zone Districts for all retail,
hospitality, medical, dental, and restaurant uses, where those uses are
required by Code to have 15 or more parking spaces.
         b.   Bike racks shall be provided with the number of bikes spaces
totaling 10% of the required off-street vehicle parking spaces rounded to the
nearest even number, or a minimum of two bike spaces, whichever is greater, up
to a maximum requirement of eight bike spaces. All bike racks shall be placed
in locations that facilitate use by customers and employees riding bikes, and
may be incorporated into the site’s hardscape design.
         c.   A single bicycle rack element shall be designed to meet the
following criteria:
            (1)   Support the bicycle in an upright position by its frame in
two places, without the use of a kickstand.
            (2)   Prevent the wheels of the bicycle from tipping over, tilting,
or twisting.
            (3)   Enable the frame and one or both wheels to be secured.
            (4)   Allow either “front in” or “back in” parking where a “U-lock”
or cable can secure either the front wheel and down tube or the rear wheel and
seat tube of an upright bicycle.
            (5)   Provide for all types and sizes of bicycles, including
various types and sizes of frames, wheels, and tire widths.
         d.   The use of creative designs for three-dimensional bicycle parking
racks (functional art) may be permitted. Proposed alternatives shall be
submitted for evaluation and approval by the City prior to installation.
         e.   Bicycle racks shall be installed in a manner and location that
does not interfere with required access, pedestrian and vehicle circulation or
create a public safety concern, and is acceptable to the City.
         f.   Bicycle racks shall not be located within the public right-of-
way, nor on private sidewalks/walkways with a width of less than 10'.
      16.   Parking Lot Landscaping Requirements:
         a.   Landscaping: All parking areas shall include buffer landscaping
as detailed in this chapter. If this is an addition to an existing parking lot,
the perimeter landscaping shall apply only to the expanded area of the
addition. If this is a parking lot reconstruction of more than 40% (not
including surface overlays) the perimeter landscaping requirement shall apply
to the entire parking lot.
      17.   Parking Lot Lighting Requirements: The illumination of off street
parking and loading areas and display lots shall be designed such that lighting
is directed away from the street and adjacent properties and toward the
interior of the property. All such lighting shall be fully shielded, and all
lighting shall be contained on the lot. A minimum illumination of 0.2 foot-
candle per square foot is required. When parking lot lighting is proposed, a
photometric plan shall be submitted which demonstrates compliance with these
standards and the Lighting Standards in
11-4-5. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-4-7: SITE PLAN STANDARDS:
   A.    Application Requirements:
      1.   All site plan applications shall include applicable fees, as
established by City Council.
      2.   All site plan applications shall include the following information
in a format which meets standards and policies set forth by the City of Hayden:
         a.   Record of survey or plat showing property pins, lot dimensions,
and scale;
         b.   Location, purpose, and beneficiary of all existing or proposed
easements;
         c.   Building footprint dimensions and location in relation to parcel
boundaries and property pins; proposed uses; floor elevations; and building
height in relation to the proposed finish grade at the front of the building;
         d.   Dimensions and locations of existing buildings and site
improvements, both on site and adjacent to the site. Indicate all structures
and improvements planned for demolition;
         e.   Parking and circulation, including:
            (1)   The number and type of spaces, and their dimensions;
            (2)   The circulation plan, including the dimension of driveways,
aisleways, pedestrian walkways, and queuing areas;
            (3)   The location and dimensions of off street loading areas;
            (4)   Pavement plans including dimensions, proposed finish grade,
and paving materials; and areas of site not to be paved, or those that will be
paved in a future phase; and
            (5)   Ingress/egress details including location, dimensions,
turning radius, and traffic control improvements designed to meet MUTCD
standards;
         f.   Landscaping plan, including:
            (1)   The location and type of existing and proposed trees, bushes,
shrubs, and other such plantings;
            (2)   The location and type of proposed ground coverings;
            (3)   Irrigation system improvements;
            (4)   Hardscape improvements, including, but not limited to:
               (a)   Patios;
               (b)   Walkways;
               (c)   Planters;
               (d)   Benches;
               (e)   Water features;
               (f)   Public art displays; or
               (g)   Other such “fixtures”;
         g.   Required landscaping to include but not be limited to buffers,
parking areas, street frontage, greenways, greenbelt tracts, etc.
         h.   Other existing and proposed site improvements, including, but not
limited to, fencing, location of refuse and recycling receptacles, outside
storage plans, and lighting plans and specifications;
         i.   Utility plan, including:
            (1)   The location of existing and proposed new sewer and water
service lines and connections, including locations for domestic water and
irrigation meters;
            (2)   The location of existing and proposed dry utilities service
lines and connections; and
            (3)   The location of all existing and proposed utility easements;
         j.   Sign plan, including:
            (1)   The location of all existing and proposed signs; and
            (2)   The proposed dimensions, materials, and construction details
for all signage proposed;
         k.   Grading plan, showing:
            (1)   Existing and finish elevations in 1' contours;
            (2)   Compaction requirements;
            (3)   Total cut and fill volumes;
            (4)   Grade break lines; and
            (5)   The location and dimensions of all retaining structures, with
structural engineering details for all retaining structures over four feet in
height;
         l.   Stormwater management plan, including GIA standards, hydraulic
calculations, impervious area, culverts and dry wells;
         m.   Compliance with ADA accessibility standards and requirements of
local, State, and Federal Code with regard to accessibility.
      3.   All required plans, as detailed in subsection B of this section,
shall be signed, stamped and dated by an Idaho licensed architect, landscape
architect, and/or engineer, who, along with their consultants, is acting within
their area of education, training, experience and competency in the specific
technical areas involved. Where stormwater infrastructure is required or
proposed, the stormwater plan shall be prepared by an Idaho licensed engineer
acting within their area of education, training, experience and competency in
the specific technical areas involved. This requirement for preparation by a
licensed professional shall not apply to the construction of single-family
residential structures.
      4.   For projects which may result in potential negative impacts from the
proposed development, additional studies to evaluate the impacts and identify
potential mitigation measures may be required as part of the site plan review
process. Such studies may include, but not be limited to those identified in
12-3-4(A) (19).
   B.   Required Site Improvements:
 
Type of  Proposed Work                                                                Required
Site                                                                                  Improvements
                                                                                      Site
New                                                                                   improvements
Sites                                                                                per
                                                                                      11-4-7 (B)
                                                                                      (1)
         a)   Activity or series of activities over a three year period of time in Site
         which over 40% of the gross area of the site is reconstructed or increase of improvements
         site improvements by 40% of the existing improvements being developed unless shall be
         the development occurs through a master site agreement. (Does not include    required for
         surface overlays of existing asphalt parking lots.)                          the entire
                                                                                      site.
                                                                                      Site
Existing b)   Activity or series of activities over a three year period of time in improvements
Sites    which less than 40% of the gross area of the site is reconstructed. (Does    apply to any
         not include surface overlays of asphalt parking lots.)                       expanded
                                                                                      portion of a
                                                                                      site.
                                                                                      Must be in
                                                                                      accordance
         c)   Gravel is resurfaced.                                                with
                                                                                      surfacing
                                                                                      standards.
 
      1.   Site improvements shall consist of the following in compliance with
the standards of this title:
         a.   Landscaping, and irrigation systems in support thereof;
         b.   Lighting;
         c.   Paved driving, maneuvering and parking areas;
         d.   Paved and screened storage areas and/or display lots, if
applicable;
         e.   Screened refuse disposal and recycling areas;
         f.   On site stormwater management facilities; and
         g.   Underground utilities - electric, gas and cable, and
communication utilities service connections shall be installed underground
unless otherwise allowed by the City Engineer working in consultation with the
utility company.
   C.   Required Frontage Improvements:
      1.   Paving, curbs, swales, greenbelts, sidewalks and other items per the
typical sections shown in the City’s adopted transportation or corridor plan
which is in effect at the time of application are all part of frontage
improvements. Dedications and easements shall extend from the boundary of the
existing right-of-way to the extent of required public improvements and
utilities.
 
Type of Construction     Construction of Frontage Right-of-way Dedication &
                         Improvements             Grant of Utility Easement
All New Construction of  Yes                      Yes
Principal Structures
Commercial Additions &   Yes                      Yes
Changes of Use
Residential ADU          Yes                      Yes
All other accessory uses No                       Yes 5
Maintenance              No                       No 4
 
      1   The said requirement(s) to be incorporated as a condition of building
permit or other approval.
      2   When an accessory structure or residential addition is to be located
on a street having less than a required right-of-way and easements; and
dedication of such is not required by code, the structure shall be set back the
needed distance identified by the adopted transportation or corridor plans plus
the required setbacks.
      3   New Parking Lots without a building structure, public or private,
shall be required to construct all on-site and off-site improvements as may be
required for any non-residential site plan to include landscaping, lighting,
paving, frontage improvements, and dedications of right-of-way and granting of
easements.
      4   Maintenance shall not include the following: Improvements necessary
to correct an immediate life safety concern as identified by the building and/
or fire official; energy efficiency upgrades; reroofs; installation of
commercial hood systems; and installation of fire alarm or sprinkler systems.
      5   In areas where the final, finish grade and/or street section cannot
be established; where a frontage improvement has been installed at a prior time
which is not fully consistent, but is generally consistent, with currently
adopted standards; where there are safety concerns; or if there are other
factors, which, as determined by the City, merit waiving or deferring the
obligation to construct said improvements, the obligation(s) may be deferred or
waived, in whole or in part, by the City Engineer. If deferred, the developer
shall be required to enter into a deferred improvement agreement incorporating
the approved deferral(s) as a condition of approval for the application. With
the agreement, the City may require financial sureties in a form it deems
appropriate to guarantee the deferred items and may require the dedication of
right-of-way and easements be provided. In the case of single family dwelling
units, if the obligation is deferred in whole or in part, this will not require
a separate deferred improvement agreement, but shall be incorporated as a
condition of approval of the application, along with sureties if determined
necessary by the City.
      6   In areas where the dedication of right-of-way or easement would
create a non-conforming lot of record, the dedication of right-of-way shall be
to the required setback.
   D.   Standards For Site Plan Approval:
      1.   In order for a site plan to be approved, the development proposal
must meet the following standards:
         a.   The proposed use is allowable as based upon the current zone
designation of the subject property;
         b.   The proposed development meets all City design standards,
including, but not limited to, stormwater management, landscaping, parking and
circulation, lighting, building layout and design, and other established City
standards as may be applicable to the proposed development;
         c.   Utilities and infrastructure are sufficient to support the
development and the uses proposed, or the developer will construct necessary
infrastructure improvements to support the development as part of the proposed
construction, and has entered into a commercial construction improvement
agreement with the City; and
         d.   The transportation system is adequate to support the additional
traffic loading created by the proposed development, or the developer will
construct transportation system improvements necessary to maintain the City’s
minimum level of service as required off-site improvements, or otherwise pay
for their proportionate share of such required improvements, consistent with
the provisions of title 9, chapter 2 of this Code.
      2.   Should a site plan be denied based upon the plan’s failure to meet
the above listed standards for approval, staff shall provide the applicant a
written decision detailing the basis for such denial, and identifying what (if
anything) may be done to make the application approvable.
   E.   Construction Of Site Improvements:
      1.   Construction of improvements, as depicted on the approved site plan,
shall be required as a condition placed on the building permit.
      2.   No site disturbance, with the exclusion of staging of materials and
equipment, shall take place prior to site plan approval, unless authorized by
the City. The City may place conditions upon the permit to mitigate the impacts
of the disturbance.
      3.   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until the City has
inspected and approved all required site improvements, with said improvements
constructed in conformance with the approved plans.
      4   In the event that required improvements must be postponed for causes
beyond the control of the developer, the City, at its discretion, and
consistent with the adopted Building Codes, may choose to issue a temporary
certificate of occupancy, with provision of surety in the amount of 150% of
cost estimates for the required installation, or as an additional option for
residential development at a per deferred item cost. The deferred items will be
incorporated into an agreement for which the City may charge a fee to create,
process, and maintain. In no event shall a final certificate of occupancy be
issued until all required improvements have been constructed in accordance with
the approved site plan.
   F.   Duration Of Site Plan Approval:
      1.   Site plan approval is for two years from date of approval by City
staff. Failure to complete the improvements within two years after the date of
staff approval shall cause all approvals of said site plan approval to be null
and void, unless an extension of one year has been applied for by the developer
and approved by the Director, except if a phased site plan for which the
phasing plan was approved by City staff as part of the initial site plan
approval. After the two years have elapsed, the developer may apply for and
receive additional extensions for good cause of time if actual work has been
commenced and is continuing on the installation of the improvements up to a
maximum of three years, after which the site plan approval shall be null and
void and reapplication for a new site plan application shall be required.
      2.   Phased Site Plan Master Agreement: Should a project be proposed to
be constructed in phases, then a site plan master agreement to identify the
where, when, and what of the site shall be completed in each phase of the
project site.
      3.   Maintenance: The continuing maintenance of any improvement required
for compliance with any development or use standard of this title shall be
required. This provision applies to:
         a.   Off-street parking and loading areas;
         b.   Improvements required for on-site stormwater treatment systems
(grass swales);
         c.   Landscaped areas, including any required buffers; and
         d.   Any other improvement required for compliance with this title.
         e.   The maintenance of landscaped areas includes irrigation,
maintenance of the irrigation system, and weed and pest control.
      Should the above items not be maintained as required, the City shall
address the maintenance requirements per the standards identified in
11-4-4(C). (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-4-8: VIBRATION STANDARDS:
Any use creating intense earthshaking vibrations or noise such as are created
by heavy drop forges or heavy hydraulic surges, shall be set back at least 300'
from an abutting residential or commercial zoning district or at least 150'
from an abutting light industrial zoning district, unless such operation is
controlled to prevent transmission beyond the lot lines of earthshaking
vibrations perceptible to a person of normal sensitivities. (Ord. 619, 4-13-
2021)
11-4-9: ZONE REGULATION APPLICATION STANDARDS:
In any zone when several combined land uses exist, or are proposed, the more
restrictive requirements shall apply, i.e., a “residential” use in a
“commercial” zone shall be held to the standards of the residential zone. (Ord.
619, 4-13-2021)
CHAPTER 5
SIGN CODE
SECTION:
11-5-1: Purpose
11-5-2: Restrictions
11-5-3: Definitions
11-5-4: General Provisions And Requirements For All Signs
11-5-5: Signs Authorized Without A Sign Permit
11-5-6: Signs Authorized With A Sign Permit
11-5-7: Signs For Development Complexes
11-5-8: Prohibited Signs
11-5-9: Standards For Specific Sign Types
11-5-10: Permit Requirements And Administration
11-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate all signs in the City of Hayden that
are visible from the public rights of way, public facilities, public pedestrian
and bicycle pathways, and navigable waterways. Signs provide an important
medium through which individuals and businesses may convey a variety of
noncommercial and commercial messages. Depending on their size, number, and
design, signs may attract or repel visitors, affect the visual quality of the
community, affect the safety of vehicular and pedestrian traffic, and impact,
positively or negatively, the character of the community. Aesthetic
considerations impact economic values as well as public health, safety, and
welfare. Therefore, it is the intent of these regulations to establish
standards for the following purposes:
   A.   Recognize and protect the rights of individuals and businesses to
convey their messages through signs and the right of the public to be protected
against the unrestricted proliferation of signs;
   B.   Further the objectives of the City’s Comprehensive Plan;
   C.   Maintain and enhance the visual quality (aesthetics) of the community;
   D.   Improve pedestrian and motorist safety by minimizing distractions,
obstacles and visual clutter, and to ensure clear views of the roadway and
directional or warning signs;
   E.   Protect and enhance economic viability by ensuring that Hayden will be
a visually pleasant place to visit and/or reside;
   F.   Protect property values and public/private investments in property;
   G.   Protect views of the natural landscape and sky;
   H.   Avoid personal injury and property damage from unsafe signs;
   I.   Provide businesses with effective and efficient opportunities for
identification by reducing competing demands for visual attention; and
   J.   Ensure fair and consistent enforcement of sign regulations. (Ord. 619,
4-13-2021)
11-5-2: RESTRICTIONS:
No sign shall be constructed, installed, structurally altered, enlarged or
relocated except in conformity with the provisions contained herein, and only
after a sign permit issued by the City of Hayden has been secured, if so
required. The changing or maintenance of movable parts or components of an
approved sign, or permitted nonconforming sign, designed for such changes, or
the changing of sign copy, business name, lettering, sign faces, colors,
display, graphic matter, and/or the content of any sign copy shall not be
deemed a structural alteration. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-5-3: DEFINITIONS:
              Signs permitted as a sign (other than a Temporary Sign or Billboard) which is
ABANDONED     attached to a building or lease space which has become vacant, or a sign which
SIGNS:        exists on a lot or parcel having no building with a valid Certificate of
              Occupancy for a period of 120 consecutive days.
              Temporary, non-structural signs, objects or devices which move, flicker, flap
              flash, gyrate or make noise through the utilization of air, wind, electricity, or
              other means, the primary function and purpose of which is to attract the
              attention of the public. The following signs are examples of attention attracting
              devices:
ATTENTION     a.   Air dancers.
ATTRACTING    b.   Temporary Flags, including streamers, pendants, feathers, tear drop, bow
DEVICE:       flags, pin flags, fin flags or similar devices, either tethered to or placed upon
              or in the ground, earth, or pavement (does not include flags intended for
              residential or household use, or permanent flag pole).
              c.   Signs with a revolving beam, beacon of light and/or search lights.
              d.   Signs with light resembling an emergency vehicle.
              e.   Other signs or devices as determined by the Community Development Director
              or designee.
AVAILABLE     The continuous portion of a building between two terminating corners not
WALL AREA:    including doors/windows.
              A ground-mounted sign which exceeds the maximum height and size allowed for a
BILLBOARD:    monument sign and which typically displays other characteristics not authorized
              in this code for permanent signage.
BLINKING:     A form of flashing where a pattern of sudden illumination changes occur with more
              than two on-off cycles per second.
              a.   Awning Signs: Lettering that is placed upon a roof like cover extending over
              or in front of a door or window as a decorative shelter.
              b.   Canopy Signs: Signs that are structurally part of a canopy or the skin of a
              canopy. It differs from an awning in that its aim is not to provide shelter.
              c.   Hanging Signs: See “Projecting Signs”.
              d.   Mural: An image or series of images or characters constituting artwork,
              which is painted or affixed directly to a wall, ceiling, or window.
              e.   Painted Wall Signs: Signs not meeting the definition of a wall sign or mural
              that are painted directly to the exterior surface of a building.
              f.   Projecting Signs: Signs with at least eight feet of vertical clearance which
BUILDING      are attached to any side of a building and which project outward or hang from the
MOUNTED       building or structure so that the main body or area of the sign is physically
SIGNS:        separate from the structure to which it is attached. Also includes “hanging
              signs”.
              g.   Roof Signs: Signs erected, constructed, or maintained upon a roof, or which
              projects above the roofline of a building. Signs mounted on mansard, facades,
              eaves, and architectural projections such as canopies and marquees shall not be
              considered roof signs.
              h.   Wall Signs: Signs attached to or displayed on an exterior wall in a manner
              parallel with the wall surface, and not projecting more than 12 inches from such
              surface.
              i.   Window Signs: Signs affixed to, painted upon, or etched into the surface of
              a window with its message intended to be visible to and readable from, the public
              way or an adjacent property.
              a.   Electronic Message Center (EMC): A sign that uses computer-generated
              messages or some other means of changing the words. These signs also include
              lamps, LEDs, LCDs, or flipper matrix.
              b.   Message Center: A panel consisting of a durable plastic or metal backing on
CHANGEABLE    which moveable characters may be arranged to create a message.
SIGNS:        c.   Marquee Signs: Marquee signs may include the following:
                 1.   Signs mounted on a permanent canopy.
                 2.   A traditional industry term for the variable-message section of a canopy
              sign.
                 3.   Integral signs and permanent canopy.
              Any sign that is designed and erected for the principal purpose of providing
              direction and/or orientation for vehicular or pedestrian traffic. The following
              are examples of directional signs:
              a.   Traffic Signs: Official signs erected as required by government for public
DIRECTIONAL   safety purposes.
SIGNS:        b.   Drive Entrance/Exit Signs: Signs placed on private property at entrance
              points or along internal circulation routes. Generally not exceeding 30 inches in
              height.
              c.   Wayfinding Signs: A type of sign that allows users to find their way, using
              information provided along the travel path.
DOUBLE FACED  Signs with two faces, back to back or in the shape of a “V”, with identical
SIGNS:        messages and images.
ENTRYWAY      Signs used to identify the entrance to a development or subdivision.
SIGNS:
FACADE:       The continuous portion of a building between two terminating corners including
              doors/windows.
              A piece of cloth or similar material, typically rectangular or square, attachable
              along no more than one side at two or more points to a permanent flag pole by
              means of a durable rope or cord and providing a minimum of eight feet of
FLAG          clearance from the ground to the lowest point of the flag while at rest. A
(Permanent    permanent flag pole shall be attached to the ground by means of permanent
Pole):        footing, or to the roof or sides of a building.
              a.   For flags designed to be attached on more than one edge, including
              changeable or seasonal flags mounted on light poles or standards, see “Banner”.
              b.   For flags not mounted to permanent flag poles see “Attention-Attracting
              Device.”
FLASHING      Signs with an intermittent flashing light source. Generally, a message is
SIGNS:        continuously repeated with the sign used as an attention-getting device.
              Signs principally supported by a structure affixed to the ground, and not
FREESTANDING  supported by a building, including pole signs, monument signs, and ground signs.
SIGNS:        a.   Monument Signs: A ground sign with low overall height of no more than five
              feet.
              b.   Pole/Pylon Signs: A freestanding sign with visible pole support.
FRONTAGE,     The length of the property line(s) of a single premise along a public or private
STREET:       right-of-way.
HEIGHT OF     Height of signs shall be measured from the grade at the base of the sign to its
SIGNS:        maximum height not including any devices or attachments such as solar panels,
              antennas, or lighting rods.
ILLEGAL       A sign that fails to meet the current codes and regulations when erected. It
SIGNS:        differs from a non-conforming sign, which is legal when created, but as laws and
              ordinances change, it no longer conforms to the codes.
MANSARD:      A type of roof that includes two slopes on each of its sides.
MARQUEE:      A permanent canopy often of metal projecting over an entrance. Often including a
              changeable message.
NONCONFORMING Any sign which was lawfully erected and maintained prior to the effective date
SIGNS:        hereof, which does not comply with the requirements of this chapter, and/or would
              otherwise not be authorized under this chapter.
OFF PREMISES  A sign that is not located on the property of the business which it is
SIGNS:        advertising. Also known as a third-party sign or outdoor advertising.
OFFICIAL      Signs erected or required by a governmental entity.
SIGNS:
              Any non-illuminated sign or advertising device that rests on the ground and is
              not designed to be permanently attached to a building or permanently anchored to
              the ground.
              a.   A-FRAME SIGNS: A double-faced portable sign with an A-shaped frame, no
PORTABLE      greater than four feet in height and seven square feet per sign face, composed of
SIGNS:        two sign boards attached at the top and separated at the bottom, and not
              supported by a structure in the ground.
              b.   LAWN SIGNS: A small sign approximately 24" by 24" in size that sticks into
              an unpaved surface with a single or double post.
              c.   STANDARD PORTABLE SIGNS: A small movable sign no greater than four feet in
              height and seven square feet per sign face, used for a temporary period of time.
PROHIBITED    Signs not specifically allowed by this chapter.
SIGNS:
ROOFLINE:     The top edge of a peaked roof or, in the case of an extended facade or parapet,
              the uppermost point of said facade or parapet.
SANDWICH      See “A-Frame Sign”.
BOARD SIGNS:
              Any device, structure, fixture, painting, or visual image using words, graphics,
SIGN:         symbols, numbers, or letters designed for the purpose of conveying information or
              attracting attention.
SIGN AREA/    The area of a sign on which words and images are placed.
FACE:
              Signs intended to be used for 90 days or less, not for a permanent installation.
              Not including portable signs.
TEMPORARY     a.   Banner: A sign composed of lightweight material that is firmly attached to a
SIGNS:        building at four or more points; often used in a non-permanent setting, such as
              to announce a grand opening, sale or special event.
              b.   Attention attracting devices as defined in this chapter. (Ord. 619, 4-13-
              2021)
 
11-5-4: GENERAL PROVISIONS AND REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL SIGNS:
   A.   Conformance to codes: Any sign hereafter erected shall conform to
provisions of this title, and all other applicable provisions of this Code.
   B.   Sign Setbacks, Generally: All permanent signs shall be located outside
of all utility easements. Shall be a minimum of five feet behind the right-of-
way. Shall not be located within two feet of sidewalk. Sidewalk, right-of-way,
and utility easement locations shall be defined by the current Transportation
Master Plan. An administrative exception may be requested for sites with space
restrictions.
   C.   Traffic Visibility: Signs and sign structures shall not be erected in
such location as to cause visual obstruction or interference with motor vehicle
traffic, or traffic control devices. Signs and/or sign structures shall not
obstruct the line of vision in any direction from any street intersection or
driveway. Specifically, signs and sign structures shall not be located within
the “sight triangle” as defined by this Code, and/or street standards as
adopted by Hayden City Council. (See code §
6-1-4 Visibility at Intersection).
   D.   Construction: The following standards shall apply to the construction
of all signs in the City, regardless of whether the sign does or does not
require a sign permit.
      1.   Code Requirements: All signs shall be constructed in compliance with
the adopted Building and Electrical Codes of the City.
      2.   Fastenings: All signs must remain safe and secure during the period
of use. All parts of the signs including bolts and cables, shall remain
painted, and free of corrosion.
      3.   Stability: Signs shall be constructed so they will withstand wind
pressure of at least 70 pounds per square foot of surface and will otherwise
structurally be safe, and securely anchored or otherwise fastened, suspended,
or supported so that they will not be a hazard to persons or property.
      4.   Lighting: External lighting shall be shielded from view and shall be
focused on the sign to avoid stray lighting. Flashing, rotating, and
intermittent lighting is prohibited.
      5.   Proximity to Electrical Conductors: Signs and their supporting
structures shall be located no closer to electrical utilities than is permitted
by the applicable code. No sing including cables and support shall, in any
event, shall be within six feet of any electrical conductor, electrical light
pole, electrical streetlight, traffic light or public utility pole.
      6.   Prohibited Obstruction: Signs shall not be erected in any manner
which interferes with free passage from, or otherwise obstructs a fire escape,
downspout, window, door, stairway, ladder or opening required as a means of
ingress or egress, or required by Code for the provision of light, air, or
stormwater drainage.
   E.   Maintenance of Signs: All signs and sign structures shall be properly
maintained in good condition and repair. Should any sign become structurally
unsafe or a safety hazard, the owner, upon notification by the City, shall be
required to return the sign to a safe condition or remove the sign.
   F.   Removal of Obsolete, Non-maintained or Abandoned Signs: All signs which
no longer serve the purpose for which they were intended, are not maintained,
have been determined to present a hazard, or have otherwise been abandoned,
shall be removed or restored by the business or property owner within 30 days
of notice by the City.
   G.   Nonconforming Signs: Any sign legally existing at the passage date
hereof that does not conform in use, location, height, or size with the
regulations of the zone in which the sign is located, shall be considered a
legal non-conforming use or structure, and shall be permitted to continue in
such status until such time as the sign is abandoned, removed, relocated, or
replaced subject to the following restrictions:
      1.   The structure of the sign may not be altered in any way except
toward compliance with this chapter. Structural alterations which are necessary
for the maintenance, repair or restoration of the nonconforming sign are
permissible, provided said alterations do not increase the size, height, degree
of nonconformity, or exceed 50% of the replacement value of the sign.
      2.   The legal, non-conforming sign may not be replaced, except with a
sign conforming to the requirements of this chapter.
      3.   The legal non-conforming sign is subject to all requirements of this
chapter regarding safety, maintenance, and repair. If, however, the sign
suffers damage or deterioration in excess of 50% of its replacement value, it
must be brought into compliance with this chapter or removed within 30 days of
notification by the City.
      4.   The changing of sign copy, business name, lettering, sign faces,
colors, display, graphic matter, and/or the content of any sign copy shall not
be deemed an alteration or replacement.
   H.   First Amendment Protection: Any sign allowed under this chapter may
contain, in lieu of any other text, any otherwise lawful noncommercial message
that does not, for commercial purposes, direct attention to a business operated
for profit or to a product, commodity, or service for sale, provided said sign
complies with all other provisions of this chapter, including the specific
provisions for the type of sign, within the land use designation/zone where the
sign is placed. This provision prevails over any more specific provisions to
the contrary.
   I.   Illumination of signs shall be controlled as not to shine directly into
the window of any residential premises. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-5-5: SIGNS AUTHORIZED WITHOUT A SIGN PERMIT:
While subject to other applicable requirements and permits, the following signs
are authorized without a sign permit:
   A.   Sign Type:
      1.   Official Signs: Signs erected or required by a governmental entity,
including but not limited to:
         a.   Traffic control signs authorized by any governmental agency.
         b.   Signs, notices, placards, certificates and official papers,
authorized or required by any statute, government agency, public school or
court.
         c.   Public utility warning and underground line identification signs.
Underground utility warning signs and other safety signs including flags placed
in the ground for the purpose of marking under utilities.
         d.   Historical markers/commemorative plaques or cornerstones.
      2.   Temporary Signs: Signs for temporary use shall meet the following
requirements:
         a.   Signs are not intended to be used as a substitute for permanent
signage.
         b.   Signs shall have a durable backing and shall be fastened to the
ground or structure. When attached to the ground, they shall be driven firmly
into the ground to prevent theft and loss due to wind.
         c.   Signs may carry any lawful message.
         d.   No temporary sign shall remain on the property for longer than 90
days.
         e.   Three temporary signs may be authorized per lot.
         f.   Signs shall not exceed seven square feet in gross area and shall
not be illuminated.
         g.   Prior to placing a new temporary sign on a property, any existing
temporary signage along the same street frontage shall first be removed if the
placement of the new sign will cause the number of temporary signs to exceed
the number allowed on the property.
         h.   The City is authorized to require the removal of a temporary sign
if, the temporary sign is or has become dilapidated, obsolete, or is a nuisance
to the public.
         i.   Temporary signs shall be placed on private property only with the
consent of the property owner. Any signs placed within easements, public right-
of-way, or on private property without permission of the owner, are subject to
removal without compensation.
      3.   Directional Signs: Directional signs do not require a sign permit,
but are subject to the following limitations:
         a.   Only one exit/entrance directional sign shall be authorized per
legal approach.
         b.   Directional signs shall not exceed two square feet in gross area.
         c.   Not more than 25% of the area of such sign shall be devoted to
personal or business identification or logs.
         d.   Regulatory and/or traffic control signs shall not be considered
directional signs, as defined herein.
         e.   Street and Address Signs: Street name and addressing signs,
meeting the standards for such signs as detailed in Title 9 Chapter 5 of this
Code shall not require a sign permit.
      4.   Commercial, Mixed Use, and Light Industrial Zone Signs: In non-
residential zone districts where a drive-through window is allowed, in addition
to the freestanding signs allowed, businesses with a drive-through window may
have two additional freestanding signs located adjacent to the drive-through
land and oriented toward the occupants of the vehicle, provided they have
secured all other required building and/or electrical permits. (Ord. 619, 4-13-
2021)
11-5-6: SIGNS AUTHORIZED WITH A SIGN PERMIT:
Subject to the applicable requirements of this chapter, this title, and the
official building code as adopted by the City of Hayden, signs shall be
authorized with an approved sign permit, as detailed below for each of the
identified zoning designations:
Allowed Signage (see standards for specific sign type)
 A MR, R-1, R-S non-residential uses C, MU L-I
Allowed Signage (see standards for specific sign type)
                 MR, R-1, R-
             A   S non-      C,  L-I
                 residential MU
                 uses
Building     Not to exceed 10% of the area of the façade that the sign will be placed on.
Mounted Sign (The allowed square footage can be made up of any combination of the following sign
             types)
Awning/      Yes Yes         Yes Yes
Canopy
Mural        No  No          No  No
Painted Wall Yes Yes         Yes Yes
Sign
Projecting   Yes Yes         Yes Yes
Sign
Roof Sign    No  No          No  No
Wall Sign    Yes Yes         Yes Yes
Window Sign  Yes Yes         Yes Yes
             One
             freestanding
             sign shall be   One freestanding sign shall be permitted for every one hundred fifty
Freestanding permitted for   (150) linear feet of public street frontage.
Signs        every one       Maximum of three (3) freestanding signs per lot
             hundred (100)
             linear feet of
             street frontage
Monument/    Yes Yes         Yes Yes
Ground Sign
Pole/Pylon       Restricted
Sign         Yes to Civic    Yes Yes
                 Uses
Flag
(Permanent   Yes Yes         Yes Yes
Pole)
Changeable
Signs
Electronic       Restricted
Message      Yes to Civic    Yes Yes
Center           Uses
Message          Restricted
Center       Yes to Civic    Yes Yes
                 Uses
Zone Designations:
A - Agricultural Zone, R-1 - Residential Zone, MR - Mixed Residential, R-S - Residential - Suburban
Zone, MU - Mixed Use, C - Commercial Zone, L-I - Light Industrial Zone.
CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT (see standards for specific sign type)
             Primary Façade:Not to exceed 15% of the area of the façade that the sign will be
                             placed on.
Building     Rear and Side   Not to exceed 10% of the area of the façade that the sign will be
Mounted      Façade:        placed on.
Signs:       The allowed square footage can be made up of any combination of the following sign
             types
             *This shall include building mounted changeable signs.
Awning/      Yes
Canopy
Mural        No
Painted Wall Yes
Sign
Projecting   Yes
Sign
Roof Sign    No
Wall Sign    Yes
Window Sign  Yes
Freestanding Signs:
Monument/    1 permitted for every public street frontage, up to a maximum of three per lot.
Ground Sign
Flag
(Permanent   Yes
Pole)
Pole/Pylon   No
Sign
Changeable Signs: Changeable signs placed on the façade of the building will be included in the max
area % allowed.
Electronic
Message      Yes
Center
Message      Yes
Board
Prohibited: Because the Central Business District is an overlay zone with special development and
design standards to encourage economic development by creating an aesthetically pleasing pedestrian
oriented commercial district, the following shall be prohibited in the Central Business District
a.   Signs that obscure architectural detail;
b.   Signs that project from the roof or parapet;
c.   Illuminated awnings or canopies unless the awning/canopy material is opaque;
d.   Inflatable signs and novelties; and
e.   Freestanding pole signs.
 
(Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-5-7: SIGNS FOR DEVELOPMENT COMPLEXES:
For multiple-occupancy commercial and industrial condominium or lease
developments under unified control (e.g., shopping centers or industrial
complexes), the following regulations shall apply:
   A.   Master Sign Plan Required: A master sign plan shall be required prior
to the issuance of new sign permits in the development complex. The master sign
plan shall identify standards and criteria for all signs in the complex that
require permits. The master sign plan shall be consistent with the standards
for all signs generally, and the specific plan shall be consistent with the
standards for all signs generally, and the specific regulations associated with
the zoning district in which the complex is located, and shall address at a
minimum, the following:
      1.   Proposed sign location(s).
      2.   Materials.
      3.   Type of illumination.
      4.   Design of freestanding sign(s).
      5.   Size of sign(s).
      6.   Quantity of different sign types.
      7.   Uniform standards proposed for all signage, including signage that
does not require a permit (e.g. direction signage), as well as building and
freestanding signage which does require a permit.
   B.   Compliance with Master Sign Plan: All applications for sign permits for
signage within the complex shall comply with the approved master sign plan.
   C.   Review of Master Sign Plan: The master sign plan shall be reviewed in
accordance with procedures for processing a sing permit application.
   D.   Amendments to the Master Sign Plan: Any amendments to the master sign
plan must be signed by the owner(s) of the development complex before such
amendment will become effective. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-5-8: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
The following signs are expressly prohibited in all districts within the City
of Hayden:
   A.   Signs Constructed Without Required Permit: Any sign constructed after
the effective date hereof without a sign permit approved by the City of Hayden,
excepting those signs expressly identified as signs authorized without a sign
permit.
   B.   Signs Which Obstruct or Interfere With Traffic: Signs located in such a
manner as to obstruct or otherwise interfere with an official traffic sign,
signal or device, or obstruct or interfere with a driver’s view of approaching,
merging or intersecting traffic.
   C.   Signs Which Simulate Traffic Control Devices: Signs which simulate or
imitate the size, lettering, illumination, or design of any traffic control
device in such a manner as to interfere with, mislead, or confuse the public.
   D.   Signs On Public Property: No portion of a privately owned sign, or its
supporting structure may be located on, extend into, encroach upon, or overhang
publicly owned property, or a public right-of-way (such as a street, sidewalk,
or waterway).
   E.   Flashing Signs: Signs which blink, flash, or are animated by lighting
in such a way as to have the appearance of traffic safety signs and/or lights,
or Municipal vehicle warnings from a distance.
   F.   Revolving Signs.
   G.   Off Premises Signs: Off premises signs, as defined in this chapter.
   H.   Roof Signs.
   I.   Billboard Signs. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-5-9: STANDARDS FOR SPECIFIC SIGN TYPES:
Building Mounted Signs: (R represents non-residential uses in the R-S, R-1, and
MR zone designations, C represents non-residential uses in the C and MU zone
designations)
AWNING SIGNS
A. Description                            B. Street Type and Frontage
                                          Permitted on all street types.
                                          C. Sign Dimensions - Area
                                                    R, A 10% of the façade
                                          Total     C,   10% of the façade
                                          sign      L-I
                                          area, max      15% of primary façade
                                          (%.)      CBD  10% of side and rear
                                                         facade
A building mounting sign that provides    Sign lettering and logos shall not
shelter.                                  comprise more than thirty percent
Acceptable: Down lighting                 (30%) of the total exterior surface
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        of the awning.
c03a9915f27a0dc69b1264aa1383896c25df03e9/ D. Sign Dimensions - Height
IMAGES/0-0-0-1835.png]                    Not to exceed the height of the
Not Acceptable: Internally lit            structure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        F. Setbacks and Spacing
c03a9915f27a0dc69b1264aa1383896c25df03e9/ Setbacks  N/A
IMAGES/0-0-0-1837.png]                    Vertical  Minimum 8 feet above ground
                                         clearance level and maximum 14 feet
                                                    ground level.
                                          H. Illumination
                                          Shall not be internally lit. Down
                                          lighting or similar lighting may be
                                          permitted.
                                          I. Electronic Message Centers/Message
                                          Board
                                          Not allowed
Additional Standards
1.   The area of the signage shall be counted towards the maximum wall sign
area allowed for each façade.
2.   Sign shall consist of individual lettering or graphics applied directly to
the surface of the awning.
3.   Awning signs are permitted only on the first floor of the building.
4.   Awnings must be professionally constructed. The use of vinyl as a material
is not permitted.
 
CANOPY SIGNS
A. Description                            B. Street Type and Frontage
                                          Permitted on all street types.
                                          C. Sign Dimensions - Area
                                                    R,  10% of the façade
                                          Total     A
                                          sign      C,  10% of the façade
                                          area, max L-I
                                          (%)       CBD 15% of primary façade
                                                        10% of side and rear facade
Canopy signs may be used on canopies      D. Sign Dimensions - Height
attached to buildings. Wall signs may be  Not to exceed the height of the structure.
used in combination with canopy signs.    F. Setbacks and Spacing
Acceptable                                Setbacks  N/A
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        Vertical  Minimum 8 feet above ground level and maximum 14 feet
c03a9915f27a0dc69b1264aa1383896c25df03e9/ clearance ground level.
IMAGES/0-0-0-1839.png]                    H. Illumination
Also Acceptable                           Lettering may be internally or externally lit.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        I. Electronic Message Centers/Message Board
c03a9915f27a0dc69b1264aa1383896c25df03e9/ Permitted as a marquee sign
IMAGES/0-0-0-1841.png]                    J. Additional Standards
                                             1.   The area of the signage shall be counted towards the
                                          maximum wall sign area allowed for each façade.
                                             2.   Flashing lights, or exposed raceways, conduits, or
                                          transformers are prohibited.
                                             3.   Shall not extend above the second floor ceiling or the
                                          top of the roof, whichever is less.
                                             4.   Canopy signs are permitted only on the first floor of
                                          the building.
                                             5.   Awnings must be professionally constructed.
 
PAINTED WALL SIGNS
A. Description                            B. Street Type and Frontage
                                          Permitted on all street types.
                                          C. Sign Dimensions - Area
                                          Painted Wall Signs
                                          R,  10% of the façade
                                          A
                                          C,  10% of the façade
Painted wall signs are generally signs or L-I
graphics that are painted or placed on    CBD 15% of the primary façade
walls.                                        10% of rear and side facade
Acceptable                                H. Illumination
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        Goose neck lighting or similar lighting may be used
c03a9915f27a0dc69b1264aa1383896c25df03e9/ I. Electronic Message Centers/ Message Board
IMAGES/0-0-0-1843.png]                    Not allowed
                                         J. Additional Standards
                                             1.   Any such sign shall be painted out or removed within 30 days of change
                                          of occupancy.
                                             2.   Exceptions may be granted to landmark and mural signs that may be
                                          preserved and maintained if they are of historic significance.
                                             3.    Maintenance shall be required for portion of the painted wall sign
                                          that is unreadable or unsightly due to weather, sunlight or graffiti.
 
PROJECTING SIGNS
A. Description                            B. Street Type and Frontage
                                          Permitted on all street types except
                                          local streets.
                                          C. Sign Dimensions - Area
                                                       R, A   10% of the
                                                              facade
                                          Total wall   C, L-I 10% of the
                                          area,               façade
                                          max (%)             15% of the
                                                       CBD    primary facade
                                                              10% of the rear
                                                              and side facade
                                          D. Sign Dimensions - Height
                                          If attached to a single story
                                          building, the height of the top of
                                          the edge of the signboard shall not
                                          exceed the height of the wall from
Projecting Signs are generally attached   which the sign projects.
perpendicular to the face of the building If attached to a multi-story
extending outward.                        building, the height of the top edge
Acceptable                                of the signboard shall not exceed
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        the height of the sill or bottom of
c03a9915f27a0dc69b1264aa1383896c25df03e9/ any second story window.
IMAGES/0-0-0-1845.png]                    Not to exceed height of structure
                                         E. Sign Dimensions - Width
                                          All street
                                          types, max.  3 feet
                                          (ft.)
                                          F. Number of Signs
                                          Signs per    1 per tenant
                                          building max
                                          G. Setbacks and Spacing
                                          Setbacks     N/A
                                          Vertical     8 feet
                                          Clearance
                                          H. Illumination
                                          Lighting may be: internal or
                                          external
                                          I. Electronic Message Centers/
                                          Message Board
                                          Not allowed
Special Conditions
1.    For buildings with multiple commercial tenants, each business may be
permitted one projecting sign.
 
WALL SIGNS
A. Description                            C. Street Type and Frontage
                                          Permitted on all street types.
                                          D. Sign Dimensions - Area
                                                                            R,  10
Wall signs are permanent signs                                              A
constructed of a durable material such as Total façade area per wall, max  C,  10
metal, acrylic, or other engineered       (%.)                              L-I
product. Wall signs are structurally                                            15% of the primary façade
attached to a building along a plane that                                   CBD 10% of rear and side
is parallel to the building face to which                                       facade
the sign is attached.                     E. Sign Dimensions - Height
Acceptable: meets all requirements        Not to exceed the height of the structure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        G. Setbacks and Spacing
c03a9915f27a0dc69b1264aa1383896c25df03e9/ Setbacks                          N/A  
IMAGES/0-0-0-1847.png]                    H. Illumination
                                          Lighting may be: internal and external
                                          I. Electronic Message Centers/Message Board
                                          Permitted (See Electronic Message Center)
Special Conditions
1.   Shall be mounted flush and fixed securely to a building wall.
2.   May project no more than twelve inches (12") from the face of the building wall, and shall not extend
sideways beyond the building face or the highest line of the building to which it is attached.
3.   If a building contains walls facing more than one street frontage, the sign area will be computed for
each building wall facing a different street frontage. The sign area(s) thus calculated shall be allowed
to then apply to permitted signs placed on each separate wall facing a street frontage
4.   Wall signs shall be constructed of a rigid durable material such as metal or acrylic and shall be
structurally mounted to the façade of a building.
5.   Electrical componentry shall be concealed behind the sign or cabinet.
6.   Multiple wall signs shall be permitted, provided that the signage for each façade does not exceed the
maximum permitted area and that the number of distinct attached sign types does not exceed three (3).
 
WINDOW SIGNS
A. Description                            B. Street Type and Frontage
                                          Permitted on all street types.
                                          C. Sign Dimensions - Area
                                                                            R,  10% of the façade
                                                                            A
                                          Total façade area per wall, max  C,  10% pf the façade
A window sign is generally affixed to a   (%.)                              L-I
window for the purpose of being viewed                                      CBD 15% of the primary façade
from the exterior of a building.                                                10% of rear and side facade
Acceptable: meets all requirements        D. Sign Dimensions - Height
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        Height, max. (ft)                 N/A  
c03a9915f27a0dc69b1264aa1383896c25df03e9/ E. Sign Dimensions - Width
IMAGES/0-0-0-1849.png]                    Width, max. (ft)                  N/A  
Not Acceptable: fluorescent colors and    F. Setbacks and Spacing
obscures visibility into tenant space     Setbacks                          N/A  
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        H. Illumination
c03a9915f27a0dc69b1264aa1383896c25df03e9/ Not allowed
IMAGES/0-0-0-1851.png]                    I. Electronic Message Centers/Message Board
                                          Permitted - see Electronic Message Center
                                          J. Additional Standards
                                             1.   Window signs should not obscure the visibility into a tenant space.
                                             2.   No fluorescent colors or reflective material shall be used for
                                          window signs.
                                             3.   Window signs are only permitted on the first story of a building.
 
Changeable Signs:
ELECTRONIC MESSAGE CENTER
A. Description                            B. Street Type and Frontage
                                          Permitted on all street types.
                                          C. Sign Dimensions - Area
                                          Building Mounted Signs: See Building
                                          mounted sign standards
                                          Total area, R, A   10
                                          combined    C, L-I 10
                                          max (sf)    CBD    15 (primary)
                                          per facade         10 (rear and side)
                                          Freestanding Signs
                                          Freestanding Signs: See freestanding
                                          sign standards
                                          D. Interchangeable Message - Area
                                          Message center shall comprise no more
An electronic message center are signs    than half of the allowed signage per
that are self-illuminated, primarily      façade and no more than half of an
through the use of LEDs, and are capable  individual freestanding sign.
of displaying static and dynamic images.  H. Illumination
Acceptable: meets all requirements        All EMC shall be equipped with
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        technology that automatically dims
c03a9915f27a0dc69b1264aa1383896c25df03e9/ the electronic message center
IMAGES/0-0-0-1853.png]                    according to ambient light
                                          conditions.
                                          Display shall not operate at
                                          brightness levels of more than 0.3
                                          foot candles above ambient light, as
                                          measured using a foot-candle meter at
                                          a pre-set distance. The pre-set
                                          distances to measure the foot-candles
                                          is calculated using the formula:
                                          Measurement Distance = [https://
                                          export.amlegal.com/media/
                                          c03a9915f27a0dc69b1264aa1383896c25df03e9/
                                          IMAGES/0-0-0-1863.jpg]Area of Sign X
                                          100
Additional Standards:
1.   Legal non-conforming signs can replace an existing message sign component
with replacement messaging component so long as it is consistent with these
standards.
2.   Frequency of Message Change: All signs, including public service signs and
temperature message centers, must hold each displayed message a minimum of two
(2) seconds before changing to the next image. No sign which either directly or
apparently flashes or blinks shall be erected or maintained.
3.   Information required: Every electric sign and message center shall have
placed thereon within easy view the following information in letters at least
one inch (1") in height: permit number, power consumption including voltage and
amperage; Underwriters Laboratory labels on all electrical signs.
4.   Distracting or Hazardous Electric Sign Prohibited: No illuminated signs
shall be erected or maintained which create an unduly distracting or hazardous
condition to a motorist, pedestrian, or the general public. No strobe type
lights shall be erected or maintained on the interior of a window or door
attached to any other area of a building facing a public street of venue.
5.   Message centers shall meet the same requirements for interchangeable
message area.
 
Freestanding Signs:
ENTRYWAY SIGNS (Residential Neighborhood)
A. Description                            B. Street Type and Frontage
                                          Permitted on public and private
                                          street frontage.
                                          C. Sign Dimensions - Area
                                          Total sign area,   24
                                          max (sf)
                                          Structural support 50% of the message
An entryway sign identifies the entryway  elements, max (%)  portion
to a single-family or multi-family        D. Sign Dimensions - Height
subdivision and serves to provide an      Height, max. (ft.) 5
identity for said community. These signs  E. Number of Signs
do not provide for changeable tenant      Signs per street
panels, Electronic Message Boards, or     frontage (per      2
Message Centers.                          entrance)
Acceptable: meets all requirements        F. Setbacks and Spacing
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        5 feet behind the right-of-way.
c03a9915f27a0dc69b1264aa1383896c25df03e9/ Outside of all utility easements and
IMAGES/0-0-0-1855.png]                    not within two feet (2') of the
                                          sidewalk. See general provisions.
                                          H. Illumination
                                          Lighting may be: internal or external
                                          I. Electronic Message Centers/Message
                                          Board
                                          Not allowed.
Special Conditions
1.   Landscaping shall meet the design standards as identified in Chapter 11 of
this title.
2.   The support structure shall be clad in materials that’s are similar to the
materials of the primary building or buildings.
3.   Limited to monument signs.
4.   When two signs are proposed at one entrance the max signage for each sign
shall meet the sign dimensions identified above.
 
MONUMENT SIGNS
A. Description                            B. Street Type and Frontage
                                          One monument sign shall be permitted
                                          per street frontage on all street
                                          types with a minimum street frontage
                                          of one hundred feet (100').
                                          C. Sign Dimensions - Area
                                                          A, R   32
                                          Area, max (sf)  C, L-I 32
Monument Signs stand directly on the                      CBD    32
ground and are freestanding, which means  Structural      50% of the message
they are structurally independent from    support         portion
any building or structure.                elements
A maximum of one tenant may be included   D. Sign Dimensions - Height
on a single sign structure. See Multi-    Height, max.    5
Tenant Monument Signs if two or more      (ft.)
tenant panels are planned on a single     E. Number of Signs
sign structure.                           Signs per       1
Acceptable: meets all requirements        street frontage
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        F. Setbacks and Spacing
c03a9915f27a0dc69b1264aa1383896c25df03e9/ 5 feet behind the right-of-way.
IMAGES/0-0-0-1857.png]                    Outside of all utility easements and
                                          not within two feet (2') of the
                                          sidewalk. See general provisions.
                                          H. Illumination
                                          Lighting may be internal and external
                                          I. Electronic Message Centers/Message
                                          Board
                                          EMCs may be a part of the monument
                                          sign. See Electronic Message Center
Special Conditions
1.   One Single-Tenant Monument Sign shall be permitted per lot, per street
frontage, provided that there are not pole signs on the lot. Two monument signs
may be permitted along a single street frontage of 400 or more linear feet. The
total area of both signs shall not exceed the maximum sign area permitted if a
single sign were erected. The minimum separation between signs shall be at
least 150 feet.
2.   The support structure shall be clad in materials that are similar to the
materials of the primary building or buildings.
 
MULTI-TENANT MONUMENT SIGNS
A. Description                            B. Street Type and Frontage
                                          Permitted on public street frontage.
                                          C. Sign Dimensions - Area
                                          Total wall area, 32
                                          max (sf)
                                          Structural       50% of the message
                                          support elements portion
                                          D. Sign Dimensions - Height
                                          Height, max.     5
Multi-Tenant Monument Signs stand         (ft.)
directly on the ground and are            E. Number of Signs
freestanding, which means they are        Signs per street 1
structurally independent from any         frontage
building or structure.                    F. Setbacks and Spacing
Acceptable                                5 feet behind the right-of-way.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        Outside of all utility easements and
c03a9915f27a0dc69b1264aa1383896c25df03e9/ not within two feet (2') of the
IMAGES/0-0-0-1859.png]                    sidewalk. See general provisions.
                                          H. Illumination
                                          Lighting may be internal and
                                          external
                                          I. Electronic Message Centers/
                                          Message Board
                                          EMCs and message boards may be a
                                          part of the monument sign. See
                                          Electronic Message Center
Special Conditions
1.   Master Sign Plan is required.
2.   Multi-Tenant Monument Signs must include the address block where the sign
is situated, but the space required for the address block is not included in
the sign dimension calculation.
3.   One Multi-Tenant Monument Sign shall be permitted per street frontage,
provided there are no other freestanding signs on the lot.
4.   Two Multi-Tenant Monument Signs may be permitted along a single street
frontage of 400 or more linear feet. The total area of both signs shall not
exceed the maximum sign area permitted if a single sign were erected. The
minimum separation between signs shall be at least 200 feet.
5.   A Multi-Tenant Monument Sign shall not occupy the same platted lot as a
Single-Tenant Monument Sign, unless the lot has multiple street frontages, in
which case a Single-Tenant Monument Sign may be permitted on each additional
street frontage.
6.   The tenant panels shall be designed in accordance with the following:
   a.   Panel design and material shall be consistent across all tenant
panels;
   b.   Vacant tenant panels or damaged panel which expose the interior of the
sign shall be prohibited and shall be repaired in a timely manner.
7.   All Multi-Tenant Monument Signs require an address block. If there is
more than one street number, the number range and street name shall be shown.
8.   The support structure shall be clad in materials that’s are similar to
the materials of the primary building or buildings.
9.   Flashing, animated, revolving and/or neon signs of any type are
prohibited in agricultural and all residential zones.
 
POLE/PYLON SIGNS
A. Description                            B. Street Type and Frontage
                                          Permitted on all street types
                                          C. Sign Dimensions - Area (Per
                                          Sign) based on street frontage
                                          R, A   32 square feet
                                                 Feet of Street Frontage On
                                                 U.S. 95
                                                 Less than 301 To  Greater
                                                 300       600     Than 600
                                          C, L-I 100 sf    200 sf  300 sf
                                                 Feet of Street Frontage On
                                                 All Other Streets
                                                 Less Than 150 to  Greater
                                                 150       300     Than 300
                                                 85 sf     100 sf  150 sf
                                          D. Sign Dimensions - Height, Max
                                          (Per Sign) based on street frontage
A pole sign is a sign placed upon one or  R, A   10 feet           
more individual poles for support.               Feet of Street Frontage Per
Acceptable: meets all requirements               Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/               Less Than 301 to  Greater
c03a9915f27a0dc69b1264aa1383896c25df03e9/        300       600     Than 600
IMAGES/0-0-0-1861.png]                    C, L-I 25 feet   30 feet 30 feet
                                                 Feet of Street Frontage On
                                                 All Other Streets
                                                 Less Than 150 To  Greater
                                                 150       300     Than 300
                                                 20 feet   25 feet 30 feet
                                          E. Setbacks and Spacing
                                          5 feet behind the right-of-way.
                                          Outside of all utility easements
                                          and not within two feet (2') of the
                                          sidewalk. See general provisions.
                                           H. Illumination
                                          Lighting may be: internal and
                                          external
                                          I. Electronic Message Centers/
                                          Message Board
                                          Permitted. See Electronic Message
                                          Center
 
 
FLAG (Permanent Pole)
                                                                            B. Flag
A. Description                                                              Dimensions -
                                                                            Area
                                                                                    R-
                                                                                    1,
                                                                                    R-
                                                                                    M/  60
                                                                            Total   F,
                                                                            area,   R-
Means a piece of cloth or similar material, typically rectangular or        max     S,
square, attachable along no more than one side at two or more points to a   (sf)    A
permanent flag pole by means of a durable rope or cord and providing a              C,
minimum eight feet (8') of clearance from the ground to the lowest point of         L-  135
the flag while at rest. A permanent flag pole shall be attached to the              I,
ground by means of a permanent footing, or to the roof or sides of a                CBD
building. (For flags not mounted to permanent flag poles, see “Attention- D. Pole
Attracting Device”.)                                                      Dimensions -
                                                                            Height
                                                                            Height, R,  45
                                                                            max.    A
                                                                            (ft.)   C,
                                                                            above   L-  30
                                                                            ground  I,
                                                                            level   CBD
(Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-5-10: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Permit Required Exception: A permit shall be required for all signs,
except those expressly authorized without a permit. Exemption from permit shall
not, however, exempt the owner of the sign from responsibility for its erection
and maintenance in a safe manner, and in a manner in accordance with all other
provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Alteration, Enlargement, Or Relocation Of Signs: No sign shall be
structurally altered, enlarged, or relocated except in conformity to the
provisions herein, and only upon applying for and securing a permit, unless
expressly authorized without a permit.
   C.   Application Requirements:
      1.   The applicant must complete and submit the City’s standard sign
permit application form, which shall be accompanied by authorization from the
property owner, if the property owner is not the applicant;
      2.   The application shall include the location and dimension of all
existing and proposed signs on the development lot;
      3.   The application shall be accompanied by a site plan, drawn to scale,
depicting the dimensions of lot, location of all right-of-way, street
frontages, utility easements, and ingress/egress to the site; building
footprint, including size and dimensions of the building, and building facade
where existing signs are located, and where proposed signs are to be located;
      4.   The applicant shall provide a graphic depiction, drawn to scale, of
the dimension and design of all existing and proposed signs on the development
lot; and
      5.   Construction plans required for all proposed new signs shall be
drawn to scale, and shall include dimensions, materials, and required details
of construction including loads, stresses, anchorage and other pertinent data.
Said building plans shall contain the seal and signature of a registered design
professional or professionals, if so required by the adopted Building Code of
the City.
   D.   Permit Fees: Fees for sign permits, as established by resolution of
Hayden City Council, shall be due and payable at the time of permit issuance.
   E.   Processing Of Permit Applications:
      1.   Within twenty (20) business days of receipt of a complete
application for sign permit, the Director, or his/her designee will:
         a.   Approve the sign permit application;
         b.   Approve the sign permit application with conditions; or
         c.   Deny the permit application.
      2.   If the permit application is denied, staff will provide a written
statement of the reasons for denial, and what, if anything, can be done to make
the application approvable.
      3.   Upon approval of the sign permit application, satisfaction of any
conditions that may be applicable prior to permit issuance, and receipt of the
applicable sign permit fees, the sign permit will be issued by the City.
   F.   Standards for Sign Permit Approval: City staff shall approve the permit
application, if all of the following standards have been met (or if said
standards can be met, with conditions as may be included in a conditional
approval):
      1.   The sign, as proposed, meets all applicable requirements of this
chapter;
      2.   The sign, as proposed, meets all applicable requirements of the
City’s Adopted Building and Electrical Codes;
      3.   The sign, as proposed, does not violate any other applicable code
and/or standards of the City, State and Federal government.
   G.   Appeal of Decision by the Director, or his/her Designee: Permit
decisions by the Director, or his/her designee may be appealed to City Council
in accordance with the procedures detailed in chapter 17 of this title. (Ord.
619, 4-13-2021)
CHAPTER 6
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
11-6-1: Intent
11-6-2: Purpose And Goals
11-6-3: Effect Of Other Ordinance Provisions
11-6-4: General Requirements
11-6-5: Procedure For Approval Of PUD
11-6-1: INTENT:
The intent of the planned unit development (PUD) is to provide greater
flexibility in land use and encourage greater design creativity than is
generally allowed under conventional standards and development approaches, in
order to create a better overall development pattern and design. Such a planned
unit may incorporate a variety of residential and non-residential land use
types, and contain both individual building sites and common property which are
planned and developed as a functional unit or neighborhood, which taken as
whole, is consistent with the general goals and policies of the City’s
Comprehensive Plan, and the overall intent of the City’s zoning ordinance.
Performance standards will be based upon the general standards of the
underlying zone, and the approved PUD master plan shall be processed in
accordance with the standards for a conditional use permit and the procedures
and standards of a subdivision. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-6-2: PURPOSE AND GOALS:
A PUD may be approved, if it is determined that it creates an overall design
that is consistent with the goals and policies of the City’s Comprehensive
Plan, fulfills the general intent and purpose of the zoning ordinance, is
compatible with the standards and character of the underlying zone and the
Comprehensive Plan future land use designation for surrounding properties, and
achieves one or more of the following objectives:
   A.   Allows a variety of housing choices and building types, and permits an
increased density per acre and a reduction in lot dimensions, yards, building
setbacks and area requirements, balanced by the provision of open space and
common areas;
   B.   A more useful pattern of open space and recreation areas is achieved,
with more convenience in the location of accessory commercial uses, industrial
uses, and services, if applicable;
   C.   The development pattern preserves and utilizes natural topography and
geologic features, scenic vistas, waterways, trees and other vegetation and
prevents the disruption of natural drainage patterns;
   D.   A more efficient use of land than is generally achieved through
conventional development resulting in substantial savings through shorter
utilities and streets; and/or
   E.   A more energy efficient development, the minimization of stormwater
runoff or one with more open space and concentrated density, thematic
architectural design, or more beneficial community design and patterns of land
use and development will be possible than through the strict application of the
zoning ordinance. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-6-3: EFFECT OF OTHER ORDINANCE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Whenever there is a conflict or difference between the provisions of
this chapter and those of other requirements of this code, the provisions of
this chapter shall prevail. Subjects not covered by this chapter shall be
governed by the respective provisions found elsewhere in this code.
   B.   In addition to the requirements of this chapter, PUDs shall also be
subject to the requirements set forth in title 8, “Utilities”, title 12,
“Subdivision Regulations”, of this code; and, all other ordinances,
regulations, and policies of the City of Hayden not specifically addressed
herein. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-6-4: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Ownership Requirements:
      1.   An application for approval of a PUD may be filed by a property
owner or a person having a documented equitable interest in the property.
      2.   Before approval is granted to the final development plan, the entire
project shall be under single ownership or control, and evidence of legal title
must be documented with the final development plan.
      3.   An approved PUD plan shall be binding on all present and future
property owners.
   B.   Location of Planned Unit Developments: A PUD may be established in any
zone of the City, where the applicant can demonstrate that the proposed
development will meet the standards and requirements of this chapter, and is
consistent with the goals and policies of the City’s Comprehensive Plan.
   C.   Uses Permitted: All uses allowed within the underlying zoning district
are permitted within a PUD. A mix of residential, commercial, industrial or
combinations of these land uses may also be permitted within a PUD, subject to
the following provisions:
      1.   Residential Uses:
         a.   Residential developments may include single-family and multi-
family dwelling units such as townhouses, garden apartments, common wall
single-family, other cluster housing and multi-family dwellings, as separately
deeded lots, condominium ownership, or as lease or rental housing. In addition,
up to 10% of the gross land area of a residential PUD may be directed to other
commercial, industrial, public and quasi-public uses that are not allowed
within the zoning district. More than one land use is allowed on each lot or
common area as approved in the PUD master plan. The PUD approval shall consider
and approve such nonresidential secondary uses, provided there is a favorable
finding that:
            (1)   The uses are appropriate and compatible with the residential
uses within the PUD, and the Comprehensive Plan future land use designation for
surrounding properties;
            (2)   The uses are intended to serve principally the owners,
residents, or occupants of the PUD;
            (3)   The uses are planned as an integral part of the PUD;
            (4)   The uses are located and so designed as to provide suitable
access to a collector or arterial street without creating congestion or traffic
hazards; and
            (5)   A proposed timetable for development of the various uses is
specified, and shall be approved provided that each phase of development is
consistent with the above standards, and the overall standards of approval for
the planned unit development.
      2.   Non-Residential Uses:
         a.   When a PUD includes commercial uses, commercial buildings and
establishments, light industrial uses, recreation uses, etc. those uses shall
be planned as groups having common parking areas and common ingress and egress
points.
         b.   Side yard and rear yard setbacks of 25', and planting screens and
visual landscaping buffers, as required Hayden City Code
11-4-4 of this title, shall be required if the commercial building is located
adjacent to an abutting residential use (i.e., existing residence in any zone,
a residential PUD, etc.), unless part of a mixed use building. Setbacks and
landscaping requirements may be reduced, however, if the applicant can
demonstrate an alternate design or building configuration that will provide a
comparable level of buffering. Landscaping required abutting residential uses
must be maintained until the abutting residential use ceases to operate as a
residence and/or is converted to a non-residential uses; at which time the PUD
property owners association may request a review to determine if the
landscaping buffer can be altered or removed.
         c.   The plan of the project shall provide for adequate and properly
arranged facilities for internal traffic circulation, adequate landscaping and
buffering, drainage features, and other such features and facilities as may be
necessary to make the project attractive and efficient from the standpoint of
adjoining and surrounding noncommercial uses within the PUD.
         d.   All areas designed for future expansion or not intended for
immediate development shall be landscaped or otherwise maintained in a neat and
orderly manner, free of weeds, debris, or screened by fencing.
         e.   Up to 10% of the gross land area of a non-residential PUD may be
utilized as residential, industrial, public and quasi-public uses that are not
allowed within the zoning district. More than one land use is allowed on each
lot or common area as approved in the PUD master plan. The PUD approval shall
consider and approve such secondary uses, provided there is a favorable finding
that:
            (1)   The proposed uses are appropriate and compatible with each
other, and the Comprehensive Plan future land use designation for surrounding
properties;
            (2)   The uses are planned as an integral part of the PUD;
            (3)   The location and design of surrounding land use,
infrastructure and amenities within the PUD are adequate, appropriate, and
compatible with the proposed secondary use;
            (4)   A proposed timetable for development of the various uses is
specified, and shall be approved provided that each phase of development is
consistent with the above standards, and the overall standards of approval for
the planned unit development.
      When measuring for the secondary use not allowed within the underlying
zoning district, it is determined by 10% of the gross acreage of the zone
district in question. For example, in a PUD which has more than one underlying
zone, and the placement of a non-residential component is within a residential
zone district, up to 10% of the gross acreage of the residential zone district
may be utilized for the non-residential use.
      3.   Mixed Use Buildings:
         a.   Mixed use buildings are allowed in PUDs. The approval of the PUD
shall consider and approve such mixed use proposals, provided there is a
favorable finding that:
            (1)   The buildings are designed to minimize adverse impacts and
accommodate the needs of all differing uses, and comply with all Building Code
and Fire Code requirements for all uses encompassed;
            (2)   The proposed uses are appropriate and compatible with each
other;
            (3)   The uses are planned as an integral part of the PUD; and
            (4)   The location and design of surrounding land use,
infrastructure and amenities within the PUD are adequate, appropriate, and
compatible with the various uses within the mixed use building.
         b.   For the purpose of calculating the gross land area of the
secondary use, the category of use for a parcel containing a mixed use building
shall be based upon the use encompassing the greatest percentage of gross floor
space within the building.
   D.   Common Open Space:
      1.   Required Open Space: A minimum of 10% of the gross land area in any
PUD project shall be reserved for consolidated areas of common open space for
the occupants of the area being developed. Land dedicated for public use (i.e.
City, Schools, Art, and Park) may also be considered to meet this requirement.
Land dedicated for public rights-of-way, private streets, stormwater
management, utility purposes, required landscape buffers, setback areas,
greenbelts, and/or common parking areas shall not be considered open space for
the purpose of this requirement unless the PUD is less than five acres in size
in which case the 10% open space can be combined with required landscape
buffers, the perimeter setback area, and greenbelts. In solely non-residential
PUDs, common landscaped areas, the 25' PUD setback and Type II landscaped
buffer, walking paths, and other features that contribute to a “campus like
effect”, may be counted as open space. Where a non-residential PUD abuts a non-
residential use, the 25' PUD setback may be waived as long as all other buffer
and landscape requirements are met.
      2.   Dedication of Land for Public Use: The required amount of common
open space land reserved under a PUD shall be deeded to the property owners’
association by developers of the project for the use of each owner who buys
property within the development, and/or the general public. All common open
space properties and facilities shall be preserved for their intended purpose,
as identified in the approved development plan. Proposed changes in use for
designated open space will require an amendment to the final plan for the PUD,
which shall be subject to the review and approval of the City Council.
      3.   Management and Maintenance: The developer shall provide for the
establishment of a property owners’ association for all owners of property
within the planned unit development.
         a.   The association shall own and be responsible for the maintenance
of all commonly owned properties, open space, private streets facilities, and
other such improvements.
         b.   The property owners’ association shall be created at the time of
final approval, with association documents to be recorded with the final PUD
plan.
   E.   Density of Development:
      1.   Minimum Lot Size: In a PUD, the minimum lot size provisions of the
underlying zone may be waived, except that the minimum lot size requirements of
the underlying zone shall serve as the minimum PUD size.
      2.   Density of Residential Development: Where minimum lot sizes for the
underlying zone are waived, the average density of development for the PUD
shall be equal to the base density of the underlying zone.
      3.   Dedication of Land: To provide an incentive for quality PUDs, a
density bonus of up to 20% of the allowable number of dwelling units may be
permitted. Character, identity, architectural style and variation, creative
physical design, and variety of housing choices may be considered good
aesthetics but are not considered for a density bonus. Provided that the
applicant demonstrates that the factors identified in 3 (a through e) make a
substantial contribution to the overall quality of the development and
objectives of the PUD, then the following density bonus may be requested:
         a.   Incorporation of community art in common areas, design of plazas
and public meeting areas, and preservation of unique natural features (10 %
maximum density bonus);
         b.   Dedication of land to public entities for required community
services (i.e. Fire, School, Police, Interstate Transportation Facilities)
without reimbursement for land costs (10% maximum density bonus);
         c.   Housing that addresses special needs populations, which accounts
for not less than 10% of the total number of housing units within the
development. In order to qualify for this density bonus, the qualifying housing
units must be specifically designed to meet ADA standards for handicapped
accessible housing (ADA compliant), or designed to meet a specific design
standard addressing a specific special needs population (10% maximum density
bonus);
         d.   Dedicated, affordable workforce housing, which accounts for not
less than 10% of the total number of residential dwelling units proposed within
the PUD. In order to qualify for this density bonus, the applicant must: (1)
demonstrate that the proposed housing type(s) meet(s) the definitions contained
herein; and (2) identify a mechanism by which the applicant will ensure
provision of the qualifying category of housing for which the density bonus may
be granted. “Affordable workforce housing”, for this purpose, shall be defined
as housing, for which the initial sales price and any subsequent sales prices,
when financed through a conventional residential mortgage program, can be
demonstrated to require total annual principal and interest payments not in
excess of 30% of 140% of Kootenai County’s median household income for that
year, as estimated and reported by the U.S. Bureau of the Census (20% maximum
density bonus); or
         e.   Provision of significant recreational area improvements as
identified in the Park Strategic Plan without reimbursement by park impact fees
(10% maximum density bonus).
      4.   Setbacks and Side Yard Requirements:
         a.   In no event shall the setback from the exterior boundary be less
than 25'.
         b.   Zero lot line development, with each unit or a portion of the
original lot independently owned, having lot lines along common walls may be
permitted in a PUD, providing that:
            (1)   All applicable City, State, and Federal building regulations
and Fire Codes pertaining to common wall and zero lot line construction shall
be complied with;
            (2)   Common walls shall be adequately soundproofed in accordance
with International Building Code requirements;
            (3)   Electric, domestic water supply, sewer, heating and air
conditioning systems, and all other incorporated utility systems shall be
appropriately designed for each unit of occupancy;
            (4)   Deeds or covenants pertaining to buildings shall contain
appropriate provisions regarding maintenance of individually or commonly owned
indoor or outdoor walls, common areas, and outdoor yard areas.
            (5)   Maintenance or encroachment easements shall be recorded as
necessary for individual owners to assure access to all commonly and
individually owned yard areas and outdoor walls.
            (6)   The development otherwise complies with all requirements of
Idaho Code, title 55, and all other applicable City codes, policies, and
standards. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-6-5: PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF PUD:
The granting of a permit for a PUD shall require a pre-development meeting, the
submission of a preliminary development plan, and approval of a final
development plan as specified within this section. When the PUD also qualifies
as a subdivision, the processing of the final development plan for the PUD and
the subdivision application shall occur simultaneously.
   A.   Pre-development Meeting: The developer shall meet with City staff prior
to the submission of the preliminary development plan. The purpose of this
meeting is to discuss informally the purpose and effect of this chapter and the
criteria and standards herein, and to familiarize the developer with the
Comprehensive Plan, Zoning title, Subdivision title and such other Code
requirements, standards and policies as may be applicable.
   B.   Preliminary Development Plan:
      1.   Application for Preliminary PUD Plan Review: An application for
preliminary plan review shall be filed with the City by a property owner or
persons having an ownership interest in the property for the proposed PUD. The
application shall be accompanied by a written statement by the developer
setting forth the reasons that the PUD would be in the public interest. At a
minimum, the application shall contain the following information:
         a.   Name, address and phone number of the applicant;
         b.   Name, address, and phone number of registered surveyor,
registered engineer, consultant, and/or urban planner assisting in the
preparation of the preliminary plan;
         c.   Legal description of the property;
         d.   Copy of the most recent deed of the property;
         e.   Description of existing use;
         f.   The zoning district(s) of the project site;
         g.   A vicinity map at a readable scale, showing property lines,
streets, existing and proposed zoning, and other such requirements as the City
may deem necessary to demonstrate the project’s applicability to the standards
of approval and show the relationship of the proposed PUD to the Comprehensive
Plan and to existing schools and other community facilities and services;
         h.   A preliminary development plan, City at 1" = 40' scale and
overall site plan to fit on one 11" x 17" sheet, showing:
            (1)   Topography at one foot intervals;
            (2)   Location and type of all land uses;
            (3)   Layout, dimensions and names of existing and proposed
streets;
            (4)   Existing and proposed rights-of-way;
            (5)   Utility easements;
            (6)   Common open space, parks, pedestrian pathways, recreational
facilities and other community spaces; and
            (7)   Preliminary improvement drawings showing water, sewer,
drainage, electricity, telephone and natural gas, and other such
characteristics as the planner deems necessary;
         i.   Proposed schedule for development of the site, including a
phasing plan, if applicable;
         j.   Documentation that the applicant has a sufficient ownership
interest in the land to initiate the proposed development plan within one year.
      2.   Public Notice: The same provision for public hearing and legal
notification as required Hayden City Code
11-1-4(D).
      3.   Approval in Principle of Preliminary Development Plan: After the
public hearing, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall review the preliminary
development plan and make a recommendation in principle to City Council. City
Council shall consider the recommendations of the planning commission, and may
grant an approval in principle for the preliminary development plan based on
the following findings:
         a.   The proposed PUD is consistent with the intent and purpose of
this chapter;
         b.   The proposed development advances the general welfare of the
community;
         c.   The benefits, combinations of land uses, and the
interrelationship with the land uses in the surrounding area justify the
deviation from standard zoning district regulations; and
         d.   The proposed development at the proposed location meets the
standards for approval of a conditional use permit as set forth in section
11-7-3 of this title.
      4.   Approval Duration: Failure to submit a final PUD and preliminary
subdivision application within one year after City Council granting of an
approval in principle of the preliminary development plan shall cause all
approvals of said preliminary PUD plan to be null and void, unless an extension
of one year has been applied for by the developer, and approved by the City
Council for good cause. Any reapplications will be reviewed under the
ordinances in effect at the time of the reapplication.
   C.   Final Development Plan:
      1.   Application for Approval: Upon approval in principle of the
preliminary development plan, an application for approval of the final
development plan shall be filed with the City by the property owner(s).
         a.   If the proposed PUD involves a subdivision as provided for in
title 12 of this code, an application for a preliminary plat, meeting the
submittal requirements as required by code, shall be submitted concurrently
with the final development plan application, and the same provision for legal
notification and public hearing requirements for subdivision, as provided for
in title 12, chapter 3 of this code.
         b.   If condominiums are proposed within the PUD, an application for
the condominium/townhome plat, meeting the submittal requirements as required
by code, shall be submitted once the conditions have been met according to
title 12, chapter 9.
         c.   At a minimum, the application for final plan approval shall
contain the following information:
            (1)   A survey of the proposed development site showing the
dimensions and bearings of the property lines, area in acres, topography and
existing features of the development site, including major wooded areas,
structures, streets, easements, and utility lines;
            (2)   All information required on the preliminary development plan,
the location and sizes of lots, location and proposed density of dwelling
units, and nonresidential building design;
            (3)   A development schedule for all phases, including building and
common area improvements; tabulation of the number of acres in the proposed
project for various uses; the number of housing units proposed by type;
requirements for height, open space, building density, parking areas;
development density; design principles and streetscapes, if applicable; and
public improvements proposed for each phase of the development; and other such
information to support the basis for proposed deviations from the underlying
zoning district regulations or other ordinances governing development;
            (4)   Site plan, showing building footprints, various functional
use areas and their relationship, and circulation plans and patterns;
            (5)   Preliminary building plans, including floor plans and
exterior elevations, when the applicant has proposed an exception from the
standard zoning district regulations or other ordinances governing development;
            (6)   Landscaping plans; and
            (7)   Deed restrictions, protective covenants and other legal
documents used to control the use, development, maintenance of the land and
improvements thereon, including those areas commonly owned and maintained.
            (8)   Any items specifically required to be submitted by the City
Council’s approval in principal of the preliminary PUD.
      2.   Recommendation by Planning Commission: After review of the final
plan by the Planning and Zoning Commission, the commission shall make a
recommendation to City Council to approve the final plan and PUD, approve with
conditions, or deny. The commission will transmit the record of its review and
deliberations, its findings, and recommendations.
      3.   Action by City Council: After review of the final plan and
recommendations by the Planning and Zoning Commission, City Council shall
approve the final plan and PUD, approve or modify it with conditions, or deny
it, based on its evaluation of the proposal against the standards for approval,
and its findings.
   D.   Standards for Approval of the Final Development Plan for a PUD: An
approval of the final development plan for the PUD may be granted by City
Council, if City Council makes the following findings:
      1.   The development is consistent with the goals and purposes of a
planned unit development, as defined in section
11-6-2 of this chapter, all standards and requirements of this chapter, the
intent and purpose of the Hayden Zoning Ordinance and the Comprehensive Plan.
      2.   The proposed PUD provides for adequate utilities, services, and
parking to service the proposed development by;
         a.   Providing a public water supply system that has adequate supply
to serve the proposed development; and
         b.   Providing a public wastewater collection system that is designed
in accordance with the City’s adopted Collection System Master Plan and has
sufficient capacity to accommodate the proposed sewer flows; and
         c.   Providing for public and/or private stormwater system that is
designed in accordance with the City’s adopted Stormwater policy and sufficient
capacity to accommodate the required stormwater Hayden City Code; and
         d.   Providing adequate accommodation for other utilities to include
but not be limited to electrical, gas, phone, solid waste, etc. necessary to
support the proposed development; and
         e.   Providing sufficient parking throughout the development to
adequately meet the parking needs of all uses proposed in the PUD.
      3.   The proposed PUD provides for an integrated transportation network
that adequately serves the proposed development by:
         a.   Providing for the continuation of arterial and collector streets,
meeting City standards for traffic volume, in a manner consistent with the
City’s adopted Transportation Master Plan; and
         b.   Providing a local street network that allows adequate traffic
circulation and snow storage throughout the entire development; and
         c.   Providing a pedestrian and bicycle system designed to provide
adequate circulation throughout the entire development and to all open space
areas; and
      4.   The proposed PUD provides enhanced community design by:
         a.   Conserving and incorporating the sites significant natural,
scenic and/or historical features in the development, if any; and
         b.   Integrating a mix of compatible land uses in the development and
adequately buffering and/or separating any incompatible uses in the
development; and
         c.   Locating the proposed uses and lot sized in the proposed PUD in a
manner that blends with the surrounding uses, neighborhoods, and public
facilities located in the City; and
         d.   Providing at least 10% of the gross land area for open space that
meets the recreational needs of the users of the development and provides for a
variety of recreational uses consistent with the City’s adopted Parks Master
Plan; and
      5.   The proposed PUD provides for timely development of the property and
security for future completion and maintenance by:
         a.   Ensuring that each development block contains all the necessary
elements to exist independently from future blocks; and
         b.   Ensuring that each building in the development lot has sufficient
access around the structure to allow for continual maintenance of the building
and access for emergency services; and
         c.   Ensuring that a funding mechanism exists to adequately maintain
common areas that are not publicly maintained.
      6.   In order to achieve the purposes of this section, the developer may
request modification (or exceptions) to the following development standards:
         a.   Any provision pertaining to the height, bulk, setback or maximum
dimensions of any facility.
         b.   Any provision establishing buffering, landscaping or other
similar requirements pertaining to site design.
         c.   Any provision pertaining to the minimum or maximum dimensions of
lot(s).
         d.   Any provision of this title regarding driveways, local streets,
and sidewalks except accessibility standards.
      If a preliminary plat is filed with the final development plan for the
PUD, the approval may be granted if the City Council makes those findings
required for subdivision approvals.
   E.   Approval Duration:
      1.    Single Phase PUD: The approval of a final development plan for a
PUD shall continue after recording of the PUD for as long as the improvements
exist. Failure to file the final development plan for a PUD and the associated
final plat application within two years after the date of City Council approval
of the master development agreement which approved the PUD and associated
preliminary plat shall cause all approvals of said PUD and preliminary plat to
be null and void, unless an extension of one year has been applied for by the
developer and approved by the City Council, except if a phased subdivision as
provided for in subsection
12-3-4(I)(3) of this Code. After the two years have elapsed, the developer may
apply for and receive additional extensions for good cause of time if actual
work has been commenced and is continuing on the installation of the
improvements up to a maximum of five years, after which the PUD and preliminary
plat approval shall be null and void and reapplication for a new PUD and
preliminary plat application shall be required.
      2.   Phased subdivision: The application for the first plat in a phased
subdivision within the PUD shall be made in accordance with section
11-6-5(E)(1) and
12-3-4 of Hayden City Code and the final plat application for the final phase
of a phased subdivision shall be submitted no later than five years after the
date of City Council approval of the master development agreement which
approved the entire subdivision in concept unless extensions of one year have
been applied for by the developer and approved by the City Council or if some
other time frame has been agreed to in the master development agreement. (Ord.
619, 4-13-2021)
CHAPTER 7
CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
SECTION:
11-7-1: Purpose
11-7-2: Contents Of Application For Conditional Use Permit
11-7-3: General Standards Applicable To All Conditional Uses
11-7-4: Public Buildings, Complexes, And Correctional Facilities
11-7-5: Public Sites And Open Spaces
11-7-6: Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards
11-7-7: Public Hearing By Planning And Zoning Commission
11-7-8: Action By The Commission
11-7-9: Notification To Applicant
11-7-10: Appeal
11-7-11: Failure To Comply
11-7-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The conditional use permit procedure is intended to provide uses that
are not permitted by right in any district;
      1.   It is recognized that an increasing number or new kinds of uses are
appearing daily, and that many of these and some other more conventional uses
possess characteristics of such unique and special nature relative to location,
design, size, and/or facilities that each specific use must be considered
individually;
      2.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold a public hearing on
each conditional use permit application as specified in this title. The
Commission may approve, conditionally approve or deny a conditional use permit
under the conditions as herein specified and considering such additional
safeguards as will uphold the intent of this title. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-7-2: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION FOR CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
   A.   An application for conditional use permit shall be filed with the
Community Development Department by at least one owner or lessee of property
for which such special use is proposed. At a minimum, the application shall
contain the following information:
      1.   Name, address and telephone number of applicant;
      2.   Legal description of property;
      3.   Description of existing use;
      4.   Zoning district;
      5.   A plan of the proposed site for a special use, drawn to a readable
scale, showing the location of all buildings, parking and loading areas,
traffic access and traffic circulation, open spaces, landscaping, refuse and
service areas, utilities, signs, yards and such other information as the City
may require to determine if the proposed special use meets with the intent and
requirements of this title; and
      6.   An objective narrative statement evaluation of the effects of the
conditional use request on adjoining property; and how the conditional use
request meets the standards of approval in
11-7-3.
      7.   There shall accompany any application process under this section a
certificate of a reputable title insurance company licensed under the laws of
the state of Idaho, listing the names and addresses of the record owners or
contract purchasers as shown by the records of the office of the county
recorder, all persons to whom the property is assessed upon the tax rolls of
the county assessor of Kootenai County within 300' of the external boundaries
of the land being considered. The cost of the title report shall be the sole
responsibility of the applicant. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-7-3: GENERAL STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ALL CONDITIONAL USES:
   A.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall review the particular facts
and circumstances of each proposed special use in terms of the following
standards and shall find adequate evidence showing that such use at the
proposed location meets the following:
      1.   The proposal is in accordance with the general objectives or with
any specific objective of the Comprehensive Plan and/or the zoning ordinance;
      2.   The location, design, and size of the proposal are such that the
development will be adequately served by streets, police and fire protection,
drainage structures, refuse disposal, water, sewer and schools; or that the
persons or agencies responsible for the establishment of the proposed use shall
be able to provide adequately any such services;
      3.   The design and planning (to include construction, operation and
maintenance) of the site is compatible with the location, setting and existing
uses and the intended character of the general vicinity. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-7-4: PUBLIC BUILDINGS, COMPLEXES AND CORRECTIONAL FACILITIES:
   A.    As defined in this title, any Public Building or Complex and
Correctional Facility shall apply to the Community Development Department for a
conditional use permit and shall be subject to a public hearing in accordance
with the procedures set forth in
11-7-7, with the City Council.
   B.   A Memorandum of Understanding regarding the conditions of approval for
the project shall be entered into prior to any construction for the project in
accordance with Hayden City Code
11-1-3(C).
   C.   Specific design standards as identified in Hayden City Code
11-2-5 shall be addressed within the conditions of approval.
   D.   All other requirements of this chapter shall apply to the requests for
a conditional use permit before the City Council. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-7-5: PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES:
   A.   Public sites and open spaces shall conform to the following:
      1.   Public Uses: Where it is determined that a proposed park,
playground, school or other public use as shown on the future acquisition map,
as authorized in section 67-6517, Idaho Code is located in whole or in part
within the proposed development the Commission shall notify the appropriate
public agency concerning the land proposed to be acquired. Within 30 days of
the date of notice, the public agency may request the governing body to suspend
consideration of the permit for 60 days from the date of the request; however,
if an agreement between the property owner and the public agency is not reached
within 60 days the Commission shall resume consideration of the conditional use
application;
      2.   Natural Features: Existing natural features which add to residential
development and enhance the attractiveness of the community (such as trees,
watercourse, historic spots and similar irreplaceable assets) shall be
preserved in the design of the development; and
      3.   Special Developments: In the case of large development, the
Commission may require sufficient park or open space facilities of acceptable
size, location and site characteristics that may be suitable for the proposed
development. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-7-6: SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS:
In granting any special use, the Commission may prescribe appropriate
conditions, bonds, and safeguards in conformity with this title. Violations of
such conditions, bonds or safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which
the special use is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this title. (Ord.
619, 4-13-2021)
11-7-7: PUBLIC HEARING BY PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
As soon as is practical following the filing of the application and prior to
granting a conditional use permit, at least one public hearing in which
interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard shall be held
according to the procedures set out in
11-1-6. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-7-8: ACTION BY THE COMMISSION:
   A.   After the public hearing, the Commission shall either approve,
conditionally approve or disapprove the application as presented. If the
application is approved or approved with modifications, the Commission shall
issue a conditional use permit listing the specific conditions specified by the
Commission for approval;
   B.   Upon granting of a conditional use permit, conditions may be attached
to a conditional use permit, including, but not limited to, those:
      1.   Minimizing adverse impact on the other development;
      2.   Controlling the sequence and timing of development;
      3.   Controlling the duration of development;
      4.   Assuring that development is maintained properly;
      5.   Designating the exact location and nature of development;
      6.   Requiring the provisions for on site or off site public facilities
or services; and
      7.   Requiring more restrictive standards than those generally required
in an ordinance;
   C.   Prior to granting a conditional use permit, the Commission may request
studies from the planning staff of public agencies concerning social, economic,
and/or environmental effects of the proposed special use. A conditional use
permit shall not be considered as establishing a binding precedent to grant
other conditional use permits. A conditional use permit is not transferable
from one parcel of land to another;
   D.   Upon granting or denying an application, the Commission shall specify
in writing:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-7-9: NOTIFICATION TO APPLICANT:
Within 10 days after a decision has been rendered, the City shall provide the
applicant with written notice of the action on the request. (Ord. 619, 4-13-
2021)
11-7-10: APPEAL:
An affected person aggrieved by a decision of the Commission may, after all
remedies have been exhausted under local ordinance, seek judicial review. (Ord.
619, 4-13-2021)
11-7-11: FAILURE TO COMPLY:
The approval of a conditional use permit is valid for two years from the date
of approval of the written decision authorizing such use, unless some other
time period is approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission. The development
for which the permit was issued must complete construction and be fully
operational prior to the expiration of this two year period. If any of the
conditions to this use or development are not maintained, if the nature of the
use changes, or if the use for which the conditional use permit has been issued
is discontinued or abandoned for one year then the conditional use permit shall
be considered null and void. Continued operation of a use requiring a
conditional use permit after such conditional use permit expires or is in
noncompliance with any condition of a conditional use permit, shall constitute
a violation of the zoning ordinance. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
CHAPTER 8
VARIANCE
SECTION:
11-8-1: Purpose
11-8-2: Application And Standards For Variances
11-8-3: Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards
11-8-4: Public Hearing By Planning And Zoning Commission
11-8-5: Action By The Planning And Zoning Commission
11-8-6: Notification To Applicant
11-8-7: Appeal
11-8-1: PURPOSE:
The Planning and Zoning Commission may authorize in specific cases such
variance from the terms of this title as will not be contrary to the public
interest, where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of this title would result in unnecessary hardship because of the
characteristics of the site. No nonconforming use of lands, structures or
buildings in other districts shall be considered grounds for issuance of a
variance. Variances shall not be granted on the grounds of convenience or
profit but only where strict application of the provisions of this title would
result in unnecessary hardship. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-8-2: APPLICATION AND STANDARDS FOR VARIANCES:
   A.   A variance from the terms of this title shall not be granted by the
Planning and Zoning Commission unless and until a written application for a
variance is submitted to the Community Development Department and the
Commission, containing:
      1.   Name, address and telephone number of applicant(s);
      2.   Legal description of the property;
      3.   Description of nature of variance requested:
         a.   That special conditions and circumstances exist which are
peculiar to the land, are not applicable to other lands, structures or
buildings in the same district;
         b.   That a literal interpretation of the provisions of this title
would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in
the same district under the terms of this title;
         c.   That special conditions and circumstances do not result from
actions of the applicant; and
         d.   That granting the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this title to other lands,
structures or buildings in the same district;
      4.   A site plan/plot plan, drawn to a readable scale, containing and
showing the following information:
         a.   Dimensions of all property, under review;
         b.   Location of the present building on the subject property
(applicants) with the dimensions of the front, side and rear yards;
         c.   Dimensions of all other buildings or structures on subject
property;
         d.   Location of any proposed building or structures on the proposed
extension, expansion or relocation of a building or structure on the property;
         e.   Location of the buildings on adjacent lots, giving the depth of
the front, rear and side yards showing all dimensions;
         f.   The existing use of each building or structure and the proposed
use of the existing or new building;
         g.   The name and location of all streets and alleys;
         h.   The location and arrangement of all parking facilities;
         i.   Show on the site plan how the project will be landscaped,
placement of trees, shrubs, lawns, and other ground cover;
         j.   Location of fencing, garages, driveways, sidewalks, water lines,
sewer lines and other utility improvements.
      5.   There shall accompany any application processed under this section a
certificate of a reputable title insurance company licensed under the laws of
the state of Idaho, listing the names and addresses of the record owners or
contract purchaser as shown by the records of the office of the county
recorder, and all persons to whom the property is assessed upon the tax rolls
of the county assessor of Kootenai County within the land being considered and
within 300' of the external boundaries of said land. The cost of the title
report shall be the sole responsibility of the applicant).
      6.   Legal description of the property from the most recent deed.
      7.   Other items as may be required by staff to complete the application
request.
   B.   A variance shall not be granted unless the Commission makes specific
written findings of fact based directly on the particular evidence presented to
it which supports conclusions that the above mentioned standards and conditions
have been met by the applicant. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-8-3: SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS:
Under no circumstances shall the Commission grant a variance to allow a use not
permissible under the terms of this title in the district involved, or any use
expressly or by implication prohibited by the terms of this title in said
district. In granting any variance, the Commission may prescribe appropriate
conditions and safeguards in conformity with this title. Violation of such
conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which a variance
is granted shall be deemed a violation of this title. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-8-4: PUBLIC HEARING BY PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
As soon as is practical following the filing of the application and prior to
granting a variance, at least one public hearing in which interested persons
shall have an opportunity to be heard shall be held by the Planning and Zoning
Commission in accordance with
11-1-6 of this title. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-8-5: ACTION BY THE PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
   A.   After the public hearing the Commission shall either grant or deny the
request for variance.
   B.   Upon granting or denying an application, the Commission shall specify
in writing:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reasons for granting or denying the application; and
      3.   The actions, if any, the applicant could take to obtain a permit.
(Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-8-6: NOTIFICATION TO APPLICANT:
Within 10 days after a decision has been rendered, the City shall provide the
applicant with written notice of action on the request. (Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
11-8-7: APPEAL:
An affected person aggrieved by a decision of the Commission may, after all
remedies have been exhausted under local ordinance, seek judicial review. (Ord.
619, 4-13-2021)
TITLE 12
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Title
12-1-2: Purpose
12-1-3: Authority
12-1-4: Fees And Mitigation
12-1-5: Enforcement And Penalties
12-1-6: Interpretation And Conflict
12-1-7: Condition Based Exceptions
12-1-8: Development And Construction Agreements
12-1-1: TITLE:
These regulations shall officially be known and cited as the SUBDIVISION
ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF HAYDEN. (Ord. 339, 4-8-2003)
12-1-2: PURPOSE:
These provisions are adopted to provide for the orderly division of land within
the city, and:
   A.   To protect and provide for the public health, safety, and general
welfare of Hayden;
   B.   To guide the future growth and development of the city in accordance
with the comprehensive plan;
   C.   To encourage the order and beneficial development of the community's
land;
   D.   To guide public and private policy in order to provide adequate and
efficient streets, sewerage, drainage, parks and public facilities;
   E.   To establish standards for development and installation of improvements
for subdivisions, including water, sewer, streets and drainage;
   F.   To further the orderly layout and use of land, and to ensure proper
legal description and monumentation of subdivided land;
   G.   To ensure that public facilities and services are available concurrent
with development and will have sufficient capacity to serve the subdivision;
   H.   To ensure that the community will bear no more than its fair share of
any cost of providing services by requiring the developer to pay fees, furnish
land, or establish mitigation measures to provide a fair share of capital
facilities needs generated by the development;
   I.   To assure the adequacy of drainage facilities to safeguard the water
table, and to encourage the wise use and management of natural resources to
preserve the stability and beauty of the community and the value of the land;
   J.   To provide open space through the most efficient design and layout of
land, while preserving the density of development as established in the zoning
ordinance of Hayden. (Ord. 339, 4-8-2003)
12-1-3: AUTHORITY:
   A.   This title is adopted pursuant to the authority delegated to the city
pursuant to article 12, section 2 of the Idaho constitution, Idaho Code, title
67, chapter 65 and title 50, chapter 13.
   B.   The provisions of this title shall be administered to ensure orderly
growth and development and shall supplement and implement provisions of the
Hayden comprehensive plan, this code and the capital improvements plan. By
virtue of this title the city council, planning commission and administrative
staff of Hayden are vested with the authority to review, approve, approve with
conditions, or disapprove applications for subdivision of land. (Ord. 339, 4-8-
2003)
12-1-4: FEES AND MITIGATION:
   A.   The city council may, by resolution, adopt reasonable fees related to
the cost of services associated with review, processing and inspection of
subdivision of land.
   B.   The city may, as a condition of approval of a subdivision, require
mitigation of the effects of development on the ability of the city, and other
political subdivisions, to deliver services without compromising quality or
imposing substantial additional costs to current residents. As a complement
thereto, the developer may pay development impact fees, which will be used by
the City to mitigate such impacts. (Ord. 339, 4-8-2003)
12-1-5: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   No building permit will be issued for the construction of any building
or structure located on a lot or plat subdivided or sold in violation of the
provisions of these regulations or State platting statutes, nor shall the City
have any obligation to issue any certificates of occupancy or to provide
utility services to any lot or tract created or established in violation of
these provisions. (Ord. 582, 7-10-2018)
   B.   No construction of infrastructure shall commence until preliminary
subdivision approval has been issued, and development agreements and
construction improvement agreements, as required by chapter 7 of this title,
have been approved and executed.
   C.   Violations of the provisions of this title will be deemed a misdemeanor
crime, with each day such violation continues constituting a separate offense.
The City shall have recourse to such civil remedies in law and equity as may be
necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of these regulations. (Ord.
398, 8-31-2005, eff. 10-1-2005)
12-1-6: INTERPRETATION AND CONFLICT:
   A.   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title
shall be held to be the minimum requirements. More stringent provisions may be
required if it is demonstrated that such standards are necessary to protect the
public health, safety and welfare.
   B.   Where any provision of these regulations imposes restrictions different
from those imposed by any other ordinance, rule, regulation, or other provision
of law, the provision which is more restrictive or imposes the standards most
likely to protect the public health, safety and general welfare shall control.
(Ord. 339, 4-8-2003)
12-1-7: CONDITION BASED EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Where strict compliance with these regulations and/or the purposes of
these regulations may be better served by an alternative proposal, the City
Council may approve condition based exceptions to these regulations. The
granting of an exception shall not have the effect of nullifying the intent and
purpose of these regulations. The City Council will not permit exceptions to
conditions unless it finds, based upon the evidence presented to it in each
specific case, that:
      1.   The granting of the condition based exception will not be
detrimental to the public safety, health or welfare or injurious to other
property; and
      2.   The conditions upon which the condition based exception request is
based are unique to the lands for which the relief is sought and are not
applicable generally to other lands; and
      3.   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographical conditions of the specific lands involved, a particular and
unnecessary hardship to the owner or the public would result if these
regulations are strictly applied; and
      4.   The change sought will not be contrary to the zoning ordinance or
comprehensive plan.
   B.   In approving condition based exceptions, the City Council may require
conditions that will secure the purposes of this title. A condition based
exception is any alternative design, or deviation from subdivision ordinance
requirements that is requested by the developer. The exception requested must
be in writing and must be included in the notice to be given pursuant to
chapter 3 of this title and reviewed as an integral part of the overall review
process as outlined in this title and the recommendation and decision made on
the requested exception should be at the time the subdivision is reviewed by
the Planning Commission. (Ord. 339, 4-8-2003)
12-1-8: DEVELOPMENT AND CONSTRUCTION AGREEMENTS:
It shall be a requirement of compliance with this title that a development
agreement and a construction improvement agreement be entered into and approved
by the City prior to initiating physical construction of subdivision
improvements or recordation of a subdivision plat and that a warranty agreement
be entered into prior to acceptance of the improvements by the City. (Ord. 398,
8-31-2005, eff. 10-1-2005)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
12-2-1: Words Defined
12-2-2: Interpretations
12-2-1: WORDS DEFINED:
For the purposes of this title, the following terms, phrases and words will
have the meanings given in this chapter or as defined in Idaho Statute:
ALLEY: A right-of-way designed to serve as secondary access to the side or rear
of those properties whose principal frontage is on some other street.
BLOCK: A group of lots or tracts within well defined and fixed boundaries
established by plat.
CONDOMINIUM: An estate consisting of an undivided interest in common real
property, together with a separate interest in a unit in a project in
accordance with title 55 of the Idaho Code.
CUL-DE-SAC: A street closed at one end by a circular area of sufficient size
for turning vehicles around.
DEDICATION: An act conveying property rights or interests.
FINAL PLAT: The final drawing of the subdivision and dedication prepared for
filing for record with the County Recorder and containing all elements and
requirements set forth in the Idaho Code and this title.
LOT: A designated parcel of land established pursuant to title 50, chapter 13
of the Idaho Code.
OFF SITE: Not located on the property that is the subject of a development
application nor on a contiguous portion of a street or right-of-way.
ON SITE: Located on the lot in question or on the land being subdivided.
OPEN SPACE: Land, essentially free of structures, set aside, dedicated,
designated, or reserved for the public or for the use and enjoyment of owners
and occupants of land adjoining or neighboring such open space.
PARCEL: A unit of land of contiguous quantity in the ownership of one person or
entity and constituting a separate tract of land. The act of the County
Assessor assigning a parcel number to land does not create a lot of record.
PLAT: A reproducible or permanent drawing of a subdivision and dedications and
easements, prepared for filing and recording with the County Recorder in
accordance with provision of title 50, chapter 13, Idaho Code.
PRIVATE STREET: A privately owned and maintained right-of-way that provides
vehicular and pedestrian access to two (2) or more subdivided parcels, which is
not publicly dedicated and accepted for public use, and is not maintained by
the City of Hayden.
SEWERAGE SYSTEM: All sewerage collection systems, community septic tank and
drainfield, pump stations, interceptor and appurtenances that are utilized or
will be utilized to transport, treat and dispose of sewage.
STREET: A public right-of-way, which provides vehicular and pedestrian access
to adjacent properties, that dedication of which has been officially accepted
by the City of Hayden. The term "street" also includes the terms highway,
parkway, road, avenue, lane, place, drive, trail, way, court, loop, circle and
other such terms.
SUBDIVISION: The division of any parcel of land into two (2), or more lots,
parcels, tracts or sites that meet the criteria for the purpose of sale, lease,
transfer or development, subject to the exemptions set forth in this title.
SUBDIVISION PLAN: Both written information and all maps, plans or plats that
together fully describe a proposed subdivision as required by this title.
WILL SERVE LETTER: A letter from the utility provider, generally water or
sewer, confirming that the provider has the current availability, capacity,
authority and willingness to service the proposal with the requested service. A
proper will serve letter will contain the name of the provider, the date of
issuance, a brief description of the proposed project, and will state that the
provider has the current availability, capacity, authority and willingness to
service the proposal with the requested service. The letter must be signed by
an authorized representative of the provider. (Ord. 398, 8-31-2005, eff. 10-1-
2005; amd. Ord. 578, 1-9-2018; Ord. 582, 7-10-2018)
12-2-2: INTERPRETATIONS:
When not inconsistent with the context, words in the plural number include the
singular number, and words in the singular number include the plural number.
The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory, unless the
express language of the ordinance provides otherwise. Except as expressly
defined herein, words used in this title shall be given their ordinary meaning
consistent with common usage and context. (Ord. 339, 4-8-2003)
CHAPTER 3
SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
12-3-1: Applicability
12-3-2: Exemptions
12-3-3: Application
12-3-4: Procedures
12-3-1: APPLICABILITY:
Every division of land into two (2) or more lots, tracts, parcels, sites or
divisions, whether immediate or future, for the purpose of sale, lease,
transfer or development within the incorporated area of Hayden that does not
meet the criteria for a minor subdivision under chapter 5 of this title shall
proceed in compliance with this chapter. This shall include divisions made for
condominium purposes. (Ord. 578, 1-9-2018)
12-3-2: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following:
   A.   The transfer of land between two (2) adjacent property owners, which
does not result in the creation of any additional building site and/or lot,
provided that a covenant and agreement form for previously platted lots,
approved by the City has been executed and recorded with the Kootenai County
Clerk, which shall serve to permanently combine the subject lots and the
requirements identified in
12-10-1 are met.
   B.   Any division of land made by testamentary provision or the laws of
descent. Lots or tracts so created must comply with lot size, frontage, and
other standards established by this Code and other applicable laws to be
eligible for a building permit or to qualify for establishment of an authorized
land use.
   C.   Divisions resulting from the conveyance of a lot or tract of land to a
taxing district, government agency, or utility regulated by the Public
Utilities Commission, providing the lot or tract will not be used for habitable
structures such as offices, service centers or fire stations, provided that one
of the following conditions have been met:
      1.   The improvements, as provided in chapter 6, "Required Subdivision
Improvements", of this title, are constructed, or have been constructed on the
lot or tract being conveyed, prior to the actual conveyance of said property;
      2.   With the approval of the City Council, construction of said
improvements, as required in chapter 6 of this title, are deferred for a period
not to exceed five (5) years, with the owner providing surety, in a form
approved by the City Attorney, in the amount of one hundred fifty percent
(150%) of the estimated cost of the improvements; or
      3.   In the event that the lot or tract being conveyed is less than four
thousand (4,000) square feet, and has a right-of-way frontage of less than one
hundred (100) linear feet, the City may accept payment in lieu of improvements,
for improvements as required in chapter 6 of this title.
In all cases, construction plans for required improvements, and cost estimates,
as may be required, shall be prepared by the entity requesting such exemption,
for review and approval by the City Engineer prior to the commencement of any
construction. In the case of actual construction of improvements by the
requesting entity, all construction inspections, acceptance of infrastructure,
and warranty requirements, as provided for in subsections
12-3-4K and L of this chapter, shall be applicable. (Ord. 582, 7-10-2018; amd.
Ord. 615, 12-29-2020)
12-3-3: APPLICATION:
   A.   Prior to submittal of a formal subdivision application, the developer
shall have completed a preapplication meeting with City staff to review the
proposal. A developer seeking a preapplication meeting shall submit a copy of a
concept plan to the Planning Department. A preapplication meeting will be
scheduled at the earliest available date, upon receipt of the required
conceptual plans and application by the City. The scope of the preapplication
meeting shall include, but not be limited to:
      1.   The general subdivision process.
      2.   Overall design, lot sizes, and street layout.
      3.   Preliminary utility design.
      4.   Conformity to this Code, City standards, and policies.
      5.   Potential off site impacts/mitigations.
      6.   Off site/on site improvements.
Additional preapplication reviews may be scheduled when, in the collective
judgment of staff, the proposed subdivision is extraordinarily complex,
proposes large impacts to City infrastructure, or requires extraordinary staff
time. When all issues have been adequately addressed, staff shall issue a
written notice to proceed with subdivision application.
   B.   Following the completion of the preapplication meeting, a completed
application for a subdivision plan approval may be submitted to and accepted by
the City. Said application shall be on a form provided by the City. Along with
the application the developer shall submit three (3) copies of the subdivision
plan on eighteen inch by twenty seven inch (18" x 27") paper, one copy on
eleven inch by seventeen inch (11" x 17") paper, and one copy on eight and one-
half inch by eleven inch (81/2" x 11") paper. Details and specifications shall
conform to the standards described in section
12-3-4 of this chapter and the Idaho Code.
Each application shall be accompanied by a fee in an amount to be established
by the resolution of the Council. (Ord. 542, 1-27-2015)
12-3-4: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Subdivision Plan Standards: Every subdivision plan shall consist of one
or more maps, prepared by an engineer or surveyor licensed in the State of
Idaho and drawn to a scale that is reasonable and legible with written data
which considered together, they shall fully and clearly disclose the following
information:
      1.   The name of the proposed subdivision;
      2.   The legal description of the land contained within the subdivision;
      3.   The names, mailing addresses, telephone numbers, fax numbers and e-
mail addresses of the applicant and all persons, firms and corporations holding
interests in said land;
      4.   Proof of ownership and consent from all property owners and
lienholders granting authorization to subdivide the property and the name and
contact information of the authorized agent;
      5.   A list, prepared by a title company licensed to do business in the
State of Idaho, of the names and mailing addresses of all property owners whose
property is within or adjacent to the area bounded by lines three hundred feet
(300') from the external boundary of the entire proposal area. Such list shall
be provided on self-adhesive labels in the number of copies necessary for the
hearing(s) scheduled. Said list shall be accompanied by a date stamped tax map
prepared by Kootenai County;
      6.   The name, a mailing address, telephone number, fax number, and e-
mail address of the Idaho licensed engineer that prepared the plan;
      7.   The location of the boundary lines of the proposed subdivision in
relation to section, quarter section and quarter-quarter section lines and any
adjacent corporate boundaries of the City which are part of the legal
description of the property;
      8.   The boundaries and dimensions of all blocks and lots within the
proposed subdivision together with the numbers proposed to be assigned each
block and lot. A lot utilized for open space, placement of utility
infrastructure such as a lift station, and the like shall be titled a "tract";
      9.   A data table showing the number of lots, the smallest, largest and
average lot area within the proposal site, the total acreage of the entire
proposal area, and the density in lots per acre;
      10.   A statement of proposed provisions for irrigation/domestic water
supplies and sewage disposal in the form of a will serve letter from the
applicable purveyor, and the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality approved
facility plan, if applicable;
      11.   A sketch map of the general vicinity in which the land proposed for
subdivision lies prepared at a scale of not more than four hundred feet (400')
to the inch. The vicinity map shall show all adjacent lots and shall show how
the streets and alleys in the proposed subdivision connect with existing and
proposed streets and alleys in neighboring subdivisions and unplatted property;
      12.   Any existing or proposed easements and right-of-way dedications,
easements to be labeled with the name of the recipient and purpose of the
easement;
      13.   All existing and proposed streets. Show plan, profile and cross
sections along with street names (existing and proposed);
      14.   All adjacent streets. Show existing right-of-way width, and the
location of centerline, swales, curbs and sidewalks, and trees;
      15.   Show location of existing structures such as septic tanks,
drainfields, underground storage, wells, houses and outbuildings with notes to
indicate if they will remain or be removed along with setbacks from proposed
lot lines and streets. Additionally, show the location of any natural features
such as wooded areas, streams, drainageways, flood hazard areas identified on
the flood insurance rate map, rock outcroppings, or other sensitive, hazardous,
or difficult to develop areas;
      16.   Location, dimensions and area of all tracts of land to be set aside
for parks, open space, or other public use or for the use of property owners in
the proposed subdivision. Include information on park amenities and uses
demonstrating compliance with the City's park plan, annexation agreements,
development agreements and the like;
      17.   Provide a graphic and narrative depicting and explaining
development phases, or stages, if the project will be done over several years;
      18.   Provide preliminary construction plans (typically 50 - 70 percent
design unless otherwise approved by the City Engineer) for the subdivision
demonstrating constructability and functionality which shall include:
         a.   Proposed utility infrastructure plan indicating locations, sizes
and approximate centerline grades;
         b.   General grading plan showing existing and proposed topography,
identifying areas of cut and fill of over two feet (2') along with and existing
and proposed all surface water flow patterns. Conceptual stormwater management
plans for all proposed subdivision infrastructure shall be provided;
         c.   Pedestrian and bicycle circulation plans;
         d.   A general right-of-way landscape plan;
         e.   Proposed mailbox locations;
         f.   Traffic studies;
         g.   Snow storage and removal plan;
         h.   Geotechnical or similar study, if required by the City Engineer.
      19.   For projects which may result in potential negative impacts from
the proposed development, additional studies to evaluate the impacts and
identify potential mitigation measures may be required as part of the project
review process. Such studies may include, but not be limited to, the following:
         a.   Additional transportation impact analysis shall be required for
all development as identified in the currently adopted Traffic Impact Analysis
policies.
            (1)   The requirement may be waived by the City Engineer after his/
her review of the City’s traffic model and a determination that the analysis is
not likely to result in the need for mitigation.
            (2)   The applicant shall be responsible for all costs associated
with a transportation impact analysis and potential mitigation as defined in
the study.
         b.   Additional infrastructure plans and feasibility analyses may be
required for submittal to the City for sewer collection and pretreatment
infrastructure as required by the City’s currently adopted Master Sewer Plan.
         c.   Additional infrastructure plans and feasibility analyses may be
required for submittal to the City for stormwater collection infrastructure in
accordance with the City standards and Idaho Department of Environmental
Quality standards.
         d.   Additional geotechnical and/or environmental studies may be
required to be completed by the applicant for submittal as part of the project
review process, in circumstances where:
            (1)   Construction activities and/or processes will require
blasting or construction activities and processes will result in excessive
production of noise, smoke, fumes, odors, hazardous materials, emissions or
discharges during construction;
            (2)   The proposed project is located in an area where sensitive or
hazardous conditions are present (this may include, but is not limited to,
certain soil conditions, shallow bedrock, seasonal high water table, wetlands,
surface water bodies, or slopes in excess of 15%), where said conditions create
the need for special precautions during site construction; or
            (3)   The project contains a documented and unmitigated
environmental hazard, including, but not limited to, underground storage tanks,
illegal dump sites, contaminated soils, or other such “brown field” conditions
as may be documented.
   B.   Agency And Public Notice: Once the City staff has reviewed the
application and the staff has determined that the application is complete and
that sufficient information regarding the proposal can be provided, notice will
be provided to involved public agencies, as identified by the City. This notice
shall allow fourteen (14) days for agency comment and the results of the agency
comment shall accompany and be incorporated in summary in the staff report. At
least fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing notice of the public
hearing, shall be published in the official newspaper of the City and shall be
provided by mail to those property owners owning land within three hundred feet
(300') of the external boundaries of the land being considered along with any
additional properties that may be substantially impacted by the proposed
subdivision, said determination of substantial impact is to be made by the
Planning and Zoning Commission. When notice is required to two hundred (200) or
more property owners, extraordinary notice may be given as provided by State
law. Notice will also be provided, posted and maintained in accordance with the
standards of section
11-12-4 of this Code. The applicant shall bear all costs of publication,
mailing of the notices, and posting on the property. The assessors' maps and
the title company search will be current within the sixty (60) days prior to
issuing notice to the public agencies. If the information is more than sixty
(60) days old at the time the notice is issued, the applicant shall provide
current information.
   C.   Planning and Zoning Commission Public Hearing: At, or prior to, the
public hearing, the City staff (Planning, Engineering, and other staff as
required) shall provide a Staff Review for the Planning and Zoning Commission.
This staff review shall address the request based on the standards of approval
and City Code, adopted facility plans, including but not limited to
transportation, sewer and parks, policies and standards, and provide staff
recommended conditions of approval to ensure compliance with the City’s
requirements.
   D.   Planning And Zoning Commission Recommendation: After the Planning and
Zoning Commission has reviewed the subdivision plan at the public hearing, the
commission shall forward a written recommendation to the City Council. The
commission shall recommend approval, approval with conditions, or disapproval
of the subdivision as soon as practicable. The City staff shall provide the
written recommendation of the commission to the developer and shall advise the
developer that the subdivision will be placed on the agenda of the City Council
at the earliest practicable date, only upon the developer's written request.
   E.   City Council Decision: Upon receipt of a written request that the
subdivision be placed on the Council agenda, the subdivision request will be
placed on the next available Council agenda. The City Council, upon receipt of
recommendations from the Planning and Zoning Commission, and after opportunity
to review the file and minutes from the public hearing, shall act upon the
request. The City Council may approve, approve with conditions, or disapprove
the subdivision. City staff will notify the developer in writing of the
decision of the City Council. Should the Planning and Zoning Commission
recommend a substantive change to the preliminary subdivision plan involving a
significant change, including, but not limited to, substantial changes in
layout, density, or points of access, a public hearing may be required before
the City Council, with proposed revisions as recommended by the commission
subject to agency and public notice requirements for a public hearing, as
detailed in subsection B of this section.
Should the applicant wish to contest the recommendations of the Planning and
Zoning Commission, the applicant may provide a written statement of their
objections regarding the Planning Commission recommendations for inclusion in
the City Council deliberations on the subdivision request. Such written
statements must be received at least five (5) days prior to the scheduled City
Council meeting.
   F.   Standards for Planning and Zoning Commission or City Council Approval:
The applicant has demonstrated that all existing and proposed infrastructures
meets or can be constructed prior to final plat or within the approval duration
identified in
12-3-4(G) from the date of City Council approval of the master development
agreement which approves the preliminary plat to meet the following standards:
      1.   Infrastructure can be constructed to function in a manner that
promotes the public health, safety, and welfare.
      2.   Infrastructure can be constructed and located in an orderly manner
that accommodates ongoing maintenance needs when taking into consideration
collocation of other infrastructure.
      3.   Infrastructure is or will be in compliance with applicable City,
State, and Federal policies and regulations as follows:
         a.   Provisions have been made for a water supply system that
satisfies City, Idaho Department of Environmental Quality (IDEQ) and Northern
Lakes Fire District requirements.
         b.   Provisions have been made for a public sewage system in
accordance with the City and Hayden Area Regional Sewer Boards (HARSB) adopted
Sewer Master Plans, as amended, that satisfied City, HARSB, and IDEQ
requirements and that the existing or proposed systems can accommodate the
proposed sewer flows.
         c.   Provisions have been made for snow storage that satisfies the
City Public Works Department as the design relates to snow storage and removal
practices. If snow storage is proposed to be co-located with stormwater, it
shall only be in roadside swale areas and not in regional detention basins
unless approved administratively by the City Engineer who shall determine that
the likelihood of flooding is minimal.
         d.   Provisions have been made for stormwater systems that satisfy the
City and IDEQ requirements.
         e.   Provisions have been made for streets that are consistent with
the adopted transportation plan, as amended, and the transportation element of
the adopted Comprehensive Plan, as amended and that satisfies the City, ITD,
adjacent jurisdictions, and local highway district requirements. Where cul-de-
sacs are proposed, they are required to be approved administratively by the
City Engineer who shall determine that they are limited to portions of
developments in which street continuity is not foreseeable due to property
configurations and/or that they are needed to address site specific conditions.
A cul-de-sac shall be limited to four hundred feet (400') in length measured
from the edge of adjacent street right-of-way to the back of the cul-de- sac,
unless an exception to this standard is allowed by the City Engineer.
         f.   Provisions have been made for parks and open space that are
consistent with the adopted Parks Master Plan, as amended, and that satisfies
the City's requirement.
      4.   Provisions have been made for erosion controls and geohazards
stabilization both during construction and as needed for permanent controls to
the satisfaction of the City.
      5.   Provisions have been made for gas, power, telecommunications,
mailboxes, and similar infrastructure.
      6.   Provisions have been made for driveway locations that take into
consideration the width and location of the driveway in relation to the
location of snow storage, utility boxes, crosswalks, adjacent roads, mailboxes
and the like.
      7.   The area proposed for subdivision is zoned for the proposed use and
the use conforms to other requirements found in this Code.
      8.   The developer has made adequate plans to ensure that the community
will bear no more than its fair share of costs to provide services by paying
fees, furnishing land, or providing other mitigation measures for off site
impacts to streets, parks, and other public facilities within the community. It
is the expectation that in most cases, off site improvements will be dealt with
through the agreements.
   G.   Approval Duration: Failure to file the final plat application within
two (2) years after the date of City Council approval of the master development
agreement which approved the preliminary plat shall cause all approvals of said
subdivision plan to be null and void, unless an extension of one year has been
applied for by the developer and approved by the City Council, except as
provided for in subsection I3 of this section. After the two (2) years have
elapsed, the developer may apply for and receive additional extensions for good
cause of time if actual work has been commenced and is continuing on the
installation of the improvements up to a maximum of five (5) years, after which
the preliminary plat approval shall be null and void and reapplication for a
new preliminary plat application shall be required.
   H.   Changes, Alterations Or Deletions:
      1.   Upon issuance of agency and/or public hearing notices, and prior to
approval of the preliminary subdivision plan by the City Council, any
alterations of the plan must be reviewed by the Community and Economic
Development Director or his/her designee to determine if the alterations are
considered substantive. If the amendment is major or involves a substantial or
significant change to the plan, said changes may be subject to agency and
public notice requirements as detailed in subsection B of this section.
      2.   After approval of the subdivision plan and before approval of a
final subdivision plat, the City Engineer may, in writing, approve minor
changes of the plan. If an amendment is major or involves a substantial change
in the conditions of approval, the same procedures for a public hearing for
subdivision plan approval must be followed to address the requested amendment.
The public hearing on the proposed amendment shall be limited to the proposed
amendment, and the commission shall make a decision to recommend approval,
approval with conditions, or denial. The recommendation will be brought forward
for City Council decision as an addendum to the development agreement.
   I.   Phasing Of Subdivisions:
      1.   Subdivisions may be phased, to be developed in portions periodically
according to a proposed schedule, so long as each phase contains all of the
necessary improvements to function as a subdivision without the completion of
any of the other phases. The developer shall indicate plans for phasing at the
time of application. The plans shall show proposed phasing boundaries, proposed
interim or temporary solutions to sanitary sewer systems and to the handling of
traffic on local streets within the subdivision and shall be accompanied by a
narrative description of assurance of completion of permanent system
improvements.
      2.   A phasing plan shall coordinate required infrastructure systems,
dedications, off site improvements, open space/parks, landscaping, private
utilities, or other elements of a subdivision. The plan may indicate times of
triggering mechanisms for improvements.
      3.   Approval duration for phased subdivision: The application for the
first plat in a phased subdivision shall be made in accordance with section
12-3-3 of this chapter and the final plat application for the final phase of a
phased subdivision shall be submitted no later than five (5) years after the
date of City Council approval of the master development agreement which
approved the entire subdivision in concept unless extensions of one year have
been applied for by the developer and approved by the City Council or if some
other time frame has been agreed to in the master development agreement.
   J.   Commencement Of Construction: Upon approval by the City Council,
subsequent review and approval of the final construction plans by the City
Engineer, which substantially conform to the subdivision plans approved by the
Council, execution of the construction improvement agreement as required in
chapter 7 of this title, and completion of a preconstruction conference between
the developer, the City, affected agencies and utility providers, the developer
may proceed with construction of the subdivision. No construction of any kind,
other than that authorized with a site disturbance permit, shall take place on
the site prior to those actions. During construction, the City has the
authority to conduct periodic inspections of the project site and the required
infrastructure improvements. (Ord. 578, 1-9-2018)
   K.   Completion Of Construction And Acceptance Of Infrastructure:
      1.   Prior to scheduling the final inspection of the required subdivision
infrastructure improvements for completion, the developer's engineer shall
submit preliminary record drawings and construction documentation of the
required infrastructure improvements, in accordance with the design standards
and policies for the City of Hayden as approved by the City Council, for review
and approval by the City Engineer. Upon approval of the record drawings, the
developer's engineer shall submit two (2) full sized twenty four inch by thirty
six inch (24" x 36") copies, one half-size eleven inch by seventeen inch (11" x
17") copy, and one electronic copy of the record drawings.
      2.   The final inspection of the required subdivision improvements for
conformance to the approved construction plans will not take place until the
preliminary record drawings and construction documents have been received by
the City Engineer.
      3.   Upon the City Engineer's approval of the constructed public
infrastructure improvements, the developer shall execute and file with the City
a warranty agreement as required in chapter 7 of this title, between the
developer and the City of Hayden. The agreement shall also contain a provision
that the developer shall be responsible for the successful operation of and all
repairs to the public infrastructure improvements for a period of eighteen (18)
months following the acceptance of infrastructure. The eighteen (18) month
warranty shall be accompanied by surety consisting of a cash deposit, certified
check, irrevocable letter of credit or other form of security approved by the
City Attorney, in an amount equal to twenty five percent (25%) of total cost of
all public improvements.
      4.   a. Public Infrastructure: Upon approved completion of the required
infrastructure improvements, submission of approved record drawings and
construction documentation, completion of the final platting process as
required in chapter 4 of this title, and execution of the warranty agreement
and warranty surety for public infrastructure, the developer shall apply to
City for acceptance of infrastructure.
         b.   Private Infrastructure: Upon approved completion of the required
infrastructure improvements, and submission of approved record drawings and
construction documentation, the developer shall complete the final platting
process as required in chapter 4 of this title. The approval of the final plat
as described in section
12-4-5 of this title shall constitute the completion of the project.
         c.   Public And Private Infrastructure: Where the required
improvements for a single development consist of both public and private
infrastructure, the developer shall be required to follow the procedures for
public infrastructure, excepting that the conditions of the warranty agreement
and surety, and the City's acceptance of infrastructure shall only apply to
public infrastructure improvements.
      5.   Staff review of the application for acceptance of public
infrastructure, completion of all required terms and conditions, and payment of
all required fees, payment in lieu of improvements, and surety, must be
accomplished before the request for acceptance of infrastructure will be
forwarded to the City Clerk, with staff's recommendation that it be scheduled
for City Council approval.
   L.   Warranty Inspection And Release Of Surety: Sixty (60) days prior to the
completion of the eighteen (18) month warranty period, the developer shall
request that the City Engineer conduct a warranty inspection of the required
subdivision improvements. Those infrastructure improvements that are identified
as in need of repair shall be corrected by the developer, at his own expense
before the end of the eighteen (18) month period. The warranty will not be
released until the developer receives inspection approval from the City
Engineer.(Ord. 542, 1-27-2015; amd. Ord. 578, 1-9-2018; Ord. 615, 12-29-2020)
CHAPTER 4
FINAL PLAT APPROVAL
SECTION:
12-4-1: Submittal
12-4-2: Final Plat Requirements
12-4-3: Agreement And Bond/Guarantee For Improvement
12-4-4: Council Review
12-4-5: Recordation
12-4-6: Building Permits And Certificates Of Occupancy
12-4-1: SUBMITTAL:
   A.   Final Plat Preliminary Approval: Upon review and approval of the
construction plans, and prior to submission of the final plat to the County for
review and approval, three (3) copies of the final plat shall be submitted to
the City for review by the City Engineer to determine that the plat meets all
of the requirements of the Idaho Code, this title and the subdivision plan
approval, including any conditions imposed by the City Council. (Ord. 542, 1-
27-2015)
   B.   Application For Final Plat Approval: Upon completion of the County
review process, the developer may request final plat approval by the City. The
City shall verify that all required on site and off site public improvements
have been completed and are ready for acceptance by the City or have been
suitably guaranteed; and, that all private improvements have been completed in
accordance with the approved construction plans. No final plat shall be
recorded until a certificate of approval has been issued pursuant to Idaho Code
50-1326 so that sanitary restrictions are not in place at the time of
recording. The application shall include one reproducible eleven inch by
seventeen inch (11" x 17") reduced copy of the final plat, as approved by the
County, any payment in lieu of improvements, and surety where required. (Ord.
578, 1-9-2018)
12-4-2: FINAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS:
Every final plat required by this title shall be prepared in accordance with
title 50, chapter 13 of the Idaho Code as it now exists or is subsequently
amended. (Ord. 542, 1-27-2015)
12-4-3: AGREEMENT AND BOND/GUARANTEE FOR IMPROVEMENT:
   A.   Before recordation, the developer shall install all required public and
private infrastructure improvements and restore any existing streets and other
public facilities damaged in the development of the subdivision, or execute and
file with the City an agreement between the developer and the City of Hayden,
for completion of all required public improvements and repairs to public
infrastructure associated with the subdivision. The agreement shall specify the
period within which required public infrastructure improvements and repairs
shall be completed, and specify all improvements that shall be completed prior
to the issuance of certificates of occupancy within the subdivision. Based on
the need to maintain access to existing infrastructure, public safety needs,
and the like, the City Engineer shall determine which improvements can be
bonded for and, if applicable, those which shall be constructed prior to final
plat recordation. The agreement shall be accompanied by surety, consisting of a
cash deposit, certified check, irrevocable letter of credit or other form of
security approved by the City Attorney, in the amount of one hundred fifty
percent (150%) of an engineer's stamped estimated cost of construction
accompanied by detailed support documentation for the public improvements to be
completed. In the event that the developer does not meet timely completion of
the improvements, the City may proceed against the guarantee. If the cost of
completion of the improvements exceeds the amount of the guarantee, the City
may recover the full cost and expenses thereof from the developer. (Ord. 578,
1-9-2018)
   B.   For a phased subdivision, the required surety shall be for the phase
which is being developed. (Ord. 542, 1-27-2015)
12-4-4: COUNCIL REVIEW:
When staff review of the final plat application is completed and all required
terms and conditions are satisfied, and all required fees, payment in lieu of
improvements, and surety have been paid, staff may forward the final plat to
the City Clerk with staff's recommendation that it be scheduled for City
Council review. The City Clerk shall place the request for plat approval on the
next available City Council agenda. The Council shall review the subdivision
and plat and, upon finding that all of the requirements have been satisfied,
shall authorize the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign the plat. The City
Engineer's signature shall be the final approval assigned to the plat. (Ord.
542, 1-27-2015)
12-4-5: RECORDATION:
After the plat is signed by the Mayor, City Clerk and City Engineer, the City
shall record the plat with the County Recorder, and provide the City with a
reproducible copy of the recorded plat. (Ord. 542, 1-27-2015)
12-4-6: BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   No building permits will be issued for lots depicted on the final plat
until the final plat has been recorded, and a copy of the recorded plat has
been received by the City and the interior monuments have been set in
accordance with Idaho Code.
   B.   No certificates of occupancy will be issued until all required
infrastructure improvements have been constructed, the public infrastructure
has been accepted by the City, record drawings of all public infrastructure,
signed and stamped by the project engineer have been received by the City, and
the interior monuments have been set in accordance with Idaho Code. (Ord. 542,
1-27-2015)
CHAPTER 5
MINOR SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
12-5-1: Applicability
12-5-2: Exemptions
12-5-3: Application
12-5-4: Procedures
12-5-5: Preliminary Plat Approval
12-5-6: Appeal
12-5-7: Construction
12-5-8: Project Completion; Acceptance Of Infrastructure
12-5-9: Warranty Inspection
12-5-10: Approval Duration
12-5-11: Changes, Alterations Or Deletions
12-5-12: Phasing Of Subdivisions
12-5-1: APPLICABILITY:
The division of a tract of land or a lot that is five (5) acres or less in size
or a division of a tract of land or lot into six (6) or fewer lots, tracts or
sites, shall meet the criteria outlined in this section. These criteria shall
also apply to condominium plats. If any one of the following criteria is not
met, the developer must file a subdivision as outlined in this title. A minor
subdivision shall be subject to all development improvement standards
established by this title.
   A.   Comply with all minimum standards and requirements of the zoning
ordinance, and no zone change is required.
   B.   All lots shall have access onto an existing public street or an
approved private street. Dedication of additional right-of-way for future
improvements may be required as a condition of approval. (Ord. 582, 7-10-2018)
12-5-2: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following:
   A.   The transfer of land between two (2) adjacent property owners, which
does not result in the creation of any additional building site, provided that
a covenant and agreement form for previously platted lots, approved by the
City, or a combination and segregation form for unplatted lots, approved by the
City, has been executed and recorded with the Kootenai County Clerk, which
shall permanently combine the subject lots.
   B.   Any division of land made by testamentary provision or the laws of
descent. Lots or tracts of land so created must comply with lot size, frontage,
and other standards established by this Code and other applicable laws to be
eligible for a building permit or to qualify for establishment of a regulated
land use.
   C.   Divisions resulting from the conveyance of a lot or tract of land to a
taxing district, government agency, or utility regulated by the Public
Utilities Commission, providing the lot or tract will not be used for habitable
structures such as offices, service centers or fire stations. These exemptions
shall only apply if the improvements as provided in chapter 6, "Required
Subdivision Improvements", of this title, are either constructed prior to
conveyance of said property, or, with the approval of the City Council,
construction of the required improvements is deferred for a period not to
exceed five (5) years, with the owner providing surety, in a form approved by
the City Attorney, in the amount of one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the
estimated cost of the improvements. Construction plans for required
improvements shall be reviewed and approved by the City Engineer prior to the
commencement of any construction, and all construction inspections, acceptance
of infrastructure, and warranty requirements, as provided for in subsections
12-3-4K and L of this title, shall be applicable. (Ord. 582, 7-10-2018)
12-5-3: APPLICATION:
   A.   Prior to submittal of a formal minor subdivision application, the
developer shall have completed a preapplication conference to review the
proposal. The requirement for a predevelopment conference for a minor
subdivision may be waived, at the discretion of the Director.
   B.   An application for a minor subdivision must be submitted to the City
using the application process established in subsections
12-3-3A and B of this title; with a property owner's report meeting the
noticing distance requirements of this chapter, and meeting the subdivision
plan standards of subsections
12-3-4A1 through A18 of this title. (Ord. 578, 1-9-2018)
12-5-4: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Upon receipt of a completed minor subdivision application, City staff
will review the application to determine if it is complete and if it meets the
criteria for a minor subdivision, and optionally may schedule a minor
subdivision review with the developer. (Ord. 559, 7-12-2016)
   B.   The City will provide copies of submitted documents, as necessary, to
outside agencies and jurisdictions, which, in the opinion of staff, may be
affected by the proposal. In addition, the City will provide written notice to
the owners of property adjacent to the property proposed for development. The
notice shall provide the property owners within one hundred feet (100') of the
exterior boundary of the plat if six (6) lots or fewer and three hundred feet
(300') of the exterior boundary of the plat if greater than six (6) lots, a
plan of the minor subdivision, general information concerning the proposal, and
the time frame for submitting written comments. The period of time for comment
or response for agencies, jurisdictions and adjacent property owners shall not
be less than fourteen (14) days from the date of notice. (Ord. 578, 1-9-2018)
   C.   The Director, or his/her designee shall act as Hearing Officer and
shall conduct a minor subdivision review, along with appropriate staff, to
ensure that all applicable ordinance provisions are followed or completed.
(Ord. 559, 7-12-2016)
12-5-5: PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL:
The Director, or his/her designee shall, by written decision, approve, approve
with conditions, or deny the preliminary plat for the minor subdivision
pursuant to the subdivision standards for approval in subsections
12-3-4F1 through F8 of this title, except when the applicant has proposed to
serve the subdivision via a private street. In the case of proposed minor
subdivisions with private streets, City staff shall recommend approval,
approval with conditions, or denial of proposed private streets to the City
Council prior to making a decision to approve, approve with conditions, or deny
the preliminary plat for the minor subdivision. Said recommendation regarding
proposed private streets shall be placed on the agenda for the next available
City Council meeting for City Council action. Notice of the action taken shall
be mailed to the owners of real property adjacent to the minor subdivision. A
decision to deny shall indicate the reasons for denial and indicate what steps
are necessary to obtain approval. In the case of approval or approval with
conditions, a memorandum of understanding shall be prepared that details the
conditions of approval and the responsibilities of the developer. The
memorandum of understanding shall be signed by the Director, or his/her
designee and the developer prior to proceeding to construction plan review and
final plat procedures. (Ord. 578, 1-9-2018)
12-5-6: APPEAL:
The developer or any affected party may appeal the decision of the Director, or
his/her designee by filing a notice of appeal with the City Council no later
than fourteen (14) days after the date of the decision. The appeal shall set
forth in clear and concise fashion the basis for appeal. The appeal shall be
set for consideration before the City Council at the next regularly scheduled
meeting of the City Council at which it can be accommodated. The Council shall
render a decision either affirming or reversing the decision. (Ord. 559, 7-12-
2016)
12-5-7: CONSTRUCTION:
Upon preliminary plat approval by the City, execution of the memorandum of
understanding, subsequent review and approval of the final construction plans
by the City Engineer, which substantially conform to the minor subdivision
plans approved by the City, and completion of a preconstruction conference
between the developer, the City, affected agencies and utility providers, the
developer may proceed with construction of the minor subdivision. No
construction of any kind, other than removal or stripping of topsoil, shall
take place on the site prior to those actions. The staging or mobilizing of
equipment or establishing a temporary construction office or equipment storage
yards shall not be considered to be "construction" for the purposes of this
section. During construction, the City may conduct periodic inspections of the
project site and the required infrastructure improvements, in accordance with
the design standards and policies for the City of Hayden as approved by the
City Council, to verify conformance to said standards. (Ord. 559, 7-12-2016)
12-5-8: PROJECT COMPLETION; ACCEPTANCE OF INFRASTRUCTURE:
The process for completion of construction and acceptance of infrastructure for
minor subdivisions shall conform to the process as detailed in subsection
12-3-4K of this title for subdivisions. (Ord. 559, 7-12-2016)
12-5-9: WARRANTY INSPECTION:
The process for warranty inspection for minor subdivisions shall conform to the
process as detailed in subsection
12-3-4L of this title for subdivisions. (Ord. 559, 7-12-2016)
12-5-10: APPROVAL DURATION:
Approval duration for a minor subdivision shall be pursuant to subsection
12-3-4G of this title. (Ord. 559, 7-12-2016)
12-5-11: CHANGES, ALTERATIONS OR DELETIONS:
Changes, alterations or deletions for a minor subdivision shall be pursuant to
subsections
12-3-4H1 and H2 of this title. (Ord. 559, 7-12-2016)
12-5-12: PHASING OF SUBDIVISIONS:
Phasing of a minor subdivision shall be pursuant to subsections
12-3-4I1 through I3 of this title. (Ord. 559, 7-12-2016)
CHAPTER 6
REQUIRED SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
12-6-1: Required Dedications And Improvements
12-6-2: Construction Plans
12-6-1: REQUIRED DEDICATIONS AND IMPROVEMENTS:
The following dedications and improvements shall be required of all
subdivisions and minor subdivisions:
   A.   Right-Of-Way Improvements And Dedications:
      1.   Additional required right-of-way shall be dedicated on the face of
the plat for all contiguous existing or proposed streets, with said dedication
based upon the adopted City street standards and the functional classification
of street as identified in the City's transportation plan.
      2.   In subdivisions and minor subdivisions where contiguous or adjacent
streets are not constructed to City street standards as based upon the
functional classification identified in the City's adopted transportation plan,
the developer shall be required to make improvements to said streets consistent
with the City street standard. Said improvements may include widening or
replacement of pavement, and construction of curbs, swales, sidewalks and/or
bicycle paths, along the frontage of the subject property.
      3.   Subdivision improvements shall include the design and construction
of streets to provide for the continuation of public streets existing in
adjoining subdivisions, and the projection of new streets into areas that are
not presently subdivided.
      4.   Payment in lieu of required right-of-way improvements may be
permitted in circumstances where the City has a planned public improvement
project that would address required improvements, and the City deems such
payment to be consistent with the public interest. If payment in lieu of
improvements is approved, said payment shall be based upon cost estimates for
said improvements, as provided by the developer and approved by the City
Engineer, future valued to the date of scheduled City sponsored improvements,
as based upon the "Engineering News-Record (ENR) 20-Cities Construction Index"
or other construction cost index as may be approved by the City Engineer. In no
event, however, shall future valuing exceed a period of ten (10) years. Said
payment shall be placed in a reserve account for future street improvements.
      5.   Right-of-way dedications for all new public streets serving the
development shall be dedicated on the face of the plat, in accordance with the
adopted City street standards.
      6.   All new public streets serving the development shall be constructed
to City street standards.
      7.   Private streets serving the subdivision shall be constructed in
conformance with standards as detailed in title 10, chapter 3 of this Code, and
shall meet all other requirements as detailed therein.
   B.   Other Required Improvements And Dedications:
      1.   Water service shall be provided to meet required flows for domestic
and fire protection purposes. Water lines shall be installed in accordance with
the requirements of the applicable water purveyor, and fire hydrants shall be
installed in accordance with the requirements of the fire district. All
required water line easements shall be dedicated on the face of the plat.
      2.   All lots shall be served by Municipal sewer, or other private sewer
collection system as may be approved by City Council. Required sewer easements
shall be dedicated on the face of the plat.
      3.   Sewer collection lines shall be extended the length of the
subdivision boundary along all adjacent street frontages as indicated on the
City's current Sewer Master Plan, or in other such manner approved by the City
Engineer as to ensure service to properties that would otherwise have been so
served by Municipal sewer.
      4.   Stormwater management systems shall be provided, in accordance with
the requirements of title 8, chapter 3 of this Code.
      5.   Underground electric and communication utilities shall be provided
to all lots within the subdivision. Utility easements shall be dedicated on the
face of the plat.
      6.   Streetlights shall be installed by the developer at locations
approved by the utility provider and the City Engineer.
      7.   Street identification and traffic control signage meeting MUTCD
standards shall be installed by the developer.
      8.   Sight obscuring fencing, and/or landscaping may be required as a
mitigation in cases where potentially incompatible land uses are adjacent.
      9.   Construction and dedication of pedestrian or bicycle pathways
providing connectivity to proximate pathways, parks, schools, or community
facilities shall be required if determined to be consistent with the City's
adopted Comprehensive Plan, or necessary to provide connectivity. (Ord. 559, 7-
12-2016)
      10.   A thirty foot (30') greenbelt tract, measured from the back of
curb, or if no curb, from the edge of pavement and meeting the standards of a
type III visual relief buffer in terms of deciduous vs. evergreen ratios, tree
spacing, and ground cover requirements (with the exception that as an approved
alternative, ground cover may consist entirely of turf grass) shall be provided
in subdivisions located along the frontage of those streets delineated within
the City's transportation plan as having a thirty foot (30') landscape buffer
requirement. A greenbelt tract does not qualify for a buffer width reduction.
Where such greenbelt tracts are required, the developer shall install
landscaping and irrigation systems in conformance with City design standards as
a required subdivision improvement; said greenbelts may be utilized to meet
requirements for pedestrian or bicycle connectivity, if so required and may
also be combined with required street tree buffers. The developer shall be
required to form a property owners' association prior to final plat, with said
greenbelts to be owned and maintained by a perpetual property owners'
association. Alternatively, a property owners' association will not be required
for the ownership and maintenance of the greenbelt tract, if the greenbelt is
platted as a separate tract of land, to be owned by the property owner fronting
the tract, and a nonrevocable covenant, approved by the City, is recorded
against the property fronting the greenbelt which memorializes the obligation
of all present and future property owners to maintain the greenbelt tract as an
unbuildable, landscape buffer, and the obligation that ownership of said
greenbelt tract shall be conveyed together with ownership of the lot upon which
it fronts.
      11.   Type II-ST landscaping is required in accordance with the
requirements of title 11 of this Code.
   C.   Property Owners' Associations:
      1.   Composition; Establishment: Where property owners' associations are
required by this Code, as based upon the required or proposed subdivision
improvements, said property owners' association shall include the owners of all
property served by the required or proposed improvements, with said association
established in accordance with the following provisions:
         a.   The association shall own and be responsible for the maintenance
of private streets, associated drainage facilities, required parks, greenbelts,
and other commonly owned properties and improvements.
         b.   The developer shall provide written assurance to the City that
the association has perpetual existence and will be responsible for maintenance
during its existence.
         c.   The association documents shall be filed of record prior to the
signing of the final plat.
         d.   A legal instrument providing a mechanism for funding the
perpetual maintenance of the commonly owned property shall be recorded with the
County prior to the recordation of the final plat.
      2.   Separate Lots Required: Commonly owned property and infrastructure
improvements must be legally described as a separate lot or lots owned by the
property owners' association. The location of such commonly owned property
shall be clearly depicted on the face of the plat, and notes shall be included
on the face of the plat which shall:
         a.   Act to convey to each property owner within the subdivision to be
served by the improvement the perpetual right of use and access;
         b.   Provide that such perpetual easement shall run with the land.
      3.   Protection Of Public Health, Safety And Welfare: The Mayor may, in
the reasonable exercise of his/her discretion, direct the owners or the entity
responsible for the maintenance of any commonly owned property or improvements
approved in accordance with the provisions of this section to undertake such
repair and maintenance activities as it may determine is necessary to protect
the public health, safety, or welfare and make such expenditures from the funds
reserved therefor as may be required. The owner or entity responsible shall be
deemed, as a condition of approval of any such commonly owned improvement, to
have agreed to comply with any such order and to reimburse the City of all its
costs, including attorney fees, incurred in obtaining or enforcing any such
directive. Any directive entered by the Mayor pursuant to this subsection may
be enforced by a court of competent jurisdiction, and the City shall be
entitled to recover its costs and attorney fees incurred in connection
therewith. (Ord. 559, 7-12-2016; amd. Ord. 572, 6-13-2017; Ord. 615, 12-29-
2020)
12-6-2: CONSTRUCTION PLANS:
It shall be the responsibility of the developer of every subdivision or minor
subdivision to have prepared by a registered engineer, a complete set of
construction plans, including profiles, cross sections, specifications and
supporting data, for all required streets, streetlights, utilities and other
facilities. Such construction plans shall be based on the approved subdivision,
and shall be prepared in conjunction with the final plat. The planned
improvements must be constructed prior to filing of said final plat, or in
accordance with terms of surety accepted by the City. All construction plans
shall be prepared in accordance with the public agencies' standards or
specifications, and shall be installed in conformance with the following
conditions and specifications:
   A.   Monuments shall be set in accordance with the Idaho Code and all street
monuments shall be installed in monument boxes approved by the City;
   B.   Water line construction shall be governed by the standards of the water
purveyor and shall include a separate water meter to each lot. Public water
supply shall be provided in conformance with the standards of the applicable
water purveyor and the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality;
   C.   Sewer line construction shall be governed by the requirements of title
8, chapter 2 of this Code, and sewer standards and policies as adopted by the
City Council. Any sewerage system shall be provided in conformance with the
Sewer Master Plan of Hayden, State law and sewer policies and procedures
approved by the City Council;
   D.   Stormwater management facilities shall be designed in conformance with
title 8, chapter 3 of this Code, and constructed in accordance with the design
standards and policies for the City of Hayden approved by City Council;
   E.   Adequate provisions for fire protection shall be made in accordance
with the International Fire Code adopted by the City;
   F.   Sidewalks and streetlights shall be constructed pursuant to City
policies and design standards, as approved by City Council. Pedestrianways and
bicycle paths, streets and stormwater drainage systems shall be constructed in
accordance with the design standards and policies for the City of Hayden
approved by the City Council. Electric and communication utility lines shall be
installed underground. (Ord. 559, 7-12-2016)
CHAPTER 7
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS
SECTION:
12-7-1: Purpose
12-7-2: General
12-7-3: Elements Of Agreement
12-7-4: Agreement To Be Recorded
12-7-5: Third Party Rights
12-7-6: Limitations On Liability
12-7-7: Construction Improvement Agreement
12-7-8: Warranty Agreement
12-7-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of a development agreement is to specify the means by which the
subdivision requirements will be accomplished and to establish terms of
mitigation, to describe the scope of construction improvements and an
understanding between the city and the developer. (Ord. 339, 4-8-2003)
12-7-2: GENERAL:
A development agreement shall constitute a binding contract between the
developer and property owner of a proposed subdivision and the city and shall
contain those terms and conditions agreed to by the parties and those required
by this title and other legal requirements. The staff of the city, in
conjunction with the city attorney, is authorized to negotiate development
agreements on behalf of the city. Minor subdivisions shall be exempt from this
requirement, unless special conditions of approval require the execution of a
development agreement, as determined by staff. (Ord. 398, 8-31-2005, eff. 10-1-
2005)
12-7-3: ELEMENTS OF AGREEMENT:
The development agreement shall contain a brief statement describing the
subdivision, which shall include its location, legal description, number of
lots, and the date of subdivision approval by the city council. The agreement
shall also include, but not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Any conditions of approval from the review and approval process.
   B.   Time limit, and provisions for extension and extinguishing the
agreement.
   C.   Phasing plans, if any, including the proposed phasing schedule,
triggering mechanisms for the timing of infrastructure improvements, and a
description of any required temporary improvements and the terms of those
improvements.
   D.   A description of construction improvements to be installed on site and
off site.
   E.   Covenants, if any, made by the developer and/or the city.
   F.   Details of dedications and improvements beyond those required in this
title.
   G.   Addenda, to include a construction improvement agreement and a warranty
maintenance agreement as detailed in sections
12-7-7 and
12-7-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 398, 8-31-2005, eff. 10-1-2005)
12-7-4: AGREEMENT TO BE RECORDED:
The development agreement shall be recorded and shall run with the land and
bind all successors, heirs, and assignees of the developer. The development
agreement will expire at the agreed upon date set forth in the agreement, or
upon the filing, by the city, of a release with the county recorder when the
terms of the agreement have been satisfied or are no longer valid, whichever
comes first. (Ord. 339, 4-8-2003)
12-7-5: THIRD PARTY RIGHTS:
Except as otherwise expressly provided in a development agreement, the
development agreement shall create no rights enforceable by any party not a
party to the development agreement. Purchasers of lots in approved subdivisions
are not deemed to be third party beneficiaries of development agreements. (Ord.
339, 4-8-2003)
12-7-6: LIMITATIONS ON LIABILITY:
Any breach of a development agreement by the city shall not give rise to
monetary damages, but shall be enforceable only by resort to an action for
specific performance. No provision of any development agreement which is
contrary to law may be enforced. (Ord. 339, 4-8-2003)
12-7-7: CONSTRUCTION IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENT:
   A.   A construction improvement agreement shall be an addendum to, or
component of, a development agreement and shall be executed prior to the
commencement of any construction relating to the subdivision. Staging or
mobilizing of equipment or establishing a temporary construction office or
equipment storage yards shall not be considered to be "construction" for the
purposes of this section.
   B.   The construction improvement agreement shall set forth the specific
public improvements to be constructed in the subdivision, the manner and timing
of the construction, duties and responsibilities of the developer, including
the developer's duty to pay for the costs of operation of the streetlights
within the development for a period of eighteen (18) months following the
acceptance of the public improvements by city council, the estimated costs of
the improvements, performance guarantees, maintenance warranty, and standards.
(Ord. 398, 8-31-2005, eff. 10-1-2005)
12-7-8: WARRANTY AGREEMENT:
   A.   A warranty agreement shall be an addendum to, or component of, a
development agreement and shall be executed prior to the acceptance of the
public improvements by the city. All public capital improvements shall be
guaranteed for eighteen (18) months from the date of formal acceptance for
operational maintenance by the city council by a surety acceptable to the city.
   B.   The warranty agreement shall set forth the duties and responsibilities
of the developer regarding the ongoing maintenance of the public improvements
that are installed by the developer that are in excess of those required by the
city and are installed for the purpose of enhancement of the aesthetics of the
development. (Ord. 398, 8-31-2005, eff. 10-1-2005)
CHAPTER 8
SURVEY REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
12-8-1: Survey
12-8-1: SURVEY:
All surveys for subdivisions, minor subdivisions or other projects within the
city limits of Hayden shall be based upon the city of Hayden horizontal control
network. The survey shall contain or be accompanied by the following
information:
   A.   The initial point and at least two (2) government corners approved by
the city engineer or the engineer's designee.
      1.   The initial point shall be tied to at least two (2) public land
survey corners, or in lieu of public land survey corners, to two (2) monuments
recognized by the city engineer and shall give coordinates based on the Idaho
coordinate system west zone.
      2.   All horizontal coordinate values shall be grid coordinates based
upon the North American datum of 1983 (NGS 1992 adjustment) as determined from
control points established by a global positioning system (GPS) geodetic
control survey for the city of Hayden and Kootenai County, on file in the
official 1998 records of the city.
      3.   Other control points or public land survey corners having coordinate
values determined from a traverse or triangulation performed so as to produce
accuracy meeting the specification of second order, class II traverses or
triangulation, as published by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration (NOAA), in classification standards accuracy and general
specifications of geodetic control surveys could be used. Any coordinate value
must be accepted or published by the city.
   B.   A complete set of field construction notes may be required showing
original or reestablished corners with descriptions of the actual traverses
showing error or closures and method of adjustments and a sketch showing all
distances, angles and calculations required to determine distances and corners
of the plat boundary. The error of closure shall be in accordance with Idaho
Code, title 50, chapter 13.
   C.   The base of bearing of all plats shall be rotated to the Idaho
coordinate system as presented by the city datum. Coordinate values shall be
grid coordinates.
   D.   The city of Hayden datum is based upon the following format:
      1.   City of Hayden 1997 survey control program map.
      2.   GPS locations of section corners and quarter corners Township 51
North, Range 4 West, Boise Meridian dated November 13, 1998, or official
revisions. (Ord. 339, 4-8-2003)
CHAPTER 9
CONDOMINIUM TOWNHOME PLATTING PROCEDURES
SECTION:
12-9-1: Applicability
12-9-2: General Requirements
12-9-3: Application For Preliminary Plat
12-9-4: Preliminary Plat Review
12-9-5: Final Plat Approval
12-9-1: APPLICABILITY:
Every division of an existing or permitted building under construction, or
building and land in combination, into two (2) or more distinct lots or tracts
of ownership, in such a manner as to create a common ownership interest in any
portion of the structure, or structure and lands in combination, or otherwise
creating boundaries of ownership along a common wall or structural separation
between stories of a structure, shall proceed in compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 582, 7-10-2018; amd. Ord. 619, 4-13-2021)
12-9-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Condominium subdivisions, with each unit or a portion of the original
lot independently owned, having lot lines along common walls, may be permitted
in any zone, providing that:
      1.   The parent lot, including all areas of land and building proposed
for common and independent ownership, when considered as a whole, meets the
minimum lot size and all building setback requirements for the type of
structure within the existing zoning designation. As a special exception,
condominium platting of structures determined to be nonconforming by reason of
restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, building setback or location on the
lot may be allowed, if said nonconformity is not further increased by the
proposed division, and the proposed condominium plat is not found to be
contrary to the public interest.
      2.   The proposed condominium subdivision does not result in the creation
of any additional development sites.
      3.   All applicable City, State, and Federal building regulations and
Fire Codes pertaining to common wall and zero lot line construction shall be
complied with.
      4.   Common walls shall be adequately soundproofed in accordance with
International Building Code requirements.
      5.   Electric, domestic water supply, sewer service, heating and air
conditioning systems, and all other incorporated utility systems shall be
appropriately designed for each unit of occupancy.
      6.   Deeds or covenants pertaining to buildings shall contain appropriate
provisions regarding maintenance of individually or commonly owned indoor or
outdoor walls, common areas, and outdoor yard areas.
      7.   Maintenance or encroachment easements shall be recorded as necessary
for individual owners to assure access to all commonly and individually owned
yard areas and outdoor walls.
      8.   The development otherwise complies with all requirements of Idaho
Code title 55, chapter 15, and title 11, "Zoning Regulations", of this Code and
all other applicable City ordinances and codes. (Ord. 416, 5-9-2006)
12-9-3: APPLICATION FOR PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   At any time after the issuance of the building permit for a proposed
condominium structure and the installation of footings for the permitted
structure that include sufficient detail to determine where each of the
exterior walls for the individual units will be located, a preliminary
condominium plat for the permitted structure may be submitted to the City for
review.
   B.   For buildings under construction at the time of application, no
certificates of occupancy shall be issued for any condominium structure until
the final condominium plat has been approved by the City and recorded with
Kootenai County.
   C.   Condominium plats for an existing building or building under
construction shall be subject to application fees as established by City
Council.
   D.   Applications for condominium plat pursuant to this title shall include:
      1.   All applicable fees, as established by City Council.
      2.   Diagrammatic floor plans of the building, as approved, and any
associated lands, in sufficient detail to identify:
         a.   The exact dimensions of the building footprint, as approved, and
any associated lands, relative to a minimum of two (2) survey monuments
recognized by the County Surveyor;
         b.   Each unit, its dimensions and relative location;
         c.   All relevant floor elevations, referenced to the City's
established vertical datum, where multilevel or multi-story structures are
diagrammed; and
         d.   Common and limited common areas shall be designated on said
diagrams.
      3.   Record of ownership, and copies of the certificates consenting to
condominium project by the owner of record and holder of any recorded security
interest in the property, pursuant to Idaho Code title 55, chapter 15.
      4.   A declaration of condominium, articles of incorporation and bylaws,
pursuant to Idaho Code title 55, chapter 15. (Ord. 416, 5-9-2006)
      5.   A preliminary condominium plat showing the subject lot(s) or tract
(s), with the location of the building in sufficient detail to identify each
unit and its relative location within the lot(s) or tract(s). The preliminary
condominium plat shall be legibly drawn at a scale suitable to ensure the
clarity of all lines, bearings and dimensions. The preliminary condominium plat
shall also include the following: (Ord. 582, 7-10-2018)
         a.   Condominium project name, north arrow, scale and vicinity map
showing location and boundary of the subject tract, existing road patterns and
adjoining properties in the vicinity.
         b.   Location, dimensions and area of all proposed units to be
developed as condominium units.
         c.   Existing wells, springs, drainage channels, overhead and
underground utilities lines, structures, sanitary sewer lines and culverts
immediately within the tract and adjacent thereto.
         d.   All easements of record, including sufficient recording data
(recordation number, book, and page) to identify conveyance.
         e.   All portions of the building or associated lands intended to be
dedicated as common areas, with the uses indicated.
         f.   Any other information as may be deemed necessary for
consideration of the application. (Ord. 416, 5-9-2006)
12-9-4: PRELIMINARY PLAT REVIEW:
   A.   Upon determination that the application is complete, the preliminary
condominium plat will be reviewed by City staff. Preliminary approval shall be
granted only if the application meets the following standards for approval:
      1.   The proposed plat is in conformance with all applicable City
Development Code standards and policy, and the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   The application is in conformance with the requirements of Idaho
Code title 55, chapter 15.
   B.   Approval of the application by City staff may be conditioned upon
revisions necessary to meet the above listed standards. (Ord. 416, 5-9-2006)
   C.   Preliminary condominium plat approval shall have approval duration of
one year from date of notification. Upon written request by the applicant to
the Planning Department, the Director may approve an additional one year
extension of preliminary condominium plat approval, provided it is determined
that said extension will not be detrimental to the public interest.
   D.   Any decisions or determinations made by City staff in the
administration of the provisions of this section may be appealed to City
Council, in accordance with section
11-1-9 of this Code. (Ord. 416, 5-9-2006; amd. Ord. 572, 6-13-2017; Ord. 619,
4-13-2021)
12-9-5: FINAL PLAT APPROVAL:
   A.   Upon preliminary condominium plat approval, the applicant shall submit
a final condominium plat, meeting all requirements of:
      1.   Chapter 4 (final plat requirements) of this title;
      2.   Chapter 8, "Survey Requirements", of this title;
      3.   Idaho Code title 55, chapter 15; and
      4.   All conditions of preliminary plat approval.
   B.   Final condominium plat approval shall follow procedures detailed in
chapter 4, "Final Plat Approval", of this title. (Ord. 416, 5-9-2006)
CHAPTER 10
BOUNDARY LINE ADJUSTMENTS
SECTION:
12-10-1: Applicability
12-10-2: Application
12-10-3: Review And Approval
12-10-4: Issuance Of Building Permits
12-10-1: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter establish the requirements for
adjustment of common boundary lines of platted lots or legally created un-
platted lots and not to lots that are being consolidated. An application for a
boundary line adjustment may be submitted to adjust a boundary between
adjoining lots or parcels if the proposed boundary adjustment does not
      1.   Create any additional lots;
      2.   Include any lots or parcels which are not legal lots, as defined by
city ordinance;
      3.   Already have a boundary line adjustment which had been completed on
the subject lot(s) within the previous 365 calendar days other than minor
revision as determined by the Community Development Director; or
      4.   Contain land, where an application for a subdivision be proposed
within three (3) years; unless the application for a subdivision includes;
         a.   All lots that were part of the boundary line adjustment; or
         b.   For the lot not included in the subdivision, the frontage
improvements and sewer connections at a minimum shall be included unless this
is a part of a Phased Subdivision, Condominium Plat or Planned Unit Development
pursuant to Hayden City Code Title 11 and 12. (Ord. 572, 6-13-2017; amd. ord.
615, 12-29-2020)
12-10-2: APPLICATION:
   A.   An application for a boundary line adjustment must be filed with the
City on a designated form along with such other information as may be required.
Required submittal shall include but may not be limited to the following:
Current Deed(s), draft deed of conveyance, resulting deeds, record of survey,
vicinity map, a certificate from a title insurance company licensed under the
laws of the State of Idaho, issued no later than thirty (30) days prior to the
date of the application submittal for each of the affected properties and a
scaled drawing of the proposed adjustment showing the following:
      1.   All existing and proposed boundaries of the affected lots with
dimensions;
      2.   All existing structures with dimensions and distances from both
eaves and foundation lines to existing and proposed boundaries;
      3.   Existing sewer and water services to the affected lots;
      4.   Existing street frontages and accesses to each lot;
      5.   Existing easements and their purposes. (Ord. 559, 7-12-2016; amd.
Ord. 572, 6-13-2017; Ord. 615, 12-29-2020)
12-10-3: REVIEW AND APPROVAL:
   A.   Once the application has been accepted, reviewed, and has been
determined by the staff to be complete so that sufficient information regarding
the proposal can be provided, notice will be provided to outside agencies and
jurisdictions which in the opinion of staff, may be affected by the proposal,
and lienholders of record, as identified in the title policy submitted with the
application. Said notice shall include: one copy of the completed application,
a vicinity map, and the proposed plan. Agencies, jurisdictions and lienholders
will have thirty (30) days from the date that the materials have been mailed to
submit comments. The Community Development Director or his/her designee will
approve the boundary line adjustment only after determining that all of the
following conditions have been met:
      1.   Nothing impacts the ability to consolidate two (2) or more lots into
one.
      2.   If one or both existing lots are currently nonconforming as to lot
size, setbacks, and lot coverage, they may be adjusted so long as neither
resulting lot exceeds the original degree of nonconformity of the other and so
long as no additional nonconformities are created if the lots currently conform
to this Code.
      3.   The lot line adjustment does not result in lots spanning a public
right-of-way or private road easements unless such a condition(s) existed pre-
boundary line adjustment.
      4.   The lots being adjusted were legally created.
      5.   No additional lots are being created.
      6.   The accompanying deed of conveyance accurately describes the
property to be transferred and the remainder property. Said deed shall also
include new aggregate legal descriptions of the adjusted areas. A statement
shall be included on the deed of conveyance indicating that the instrument is
being recorded for lot line adjustment purposes, and that the portion of
property being transferred is not of itself a buildable lot.
      7.   No existing easements or accesses have been impaired without
appropriate remedy.
      8.   Adjusted lots that are currently served by sanitary sewer and water
services have not been adjusted so that they do not, or cannot, have sewer and
water services that conform to applicable City policies and standards.
      9.   The record of survey has been prepared by an Idaho licensed surveyor
in conformance with the requirements of Idaho State Statutes and this chapter.
      10.   All new property corners have been monumented as required by this
title and Idaho Code.
      Upon determining that all of the above requirements have been met the
boundary line adjustment will be approved for recordation by the Community
Development Director or his/her designee. (Ord. 578, 1-9-2018; amd. Ord. 615,
12-29-2020)
12-10-4: ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS:
No building permits will be issued on lots or tracts whose boundaries have been
adjusted without the approval of the City. (Ord. 582, 7-10-2018)
TITLE 13
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
13-1-1: Statutory Authorization, Findings Of Fact, Purpose, And Objectives
13-1-2: Definitions
13-1-3: General Provisions
13-1-4: Administration
13-1-5: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
13-1-6: Legal Status Provisions
13-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE, AND OBJECTIVES:
   A.   Statutory Authority: The legislature of the state of Idaho, pursuant to
Idaho Code sections 46-1020 through 46-1024, authorizes local governments to
adopt floodplain management ordinances that identify floodplains and minimum
floodplain development standards to minimize flood hazards and protect human
life, health, and property.
   B.   Findings Of Fact: The flood hazard areas of city of Hayden are subject
to periodic inundation that results in a loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures for flood relief and protection; and impairment of the tax
base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general
welfare.
      1.   These flood losses are caused by structures in flood hazard areas,
which are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or otherwise unprotected from
flood damages, and by the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains
causing increases in flood heights and velocities.
      2.   Local government units have the primary responsibility for planning,
adopting, and enforcing land use regulations to accomplish proper floodplain
management.
   C.   Statement Of Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to promote public
health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize public and private losses
due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      1.   Protect human life, health, and property;
      2.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
purification and sewage treatment plants, water and gas mains, electric,
telephone and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located in floodplains;
      3.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas;
      4.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      5.   Minimize the need for rescue and emergency services associated with
flooding, generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      6.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions; and
      7.   Ensure potential buyers are notified the property is in an area of
special flood hazard.
   D.   Objectives And Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses: In order to accomplish
its purpose, this chapter includes methods and provisions to:
      1.   Require that development which is vulnerable to floods, including
structures and facilities necessary for the general health, safety, and welfare
of citizens, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      2.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or which increase flood heights,
velocities, or erosion;
      3.   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage or erosion;
      4.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or that may increase flood hazards to other
lands; and
      5.   Preserve and restore natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which carry and store floodwaters. (Ord. 564, 10-
25-2016)
13-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined in this section, words or phrases used in this
chapter shall be interpreted according to the meaning they have in common
usage, as well as to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE): A structure on the same lot or
parcel as a principal structure, the use of which is incidental and subordinate
to the principal structure.
APPEAL: A request for review of the floodplain administrator's interpretation
of the provisions of this chapter, or a request for a variance.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): A determination by the federal insurance
administrator of the water surface elevations of the base flood, that is, the
flood level that has a one percent (1%) or greater chance of occurrence in any
given year. When the BFE has not been provided in a special flood hazard area,
it may be obtained from engineering studies available from a federal, state, or
other source using FEMA approved engineering methodologies. This elevation,
when combined with the freeboard, establishes the flood protection elevation.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level), including crawl space, on all sides.
DATUM: The vertical datum is a base measurement point (or set of points) from
which all elevations are determined. Historically, that common set of points
has been the national geodetic vertical datum of 1929 (NGVD29). The vertical
datum currently adopted by the federal government as a basis for measuring
heights is the North American vertical datum of 1988 (NAVD88).
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
ELEVATION CERTIFICATE: The elevation certificate is an important administrative
tool of the NFIP. It is used to determine the proper flood insurance premium
rate; it is used to document elevation information necessary to ensure
compliance with community floodplain management regulations; and it may be used
to support a request for a letter of map amendment (LOMA) or letter of map
revision based on fill (LOMR-F).
FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA): The agency with the overall
responsibility for administering the national flood insurance program.
FLOOD FRINGE: The portion of the floodplain outside of the floodway covered by
floodwaters during the regulatory flood.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community, on which the
federal insurance administrator has delineated both the special hazard areas
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has been
made available digitally is called a digital flood insurance rate map (DFIRM).
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS): An examination, evaluation, and determination of
flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations; or
an examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or
flood related erosion hazards.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
1. The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
2. The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
3. Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by flooding as
defined in subsection A2 of this definition and are akin to a river of liquid
and flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when earth is
carried by a current of water and deposited along the path of the current.
   B.   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other
body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents
of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an
unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe
storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding as defined in subsection A1 of this definition.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The base flood elevation plus the freeboard.
   A.   In "special flood hazard areas" where base flood elevations (BFEs) have
been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE of 2246.8 feet plus two feet
(2') of freeboard; and
   B.   In "special flood hazard areas" where no BFE has been established, this
elevation shall be the BFE of 2246.8 feet plus two feet (2') of freeboard.
FLOODPLAIN: The land that has been or may be covered by floodwaters, or is
surrounded by floodwater and inaccessible, during the occurrence of the
regulatory flood.
FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT: Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation.
FREEBOARD: A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for
the purposes of floodplain management. Freeboard tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, obstructed bridge openings, debris and ice jams, and the
hydrologic effects of urbanization in a watershed. The base flood elevation
(BFE) plus the freeboard establishes the flood protection elevation (FPE).
Freeboard shall be two feet (2').
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY: A facility that cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in the close proximity to
water, such as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and
unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair facilities. The
term does not include long term storage, manufacture, sales, or service
facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG): The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction, adjacent to the proposed walls of a structure.
Refer to the FEMA elevation certificate for HAG related to building elevation
information.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: A structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. department of the interior) or preliminarily
determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the national register.
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or to a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify
as a registered historic district.
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places and
determined as eligible by states with historic preservation programs which have
been approved by the secretary of the interior, or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places and
determined as eligible by communities with historic preservation programs that
have been certified either:
1. By an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the interior,
or
2. Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved
programs.
LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC): A general term used to refer to the several types
of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by letter.
They include letter of map amendment (LOMA), letter of map revision (LOMR), and
letter of map revision based on fill (LOMR-F).
   A.   Letter Of Map Amendment (LOMA): An official amendment, by letter, to an
effective national flood insurance program (NFIP) map. An LOMA establishes a
property's location in relation to the special flood hazard area (SFHA). LOMAs
are usually issued because a property has been inadvertently mapped as being in
the floodplain but is actually on natural high ground above the base flood
elevation.
   B.   Letter Of Map Revision (LOMR): A revision based on technical data
showing, usually due to manmade changes, changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features.
   C.   Letter Of Map Revision Based On Fill (LOMR-F): FEMA's modification of
the special flood hazard area (SFHA) shown on the flood insurance rate map
(FIRM) based on the placement of fill outside the existing regulatory floodway.
The LOMR-F does not change the FIRM, FBFM, or FIS report.
LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG): The lowest point of the ground level next to the
structure. Refer to the FEMA elevation certificate for LAG related to building
elevation information.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of 44 CFR section 60.3 and this
chapter.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, built on
a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term "manufactured
home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the
national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community's FIRM are referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: A structure for which the "start of construction" commenced
after May 3, 2010, and includes subsequent improvements to the structure.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle that is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis, and
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection, and
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towed by a light duty
truck, and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
For purposes of these regulations, the term "special flood hazard area" is
synonymous in meaning with the phrase "area of special flood hazard".
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and means the date the
development permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days
of the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or
footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include
the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or
sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not the alteration affects the external dimensions of a building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of its market value before the damage occurred. See
definition of Substantial Improvement.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before the "start of construction"
of the improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred
"substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
market value of the structure should be: a) the appraised value of the
structure prior to the start of the initial repair or improvement, or b) in the
case of damage, the value of the structure prior to the damage occurring. This
term includes structures which have incurred "substantial damage", regardless
of the actual amount of repair work performed. The term does not, however,
include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
   B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure" and the alteration is approved by variance issued pursuant to this
chapter.
VARIANCE: A modification of the bulk and placement requirements of this chapter
as to lot size, lot coverage, width, depth, front yard, side yard, rear yard,
setbacks, parking space, height of buildings, or other ordinance provision
affecting the size or shape of a structure or the placement of the structure
upon lots, or the size of lots.
ZONE A: Areas subject to inundation by the one percent (1%) annual chance flood
event generally determined using approximate methodologies. Because detailed
hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base flood elevations (BFEs) or
flood depths are shown. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements and
floodplain management standards apply. The city of Hayden adopts the base flood
elevation for the zone A of 2,246.8 feet per LOMCs 12-10-1356A, 11-10-0256A,
and 12-10-1331A. (Ord. 564, 10-25-2016)
13-1-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Lands To Which This Chapter Applies: This chapter shall apply to all
special flood hazard areas within the jurisdiction of city of Hayden. Nothing
in this chapter is intended to allow uses or structures that are otherwise
prohibited by the zoning ordinance.
   B.   Basis For Special Flood Hazard Areas: The special flood hazard areas
identified by the federal emergency management agency in its flood insurance
study (FIS) for Kootenai County, Idaho, and incorporated areas dated May 3,
2010, with accompanying flood insurance rate maps (FIRM) or digital flood
insurance rate maps (DFIRM), and other supporting data, are adopted by
reference and declared a part of this chapter. The FIS and the FIRM are on file
at the office of the Hayden community and economic development department at
8930 N. Government Way, Hayden, Idaho.
   C.   Establishment Of Floodplain Development Permit: A floodplain
development permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of this
chapter prior to the commencement of any development activities within special
flood hazard areas determined in accordance with the provisions of subsection
13-1-4B of this chapter.
   D.   Compliance: No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended,
converted, altered, or developed in any way without full compliance with the
terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
   E.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This chapter shall not in any way
repeal, abrogate, impair, or remove the necessity of compliance with any other
laws, ordinances, regulations, easements, covenants, or deed restrictions, et
cetera. However, where this chapter and another conflict or overlap, whichever
imposes more stringent or greater restrictions shall control.
   F.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this chapter
all provisions shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   G.   Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and
will occur. Flood heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This
chapter does not imply that land outside the special flood hazard areas or uses
permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This
chapter shall not create liability on the part of the city of Hayden or by any
officer or employee thereof for flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or an administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
   H.   Penalties For Violation: No structure or land shall hereafter be
located, extended, converted, or altered unless in full compliance with the
terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations. Violation of the
provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of its requirements,
including violation of conditions and safeguards established in connection with
grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any
person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its
requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisoned in the county jail for not more than
six (6) months, or both. Each day the violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city of Hayden
from taking such other lawful actions as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation. (Ord. 564, 10-25-2016)
13-1-4: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Designation Of Floodplain Administrator: The community and economic
development director or his/her appointee, hereinafter referred to as the
"floodplain administrator", is hereby appointed to administer and implement the
provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator: The
floodplain administrator shall perform, but is not limited to, the following
duties:
      1.   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that the
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
      2.   Review all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to
assure that all necessary local, state, and federal permits have been received,
including section 404 of the federal water pollution control act amendments of
1972, 33 USC section 1334.
      3.   Notify adjacent communities and the Idaho department of water
resources state coordinator for the national flood insurance program (NFIP)
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of
such notification to the federal emergency management agency (FEMA).
      4.   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is maintained.
      5.   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
lowest floor (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new and
substantially improved structures, in accordance with the provisions of
subsection C3 of this section.
      6.   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which all
new and substantially improved structures and utilities have been floodproofed,
in accordance with the provisions of subsection C3 of this section.
      7.   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all
public utilities in accordance with the provisions of subsection C3 of this
section.
      8.   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of subsection C3 of this section and subsection
13-1-5B2 of this chapter.
      9.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the special flood hazard areas (for example, where there appears
to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions), make
the necessary interpretation. The person contesting the location of the
boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation
as provided in this section.
      10.   When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with the provisions of subsection
13-1-3B of this chapter, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any BFE data,
available from a federal, state, or other source, in order to administer the
provisions of this chapter. The city of Hayden adopts the base flood elevation
for zone A of 2,246.8 feet per LOMCs 12-10-1356A, 11-10-0256A, and 12-10-1331A.
      11.   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration
of this chapter and make these records available for public inspection,
recognizing that such information may be subject to the privacy act of 1974, as
amended.
      12.   Make on site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant
to a floodplain development permit progresses, the floodplain administrator
shall make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that
the work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and
the terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the floodplain administrator
has a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
      13.   Issue stop work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the floodplain administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing or in charge of the work. The stop work order shall state the
specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the
condition(s) under which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop work
order constitutes a misdemeanor.
      14.   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The floodplain
administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked. Any person who has had their floodplain permit revoked may
seek an appeal of that order, pursuant to the procedures in subsection D4 of
this section.
      15.   Make periodic inspections throughout the special flood hazard areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The floodplain administrator and each
member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
      16.   Follow through with the corrective procedures of subsection D of
this section.
      17.   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance
requests.
      18.   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not be limited
to, the FIS report, FIRM and other official flood maps, and studies adopted in
accordance with the provisions of subsection
13-1-3B of this chapter, including any revisions thereto including letters of
map change, issued by FEMA. Notify the NFIP state coordinator and FEMA of your
community's mapping needs.
      19.   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including letters of
map revision based on fill (LOMR-Fs) and letters of map revision (LOMRs).
   C.   Floodplain Development Application, Permit, And Certification
Requirements:
      1.   Application Requirements: Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the floodplain administrator prior to any development
activities located within special flood hazard areas. The following items shall
be presented to the floodplain administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
         a.   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
            (1)   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area
of development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities, and
other development;
            (2)   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated
on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in subsection
13-1-3B of this chapter, or a statement that the entire lot is within the
special flood hazard area;
            (3)   The flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development
area as determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in subsection
13-1-3B of this chapter;
            (4)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development;
         b.   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within
a special flood hazard area including, but not limited to: elevation in
relation to mean sea level of the proposed lowest floor (including basement) of
all structures;
         c.   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are
met;
         d.   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor;
         e.   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
         f.   Certification that all other local, state, and federal permits
required prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received;
         g.   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of
subsections
13-1-5B5 and B6 of this chapter are met;
         h.   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and
         i.   A map (if not shown on plot plan) showing the location of the
proposed watercourse alteration or relocation.
      2.   Permit Requirements: The floodplain development permit shall
include, but is not limited to:
         a.   A complete description of all the development to be permitted
under the floodplain development permit (i.e., house, garage, pool, septic,
bulkhead, cabana, pole barn, chicken coop, pier, bridge, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials, et cetera);
         b.   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with available data specified in subsection
13-1-3B of this chapter;
         c.   The flood protection elevation required for the lowest floor and
all attendant utilities;
         d.   The flood protection elevation required for the protection of all
public utilities;
         e.   All certification submittal requirements with time lines;
         f.   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway or flood fringe area of any watercourse, as
applicable;
         g.   The flood openings requirements for zone A; and
         h.   All floodplain development permits shall be conditional upon the
start of construction of work within one hundred eighty (180) days. A
floodplain development permit shall expire one hundred eighty (180) days after
issuance unless the permitted activity has commenced as per the "start of
construction" definition.
      3.   Certification Requirements:
         a.   Elevation Certificate: A final as built finished construction
elevation certificate (FEMA form 86-0-33) is required after construction is
completed and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall
be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the floodplain administrator a
certification of final as built construction of the elevation of the lowest
floor and all attendant utilities. The floodplain administrator shall review
the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be
corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of
compliance/occupancy issuance. In some instances, another certification may be
required to certify corrected as built construction. Failure to submit the
certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause to
withhold the issuance of a certificate of compliance/occupancy.
         b.   Watercourse Alteration Or Relocation: If a watercourse is to be
altered or relocated, the following shall all be submitted by the permit
applicant prior to issuance of a floodplain development permit:
            (1)   A description of the extent of watercourse alteration or
relocation; and
            (2)   A professional engineer's certified report on the effects of
the proposed project on the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse and the
effects to properties located both upstream and downstream; and
            (3)   A map showing the location of the proposed watercourse
alteration or relocation; and
            (4)   An Idaho stream channel alteration permit approval shall be
provided by the applicant to the floodplain administrator.
         c.   Certification Exemptions: The following structures, located
within zone A, are exempt from the elevation certification requirements
specified in subsections C3a and C3b of this section:
            (1)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of subsection
13-1-5B5a of this chapter;
            (2)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of subsection
13-1-5B6 of this chapter; and
            (3)   Accessory structures less than two hundred (200) square feet
meeting requirements of subsection
13-1-5B7 of this chapter.
      4.   Determinations For Existing Buildings And Structures: For
applications for building permits to improve buildings and structures,
including: alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of
occupancy, additions, rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements,
repairs of substantial damage, and any other improvement or work on such
buildings and structures, the floodplain administrator, in coordination with
the building official, shall:
         a.   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work. In the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
         b.   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its predamaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
         c.   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; and
         d.   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work
constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that
compliance with the flood resistant construction requirements of the adopted
Idaho building code and this chapter is required.
   D.   Corrective Procedures:
      1.   Violations To Be Corrected: When the floodplain administrator finds
violations of applicable federal, state, or local laws, it shall be his or her
duty to notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The
owner or occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited
in the notification.
      2.   Actions In Event Of Failure To Take Corrective Action: If the owner
of a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
floodplain administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner's last known address or by personal service,
stating:
         a.   The building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
         b.   A hearing will be held before the floodplain administrator at a
designated place and time, not later than ten (10) days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
         c.   Following the hearing, the floodplain administrator may issue an
order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
applicable.
      3.   Order To Take Corrective Action: If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the floodplain administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of the flood damage prevention
ordinance, he or she shall issue an order in writing to the owner, requiring
the owner to remedy the violation within a specified time period not less than
sixty (60) calendar days and not more than one hundred eighty (180) calendar
days. Where the floodplain administrator finds that there is imminent danger to
life or other property, he or she may order corrective action be taken in a
lesser period, as may be feasible.
      4.   Appeal: Any owner who has received an order to take corrective
action may appeal the order to the Hayden planning and zoning commission by
giving notice of appeal in writing to the floodplain administrator and the
clerk within ten (10) days following issuance of the final order. Failure to
timely file an appeal shall be considered a failure to exhaust the
administrative remedies. In the absence of an appeal, the order of the
floodplain administrator shall be final. The planning and zoning commission
shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and
affirm, or revoke the order. The decision on appeal shall be in writing and set
out the facts, technical information, and the legal basis for the decision.
      5.   Failure To Comply With Order: If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, which shall be punishable
by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or imprisonment in
the county jail for not more than six (6) months, or both.
   E.   Variance Procedures:
      1.   The planning and zoning commission, as established by the city of
Hayden, hereinafter referred to as the "appeal board", shall hear and decide
requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
      2.   Variances may be issued for:
         a.   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
         b.   Functionally dependent facilities, if determined to meet the
definition as stated in section
13-1-2 of this chapter, provided provisions of subsections E9b, E9c, and E9e of
this section, have been satisfied, and such facilities are protected by methods
that minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional
threats to public safety; or
         c.   Any other type of development provided it meets the requirements
of this section.
      3.   In passing upon variances, the appeal board shall consider all
technical evaluations, relevant factors, standards specified in other sections
of this chapter, and:
         a.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         b.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         c.   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         d.   Importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
         e.   Necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under section
13-1-2 of this chapter as a "functionally dependent facility", where
applicable;
         f.   Availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding or
erosion damage, for the proposed use;
         g.   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
         h.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
         i.   Safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
         j.   Expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
         k.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
      4.   The applicant shall include a written report addressing each of the
factors in subsections E3a through E3k of this section with their application
for a variance.
      5.   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
chapter.
      6.   The decision to either grant or deny a variance shall be in writing
and shall set forth the reasons for such approval and denial.
      7.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying: a) the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE) and
the elevation to which the structure is to be built; b) that such construction
below the BFE increases risks to life and property; and c) that the issuance of
a variance to construct a structure below the BFE will result in increased
premium rates for flood insurance of up to twenty five dollars ($25.00) per one
hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage. Such notification shall be
maintained with a record of all variance actions, including justification for
their issuance.
      8.   The floodplain administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the federal emergency management
agency (FEMA) and the state of Idaho, upon request.
      9.   Conditions for variances:
         a.   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
         b.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
flood fringe area if the variance would result in any increase in flood levels
during the base flood discharge.
         c.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
         d.   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
         e.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
            (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
            (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship; and
            (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create a nuisance, cause fraud on or
victimization of the public, or conflict with existing local laws and
ordinances.
      10.   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or
sites, hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical
storage facilities that are located in special flood hazard areas, provided
that all of the following conditions are met:
         a.   The use serves a critical need in the community;
         b.   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special flood
hazard area;
         c.   The lowest floor of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to
at least the flood protection elevation; and
         d.   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state, or
local laws.
      11.   The city of Hayden will notify the state NFIP coordinator of the
Idaho department of water resources of its intention to grant a variance at
least thirty (30) calendar days prior to granting the variance.
      12.   Any person may appeal a variance decision to city council, pursuant
to the appeal procedures in subsection D4 of this section.
      13.   Any person aggrieved by the decision of city council may appeal
such decision to the court, as provided in Idaho Code section 67-6535. (Ord.
564, 10-25-2016)
13-1-5: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
   A.   General Standards: In all special flood hazard areas, the following
provisions are required:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement of the structure.
      2.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage in
accordance with the technical bulletin 2, flood damage resistant materials
requirements, and available from the federal emergency management agency.
      3.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
      4.   All new and replacement electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing,
air conditioning equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/
or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding to the flood protection elevation.
These include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units,
bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable
boxes, hot water heaters, and electric outlets/switches.
      5.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
      6.   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      7.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      8.   A fully enclosed area, of new construction and substantially
improved structures, which is below the lowest floor shall be constructed
entirely of flood resistant materials at least to the flood protection
elevation; and include, in zones A, flood openings to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must either be certified by
a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum
design criteria:
         a.   A minimum of two (2) flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         b.   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
         c.   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed area
must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and exit;
         d.   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher than
one foot (1') above the interior or exterior adjacent grade;
         e.   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
         f.   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
      9.   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall
meet the requirements of "new construction" as contained in this chapter.
      10.   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction,
or replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date hereof
and located totally or partially within the floodway, flood fringe area, or
stream setback, provided there is no additional encroachment below the flood
protection elevation in the floodway, flood fringe area, or stream setback, and
provided that such repair, reconstruction, or replacement meets all of the
other requirements of this chapter.
      11.   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in subsection
13-1-4E10 of this chapter. A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage
incidental to an allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or
wastewater treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area
only if the structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least
the flood protection elevation and certified in accordance with the provisions
of subsection
13-1-4C3 of this chapter.
      12.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage and determined to be
reasonably safe from flooding.
      13.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
      14.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
      15.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including section 404 of the
federal water pollution control act amendments of 1972, 33 USC section 1334.
      16.   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard
area, the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
      17.   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest base flood
elevation (BFE) shall apply.
   B.   Specific Standards: In all special flood hazard areas where base flood
elevation (BFE) data has been provided, as set forth in subsection
13-1-3B of this chapter, the following provisions, in addition to the
provisions of subsection A of this section, are required:
      1.   Residential Construction:
         a.   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated no lower than the "flood protection elevation", as defined
in section
13-1-2 of this chapter.
      2.   Nonresidential Construction:
         a.   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial, or other nonresidential structure shall have the lowest floor,
including basement, elevated no lower than the "flood protection elevation", as
defined in section
13-1-2 of this chapter. Structures located in zones A, AE, AH, AO, and A1-30
may be floodproofed to the flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation
provided that all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, below the flood protection elevation are watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and the effect of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer or
architect shall certify that the floodproofing standards of this subsection are
satisfied. Such certification shall be provided to the floodplain administrator
as set forth in subsection
13-1-4C3 of this chapter, along with the operational plan and the inspection
and maintenance plan.
      3.   Manufactured Homes:
         a.   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that
the lowest floor of the manufactured home is no lower than the "flood
protection elevation", as defined in section
13-1-2 of this chapter.
         b.   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the Idaho division of building safety's "Idaho Manufactured
Home Installation Standard" in accordance with Idaho Code section 44-2201(2).
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis
thirty six inches (36") or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall
be supported by reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation
of the chassis is above thirty six inches (36") in height, an engineering
certification is required.
         c.   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of subsection A8 of this section.
         d.   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved, or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the floodplain administrator and the
local emergency management coordinator.
      4.   Additions And Improvements:
         a.   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
            (1)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any
more nonconforming than the existing structure; or
            (2)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and
the addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
         b.   Additions to post-FIRM structures that are a substantial
improvement with no modifications to the existing structure other than a
standard door in the common wall shall require only the addition to comply with
the standards for new construction.
         c.   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
            (1)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements must only comply with the standards for new construction; or
            (2)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and
the addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      5.   Recreational Vehicles: Recreational vehicles shall be either:
         a.   Temporary Placement:
            (1)   Be on site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days and be fully licensed and ready for highway use (a
recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking
system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities, and
has no permanently attached additions); or
         b.   Permanent Placement:
            (1)   Recreational vehicles that do not meet the limitations of
temporary placement shall meet all the requirements for new construction, as
set forth in subsection A of this section.
      6.   Temporary Nonresidential Structures: Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the floodplain administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a flash flood or other type of flood warning notification.
The following information shall be submitted in writing to the floodplain
administrator for review and written approval:
         a.   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed six (6) months, renewable up to one
year;
         b.   The name, address, and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
         c.   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., immediately upon flood warning notification);
         d.   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the
entity responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
         e.   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
      7.   Accessory Structures: When accessory structures (sheds, detached
garages, etc.) are to be placed within a special flood hazard area, elevation
or floodproofing certifications are required for all accessory structures in
accordance with subsection
13-1-4C3 of this chapter, and the following criteria shall be met:
         a.   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking, or restroom areas);
         b.   Accessory structures shall not be temperature controlled;
         c.   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
         d.   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         e.   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
the provisions of subsection A1 of this section;
         f.   All service facilities, such as electrical, shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of subsection A4 of this section; and
         g.   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below flood protection elevation;
         h.   An accessory structure with a footprint less than two hundred
(200) square feet and is a minimal investment of two thousand five hundred
dollars ($2,500.00) or less and satisfies the criteria outlined in subsections
B7a through B7g of this section is not required to meet the elevation or
floodproofing standards of subsection B2 of this section.
      8.   Tanks: When gas and liquid storage tanks are to be placed within a
special flood hazard area, the following criteria shall be met:
         a.   Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic
and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the base flood, including the
effects of buoyancy (assuming the tank is empty);
         b.   Elevated aboveground tanks, in flood hazard areas shall be
attached to and elevated to or above the design flood elevation on a supporting
structure that is designed to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement
during conditions of the base flood. Tank supporting structures shall meet the
foundation requirements of the applicable flood hazard area;
         c.   Not elevated aboveground tanks, that do not meet the elevation
requirements of subsection B2 of this section shall be permitted in flood
hazard areas provided the tanks are anchored or otherwise designed and
constructed to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood,
including the effects of buoyancy assuming the tank is empty and the effects of
floodborne debris.
         d.   Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and vents shall be:
            (1)   At or above the flood protection elevation or fitted with
covers designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of the contents
of the tanks during conditions of the base flood; and
            (2)   Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during
conditions of the base flood.
      9.   Construction Of Below Grade Crawl Space:
         a.   The interior grade of a crawl space must not be below the BFE and
must not be more than two feet (2') below the exterior lowest adjacent grade
(LAG).
         b.   The height of the below grade crawl space, measured from the
interior grade of the crawl space to the top of the crawl space foundation
wall, must not exceed four feet (4') at any point.
         c.   There must be an adequate drainage system that removes
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawl space. The enclosed area should
be drained within a reasonable time after a flood event.
         d.   The velocity of floodwaters at the site should not exceed five
feet (5') per second for any crawl space.
      10.   Other Development:
         a.   Retaining walls, bulkheads, sidewalks, and driveways that involve
the placement of fill in the SFHA require a floodplain development permit.
         b.   Roads and watercourse crossings, including roads, bridges,
culverts, low water crossings, and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to
travel from one side of a watercourse to the other side, which encroach into
the SFHA require a floodplain development permit.
         c.   Drilling water, oil, and/or gas wells including fuel storage
tanks, apparatus, and any equipment at the site that encroach into the SFHA
require a floodplain development permit.
         d.   Docks, piers, boat ramps, marinas, moorings, decks, docking
facilities, port facilities, shipbuilding, and ship repair facilities that
encroach into the SFHA require a floodplain development permit.
   C.   Standards For Floodplains Without Established Base Flood Elevations:
Within the special flood hazard areas designated as zone A (also known as
unnumbered A zones) and established in subsection
13-1-3B of this chapter, where no base flood elevation (BFE) data has been
provided by FEMA, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of
subsection A of this section, shall apply:
      1.   The BFE used in determining the flood protection elevation (FPE)
shall be determined based on the following criteria:
         a.   The city of Hayden adopts the base flood elevation for zone A of
2,246.8 feet per LOMCs 12-10-1356A, 11-10-0256A, and 12-10-1331A. When base
flood elevation (BFE) data is available from other sources, all new
construction and substantial improvements within such areas shall also comply
with all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be elevated or
floodproofed in accordance with standards in subsections A and B of this
section.
         b.   All subdivision, manufactured home park, and other development
proposals shall provide base flood elevation (BFE) data if development is
greater than five (5) acres or has more than fifty (50) lots/manufactured home
sites. Such base flood elevation (BFE) data shall be adopted by reference in
accordance with subsection
13-1-3B of this chapter and utilized in implementing this chapter.
      2.   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a
federal, state, or other source as outlined above, the lowest floor shall be
elevated or floodproofed (nonresidential) to two feet (2.0') above the "highest
adjacent grade (HAG)" at the building site or to the "flood protection
elevation (FPE)" whichever is higher, as defined in section
13-1-2 of this chapter. All other applicable provisions of subsection B of this
section shall also apply. The city of Hayden adopts the base flood elevation
for zone A of 2,246.8 feet per LOMCs 12-10-1356A, 11-10-0256A, and 12-10-1331A.
(Ord. 564, 10-25-2016)
13-1-6: LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Effect On Rights And Liabilities Under The Existing Flood Damage
Prevention Ordinance: This chapter, in part, comes forward by reenactment of
some of the provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance enacted April
27, 2010, as amended, and it is not the intention to repeal but rather to
reenact and continue to enforce without interruption of such existing
provisions, so that all rights and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are
reserved and may be enforced. The enactment of this chapter shall not affect
any action, suit, or proceeding instituted or pending. All provisions of the
flood damage prevention ordinance of city of Hayden enacted on April 27, 2010,
as amended, which are not reenacted herein, are repealed.
   B.   Effect Upon Outstanding Floodplain Development Permits: Nothing
contained herein shall require any change in the plans, construction, size, or
designated use of any development or any part thereof for which a floodplain
development permit has been granted by the floodplain administrator or his or
her authorized agents before the time of passage hereof. Provided, however,
that when construction is not begun under such outstanding permit within a
period of one hundred eighty (180) days subsequent to the date of issuance of
the outstanding permit, construction, or use shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 564, 10-25-2016)
