CITY CODE
of
HORSESHOE BEND, IDAHO
2008
Code current through:
Ord. 267, passed 1-12-2022
Published by:
STERLING CODIFIERS
an
American Legal Publishing Company
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Horseshoe Bend, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 267, passed January 12, 2022.
Ordinances of the City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of
this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the City office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision
of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
Sterling Codifiers
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
HORSESHOE BEND CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the city council, this code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official city code of Horseshoe Bend. This code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the HORSESHOE BEND CITY CODE and is
hereby published by authority of the city council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (2008 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2008 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the city code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in its
proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of the city
code. (2008 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code books,
while in actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be
and remain the property of the city and shall be returned to the office of the
city clerk when directed so to do by order of the city council. (2008 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city; all special ordinances. (2008 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the city code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2008 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2008 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof or any portion adopted by reference therein is
for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof or
any portion adopted by reference therein. The city council hereby declares that
it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph,
sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or
phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2008 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this code by words importing the singular number only,
or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the opposite
gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided, that
these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this code
which contains any express provision excluding such construction or where the
subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city has been
changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2008 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CITY: The city of Horseshoe Bend, county of Boise, state of Idaho.
CLERK: The city clerk of the city of Horseshoe Bend.
CODE: The city code of the city of Horseshoe Bend.
COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the council of the city of Horseshoe Bend.
COUNTY: The county of Boise, state of Idaho.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Horseshoe Bend".
FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal year of the city shall commence on October 1 of each
year 1 .
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
INFRACTION: A civil public offense, not constituting a crime, punishable by a
penalty not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) and for which no
incarceration may be imposed 2 .
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MAYOR: The chief administrative official of the city, who shall: a) preside
over the meetings of the city council and determine the order of business
subject to such rules as the council may prescribe, b) have a vote only when
the council is equally divided, c) have the superintending control of all the
officers and affairs of the city, d) preserve order, and e) take care that the
ordinances of the city and provisions of this code are complied with and
enforced.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense not defined as a felony or infraction under state law
3 .
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the city, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Horseshoe Bend".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of Idaho.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER, WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, these
terms shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles
or things to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (2008 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-1001.
2 2. IC §§ 18-111, 18-113A.
3 3. IC §§ 18-111, 18-113; see section
  1-4-1 of this title.
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2008
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY; ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor 1 :
      1.   Definition: When an act or omission is declared by ordinance to be a
public offense, or to be unlawful, said act or omission is hereby declared to
be an infraction, and the act or omission is punishable as an infraction,
unless said act or omission is otherwise specified by any provision of this
code.
      2.   Penalty: Every person who shall be convicted of a misdemeanor shall,
unless a different punishment be prescribed by the ordinance, be punished by
paying a fine not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00), plus court costs,
and no jail may be imposed.
   B.   Infraction 2 : When the offense is designated as an infraction by any
section or provision of this code or by state law, it is punishable only by the
penalties set forth below or as provided elsewhere in this Code and no jail may
be imposed.
      1.   For a first offense infraction violation of any provision of this
Code, a fixed penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00), plus any such costs as
the court may assess.
      2.   For second and subsequent infraction violations of this Code, a
fixed penalty of three hundred dollars ($200.00), plus any such costs as the
court may assess.
   C.   Federally Mandated Programs: When this city is participating in a
federally mandated program, wherein penalties or enforcement remedies are
required by the terms of participation in the program, the city may enforce
such requirements by ordinance, to include a criminal or civil monetary penalty
not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or imprisonment for criminal
offenses not to exceed six (6) months, or to include both a fine and
imprisonment for criminal offenses. (Ord. 48, 11-10-1973; amd. 2008 Code; Ord.
244, 12-20-2012; Ord. 265, 6-23-2021)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §§ 18-111B, 18-113, 50-302.
2 2. IC § 18-113A.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty Provisions:
      1.   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this
code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed or where any action
which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor unless otherwise provided. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains
unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in
this code.
      2.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall
be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of
this chapter shall apply.
   B.   One Recovery For Same Offense: In all cases where the same offense is
made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this code,
the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced. (2008 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (2008
Code)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Elected Officials
1-5-2: Duties Of Mayor And Council Members
1-5-3: City Council Meetings
1-5-4: Salaries
1-5-1: ELECTED OFFICIALS:
The publicly elected officials of the city shall be a mayor and four (4)
council members. The election of each and their associated terms of office
shall be in accordance with Idaho Code 1 . (2008 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §§ 50-203, 50-401 et seq.
1-5-2: DUTIES OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS:
The duties of the mayor and council members shall be those prescribed by Idaho
Code title 50, and any other applicable parts. (2008 Code)
1-5-3: CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: Regular meetings of the council shall be held on the
second Wednesday of each month in the building known as the city hall, except
that when such regular meeting falls upon a legal holiday, the same shall be
held on the following business day.
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings of the council may be called at any
time by the mayor, or by one-half (1/2) plus one of the members of the full
council, and in each instance, the object of the call shall be submitted to the
council in writing, which call and object, as well as the disposition thereof,
shall be entered upon the journal of the clerk.
   C.   Time Of Meetings: All meetings shall begin at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
unless a different time be specified for special meetings in the call of such
special meetings. (Ord. 132, 2-15-1990; amd. 2008 Code; Ord. 233, 5-12-2010;
Ord. 267, 1-12-2022)
1-5-4: SALARIES:
The salaries of the mayor and of the members of the city council shall be as
follows:
   A.   Mayor: The mayor shall receive a monthly salary of two hundred dollars
($200.00).
   B.   City Council Members: Each member of the city council shall receive a
monthly salary of seventy five dollars ($75.00). (Ord. 191, 8-8-2001)
CHAPTER 6
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Official Bonds
1-6-2: City Clerk
1-6-3: City Treasurer
1-6-4: City Attorney
1-6-1: OFFICIAL BONDS:
In the event the several offices herein named are not covered under the city
public entity multiline insurance policy errors and omissions liability, then
the several officers herein named shall give bonds to the city in the penal
sums as follows; provided, an official's bond may be furnished at the expense
of the city in lieu of personal bonds:
 
City clerk        $50,000.00
City treasurer    50,000.00
Deputy city clerk 50,000.00
 
(2008 Code)
1-6-2: CITY CLERK:
In addition to those duties set forth in Idaho Code section 50-207 and this
code, the city clerk shall have the following duties:
   A.   Custodian Of Seal And City Records:
      1.   The city clerk shall be custodian of the city seal and affix the
same to documents as required.
      2.   The city clerk shall also be the custodian of all public records,
ordinances, resolutions and orders of the city council, and such other papers
and documents as may be delivered into his custody.
   B.   Attend City Council Meetings; Ordinance Duties:
      1.   The city clerk shall attend all sessions of the city council, keep a
correct journal and shall keep, in a separate book, a record of ordinances
passed by the city council and of the titles of such ordinances.
      2.   All ordinances not published in book form shall be carefully and
alphabetically indexed.
      3.   The city clerk shall see that each ordinance is published as
required by law, and he shall keep on file the proof of such publication.
   C.   Reports: The city clerk shall:
      1.   Monthly Report: Prepare and present to the city council at its
regular meeting each month a full and complete statement of the financial
transactions of his office during the preceding month, which said statement
shall set forth all receipts for licenses issued, money received with
applications for licenses which are to come before the city council; and all
other funds received by him as city clerk. Said report shall give a detailed
explanation of disbursements, including a statement of the aggregate of
warrants of each fund issued, of warrants redeemed during the month and of
warrants outstanding against each fund at the close of each month.
      2.   Annual Report: At the close of each fiscal year, present to the city
council an annual report covering the operations for the entire year.
      3.   Additional Reports: Make such additional reports and furnish such
other data from the records and files of his office as may be requested by the
mayor or city council.
   D.   Books, Records And Warrants:
      1.   The city clerk shall keep such books and permanent records of the
transactions and business of his office as may be necessary to accurately
disclose all transactions and business of his office.
      2.   The city clerk shall also countersign all warrants and keep a
warrant register and abstract of expenditures showing the numbers and amounts
of warrants issued and the person to whom issued, the date redeemed, the
interest paid and the several funds against which each of said warrants are
drawn.
   E.   Claims Against City: The city clerk shall file and audit all claims
against the city and shall submit the same to the city council at its next
regular meeting or when ordered by the city council so to do.
   F.   Issue Licenses: The city clerk shall issue all licenses, a duplicate of
which shall be kept on file, but no license shall be issued to any person
unless the fees and charges fixed by ordinance shall have first been paid; for
which payment, the city clerk shall issue a receipt in duplicate. The city
clerk shall endorse upon the receipt and duplicate receipt the number of the
license issued and the number of the application for license. The duplicate of
such receipt so issued shall be kept on file with the duplicate license.
   G.   Bonds: The city clerk shall keep a record of outstanding bonds of the
city, showing the number and amount of each and for what and to whom said bonds
were issued, and when any of said bonds are purchased or paid or canceled, said
records shall show the fact. In his report at the close of each fiscal year, he
shall describe in particularity the bonds issued and sold during the year and
the terms of sale and shall itemize each and every expense thereof.
   H.   Copies Of City Records, Fee: It shall be the duty of the city clerk to
furnish any city officer with a copy of any record, paper or public document on
file in his office, or in his custody, for the use of such officer in the
discharge of his official duties. He shall also furnish a copy of any such
record, paper or document to any person not an officer of the city upon the
payment, in advance, of reasonable copying charges as established from time to
time by resolution of the city council. (2008 Code)
1-6-3: CITY TREASURER:
In addition to the duties set forth in Idaho Code sections 50-208 and 50-1011
and this code, the city treasurer shall have the following duties:
   A.   Collect And Deposit Funds: It shall be the duty of the city treasurer
to:
      1.   Receive and safely keep in designated depositories, as required by
law, all monies or funds belonging to the city which may come into his hands
and to disburse the same upon an appropriation by ordinance or resolution of
the city council after audit and allowance by the city council of claims
therefor, and upon warrant of the mayor, countersigned by the city clerk, and
not otherwise. Securities belonging to the city, incapable of deposit in a
checking account, shall be kept by the city treasurer in a safety deposit box
in a financial institution designated by the city council. All bonds or
securities delivered to the city treasurer by a designated depository of city
funds as security for such funds shall be deposited with the county auditor or
other public official as may be provided by law.
      2.   Receive, and all officers or other persons shall forthwith pay to
the city treasurer, except as otherwise provided by ordinance, all monies due
the city on any account whatsoever.
   B.   Receipts For Money Received: The city treasurer shall execute and
deliver to every city officer or other person paying money or funds, other than
water rentals, into the city treasury, a receipt therefor, specifying the date
of payment, the amount thereof and upon what fund or account the same is
received. The city treasurer shall issue such receipts from blank books, which
books shall contain a duplicate of the receipt delivered to the person making
payment, and such duplicate shall be delivered to the city clerk.
   C.   Books And Accounts: The city treasurer shall keep, in a suitable book
or books, a full and accurate account of city monies and funds received by him,
showing the date of the receipt thereof, the person from who received and on
what account and to what fund the same is credited, with the date of
disbursement, the person to whom disbursed, on what account and against what
fund is debited.
   D.   Delivery Of Warrants, Vouchers: All warrants or orders paid and
redeemed and all vouchers shall be delivered to the city clerk immediately upon
payment or redemption and such redeemed warrants shall have written or stamped
on the face thereof the word "paid".
   E.   Reports To City Council:
      1.   The city treasurer shall, at the end of each and every month, and at
other times when required by the mayor or city council, render an account,
under oath, showing the condition of the city treasury at the date of such
account, including in said statement the balance of money in the city treasury
with a detailed statement of the specified amount in each designated depository
and of the amount and class of security held to guarantee each deposit. Such
account shall also contain a statement of receipts and disbursements and of all
warrants redeemed and paid by him, which said warrants, with all vouchers held
by him, shall be filed with said accounts in the city clerk's office. The mayor
or any member of the city council shall have free access to any and all books
or papers in the office of the city treasurer for the purpose of inspection and
examination.
      2.   It shall be the duty of the city treasurer to cause to be published
for at least one insertion in the official newspaper of the city, quarterly of
each and every year, a full statement of the receipts and expenditures of the
city, giving the source from which received, to what purpose applied and to
whom paid.
   F.   Books And Papers To Successor: The city treasurer shall deliver to his
successor in office all books, monies, papers and other property pertaining to
his office. (2008 Code)
1-6-4: CITY ATTORNEY:
In addition to the specific duties set forth in Idaho Code section 50-208A and
this code, it shall be the duty of the city attorney:
   A.   To prosecute and defend in all courts all actions on behalf of the city
on account of official acts.
   B.   To take or defend appeals on behalf of the city or any office
aforesaid, with the consent and approval of the council.
   C.   To advise the city council, or its committees or any city officer, on
such legal questions as may arise in relation to the business of the city.
   D.   To attend the meetings of the city council, as requested. (2008 Code)
CHAPTER 7
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Polling Times
1-7-2: Initiative And Referendum
1-7-1: POLLING TIMES:
   A.   Hours: At all general and special elections conducted within the city,
the polls shall be open at twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and remain open until
all registered electors of the precinct have voted or until eight o'clock (8:
00) P.M. of the same day, whichever comes first.
   B.   Proclamations: Upon opening the polls, the precinct judge will make the
proclamation that the polls are open; and thirty (30) minutes before closing
the polls, the precinct judge will make the proclamation in the same manner
advising of the closing of the polls. Any elector who is in line at eight
o'clock (8:00) P.M. shall be allowed to vote, notwithstanding the proclamation
that the polls are closed to vote. (Ord. 175, 8-13-1997)
1-7-2: INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM:
   A.   Creation Of Right: The people of this city shall have the right to
enact ordinances through the initiative process, and to repeal ordinances
through the referendum process, according to the procedures set forth herein.
(Ord. 94, 3-14-1979)
   B.   Number Of Petitioners Required: To enact an ordinance by initiative or
to repeal an ordinance by referendum, there shall be attached or appended to
the petition the signatures equal to twenty percent (20%) of the total number
of electors who cast votes at the last general election in the city. (Ord. 94,
3-14-1979; amd. 2008 Code)
   C.   Time For Filing Petitions: Referendum petitions with the requisite
number of signatures attached shall be filed with the city clerk not less than
sixty (60) days following the final adoption of the ordinance to be subject to
referendum. (Ord. 94, 3-14-1979)
   D.   Special Election: A special election for initiative or referendum shall
be provided as prescribed in Idaho Code section 34-106. (2008 Code)
   E.   Requirements For Signature, Verification Of Valid Petitions, Printing
Of Petition, And Time Limits: Referendum and initiative petitions shall conform
with the requirements for signature, verification of valid petitions, printing
of petitions, and time limits, except as expressly modified to meet the
purposes of initiative and referendum to be as nearly as practicable as
provided in Idaho Code sections 34-1701 through 34-1705. This section does not
apply to bond elections. (Ord. 94, 3-14-1979; amd. 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 8
PUBLIC HEARINGS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Compliance Required; Interpretations
1-8-2: Notice Of Hearing
1-8-3: Hearing Procedures
1-8-4: Testimony
1-8-5: Records
1-8-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; INTERPRETATIONS:
All public hearings conducted pursuant to Idaho Code title 67, chapter 65,
shall be held in substantial accordance with this chapter. For purposes of this
chapter, the term "governing board" shall mean the city council or, if a
planning and zoning commission is hereafter established by the city, "governing
board" shall mean the city council or the planning and zoning commission,
whichever is conducting the hearing. (2008 Code)
1-8-2: NOTICE OF HEARING:
Notice of any hearing shall be given in accordance with the notice procedures
set forth in Idaho Code section 67-6509. (2008 Code)
1-8-3: HEARING PROCEDURES:
   A.   General Rules Of Procedure: Unless altered by the governing board for a
particular hearing, as hereinafter provided, public hearings shall proceed as
follows:
      1.   Explanation of subject of hearing.
      2.   Presentation by applicant.
      3.   Testimony from audience and city staff for or against the proposal.
      4.   Questions directed to applicant and city staff by participants in
the hearing.
      5.   Closure of oral testimony.
      6.   Discussion by governing board, during which questions may be
directed by members of the governing board to applicant, city staff and other
participants.
      7.   Conclusion of hearing.
   B.   Deliberations And Decision: Deliberation and decision by the governing
board shall follow the conclusion of the hearing, or may be postponed to a
later time at the same or a subsequent meeting of the governing board.
   C.   Alteration Of Rules: Upon motion adopted by a majority of the members
of the governing board present and voting, the foregoing order of procedure may
be altered for a particular hearing. In no event shall a deviation from the
foregoing order of procedure be deemed to invalidate any decision of the
governing board. (2008 Code)
1-8-4: TESTIMONY:
   A.   Oral Testimony: The presiding officer may declare oral testimony to be
out of order and require it to cease, if such testimony fails to comply with
the following standards:
      1.   Time Limitations: The presiding officer may limit the time allotted
to presentation of oral testimony at a public hearing. Any such allocation of
time shall provide for a reasonable opportunity for proponents and opponents of
an issue to be heard.
      2.   Standards For Oral Testimony: Oral testimony made at a public
hearing shall comply with the following standards:
         a.   Testimony shall directly address the subject matter under
consideration.
         b.   Testimony shall not be unduly repetitious of testimony already
given.
         c.   Testimony shall comply with any time restrictions established by
the presiding officer.
   B.   Written Testimony: Written testimony submitted for inclusion in the
record of any public hearing shall comply with the following standards, and the
presiding officer may declare such testimony inadmissible for failure to comply
with these standards:
      1.   Written testimony must be submitted to the city clerk not later than
five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on the day on which the public hearing is scheduled or
two (2) hours before the time scheduled for the hearing, whichever is the
earlier.
      2.   Written testimony shall include the signature and address of the
submittor.
      3.   Written testimony shall address the subject matter under
consideration.
   C.   Presiding Officer To Decide Admissibility: All rulings relating to
admissibility of oral or written testimony shall be decided by the presiding
officer, unless overruled by a majority of the members of the governing board
present and voting. (2008 Code)
1-8-5: RECORDS:
   A.   A transcribable verbatim record of each hearing shall be made as
required by Idaho Code section 67-6536, which record shall be kept for a period
of not less than six (6) months after a final decision on the matter. Minutes
of the hearing shall be kept by the city clerk or other person designated by
the governing body, and shall be maintained as a permanent record by the city
clerk.
   B.   Written applications, written testimony and other written exhibits
shall be maintained for not less than three (3) years from the date of the
hearing. (2008 Code)
CHAPTER 9
CITY FINANCES; OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER
SECTION:
1-9-1: Official Depository
1-9-2: Official Newspaper
1-9-1: OFFICIAL DEPOSITORY:
Pursuant to the provisions of Idaho Code section 50-1013, Zions Bank is hereby
designated as the official depository of the city. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the council may designate other depositories by ordinance or
resolution. (Ord. 227, 4-8-2009)
1-9-2: OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER:
Pursuant to the provisions of Idaho Code section 50-213, the "Idaho World" is
hereby designated as the official newspaper of the city, and such ordinances,
notices and official documents requiring publication shall be published in said
newspaper. (2008 Code)
CHAPTER 10
PLANNING AND ZONING FEES
SECTION:
1-10-1: Filing And Review Fees
1-10-2: Amendment Of Fees
1-10-3: Included In Fees
1-10-4: Estimated Costs
1-10-5: Additional Expenses
1-10-1: FILING AND REVIEW FEES:
At the time of submission of a request for a planning and zoning ruling, a
filing fee shall be paid to the city clerk according to the following schedule:
(Ord. 185, 10-11-2000)
Development Services Fees
Development Services                Fees
                                    $375.00 under 1 acre
Annexation request                  $500.00 2-5 acres
                                    $1,000.00 more than 5 acres + $30.00 per
                                    acre
                                    $375.00 under 1 acre
Zoning change                       $600.00 more than 1 acre + $30.00 per
                                    acre
Variance                            $600.00
Lot split/lot line adjustment       $200.00
Conditional (special) use permit    $300.00 1-5 acres
                                    $800.00 over 5 acres
Appeal/Reconsideration              $300.00
Request for vacation of easement or $400.00
right of way
Zoning certificate                  $25.00
Small (short) plat subdivision      $750.00 10 lots or less, plus $10.00 per
                                    lot
Preliminary plat review             $1,000.00 plus $10.00 per lot
Final plat review                   $500.00 plus $10.00 per lot
Development agreement               All professional services cost
Floodplain review                   All professional services cost
Contracted services                 All professional services cost
Home occupation                     $75.00
 
(Ord. 219, 8-8-2007; amd. 2008 Code)
1-10-2: AMENDMENT OF FEES:
The fees contained in section
1-10-1 of this chapter may be amended by a resolution of the city council.
(Ord. 219, 8-8-2007)
1-10-3: INCLUDED IN FEES:
Stated filing fees will include one public hearing and all related advertising
and mailing costs, and one review from city planner and/or engineer. (Ord. 185,
10-11-2000)
1-10-4: ESTIMATED COSTS:
When an application for development services is submitted, the city will
calculate the estimated amount of the expenses that the applicant will owe
under this chapter. The applicant will pay this estimated amount before the
city will process the application. If, at any time, during the application
process, the unused estimated amount paid by the applicant is deemed
insufficient by the city, the applicant will pay such additional amounts as the
city determines will cover the expenses under this section. Applicants will
receive regular statements showing the expenses paid by the applicant. Failure
to pay the initial estimate or additions to the estimate as required by this
section will be grounds for the city to stop processing the application and to
stop any development work that is the subject of the application. (Ord. 219, 8-
8-2007)
1-10-5: ADDITIONAL EXPENSES:
Any additional expenses attributed to the request, including, but not limited
to, professional planning, legal engineering review, advertising or mailing
expenses shall be paid by the applicant. (Ord. 185, 10-11-2000)
CHAPTER 11
AREA OF CITY IMPACT 1
SECTION:
1-11-1: Purpose
1-11-2: Area Of City Impact Defined
1-11-3: Standards
1-11-4: Enforcement
1-11-5: Hearing Procedure Within Area Of City Impact
1-11-6: Standard Amendment And Notice
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 9, chapter 14 of this code.
1-11-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of establishing the Horseshoe Bend area of city impact is to
identify an urban fringe area in the unincorporated territory surrounding the
city within which there is potential for development or changes in land use
that must be planned for in an orderly and compatible manner in order to ensure
timely and economical provision of public services such as water supply,
sanitary sewer collection and treatment, public safety services, and other
community service facilities, and to promote land use compatibility, street
alignment, and traffic flow objectives. (Ord. 159, 4-14-1995)
1-11-2: AREA OF CITY IMPACT DEFINED:
The area of city impact shall consist of the area established by city ordinance
158. Within the area of city impact the county standards and hearing procedures
set forth herein will be imposed. (Ord. 159, 4-14-1995)
1-11-3: STANDARDS:
The following standards shall apply whenever an agency, planning and/or zoning
commission, hearing examiner, or governing body of the city or county considers
a zone change, comprehensive plan change, request for a special or conditional
use permit, planned unit development, variance request, or subdivision plat
within the area of city impact. Within the area of city impact, the following
standards shall apply:
   A.   Boise County subdivision ordinance;
   B.   Boise County zoning ordinance; and
   C.   All other standards of applicable Boise County codes and ordinances.
(Ord. 159, 4-14-1995)
1-11-4: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   County Responsibility: Boise County shall be responsible for the
administration and enforcement of the ordinances listed in subsections
1-11-3A through
1-11-3C of this chapter within the area of city impact, and shall impose permit
fees for inspections performed to recapture direct costs of inspections,
administration, legal publications, and any development fees or other costs
arising from fulfilling the terms of each ordinance or regulation.
   B.   Certificate Of City: A certificate shall appear on the face of a final
plat for execution by the mayor or city council attesting to the city council's
review of the plat. (Ord. 159, 4-14-1995)
1-11-5: HEARING PROCEDURE WITHIN AREA OF CITY IMPACT:
   A.   Applications: All applications (e.g., zone changes, comprehensive plan
amendments, variances, conditional uses, etc.) within the area of city impact
shall be filed by the applicant with Boise County. All approvals and public
hearings in the area of city impact shall be held as required by Idaho Code
section 67-6501 et seq.
   B.   Intent: It is the intent of this section to maintain the status quo for
the processing of subdivisions in process at the time of the adoption hereof.
It is the intent of this section that the processing of subsequent subdivision
applications be administered by the county, but with the inclusion of city
input.
   C.   Applicant's Responsibility: Within the area of city impact, to obtain
city input upon an application to the county or the county's planning
commission for a subdivision, subdivision plat, zone change, comprehensive plan
change, request for a special or conditional use permit, planned unit
development, variance request, or similar land use request, the applicant shall
provide written notice to the city clerk of any public hearing related to the
application. The applicant shall also provide a copy of all materials submitted
to the county. The city shall have thirty (30) days after receipt of the notice
and materials, but prior to any public hearing, to comment on such application.
(Ord. 159, 4-14-1995)
1-11-6: STANDARD AMENDMENT AND NOTICE:
Prior to amendment by the county of any of Boise County's ordinances set forth
in section
1-11-3 of this chapter, which are applicable in the area of city impact, the
county shall forward the proposed change to the city for review and comment at
least thirty (30) days prior to the first public hearing at which such
amendment will be considered. No amendment shall be effective in the area of
city impact unless the provisions of Idaho Code section 67-6526 are satisfied.
(Ord. 159, 4-14-1995)
TITLE 2
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS LICENSES
SECTION:
2-1-1: Purpose
2-1-2: Application Of Chapter
2-1-3: Registration Required
2-1-4: Payment Of Fees; License Issuance
2-1-5: Contents And Authority Of Application And License
2-1-6: Term Of License
2-1-7: More Than One Business At One Location
2-1-8: Violation And Penalties
2-1-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to maintain an accurate listing of the trades,
businesses, and professions located in the city in order to:
   A.   Further the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Horseshoe
Bend so that the city, especially law enforcement, emergency medical
responders, and firefighters, have knowledge of the materials and activities
present within such businesses in the event of emergencies; and
   B.   Allow the city and other interested parties to better communicate with
the Horseshoe Bend business community and comprehend the business categories
that may be over or under served in the area. (Ord. 231, 12-9-2009)
2-1-2: APPLICATION OF CHAPTER:
This chapter applies to all trades, businesses and entities, or activities,
which hold themselves out to the public as businesses, trades or professions
regardless of size including such trades, businesses or professions
constituting home occupations. This chapter does not apply to "solicitors",
"peddlers" and "hawkers" as defined in section
2-4-1 of this title and to special events, temporary merchants or temporary
vendors. (Ord. 231, 12-9-2009)
2-1-3: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in, prosecute or carry on any trade, business or
profession within the limits of the city until such person or entity has
registered with the city and obtained a business license as described in this
chapter. (Ord. 231, 12-9-2009)
2-1-4: PAYMENT OF FEES; LICENSE ISSUANCE:
Every trade, business, or profession shall pay, in advance to the city clerk,
the required fees as adopted by resolution of the city council. With the
receipt of such fee, the city clerk shall issue a license to the parties
applying therefor. (Ord. 231, 12-9-2009)
2-1-5: CONTENTS AND AUTHORITY OF APPLICATION AND LICENSE:
The application for a business license shall be on a form approved by the city
clerk. Every license issued pursuant to this chapter shall contain and set
forth the name, location, and type of each trade, business or profession for
which such license is granted. Said license shall authorize the continuance of
the business named therein for the term of such license, unless the place
registered shall be closed. In such cases, the city clerk shall be notified of
the change and shall note the same in the register of licenses. (Ord. 231, 12-
9-2009)
2-1-6: TERM OF LICENSE:
All licenses shall expire the last day of each year, and shall be dated from
the first day issued until the last day of the current year. Each such general
business license may be renewed before the end of each calendar year by notice
to the city clerk in writing, and payment of the license fee. (Ord. 231, 12-9-
2009)
2-1-7: MORE THAN ONE BUSINESS AT ONE LOCATION:
In every case where more than one business, trade or profession shall be
pursued or carried on in the same place by the same person at the same time,
license must be taken out for each business accordingly. (Ord. 231, 12-9-2009)
2-1-8: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
If any person, persons, or entities exercise or carry on any trade, business or
profession without first receiving a license from the city as required by this
chapter, or violate any of the provisions of this chapter, he, she, or they
shall be guilty of an infraction punishable by collection of a fine of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) provided that if rule 9 of the Idaho infraction rules
establishes a fixed penalty for this offense, the punishment shall be the
amount fixed by said rule; provided further, however, that such person's or
persons' failure to pay such a fine within thirty (30) days of notice of such
infraction shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code, as such section shall be amended from time to time. (Ord.
231, 12-9-2009; amd. Ord. 244, 12-20-2012)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR, BEER AND WINE
SECTION:
2-2-1: Alcohol Beverage Catering Permit
2-2-1: ALCOHOL BEVERAGE CATERING PERMIT:
   A.   An alcohol beverage catering permit is a permit issued pursuant to this
section which authorizes the permit holder to dispense, serve or sell liquor,
beer or wine by the drink at a party or convention, but said license shall not
exceed three (3) consecutive days upon obtaining an alcohol beverage catering
permit. An alcohol beverage catering permit shall be limited to authorization
to sell or dispense liquor or beer or wine, or any combination thereof, based
upon the type of license which the applicant possesses. In addition,
alternating permits shall not be issued to operate what would be a multiple day
per week bar without a license; secondly, a permit shall not be issued/obtained
to/by a person, or for the benefit of another person, attempting to circumvent
established alcohol licensing procedures, i.e., operating two (2) separate
establishments under one license or for the benefit of a person whose alcohol
license has been revoked or canceled. No more than four (4) catering permits
will be issued to the same liquor or beer or wine license holder within one
month. If the location used with the catering permit is indoors it shall meet
all applicable building and fire codes including, but not limited to, occupancy
ratings and required exits. An application for a permit must be submitted at
least fourteen (14) days prior to the event for review. The city clerk will
provide a response to the permit applicant within seven (7) days after
receiving the application. Applications for such permit shall be made to the
city clerk upon a form which shall contain, but not be limited to, the
following information:
      1.   The name, address and contact information of the applicant and the
number of the applicant's state liquor, beer or wine license and the
applicant's county and city liquor, beer, or wine license number. An alcohol
beverage catering permit shall be limited to authorization to sell liquor or
beer or wine, or any combination thereof, based upon the type of license which
the applicant possesses.
      2.   The dates and hours during which the permit is to be effective, not
to exceed three (3) consecutive days.
      3.   The names and contact information of the organizations, groups, or
persons sponsoring the event.
      4.   The address at which the liquor, beer or wine is to be served.
      5.   Names of the persons serving the liquor or beer or wine.
      6.   Type of event (dance, social gathering, beer garden, etc.).
      7.   Estimated number of people attending event.
      8.   Security plan.
      9.   Restrooms and other special needs plan.
   B.   The application shall be verified by the applicant and filed with the
city clerk. A filing fee in the amount of twenty dollars ($20.00) for each day
the permit is to be effective shall be paid to the city clerk, which shall not
be refunded. This fee may be amended by resolution of the city council.
   C.   Upon the filing of an application, the city clerk shall, upon the
advice and recommendation of the Boise County sheriff's department, approve or
disapprove the application and indicate the determination on the face of the
application by endorsement signed by the clerk of the city. Copies of the
application's signed endorsements thereon shall be mailed or delivered
immediately to the Boise County sheriff's department, and the applicant and a
signed copy retained by the clerk.
   D.   In the event the clerk shall deny an application, the clerk must
specify the following in writing:
      1.   The statute, ordinance and/or standards used to evaluate.
      2.   The reasons for the denial.
      3.   The actions, if any, the applicant could take to obtain the license,
transfer or renewal.
   E.   Decisions of the city clerk may be appealed to the city council. The
appeal must be filed in writing and state the reasons the license should not be
refused. The appeal must be filed within fifteen (15) days of the date of
mailing which shall be made by return receipt requested and/or by registered
mail and/or by delivery of the decision of the city clerk to the applicant.
   F.   If the permit applicant is found to have given incorrect information on
the permit application or if the permit applicant violates any federal, state
or city law during the permit activities, the sheriff of Boise County or his
designee may revoke the catering permit at any time. The applicant may file an
appeal with the city council in writing and state the reasons the license
should not have been revoked.
   G.   The city council shall, within thirty (30) days after the filing of an
appeal, excluding legal holidays and weekends, make a decision of the appeal.
In the event the city council should deny any application or support any
revoking of the permit, the city council shall specify in writing those matters
set forth in subsection D of this section. (Ord. 239, 11-16-2011)
ARTICLE A. LIQUOR BY THE DRINK
SECTION:
2-2A-1: Authority
2-2A-2: Definitions
2-2A-3: License Required
2-2A-4: Qualifications For License
2-2A-5: Application
2-2A-6: Term
2-2A-7: Transferability
2-2A-8: License Fees
2-2A-9: Penalty
2-2A-1: AUTHORITY:
By reason of the authority given to the city council by law, and especially
pursuant to the provisions of Idaho Code title 23, chapter 9, the city council
does hereby authorize the sale of liquor by the drink at retail within the
corporate limits of the city. (Ord. 117, 12-14-1983)
2-2A-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
LIQUOR: All kinds of liquor sold by and in a state liquor store of the state of
Idaho.
PERSON: Every individual, partnership, corporation, organization, or
association holding a retail liquor license, whether conducting business
singularly or collectively.
PREMISES: The building in which the sale of liquor by the drink at retail is
authorized under the provisions of this article. (Ord. 117, 12-14-1983)
2-2A-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall sell liquor by the drink at retail within the city limits of
the city, unless and until such person shall have first purchased a municipal
license therefor. (Ord. 117, 12-14-1983)
2-2A-4: QUALIFICATIONS FOR LICENSE:
No license shall be issued to any person not qualified to be licensed under the
provisions of Idaho Code title 23, chapter 9. (Ord. 117, 12-14-1983)
2-2A-5: APPLICATION:
The application for license shall be made upon the form provided by the city.
(Ord. 117, 12-14-1983)
2-2A-6: TERM:
Each license shall commence on January 1. Each license shall expire at twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight on December 31 on the year for which the license is
issued. (Ord. 117, 12-14-1983)
2-2A-7: TRANSFERABILITY:
Any license issued under this article shall be transferable. (Ord. 148, 3-16-
1994)
2-2A-8: LICENSE FEES:
The license fee for the sale of liquor by the drink at retail shall be two
hundred twenty five dollars ($225.00) per annum for each and every year. (Ord.
117, 12-14-1983)
2-2A-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this article shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 117, 12-14-1983; amd. 2008 Code)
ARTICLE B. BEER
SECTION:
2-2B-1: Definitions
2-2B-2: License Required; Qualifications
2-2B-3: Term; Fees
2-2B-4: Grant/Denial Of License; Record Of Hearing
2-2B-5: Transfer Of License
2-2B-6: Hours Of Sale
2-2B-7: Penalty
2-2B-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BEER: Any beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
decoction of barley, malt, and/or other ingredients in drinkable water.
PERSON: Includes any individual, firm, copartnership, association, corporation,
or any group or combination acting as a unit, and the plural as well as the
singular number unless the intent to give a more limited meaning is disclosed
by the context of this article.
PREMISES: The building and contiguous property owned, or leased or used under
government permit by a licensee as part of the business establishment in the
business of sale of beer at retail, which property is improved to include
decks, docks, boardwalks, lawns, gardens, golf courses, ski resorts,
courtyards, patios, poolside areas or similar improved appurtenances in which
the sale of beer at retail is authorized under the provisions of law.
RETAILER: Any person engaged in the sale of beer, or the distribution thereof,
to the consumer. (Ord. 129, 10-9-1988; amd. 2008 Code)
2-2B-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   License Required: Before any retailer shall sell beer within the
corporate limits, he shall make application, in writing, to the city clerk and
pay the license fee hereafter described, giving the name and address of
applicant, the address of the room or building in which the sale of beer shall
be conducted.
   B.   Qualifications: No license shall be issued to any person unless the
applicant is a citizen of the United States, has been a bona fide resident of
the state of Idaho for a period of one year prior to the date of making
application, is over the age of twenty one (21) years, and has never been
convicted for the violation of any law regulating, governing, or prohibiting
the sale of alcoholic beverages or intoxicating liquors; nor shall such license
be issued to an applicant whose license or the license of any partners has been
revoked within two (2) years preceding the application. (Ord. 129, 10-9-1988)
2-2B-3: TERM; FEES:
   A.   Term: For the purposes of this article, the year shall commence January
1. Each license issued shall expire at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight of the
December 31 following its issuance.
   B.   Fees: Retailer's license fees for the sale of beer within the city
shall be as follows:
      1.   On Premises Consumption: Where such retailer sells draft beer and
bottled or canned beer, or draft beer only, or bottled beer only, and which
beer is consumed on the premises, the annual license fee exacted is and shall
be one hundred dollars ($100.00).
      2.   Off Premises Consumption: Where such retailer sells bottled or
canned beer, none of which is consumed on the premises, the annual license fee
exacted is and shall be fifty dollars ($50.00).
   C.   Additional Licenses: Sale license fee shall be for one year or any
portion of a year, which said license fee shall be in addition to any and all
other license fees required by any other provision of this article or any other
ordinance of the city, or any license required under the laws of the state of
Idaho. (Ord. 129, 10-9-1988)
2-2B-4: GRANT/DENIAL OF LICENSE; RECORD OF HEARING:
   A.   Time Limitation On Action: The city council shall grant or deny the
application within thirty (30) days of the time it is filed with the city
clerk.
   B.   Hearing Required: Prior to any revocation or suspension, the license
shall be afforded a hearing according to Idaho Code section 23-1016.
   C.   Grounds For Denial: Whenever the mayor and city council denies an
application, they shall specify, in writing:
      1.   The statutes, ordinances, and standards used in evaluating the
application;
      2.   The reason for the denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain the
license, transfer, or renewal thereof.
   D.   Record Of Proceedings: If the applicant for a license, transfer, or
renewal is denied, a transcribable, verbatim record of the proceeding shall be
made and kept for a period of not less than six (6) months after a final
decision on the matter. Upon written request and within the time period
provided for retention of the record, any person may have the record
transcribed at his expense. The city council shall also provide for the keeping
of the minutes of the proceedings. Minutes shall be retained indefinitely or as
otherwise provided by law. (Ord. 129, 10-9-1988)
2-2B-5: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
All persons applying for a transfer of a license, as transferees, shall meet
all standards and requirements as provided by this article and the laws of the
state of Idaho including, but not limited to, the payment of the full license
fee. (Ord. 129, 10-9-1988)
2-2B-6: HOURS OF SALE:
No beer shall be sold or disbursed between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. (Ord. 129, 10-9-1988; amd. 2008 Code)
2-2B-7: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. Upon the second conviction for any violation of the terms
of this article, the license of such person shall be revoked and automatically
canceled. (Ord. 129, 10-9-1988; amd. 2008 Code)
ARTICLE C. WINE
SECTION:
2-2C-1: Definitions
2-2C-2: License Required
2-2C-3: Application
2-2C-4: Qualifications
2-2C-5: Term; License Fees
2-2C-6: Issuance
2-2C-7: License Restrictions
2-2C-8: Consumption On Premises
2-2C-9: Possession
2-2C-10: Minors
2-2C-11: Revocation
2-2C-12: Penalty
2-2C-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms, as used in this article, are hereby defined as follows:
DESSERT WINE: Only those beverages that are designated or labeled, pursuant to
the federal alcohol administration act, as "sherry", "madeira" or "port", which
contain more than sixteen percent (16%) alcohol by volume, but do not exceed
twenty one percent (21%) alcohol by volume.
DIRECTOR: The director of the Idaho state police.
PERSON: Includes an individual, firm, copartnership, association, corporation,
or any group or combination acting as a unit, and includes the plural as well
as the singular unless the intent to give a more limited meaning is disclosed
by the context in which it is used.
RETAIL WINE LICENSE: A license issued by the director, authorizing a person to
sell table wine and/or dessert wine at retail for consumption off the licensed
premises.
RETAILER: A person to whom a retail wine license has been issued.
TABLE WINE: Any alcoholic beverage containing not more than sixteen percent
(16%) alcohol by volume obtained by the fermentation of the natural sugar
content of fruits or other agricultural products containing sugar whether or
not other ingredients are added.
WINE: Includes table wine and dessert wine, unless the context requires
otherwise.
WINE BY THE DRINK LICENSE: A license to sell table wine or dessert wine by the
individual glass or opened bottle at retail, for consumption on the premises
only. (Ord. 107, 9-9-1981; amd. 2008 Code)
2-2C-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be lawful for any person to sell wine at retail within the corporate
limits of the city after having first procured a license therefor. (Ord. 107,
9-9-1981)
2-2C-3: APPLICATION:
Application for license shall be in writing, signed and sworn to by the
applicant upon application forms furnished by the clerk. Such application shall
be filed by the clerk and presented to the mayor and council at the next
meeting of the council for their approval, rejection, or further consideration.
(Ord. 107, 9-9-1981)
2-2C-4: QUALIFICATIONS:
The applicant for a license shall possess all of the qualifications necessary
to obtain a license from the director, as prescribed by the laws of the state,
and maintain such qualifications throughout the period for which such license
is issued. The possession of licenses regularly issued by the director and the
county in addition to a city beer license, shall be prima facie evidence of the
applicant's qualifications to receive a license hereunder. (Ord. 107, 9-9-1981;
amd. 2008 Code)
2-2C-5: TERM; LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Term: For the purpose of this article, the year shall commence January
1. Each license issued shall expire at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on
December 31 following its issuance.
   B.   Fees: Retailer's license fee for the sale of wine within the city shall
be as follows:
      1.   On Premises Consumption: Where such retailer sells bottled wine or
wine by the glass or drink, and which wine is consumed on the premises where
sold, the license fee exacted is and shall be fifty dollars ($50.00).
      2.   Off Premises Consumption: Where such retailer sells bottled wine
only, none of which is consumed on the premises, the annual license fee exacted
is and shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00).
   C.   Additional Licenses: Said license fee shall be for one year or any
portion or part of a year, which said license fee shall be in addition to any
and all other license fees required by any other provision of this article or
any other ordinance of the city. (Ord. 107, 9-9-1981)
2-2C-6: ISSUANCE:
Upon filing the application for a license and production of evidence as
required by section
2-2C-4 of this article as to the qualifications of the applicant and by the
payment of the required license fee, the clerk shall, upon approval of the
council, issue to the applicant a license to sell wine at retail within the
municipality for such calendar year or the remainder thereof. (Ord. 107, 9-9-
1981)
2-2C-7: LICENSE RESTRICTIONS:
No assignment or transfer of a wine license shall be made without prior
approval of the mayor and council and all proposed assignees or transferees
shall possess the qualifications of a licensee under the provisions of this
article. Consent to such assignment or transfer shall be noted on such license
by the city clerk. (Ord. 107, 9-9-1981)
2-2C-8: CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES:
   A.   On Premises: Retailers who do not possess a valid license for the
retail sale of liquor by the drink, or wine by the glass or drink, shall not
permit consumption of wine on the licensed premises and may sell the wine only
in its original unbroken, sealed container. Wine sold for consumption on the
retailer's premises may be sold only during hours that liquor by the drink may
be sold pursuant to the laws of this state.
   B.   Off Premises: Wine sold by the retailer for consumption off the
premises of the retailer may be sold only during the hours that beer may be
sold pursuant to the laws of this state. (Ord. 110, 4-13-1983)
2-2C-9: POSSESSION:
No person may, while operating or riding in or upon a motor vehicle upon a
public highway of this state, have in his possession any wine in an open or
unsealed container of any kind. (Ord. 107, 9-9-1981)
2-2C-10: MINORS:
   A.   Purchase, Consumption Or Possession Prohibited: No person under the age
of twenty one (21) years may purchase, consume or possess wine.
   B.   Give, Sell Or Deliver: No person shall give, sell, or deliver wine to
any person under the age of twenty one (21) years.
   C.   Misrepresentation Of Age:
      1.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall, by any
means, represent to any retailer or distributor or to any agent or employee of
such retailer or distributor that he or she is twenty one (21) years or more of
age for the purpose of inducing such retailer or distributor, or his agent or
employee, to sell, serve or dispense wine to such person.
      2.   No person shall, by any means, represent to any retailer or
distributor or the agent or employee of such retailer or distributor, that any
other person is twenty one (21) years or more of age, when in fact such other
person is under the age of twenty one (21) years, for the purpose of inducing
such retailer or distributor, or the agent or employee of such retailer or
distributor, to sell, serve, or dispense wine to such other person. (Ord. 107,
9-9-1981; amd. 2008 Code)
2-2C-11: REVOCATION:
The right shall be and remain, at all times, vested in the mayor and council,
and the mayor and council may, as hereinafter provided, revoke or cancel any
license for fraud or misrepresentation in its procurement, or for a violation
of any of the provisions of this article, or for any conduct or act permitted
by him or them on the premises where such business is conducted, or in
connection therewith or adjacent thereto, tending to render such business or
such premises where the same is conducted as a public nuisance or a menace to
the health, peace, safety or general welfare of the city; provided, that
revocation or suspension of the state license by the director of the Idaho
state police shall be deemed prima facie evidence for revocation or suspension
of the license issued herein. (Ord. 107, 9-9-1981; amd. 2008 Code)
2-2C-12: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this article or fails to
comply with any of the terms and conditions of this article shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor. (Ord. 107, 9-9-1981)
CHAPTER 3
CHILDREN'S INSTITUTIONS
SECTION:
2-3-1: Compliance Required
2-3-2: Penalty
2-3-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
No "children's institution", as defined in Idaho Code section 39-1202, shall be
approved, located, constructed, maintained, or operated within the city unless
such facility fully complies with the requirements imposed by Idaho Code title
39, chapter 12, including proper registration, authorization, and compliance
with all disclosure reports and other filings. In addition, a copy of all such
registrations, authorizations, reports, and filings shall be provided to the
city clerk within thirty (30) days of filing the same with the state of Idaho.
(Ord. 177, 1-14-1998)
2-3-2: PENALTY:
One convicted of violating this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day of violation may be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 177, 1-14-1998; amd. 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND HAWKERS
SECTION:
2-4-1: Definition
2-4-2: License Required
2-4-3: Written Orders Required
2-4-4: License Fees
2-4-5: Exceptions
2-4-6: Penalty
2-4-1: DEFINITION:
"Solicitors", "hawkers" or "peddlers", within the meaning of this chapter, are
defined to be persons who go from house to house, or place to place within the
corporate limits of the city, taking orders for or offering to take orders for
goods, wares and merchandise or any article for future delivery or for
immediate sale, for services to be performed in the future, or for immediately
making, manufacturing or repairing any article or thing whatsoever. (Ord. 91,
2-20-1979)
2-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, acting as hawkers or
peddlers, or any person to act as solicitor, within the meaning of this chapter
without first purchasing a license to do so from the clerk of the city. (Ord.
91, 2-20-1979)
2-4-3: WRITTEN ORDERS REQUIRED:
All orders taken by licensed solicitors, hawkers or peddlers shall be in
writing, in duplicate, stating the terms thereof, and the amount paid in
advance, and one copy shall be given to the purchasers at the time of taking
said order. (Ord. 91, 2-20-1979)
2-4-4: LICENSE FEES:
"Solicitors", "hawkers" or "peddlers" as defined by this chapter shall be
subject to the following license fee, to be payable to the city in advance: A
fee of ten dollars ($10.00) per day. (Ord. 91, 2-20-1979)
2-4-5: EXCEPTIONS:
There are excepted from the provisions of this chapter traveling salesmen doing
business as representatives of established firms or corporations and selling
wholesale to established businesses within the corporate limits of the city,
and persons soliciting for sale of newspapers, religious tracts and
agricultural or farm products, others exempt from the provisions hereof are
local civic and youth organizations. (Ord. 91, 2-20-1979)
2-4-6: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 91, 2-20-1979; amd. 2008 Code)
TITLE 3
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
REFUSE AND JUNK ON PROPERTY
SECTION:
3-1-1: Nuisance Declared
3-1-2: Definitions
3-1-3: Refuse Accumulations
3-1-4: Abatement Of Nuisance
3-1-5: Notice To Owner
3-1-6: Abatement By City
3-1-7: Remedies Not Exclusive
3-1-8: Penalty
3-1-9: Hindering Authorized Person
3-1-1: NUISANCE DECLARED:
The accumulation and storage of waste, refuse, trash, garbage, rubbish or other
debris or any such abandoned, discarded, unused or inoperable equipment, such
as old furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, bottles, cans, or other
containers, or junked vehicles on private or public property is hereby found to
create a condition tending to reduce the value of private property, to promote
blight and deterioration in community neighborhoods, to invite plundering, to
create fire hazards, to constitute an unattractive nuisance creating a hazard
to health and safety of minors, to create a harborage for rodents, animals and
insects, and to be injurious to the health, safety and general welfare of the
residents of the city; and is, therefore, declared to constitute a public
nuisance which may be abated as such in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 118, 3-14-1984)
3-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
GARBAGE: Putrescible animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
JUNK: Those worn out and discarded materials that have outlived their
usefulness, including, but not limited to, unused or inoperable equipment, such
as old furniture, tires, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, and other appliances.
JUNK VEHICLES: An abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle or part
thereof, shall be defined as an unsightly motor vehicle or a part or parts
therefrom, and which meets the following qualifications: it does not carry a
current valid state registration and license plates; it cannot be safely
operated under its own power; it is not in a garage or other building; it does
not have a reasonable amount of necessary equipment. The vehicle must meet all
of the above qualifications before it can be classified as an abandoned,
wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle.
OWNER AND OCCUPANT: These terms may be used interchangeably and shall include
every person in possession, charge or control of any residential or commercial
property within the city where refuse is generated or accumulated.
PERSON: Shall include any person, firm, partnership, association, institution,
company, corporation, or organization of any kind.
PREMISES: Land and all buildings and structures thereon.
REFUSE: All putrescible and nonputrescible solid waste including garbage,
rubbish, junk, ashes, dead animals, discarded inoperable appliances, and junk
vehicles.
RUBBISH: Nonputrescible solid waste consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible waste, such as paper, cardboard, cans, wood (except fuel wood,
which is neatly stacked), glass, bedding, cookery and similar materials. (Ord.
118, 3-14-1984; amd. Ord. 119, 10-10-1984; 2008 Code)
3-1-3: REFUSE ACCUMULATIONS:
   A.   Accumulations Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to permit
to accumulate in or about any yard, lot, place or premises, or upon any street,
alley or sidewalk adjacent to such lot, yard, place or premises owned or
occupied by such person, any refuse so as to cause the yard, lot, premises or
the street, alley or sidewalk adjacent thereto, to be or remain in such
condition as to cause or create an offensive odor or atmosphere, be offensive
as noticeably unsightly, or create insect or rodent harborage, or thereby, in
any manner, be, become, or cause to create, a public nuisance or a menace to
the health within the limits of the city.
   B.   Exception: This section shall not apply in the instance of any
vegetable or animal matter being used for the express purpose of fertilizing
and cultivating an active garden plot.
   C.   Depositing Or Burying Prohibited: No person shall deposit or bury any
refuse in or upon a public alley, street, other public area, or upon the
premises of another person.
   D.   Throwing, Sweeping Or Pushing Into Street Prohibited: No refuse of any
kind shall be thrown, swept or pushed into the street in front of any premises.
   E.   Responsibility To Dispose: The owner or occupant of the premises shall
be responsible for the disposal of all such refuse. (Ord. 118, 3-14-1984)
3-1-4: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE:
   A.   By Owner Or Occupant: The owner(s) or occupant(s) of any lot, yard, or
premises or parcel of property within the corporate limits of the city, upon
which refuse has accumulated or is present, shall jointly and severally abate
said nuisance by the prompt removal of said personalty from the property.
   B.   Exceptions: This section shall not apply to any property or premises
where junk or junked vehicles are placed into completely enclosed buildings
used for storage purposes or where such property upon which junk or junked
vehicles are placed is enclosed by a fence at least seven feet (7') in height
and of such material that such fence shall prevent persons outside the premises
from seeing the objects stored on the premises through the fence. (Ord. 119,
10-10-1984)
3-1-5: NOTICE TO OWNER:
   A.   Time Allowed For Abatement: Any person suffering, allowing, permitting,
or causing the conditions described in sections
3-1-1,
3-1-3 and
3-1-4 of this chapter, shall take such action to abate such nuisance within
fifteen (15) days of having received written notice of the condition from a
city police officer or other authorized representative of the city as
designated by the city council.
   B.   Notice Becomes Effective: Said notice shall be effective when
personally served on any owner or occupant of the premises. If neither owner
nor occupant can be located after a diligent search, said notice will be
effective when posted in a conspicuous place on the property. (Ord. 118, 3-14-
1984)
3-1-6: ABATEMENT BY CITY:
If said nuisance or accumulation of refuse is not removed or abated within the
time limit prescribed in section
3-1-5 of this chapter, the city may also, in addition to any other penalties
described in this section:
   A.   Take civil action to obtain an order mandating the abatement of such
nuisance or accumulation of refuse and ongoing maintenance of such premises
free from nuisance, and/or recover any and all costs of enforcement,
litigation, and/or prosecution including, but not limited to, attorney fees and
court costs; and/or
   B.   Enter the premises and take such action as is reasonably necessary to
abate the nuisance or remove the refuse, the costs of such shall be at the
owner's or occupant's expense. If payment for services rendered on the property
is not made to the city within fifteen (15) days of the mailing of the billing
statement requiring payment of abatement costs and fees, the city may attempt
to recover such amount through city bill collection procedures, and/or levy a
special assessment against the premises in the manner provided for in the Idaho
Code. (Ord. 118, 3-14-1984; amd. Ord. 246, 11-21-2013)
3-1-7: REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The abatement remedies listed in section
3-1-6 of this chapter shall not be deemed as an exhaustive means of abating a
nuisance, but shall be construed as providing rights in addition to any other
rights of abatement provided by statute or common law. (Ord. 118, 3-14-1984)
3-1-8: PENALTY:
Any person failing to comply with this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. A separate offense shall be deemed committed for each day
that a violation of this chapter is permitted to exist. Police officers or
other authorized representative of the city shall have the authority to issue
citations to violators of this section. Issuance of notice of violation and
order to abate shall not be a mandatory prerequisite to issuance of a citation
under this section. (Ord. 118, 3-14-1984; amd. 2008 Code; Ord. 246, 11-21-2013)
3-1-9: HINDERING AUTHORIZED PERSON:
It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor to interfere with, hinder or refuse to
allow any authorized city official or employee to enter upon private or public
property to enforce the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 246, 11-21-2013)
CHAPTER 2
TREES AND PLANTS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Purpose
3-2-2: Tree Committee
3-2-3: Definitions
3-2-4: Landscaping
3-2-5: Tree Planting, Maintenance, And Removal
3-2-6: Adjacent Landowner Responsibility
3-2-7: Tree Protection
3-2-8: Private Trees
3-2-9: Permits
3-2-10: Enforcement
3-2-11: Interference With Tree Committee
3-2-12: Review By City Council
3-2-13: Penalties, Claims And Appeals
3-2-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote and protect the public health,
safety, and general welfare by providing for the regulation of the planting,
maintenance and removal of trees, shrubs, and other plants within the city.
(Ord. 198, 9-11-2002)
3-2-2: TREE COMMITTEE:
   A.   Created: There is hereby created and established a city tree committee
for the city, which shall consist of three (3) members, one of which may be a
council member, who shall be appointed by the mayor with the approval of the
city council.
   B.   Compensation: Members of the committee shall serve without
compensation. (Ord. 198, 9-11-2002)
   C.   Term Of Office: The term of the three (3) persons to be appointed by
the mayor shall be three (3) years, except that the term of two (2) of the
members of the first committee shall be only one year and the term of one
member of the first committee shall be for two (2) years. (Ord. 198, 9-11-2002;
amd. 2008 Code)
   D.   Vacancies: In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of
any member, their successor shall be appointed for the unexpired portion of the
term.
   E.   Power And Authority: This chapter provides full power and authority
over all trees, plants and shrubs located within street rights of way, parks,
public golf courses and public places of the city. The tree committee and city
arborist have the right to advise the private sector as to the applicability of
this chapter to the trees, plants and shrubs located on private property that
constitute a public nuisance as described herein.
   F.   Journal; Meetings; Quorum: The tree committee shall keep a journal of
its proceedings. The committee shall meet as necessary. A majority of the
members shall be present for the transaction of business. (Ord. 198, 9-11-2002)
3-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CITY ARBORIST, CITY FORESTER, PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR: A person designated by the
city who has the authority to manage this chapter with direction from the tree
committee.
DRIP LINE: The line that extends from the outside edges of the tree canopy to
the ground.
LANDMARK TREE: A tree designated for its unique characteristics, such as
species rarity, old age, association with a historical event or person,
abnormality, or scenic enhancement.
PRIVATE TREE: A tree located on private property, outside of city rights of
way, not a public tree.
PUBLIC NUISANCE: A tree that interferes by means of obstructing, posing a
liability and threat to safety, dead trees, diseased trees.
PUBLIC TREE: Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land lying
within the city rights of way and city property.
RIGHT OF WAY: Improved or unimproved public property owned by, dedicated to, or
deeded to, the public or for the public's use, for the purpose of providing
vehicular, pedestrian and other public use. Such public property provides
circulation and travel to abutting properties and includes, but is not limited
to, streets, alleys, sidewalks, trees, lawns, provisions for public utilities,
cut and fill slopes, and open space.
STREET TREE: All public trees located within public rights of way.
TOPPING: On public trees, the severe cutting back of limbs within a tree's
crown to such a degree that only stubs remain, or the removal of the top part
(trunk and limbs) of a coniferous tree, thereby removing a significant portion
of the normal crown.
TREE COMMITTEE: The citizen committee established and designated as the
"Horseshoe Bend tree committee", sanctioned by the Horseshoe Bend city council
to be the advisory body which may assist the city in its efforts to carry out a
tree management program and may recommend regulations and standards for the
planting, care, and maintenance of the public trees within the city.
TREE LAWN: The portion of the public right of way lying between the street and
private property lines which is generally unimproved and planted with grass or
other vegetation. (Ord. 198, 9-11-2002)
3-2-4: LANDSCAPING:
In new subdivisions or when the development of commercial property occurs, the
city arborist, forester, representative or tree committee shall review
landscaping plans and may require street trees to be planted in any of the
streets, parking lots, parks and other public places abutting lands henceforth
developed and/or subdivided. Right of way planting will be approved by the
public works director and the city arborist. (Ord. 198, 9-11-2002)
3-2-5: TREE PLANTING, MAINTENANCE, AND REMOVAL:
   A.   Tree Species: The tree committee develops and maintains a list of
desirable trees for planting along streets in three (3) species size
classifications: small (less than 10 feet), medium (10 through 20 feet) and
large (over 20 feet).
   B.   Spacing: The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the
three (3) species size classes listed in this section, and no trees may be
planted closer together than the following: small trees, thirty feet (30');
medium trees, forty feet (40'); large trees, fifty feet (50'); except for
certain trees in special plantings, designed or approved by the city arborist
or tree committee.
   C.   Utilities: No street trees, other than those listed herein as small or
medium trees not to exceed the height of utilities, may be planted under or
within ten (10) lateral feet of any overhead utility wire, or over or within
five (5) lateral feet of any public underground water line, sewer line,
transmission line or other utility.
   D.   Distance From Curb And Sidewalk: The distance trees may be planted from
curbs or curblines and sidewalks will be in accordance with the three (3)
species size classes listed in subsection A of this section, and no trees may
be planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than the following: small trees, one
foot (1'); medium trees, three feet (3'); large trees, six feet (6'). Distance
from a street corner shall be no closer than thirty five feet (35'); distance
from a fireplug shall be no closer than ten feet (10').
   E.   Stump Removal: All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed
below the surface of the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project
above the surface of the ground.
   F.   Topping: It shall be unlawful, as a normal practice, for any person,
firm, or city department to top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on
public property. "Topping" is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to
stubs within the tree's crown to such a degree so as to remove the normal
canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other
causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where other
pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from this chapter at the
determination of the city tree committee. Right of way pruning and tree removal
will be conducted by the public works department at the public works director
and city arborist's discretion with agreement between the public works and
parks departments. (Ord. 198, 9-11-2002)
3-2-6: ADJACENT LANDOWNER RESPONSIBILITY:
No person shall plant, remove, cut above the ground, or disturb any tree on any
street, park, city golf course, or other public place without first filing an
application and procuring a permit from the city forester, arborist, or city
representative. The person receiving the permit shall abide by the standards
set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 198, 9-11-2002)
3-2-7: TREE PROTECTION:
   A.   Communicable Disease Or Other Pestilence: Upon the discovery of any
communicable disease or other pestilence which endangers the growth or health
of trees, or threatens to spread disease or insect infestations, the city
arborist or tree committee shall have the right to cause written notice to be
served upon the owner of the property upon which such diseased or infested tree
is situated, and the notice shall advise such property owner to eradicate,
remove or otherwise control such condition within a reasonable time to be
specified in such notice. The following guidelines and standards shall apply to
trees proposed to be retained:
      1.   Not grading or locating utilities within the tree's drip line.
      2.   Placing protective barriers around trees.
      3.   Developers may be required to plant trees in open spaces so there is
no loss of tree cover.
   B.   Landmark Tree: The city arborist shall have, as one of their duties,
the location, selection and identification of any tree which qualifies as a
landmark tree if it meets one or more of the following criteria:
      1.   Species rarity;
      2.   Old age;
      3.   Association with a historical event or person;
      4.   Abnormality; and
      5.   Scenic enhancement. (Ord. 198, 9-11-2002)
3-2-8: PRIVATE TREES:
The city forester, arborist or their official designee has the authority to
advise private property owners, whereon there is located a tree, shrub, plant
or plant part that is suspected to be a public nuisance and to recommend its
removal if necessary, including any tree with an infectious disease or insect
problem, dead or dying trees, tree limb(s) that obstruct streetlights, traffic
signs, the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles, and a tree that poses a
threat to public safety. (Ord. 198, 9-11-2002)
3-2-9: PERMITS:
No person, except the city public works director, arborist, forester, their
agent, or a contractor hired by the city arborist or forester may perform any
of the following acts without first obtaining from the city, a permit for which
no fee shall be charged:
Work on, or removal of a public tree. (Ord. 198, 9-11-2002)
3-2-10: ENFORCEMENT:
The city forester, arborist shall have the authority to promulgate and enforce
rules, regulations and specifications concerning the trimming, spraying,
removal, planting, pruning and protection of trees, shrubs, vines, hedges and
other plants upon the right of way of any street, alley, sidewalk, or other
public place in the city. (Ord. 198, 9-11-2002)
3-2-11: INTERFERENCE WITH TREE COMMITTEE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
city tree committee, or any of its agents (public works department) while
engaging in and about the planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying,
or removing of any street trees, park trees, golf course trees, or other public
places as authorized in this chapter. (Ord. 198, 9-11-2002)
3-2-12: REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL:
The city council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and decisions
of the city tree committee. Any person may appeal from any ruling or order of
the tree committee to the city council who may hear the matter and make final
decision. (Ord. 198, 9-11-2002)
3-2-13: PENALTIES, CLAIMS AND APPEALS:
   A.   Violations 1 :
      1.   Penalty: Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or
who fails to comply with any notice issued pursuant to provisions of this
chapter, upon being found guilty of violation, shall be guilty of an infraction
and be subject to a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) provided that if rule
9 of the Idaho infraction rules establishes a fixed penalty for this offense,
the punishment shall be the amount fixed by said rule; and any penalties
allowed by the city or state. (Ord. 198, 9-11-2002; amd. Ord. 244, 12-20-2012)
      2.   Separate Offense: Each day during which any violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall occur or continue shall be a separate offense.
      3.   Second Offense: Any person found guilty of any infraction under this
section for a second time in any twelve (12) month period shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to any of the penalties allowed by the city or state.
      4.   Repair Or Replacement Costs: If, as the result of the violation of
any provision of this chapter, the injury, mutilation, or death of a tree,
shrub, or other plant located on city owned property is caused, the cost of
repair or replacement, or the appraised dollar value of such tree, shrub, or
other plant, shall be borne by the party in violation. The value of trees and
shrubs shall be determined in accordance with the latest version of a guide to
the professional evaluation of landscape trees, specimen shrubs, and
evergreens, as published by the International Society of Arboriculture.
   B.   Failure To Comply: In the event that a nuisance is not abated by the
date specified in the notice, the city arborist is authorized to cause the
abatement of said nuisance. (Ord. 198, 9-11-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-4-1 of this code for penalties for infractions and misdemeanors.
CHAPTER 3
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: Violations And Penalties For Fires
3-3-3: Extinguishment Authority
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
           Any of the following:
APPROVED   1.   An incinerator that is constructed in accordance with the International
FIRE       Building Code. Machinery that is not equipped with a effective means for
STRUCTURE: arresting sparks not qualify as an incinerator;
           2.   An incinerator that complies with National Fire Protection Association
           (NFPA) standard 211.
CITY       July 1 to October 20 of each year, unless otherwise adjusted by the Horseshoe
CLOSED     Bend City Council by resolution.
SEASON:
GROUND     All combustible materials commonly found on the ground including but not
FUEL:      limited to surface litter, leaves, pine needles, bark, duff, tree or shrub
           roots, punch wood, peat, and sawdust.
SOLID WOOD Firewood, charcoal, pellets, and untreated timber products. Rotten wood, wood
FUEL:      chips, and sawdust are not solid wood fuel. (Ord. 263, 10-21-2020)
 
3-3-2: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES FOR FIRES:
   A.   Fire Size: During the city closed season, no person shall act
intentionally or with criminal negligence to start, fuel or maintain any
outdoor fire which has a fuel area that is either more than three inches (3")
in diameter, or more that two feet (2') in height, unless the fire is entirely
contained in an approved fire structure.
   B.   Fire Distance: During the city closed season, no person shall act
intentionally or with criminal negligence to, start, fuel or maintain any
outdoor fire within fifty feet (50') (15240 mm) of a structure or combustible
material other than ground fuel, unless the fire is entirely contained in an
approved fire structure.
   C.   Attendance: During the city closed season, no person shall act
intentionally or with criminal negligence to start, fuel, or maintain any
outdoor fire that is not entirely contained in an approved fire structure
without ensuring constant attendance by a person at least eighteen (18) years
of age until the fire is fully extinguished, which means that there are no
coals or heat emitting from the remains of the leftover material or ashes.
   D.   Extinguishment Equipment: During the city closed season, no person
shall act intentionally or with criminal negligence to stat, fuel, or maintain
any outdoor fire without ensuring providing adequate means that is available
for immediate utilization in the extinguishing of a fire, unless the fire is
entirely contained in an approved fire structure. Such adequate means are a
minimum of one portable fire extinguisher complying with Idaho Fire Code
Section 906 with a minimum 4-A rating or other approved on-site fire-
extinguishing equipment, such as dirt, sand, water barrel, garden hose or water
truck.
   E.   Unsafe Fire Fuel: During the city closed season, no person shall act
intentionally or with criminal negligence to start, fuel, or maintain any
outdoor fire that is not entirely contained in an approved fire structure
burning any trash or any materials other than solid wood fuel, and reasonably
necessary amounts of typical fire starter materials that are not prohibited by
law, such as IDAPA 58.01.01.603.
   F.   Ground Fuel: During the city closed season, no person shall act
intentionally or with criminal negligence to start, fuel, or maintain any
outdoor fire, whether inside or outside of an approved fire structure, without
clearing any and all ground fuel for a minimum of ten feet (10') (3048 mm) in
all directions from the fire.
   G.   Exemption: The following fires and persons are exempt from the
requirements of this section:
      1.   Any Federal, State or local officer or member of an organized rescue
or firefighting force in the performance of an official duty;
      2.   Fires within city boundaries.
   H.   Violations: A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars
($1,000.00), or by imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding six (6)
months, or both. (Ord. 263, 10-21-2020)
3-3-3: EXTINGUISHMENT AUTHORITY:
   A.   The authority of the fire chief or officer of the fire department in
charge at the scene of a fire to direct operations and extinguish or control
any fires is as provided in the International Fire Code 2015, adopted by Idaho
Code 41-253, and any other pertinent provisions of Idaho Law.
   B.   When any particular fire creates or adds to a hazardous situation, or
an unauthorized fire exists, the sheriff and the sheriff's deputies are
authorized to extinguish or to order the extinguishment of the fire. (Ord. 263,
10-21-2020)
TITLE 4
POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
4-1-1: Department Created; Qualifications; Appointments
4-1-2: Chief Of Police; Reports Required
4-1-3: Deputy Chief Of Police
4-1-4: Supervision Of Police Officers
4-1-5: Powers And Duties Of Department Members
4-1-6: Jurisdiction
4-1-7: Police Training Aid
4-1-8: Police Personnel Policy
4-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED; QUALIFICATIONS; APPOINTMENTS:
There is hereby created a police department of the city, and members thereof
shall be citizens of the United States and shall be over the age of twenty one
(21) years. Said department shall consist of a chief of police, appointed by
the mayor with the consent of the city council, and subject to removal by the
mayor at any time, and such number of police as may be from time to time
authorized by the mayor and city council and appointed with their consent, and
such special police as may from time to time be appointed by the mayor as
exigencies arise. (2008 Code)
4-1-2: CHIEF OF POLICE; REPORTS REQUIRED:
The chief of police shall make a written report monthly, giving a true account
of the number of arrests made, persons arrested and the nature of the offense
charged, and such further reports as may be requested by the mayor or city
council. (2008 Code)
4-1-3: DEPUTY CHIEF OF POLICE:
The chief of police shall appoint one of the members of the department to be
the deputy chief of police, and in the absence of the chief of police, he shall
have the powers and duties vested in the chief of police. (2008 Code)
4-1-4: SUPERVISION OF POLICE OFFICERS:
All members of the department and special police shall be under the direction
and supervision of the chief of police. (2008 Code)
4-1-5: POWERS AND DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT MEMBERS:
   A.   Generally: It shall be the duty of all members of the department to
cause the public peace to be preserved and to see that all laws and ordinances
within the city are enforced.
   B.   Arrest Powers:
      1.   Whenever the violation of any law or ordinance shall be reported to
the police department or come to their knowledge, they shall cause the
informant, who is a competent witness, to testify against the accused and to
sign the required complaint; provided, however, that when a violation of any
law or ordinance is committed in their presence, the arrest may be made without
a complaint and such complaint may be made by the arresting officer and filed
in the proper court. It shall be the duty of members of the department,
whenever arrests for the violation of any law or ordinance have been made, to
see to it that all possible evidence is procured for prosecution of the
offenders.
      2.   The officers and members of the police department shall have power
to arrest all offenders against the laws of the state of Idaho and ordinances
of the city by day or by night, in the same manner as any sheriff or constable,
and keep them in the Boise County jail or other place to prevent their escape
until trial can be had before the proper court. (2008 Code)
4-1-6: JURISDICTION:
Whenever police shall be in the fresh pursuit of an offender against any law of
the state of Idaho or ordinance of the city, and the offense has been committed
within the corporate limits of the city, such police or police officer, while
in fresh pursuit, may go beyond the corporate or geographical limits of the
city, the arresting officer may take such offender to and keep him in the Boise
County jail or other place to prevent his escape until trial can be had before
the proper court, or may personally hand such arrested person a notice, in
writing or partly in writing and partly printed, to appear in the proper court
at a time specified in such notice, and in addition to such notice, whenever a
proper judge is not available to fix and accept bail for the appearance of such
offender in a court of competent jurisdiction, such arresting officer may
accept a temporary bail for the appearance of such offender at the time
specified in said notice, and which bail shall be by the arresting officer
delivered to the proper judge. (2008 Code)
4-1-7: POLICE TRAINING AID:
The city declares that it desires to qualify to receive aid for police training
from the Idaho police officers' standards and training council pursuant to
Idaho Code section 19-5101 et seq., and, while receiving such aid, will adhere
to the standards for recruitment and training established by that council.
(2008 Code)
4-1-8: POLICE PERSONNEL POLICY:
A police personnel policy manual, as adopted and revised from time to time by
the council, is on file in the office of the city clerk. Said police personnel
policy manual is made a part of this code as if set out in full herein. (2008
Code)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Assault
4-2-2: Battery
4-2-3: Malicious Injury To Property
4-2-4: Disturbing The Peace
4-2-5: Criminal Trespass
4-2-6: Trespass
4-2-1: ASSAULT:
   A.   Assault Defined: An assault is:
      1.   An unlawful attempt, coupled with apparent ability, to commit a
violent injury on the person of another; or
      2.   An intentional, unlawful threat by word or act to do violence to the
person of another, coupled with an apparent ability to do so, and doing some
act which creates a well founded fear in such other person that such violence
is imminent. (Ord. 149, 6-8-1994)
   B.   Penalty: Assault is a misdemeanor punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 149, 6-8-1994; amd. 2008 Code)
4-2-2: BATTERY:
   A.   Battery Defined: A battery is any:
      1.   Wilful and unlawful use of force or violence upon the person of
another; or
      2.   Actual, intentional and unlawful touching or striking of another
person against the will of the other; or
      3.   Unlawfully and intentionally causing bodily harm to an individual.
(Ord. 150, 6-8-1994)
   B.   Penalty: Battery is a misdemeanor punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 150, 6-8-1994; amd. 2008 Code)
4-2-3: MALICIOUS INJURY TO PROPERTY:
Every person who maliciously injures or destroys any real or personal property
not his own, in cases otherwise than such as are specified in the Idaho Code,
and where the damages caused by such violation do exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) in value, is guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 151, 6-8-1994)
4-2-4: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
Every person who maliciously and wilfully disturbs the peace or quiet of any
neighborhood, family or person, by loud or unusual noise, or by tumultuous or
offensive conduct, or by threatening, traducing, quarreling, challenging to
fight or fighting, or fires any gun or pistol, or uses any vulgar, profane or
indecent language within the presence or hearing of women or children, in a
loud and boisterous manner, is guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 152, 6-8-1994)
4-2-5: CRIMINAL TRESPASS:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    ENTERS, ENTRY AND ENTERING: Going upon or over real property either in
person or by causing any object, substance or force to go upon or over real
property.
   LAND ACTIVELY DEVOTED TO CULTIVATED CROPS: Land that is used to produce
field crops including, but not limited to, grains, feed crops, legumes, fruits
and vegetables.
   MOTOR VEHICLE: As set forth in Idaho Code sections 49-114 and 49-123. (Ord.
153, 6-8-1994)
   B.   Prohibited Acts:
      1.   Any person who, without consent of the owner or person in charge of
any lands which are enclosed by fences of any description sufficient to show
the boundaries of the land enclosed, shall go upon such lands and shall leave
open any gates on or about said premises, or who shall tear down or lay down
any fencing, or who shall wilfully remove, mutilate, damage or destroy "No
Trespassing" signs or markers, or who shall go through cultivated crops that
have not been harvested, or who shall damage any property thereon, or who,
without permission of the owner or the owner's agent, enters the real property
of another person where such real property is posted with "No Trespassing"
signs or other notices of like meaning spaced along such real property at
intervals of not less than one notice per six hundred sixty feet (660') along
such real property, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Where the geographical configuration of the real property
is such that entry can reasonably be made only at certain points of access,
such property is posted sufficiently for all purposes of this section if said
signs or notices are posted at such points of access. (Ord. 153, 6-8-1994; amd.
2008 Code)
      2.   No motor vehicle shall be wilfully or intentionally driven into,
upon, over or through any private land actively devoted to cultivated crops
without the consent of the owner of the land or the tenant, lessee or agent of
the owner of the land actively devoted to cultivated crops. Violation of the
provisions of this subsection shall be a misdemeanor. (Ord. 153, 6-8-1994)
4-2-6: TRESPASS:
Every person who wilfully commits any trespass, by either:
   A.   Cutting down, destroying or injuring any kind of wood or timber
belonging to another, standing or growing upon the lands of another; or
   B.   Carrying away any kind of wood or timber lying on such lands; or
   C.   Maliciously injuring or severing from the freehold of another, anything
attached thereto, or the produce thereof; or (Ord. 154, 6-8-1994)
   D.   Digging, taking, or carrying away from any lot situated within the
limits of the city, without the license of the owner or legal occupant thereof,
any earth, soil, stone; or
   E.   Digging, taking or carrying away from any land in the city, laid down
on the map or plan of the city, or otherwise recognized or established as a
street, alley, avenue, or park, without the license of the proper authorities,
any earth, soil or stone; or (Ord. 154, 6-8-1994; amd. 2008 Code)
   F.   Wilfully opening, tearing down, or otherwise destroying any fence on
the enclosed land of another, or opening any gate, bar or fence of another and
wilfully leaving it open, or using the corral or corrals of another without the
permission of the owner; or
   G.   Wilfully covering up or encumbering in any manner, the land or city lot
of another, without written permission from the owner or custodian thereof; or
   H.   Every person, except under landlord-tenant relationship, who, being
first notified, in writing or verbally, by the owner or authorized agent of the
owner of real property, to immediately depart from the same and who refuses so
to depart after being so notified; or
   I.   Entering without permission of the owner or the owner's agent, upon the
real property of another person which real property is posted with "No
Trespassing" signs, is posted with a minimum of one hundred (100) square inches
of fluorescent orange paint except that when metal fence posts are used, the
entire post must be painted fluorescent orange, or other notice of like
meaning, spaced at intervals of not less than one sign, paint area or notice
per six hundred sixty feet (660') along such real property; provided, that
where the geographical configuration of the real property is such that entry
can reasonably be made only at certain points of access, such property is
posted sufficiently for all purposes of this section if said signs, paint or
notices are posted at such points of access;
is guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 154, 6-8-1994)
CHAPTER 3
FIREARMS; POSSESSION AND USE
SECTION:
4-3-1: Right To Bear Arms
4-3-2: Use Of Firearms
4-3-1: RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS:
Heads of households to maintain firearms.
   A.   Required: In order to provide for the emergency management of the city,
and to provide for the civil defense of the city, and further, in order to
provide for and protect the safety, security and general welfare of the city
and its inhabitants, every head of household residing in the city limits is
required to maintain a firearm, together with ammunition therefor.
   B.   Exemptions:
      1.   Exempt from the effect of this section are those who suffer a
physical or mental disability, which would prohibit them from using or
obtaining such firearms. Further exempt from the effect of this section are
those who are persons under the law who are restrained from possessing a
firearm/firearms, such as a felon, or one who is under court restriction such
as a restraining order to disallow possession of firearms.
      2.   Exempt from the effect of this section are those who conscientiously
oppose maintaining firearms as a result of belief, religious doctrine, or who
are financially unable to purchase a firearm. (Ord. 186-2001, 2-14-2001)
4-3-2: USE OF FIREARMS:
No person shall fire a gun, pistol or other firearm in the city, except in the
defense of person or property (the bill of rights, article II; a well regulated
militia, being necessary to the security of a free state, the right of the
people to keep and bear arms, shall not be infringed); except peace officers or
military forces of this state or the United States, in the discharge of
official duties, and in designated area approved by the city council. (Ord.
186-2001, 2-14-2001)
CHAPTER 4
MINORS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Curfew
4-4-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Imposed:
      1.   Under Sixteen: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of
sixteen (16) years to be or to remain, and it shall be unlawful for any parent,
guardian or other person having the care and custody of any person under the
age of sixteen (16) years to permit such person to be or to remain, in or upon
any street, alley, public ground, public place or any place open to the public
or exposed to public use within the boundaries of the city between the hours of
eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
      2.   Sixteen To Eighteen: It shall be unlawful for any person having
attained the age of sixteen (16) years and prior to having attained the age of
eighteen (18) years to be or to remain, and it shall be unlawful for any
parent, guardian or other person having the care and custody of any person who
has attained the age of sixteen (16) years and prior to having attained the age
of eighteen (18) years to permit such person to be or to remain, in or upon any
street, alley, public ground, public place or any place open to the public or
exposed to public use within the boundaries of the city between the hours of
eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. Sunday through
Thursday evenings and between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and
five o'clock (5:00) A.M. on Friday and Saturday evenings.
   B.   Exceptions: The provisions of this section shall not apply to any
person who is accompanied by his parent, guardian or other adult person having
the care and custody of him, nor to any person who is in the performance of an
errand or duty directed by his parent, guardian or other adult person having
the care and custody of him, nor to any person who is actually at the time
engaged in legitimate employment for profit, nor to any person on their way
home after a school, community or family activity.
   C.   Penalty: A maximum penalty of a one hundred dollar ($100.00) fine, or
community service or both. (Ord. 138, 12-13-1990)
CHAPTER 5
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
4-5-1: Running At Large
4-5-2: Public Nuisance
4-5-3: Dogs
4-5-4: Limitation On Certain Animals
4-5-5: Hogs And Pigs
4-5-6: Vicious Animals
4-5-7: Training And Exercise Grounds
4-5-8: Enforcement
4-5-9: Violation; Penalty
4-5-1: RUNNING AT LARGE:
Any person or persons keeping, harboring, possessing, caring for, or having any
custodial duties over any animal that is found at large upon the streets,
alleys, or any other public place or upon any other premises without the
consent of the person in possession of said premises, within the city, is
responsible for such animal being at large and is in violation of this section,
unless:
   A.   Such animal is controlled by a leash not exceeding eight feet (8') in
length; or
   B.   Such animal is confined in a motor vehicle; or
   C.   When such animal is in the immediate care and control of a competent
and responsible attendant. (Ord. 196, 5-8-2002)
4-5-2: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons keeping, harboring, possession,
caring for or having any custodial duties over any animal to fail to exercise
proper care and control of such animal to prevent it from becoming a public
nuisance. Such person or persons shall be guilty of allowing such animal to
become a public nuisance when the animal:
   A.   Makes excessive, continuous, or untimely barking or other noise; or
   B.   Molests pedestrians or chases motor vehicles; or
   C.   Trespasses upon public or private property in such a manner as to
damage the property; or
   D.   Discharges feces upon public property or private property without the
consent of the owner of such property and the person keeping, harboring,
possessing, caring for or having any custodial duties over such animal fails to
promptly remove and dispose of the feces in a trash receptacle; or
   E.   Is repeatedly at large. (Ord. 196, 5-8-2002)
4-5-3: DOGS:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful and a nuisance, for any person,
association, partnership or corporation to own, keep or harbor any dog, male or
female, over eight (8) weeks old, within the corporate limits of the city,
unless a license for the owning, keeping or harboring thereof shall have been
first procured as hereinafter provided.
   B.   Application: Every person, association, partnership or corporation
owning, keeping or harboring any dog, over eight (8) weeks old, within the
corporate limits of said city, shall, on or before December 31 of each year,
make application to the city clerk for a license for the keeping of each dog to
be kept within said city. Such application shall state the following:
      1.   Name and address of the owner;
      2.   Date of application and the date of expiration of license;
      3.   Breed, sex, age and name of each dog. (Ord. 123, 10-9-1985)
   C.   License Fee:
      1.   Fee: Such applicant shall pay to the city clerk for such license,
the sum of five dollars ($5.00) for spayed and neutered dogs and ten dollars
($10.00) for all other dogs. Such fee shall/may be amended by resolution of the
city council. (Ord. 123, 10-9-1985; amd. Ord. 196, 5-8-2002)
      2.   Penalty For Late Payment: If any license fee has not been paid on or
before January 1 of each year, the clerk shall collect a penalty in addition to
said license fee, which penalty shall be two dollars ($2.00) for each
delinquency.
      3.   Dog Born Subsequent To December 31: Any dog born subsequent to
December 31 of any year shall be licensed by the payment of the appropriate
license fee within eight (8) weeks after its birth, and thereafter the penalty
shall be added as hereinbefore set forth.
      4.   Dog Brought Into City Subsequent To December 31: Any dog or dogs
brought into the city subsequent to January 1 of any year, shall be licensed by
the payment of the appropriate license fee without penalty, if the license is
purchased within thirty (30) days after the dog or dogs are brought into the
city. (Ord. 123, 10-9-1985)
   D.   Licenses Issued And Contents:
      1.   Issuance; Tag: Upon receipt of such application, the city clerk
shall issue to such applicant a license for each dog to be kept within said
city and shall be signed by the city clerk and the seal of said city impressed
thereon. Such licenses shall contain all of the information contained in such
application. With such license the city clerk shall issue to such licensee a
tag bearing a number corresponding to the number of such license stamped
thereon.
      2.   Record: It shall be the duty of the city clerk to keep a suitable
record of such applications and licenses, which record may contain such further
information, including the number of violations of this section, if any, as may
be deemed necessary. (Ord. 123, 10-9-1985; amd. 2008 Code)
      3.   Collar; Tag: Every dog shall, at all times, wear a substantial,
durable collar, to which shall be securely attached the required license tag.
      4.   Imitation License Tags: It shall be unlawful for any person to allow
any dog owned, kept or harbored by him to wear a license tag received on
account of a former licensee or to wear any imitation of the license tag issued
by the city for that year. (Ord. 196, 5-8-2002)
   E.   Kennel Licenses, Commercial And Noncommercial:
      1.   Noncommercial:
         a.   License Required: It shall be unlawful to keep, harbor or possess
upon the premises of any one household more than three (3) dogs, over eight (8)
weeks old, unless the owner or persons in charge thereof shall have obtained a
noncommercial or commercial kennel license from the said city.
         b.   Application; Consent Of Adjacent Landowners: Application for a
noncommercial kennel license shall be made to the clerk and must be accompanied
by the written consent to such noncommercial kennel by at least one hundred
percent (100%) of all persons owning or being in possession of homes within
three hundred feet (300') of the premises upon which the said noncommercial
kennel is to be maintained or kept. The application shall state the name and
address of the owner, where the noncommercial kennel is to be kept, and the
number of dogs to be harbored and kept thereat.
         c.   License Fee: Said application shall be accompanied by the deposit
of a license fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per year for four (4) dogs and
an additional five dollars ($5.00) for each dog over four (4), which deposit
shall be returned to the applicant if the license is not finally issued.
      2.   Commercial 1 :
         a.   Application; Hearing; Consent Of Adjacent Landowners: There shall
be no commercial kennel license issued without specific application and a
hearing before the mayor and council of the city, which body shall decide
whether it shall permit a commercial kennel to be licensed. Each application
shall be judged on its own merits and no specific guidelines are now
established except that no commercial kennel shall be licensed or permitted
unless one hundred percent (100%) of all persons in possession of premises
within three hundred feet (300') of the premises upon which the commercial
kennel is to be maintained and kept, shall consent to the establishment of said
commercial kennel.
         b.   License Fee; Rules And Regulations: The license fee for a
commercial kennel shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) per year, and such
commercial kennel license shall be subject to such rules and regulations as are
required of such licensee, if any. A commercial kennel shall be identified as a
kennel kept and maintained for the purpose of selling or exchanging dogs or
pups for a commercial or profit purpose.
   F.   Duty Of Owners: It shall be unlawful for any owner to fail to provide a
dog with sufficient good and wholesome food and water, proper shelter and
protection, veterinary care and, when needed to prevent suffering, to provide
humane care and treatment.
   G.   Animal Control Officer:
      1.   Appointment: The mayor shall have authority to appoint an animal
control officer of the city.
      2.   Duties: Such animal control officer, when so appointed, shall have
all of the duties of the police chief hereunder, except as herein otherwise
provided.
      3.   Compensation: The animal control officer shall receive such
compensation for his services as shall be provided by the city council.
   H.   Public Nuisances:
      1.   Vicious, Dangerous, Inimical To Health And/Or Safety; Rabies: All
dogs that are vicious, dangerous, inimical to the health and/or safety of the
people of the city, or which are afflicted with hydrophobia, commonly called
rabies, shall be deemed to be public nuisances, and if found at large within
the corporate limits of the city, may be summarily destroyed in a humane manner
by the police chief, animal control officer, or any police officer of the city.
      2.   Wrongfully Invade Premises Of Another; Howl And Bark:
         a.   Deemed Public Nuisance; Impoundment: All dogs which wrongfully
invade the premises or gardens of persons other than the owners or keepers of
such dogs or which howl and bark in the nighttime and thereby disturb the peace
and quiet of any person or persons, shall likewise be deemed to be public
nuisances and shall be impounded and shall be subject to redemption as
hereinafter provided. Upon conviction of owning or harboring such dog, the
owner or keeper thereof shall be punished as provided in subsection M of this
section.
         b.   Duty To Notify City Officials; Complaint: Whenever any dog shall
have wrongfully invaded such premises or gardens, or which howls or barks in
the nighttime and disturbs the peace and quiet of the person or persons
mentioned in subsection H2a of this section, it shall be the duty of such
person or persons to immediately notify the police chief, animal control
officer or any police officer of the city, and such officer shall thereupon
endeavor to take up and impound such dog, if such dog can be taken up. If at
such time such dog cannot be found, taken up and impounded, it shall be the
duty of such person to sign a complaint, to be filed in the court, upon which a
warrant may be issued, charging the owner or keeper of such dog. In such
complaint, the complainant shall set forth the description of such dog and
shall be able and willing to identify such offending dog. If such offending dog
is now wearing a collar with a current tag attached thereto and cannot be taken
up or impounded, and continues to run at large, it may be summarily destroyed
by such officer.
      3.   Unlicensed Dogs:
         a.   Prohibited: It is hereby declared and confirmed that the intent
and purpose of passing this section is to declare and does hereby declare an
unlicensed dog over eight (8) weeks old, previously found or to be found in the
city, a nuisance, a trespasser, and its unlicensed presence anywhere in the
city was and is illegal and prohibited.
         b.   Declared Public Nuisance:
            (1)   Impoundment: All dogs not licensed and collared as herein
provided are hereby declared to be public nuisances and it is the duty of the
animal control officer or other suitable person by him appointed, to take up
and impound any dog not licensed and collared as in this section provided.
(Ord. 123, 10-9-1985)
            (2)   Retention In Pound; Redemption; Fees: Every dog so seized
shall be retained in the pound for a period of forty eight (48) hours. The
owner or keeper of such dog may redeem the same by procuring a license as in
this section provided, and paying, in addition thereto, fees as required by
subsection I of this section. (Ord. 123, 10-9-1985; amd. 2008 Code)
         c.   Violation; Penalty:
            (1)   All persons, associations, partnerships or corporations whose
dog or dogs have been impounded pursuant to subsection H2b of this section
shall be in violation of this section for having failed to maintain control of
said dog or dogs as herein required and, upon conviction of said violation,
shall be fined as provided for in subsection M1 of this section.
            (2)   All persons, associations, partnerships or corporations whose
dog or dogs have been licensed but have allowed said dog or dogs to run at
large or become a public nuisance as provided for in this section shall be in
violation of this section and, upon conviction, shall be fined or incarcerated
or both as provided for in subsection M1 of this section.
            (3)   All persons, associations, partnerships or corporations who
allow any dog or dogs either owned, controlled or harbored by said persons,
associations, partnerships or corporations to roam at large or become a public
nuisance as provided for in this section whether said dog is impounded or not
shall be in violation of this section and, upon conviction, shall be fined or
incarcerated as provided for in subsection M1 of this section.
            (4)   Notwithstanding the impound provision of this section, it
shall be a violation of this section for any person, association, partnership
or corporation to violate any provisions of this section and, upon conviction
for failure to comply, shall be fined or incarcerated as provided for in
subsection M1 of this section, which shall be in addition to the provisions for
impoundment.
   I.   Redemption, Impounded Dog: Any dog impounded pursuant to this section
may be redeemed by the owner prior to the sale or destruction of such dog, by
paying all charges against the same, as provided by this section.
      1.   Fees: The city, or the animal control officer, shall be entitled to
charge a fee for the keeping and selling of any dog, which fees shall be, for
the keeping and selling, retained by the city as payment toward the costs and
expenses incurred by it in the keeping and selling of such dog. The fees
charged by the city for impounding, keeping and selling any dog shall be paid
upon redemption or sale of such dog, and shall be as follows: (Ord. 123, 10-9-
1985)
         a.   The impounding fees for any dog shall be as determined from time
to time by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 123, 10-9-1985; amd. 2008
Code)
         b.   The actual veterinary and hospital expenses incurred in caring
for any dog.
         c.   In addition to the foregoing, any person redeeming any dog,
shall, prior to or at the time of the redemption, take out a license for the
same, unless such dog shall already have a license for the calendar year.
         d.   A fraction of a day shall be deemed a full day, and a portion of
a day in excess of any multiple of twenty four (24) hours, shall be deemed a
full day. (Ord. 123, 10-9-1985)
      2.   Fees Paid To Clerk: All fees imposed for impounding shall be paid to
the city clerk. (Ord, 123, 10-9-1985; amd. 2008 Code)
   J.   Sale Of Impounded Dogs:
      1.   Notice Of Sale: If any impounded dog has not been redeemed from such
impounding, it shall be the duty of the police chief or the animal control
officer, as the case may be, to post a notice on the front window of the city
hall, which shall state the name of the owner or keeper, if known, the
description, breed, sex and probable age of such dog, and that it has not been
redeemed from such impounding as hereinbefore provided, and that such dog, at
the time and place designated, will be sold to the highest bidder, and shall
state the license number if a license has been issued therefor. That the time
and place of such sale shall not be less than three (3) days from the posting
of such notice.
      2.   Fees; Certificate Of Sale: The purchaser at such sale shall pay to
the police chief or animal control officer the amount bid, plus an impounding
fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00). The purchaser shall also be required to
procure a license for the keeping of such dog, in the event said dog is not
licensed. Upon payment made to the police chief or animal control officer, such
officer shall issue to such purchaser a certificate of sale of such dog to him.
      3.   Unsold Dogs: If no sale of such impounded dog has been made at such
sale, it shall be the duty of the chief of police or animal control officer, as
the case may be, to destroy such dog in a humane manner and dispose of the
carcass by cremation or burial.
      4.   Serious Injury Or Disease: Any dog impounded hereunder and suffering
from serious injury or disease, may be humanely destroyed at the discretion of
chief of police or the animal control officer. (Ord. 123, 10-9-1985; amd. 2008
Code)
   K.   Disposition Of Receipts: All monies derived from such license fees,
impounding fees and sales of such dogs shall be paid to the city clerk and
deposited and credited to the general fund of the city.
   L.   Police Authority: In the enforcement of any provision of this section,
any police officer, animal control officer, dogcatcher, or other public
officer, is authorized to enter the premises of any person to take possession
of a licensed or unlicensed dog or dogs running at large contrary to the
provisions of this section, and fierce, dangerous or vicious dog, or dogs, when
such officer is in fresh pursuit of any such dog or dogs at the time the dog
goes on private property; provided, however, no enclosed building shall be
entered without a proper warrant or order authorizing the officer to enter the
enclosed building and to capture or to dispose of such dog or dogs. (Ord. 123,
10-9-1985)
   M.   Violation; Penalty 2 :
      1.   Any person, firm, company, partnership, corporation or association
violating any of the provisions of this section shall, upon conviction thereof,
be guilty of an infraction subject to a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
provided that if rule 9 of the Idaho infraction rules establishes a fixed
penalty for this offense, the punishment shall be the amount fixed by said
rule; and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
      2.   Any person who shall suffer or cause a number and collar to be put
or kept on any dog with the intent to avoid payment of a license fee shall,
upon conviction thereof, be guilty of an infraction subject to a fine of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) provided that if rule 9 of the Idaho infraction rules
establishes a fixed penalty for this offense, the punishment shall be the
amount fixed by said rule; and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
      3.   Any person who shall hinder, molest or interfere with any person who
is lawfully engaged in seizing any dog, killing the same or removing the
carcass shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of an infraction subject to a
fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) provided that if rule 9 of the Idaho
infraction rules establishes a fixed penalty for this offense, the punishment
shall be the amount fixed by said rule; and subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code.
      4.   Any person who shall make false representation as to time when a dog
under his control has been brought into the city, during the license year for
the purpose of avoiding payment the amount of the license fee required of him
by the provisions of this section shall, upon conviction, be guilty of an
infraction subject to a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) provided that if
rule 9 of the Idaho infraction rules establishes a fixed penalty for this
offense, the punishment shall be the amount fixed by said rule; and subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 123, 10-9-1985; amd. 2008 Code; Ord. 244, 12-20-2012)
 
Notes
  1. See section
1 9-2-2 of this code for restrictions on number of animals and age and
  definitions of "kennel, commercial" and "kennel, noncommercial".
2 1. See subsection H3c of this section.
4-5-4: LIMITATION ON CERTAIN ANIMALS:
   A.   Limitation: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any
horse, cow, sheep, goat, mule, burro, llama, alpaca, emu, and ostrich or
dangerous animal in an area containing less than one-half (1/2) acre per animal
within the city limits.
      1.   Violation; Penalty: Anyone allowing animal(s) to be permitted on
their property in excess of one horse, cow, sheep, goat, mule, burro, llama,
alpaca, emu, and ostrich, or dangerous animal in an area containing less than
one-half (1/2) acre per animal within the city limits is guilty of an
infraction punishable as set forth by subsection
1-4-1B.
   B.   Conditions For Allowance:
      1.   Animal locations, structures, pens, corrals and any other premises
or structure used for the keeping of and maintaining of horses, cows, sheep,
goats, rabbits, chickens, doves and pigeons, mules, burros, llamas, alpacas,
emus, and ostriches or any other animals must be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition, free from obnoxious odors and substances.
      2.   All persons who keep or maintain any horses, cows, sheep, goats,
rabbits, chickens, doves or pigeons or any other animals shall keep them
confined at all times in enclosures strong enough or staked out, or picketed on
the premises, or in such a manner as to prevent the said animals or fowl from
going upon the premises or property of another.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person keeping or maintaining any of
the said animals or fowl to allow the same to create a disturbance to the
residents in the particular locality by creating any noise, odor or damage to
the adjacent property, and the keeping and maintaining of said animals and fowl
shall not interfere with the peaceful and quiet enjoyment of such property by
such adjacent owners or residents.
   C.   Nuisances:
      1.   Dead Fowl Or Animal Bodies: It is hereby declared a nuisance to
allow dead fowl or animal bodies to remain upon the ground or in stables or in
a particular animal run longer than six (6) hours.
      2.   Burning Refuse, Manure, Animal Or Poultry Droppings Or Feathers: It
is hereby declared a nuisance to burn any refuse, manure, animal or poultry
droppings and feathers within the city limits.
      3.   Odor: It is hereby declared a nuisance to have obnoxious odors
emanating from barns, manure piles and animal enclosures, and the keeping of
unsightly, smelly, dilapidated barns and animal enclosures.
      4.   Violation; Penalty: Anyone allowing a nuisance to be permitted on
their property is guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 46, 2-13-1973; amd. 2008 Code;
Ord. 264, 6-23-2021)
4-5-5: HOGS AND PIGS:
   A.   Restricted: It shall be unlawful for any owner or person in charge of
hogs or pigs to raise them within one thousand feet (1,000') of the nearest
dwelling place.
   B.   Raising For Commercial Use: It shall be unlawful to raise a pig for
commercial use within the city limits. (Ord. 240, 12-21-2011)
   C.   Violation; Penalty: The chief of police or animal control officer is
authorized to issue citations for violations of this section. Any person
convicted of a violation of this section shall be guilty of an infraction
subject to a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) provided that if rule 9 of
the Idaho infraction rules establishes a fixed penalty for this offense, the
punishment shall be the amount fixed by said rule; and subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 240, 12-21-2011; amd. Ord. 244, 12-20-2012)
4-5-6: VICIOUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Definition: An animal of any age, male or female, which, when
unprovoked, in a vicious or terrorizing manner, approaches any person in an
apparent attitude of attack upon the streets, sidewalks, any public grounds or
places or private property not owned or possessed by the owner of the animal;
or an animal with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack
unprovoked, to cause injury or to otherwise endanger the safety of persons or
domestic animals; or any animal which bites, inflicts injury, assaults or
otherwise attacks a person or domestic animal without provocation; or any
animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of fighting or
any animal trained for fighting.
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   Notwithstanding the above definition of a "vicious animal", no
animal may be declared vicious if an injury or damage sustained by a person
who, at the time of such injury or damage was sustained, was committing a
wilful trespass or other tort upon the premises occupied by the owner of the
animal; or was teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the animal; or was
committing or attempting to commit a crime.
      2.   No animal may be declared vicious if the injury or damage was
sustained as a result of teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the animal.
No animal may be declared vicious if the animal was protecting or defending a
person within the immediate vicinity of the animal from an unjustified attack
or assault.
   C.   Determination Of Viciousness And Destruction Of Vicious Animals: The
city clerk or authorized individual(s) shall capture, impound and may destroy
any animal found to be vicious pursuant to the determination of this section.
The determination of viciousness and disposal of such animals shall be as
follows: (Ord. 196, 5-8-2002)
      1.   Determination Of Vicious Animal:
         a.   Power To Seize And Impound: In the event that the chief of
police, animal control officer, or other authorized individuals have probable
cause to believe that an animal is vicious, the chief of police, animal control
officer, or other authorized individuals are hereby empowered to seize and
impound such animal. In the event the owner refuses to surrender the animal to
the chief of police, animal control officer, or other authorized individuals,
the chief of police, animal control officer, or other authorized individuals
may employ any legal means to seize the animal. (Ord. 196, 5-8-2002; amd. 2008
Code)
         b.   Hearing: The mayor shall be empowered to convene a hearing for
the purpose of determining whether or not the animal in question should be
declared vicious. The city council shall conduct or cause to be conducted an
investigation and shall notify the owner of the animal that a hearing will be
held, at which time the owner may have the opportunity to present evidence why
the animal should not be declared vicious. The city has the burden of proof by
a preponderance of the evidence to show the animal is vicious. The hearing
shall be held no less than five (5) days nor more than ten (10) days after
service of notice upon the owner of the animal. The hearing shall be informal
and be open to the public. (Ord. 196, 5-8-2002; amd. Ord. 243, 11-26-2012)
         c.   Notice Of Determination: After the hearing, the owner of the
animal shall be notified, in writing, of the determination. The notice of the
determination shall be mailed to the owner of the animal with the presumption
that the owner of the animal received the notice not more than three (3) days
from the date the notice was mailed. (Ord. 196, 5-8-2002)
      2.   Destruction Of Vicious Animal:
         a.   Appeal To Magistrate Court: If the determination is made that the
animal is vicious, the animal shall be subject to destruction after ten (10)
days from the date the notice of determination of viciousness was mailed to the
owner of the animal. If the owner of the animal contests the determination, the
owner may, within five (5) days of receiving such determination, bring a
petition in magistrate court, in the 4th judicial district, in the state of
Idaho, in and for the county of Boise, wherein the animal is owned, praying
that the court conducts its own hearing on whether or not the animal should be
declared vicious. The petition shall be governed by the Idaho rules of the
civil procedure. The city has the burden of proof by a preponderance of the
evidence to show the animal is vicious. The destruction of the animal shall be
stayed pending the outcome of the appeal. (Ord. 196, 5-8-2002; amd. Ord. 243,
11-26-2012)
         b.   Court Determination:
            (1)   If the court finds that the animal is not "vicious" as
defined by this section, such animal may be released into the custody of the
owner upon payment to the shelter or animal control officer of the expenses of
impounding such animal.
            (2)   If the court finds that the animal is "vicious" as defined by
this section, such animal shall be subject to destruction by the Idaho Humane
Society, Inc., or other such agency as determined by the mayor.
   D.   Violation; Penalty: Any person who is found guilty of owning,
harboring, or has in their possession any vicious animal or animals shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and punished as provided in section
4-5-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 196, 5-8-2002)
4-5-7: TRAINING AND EXERCISE GROUNDS:
The city council may designate such areas of the public park or other public
grounds of the city which may be used, subject to the rules and regulations as
may be prescribed, for the training or exercise of dogs. Dogs within such areas
so designated need not be controlled by leash, but shall be under the control
of a responsible person and controlled by whistle, voice or other effective
command. (Ord. 196, 5-8-2002)
4-5-8: ENFORCEMENT:
The chief of police, animal control officer, or other authorized individuals
are authorized to enforce the provisions of this chapter and are designated as
peace officers for such purpose. The chief of police, animal control officer,
or other authorized individuals shall be and are hereby authorized to make all
necessary seizures and keep and remove any animal in violation of the
provisions of this chapter. The chief of police, animal control officer, or
other authorized individuals shall issue a notice of ordinance violation for a
violation of any of the provisions herein. The notice of ordinance violation
may be signed by the person in whose presence a violation occurred and be
witnessed by the chief of police, animal control officer, or other authorized
individuals whose name shall be endorsed on the notice of ordinance violation.
(Ord. 196, 5-8-2002; amd. 2008 Code)
4-5-9: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter for which a fixed
penalty has not been set is guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 196, 5-8-2002; amd. 2008 Code)
TITLE 5
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Speed Limits
5-1-2: Passing On The Right
5-1-1: SPEED LIMITS:
   A.   Imposed:
      1.   Basic Rule: Every person operating a motor vehicle on the streets,
alleys and public ways of the city shall drive the same in a careful manner and
at a rate of speed so as not to endanger the property of another or the life or
limb of any person.
      2.   Limits: No person shall operate a motor vehicle on the streets,
alleys and public ways of the city at a speed greater than fifteen (15) miles
per hour save and except on State Highway 55 and State Highway 52. No person
shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater than thirty five (35) miles
per hour on State Highway 55 from the city limits at the south boundary of the
city north to the north end of Payette River Bridge, twenty five (25) miles per
hour on State Highway 55 from the north end of the Payette River Bridge north
to the north end of the Canal Bridge and thirty five (35) miles per hour on
State Highway 55 from the north end of the Canal Bridge north to the city
limits at the north boundary of the city. No person shall operate a motor
vehicle at a speed greater than thirty five (35) miles per hour on State
Highway 52 from the city limits at the west boundary of the city east to State
Highway 55. (Ord. 229, 6-10-2009)
   B.   Violation; Penalty: Any person convicted of a violation of any
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of an infraction subject to a fine
of one hundred dollars ($100.00) provided that if rule 9 of the Idaho
infraction rules establishes a fixed penalty for this offense, the punishment
shall be the amount fixed by said rule; and subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 229, 6-10-2009; amd. Ord. 244, 12-20-2012)
5-1-2: PASSING ON THE RIGHT:
   A.   Restricted: The driver of a motor vehicle may not overtake and pass
upon the right of another motor vehicle where there is marked by lines or
posted a pedestrian and/or bicycle lane, unless the pavement is marked for two
(2) lanes for two (2) vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle. (Ord. 162, 9-15-1995)
   B.   Violation; Penalty: A violation of this section shall constitute an
infraction subject to a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) provided that if
rule 9 of the Idaho infraction rules establishes a fixed penalty for this
offense, the punishment shall be the amount fixed by said rule; subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 162, 9-15-1995; amd. 2008 Code; Ord. 244, 12-20-2012)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Authority To Regulate
5-2-2: General Provisions And Presumptions
5-2-3: Violation; Penalty
5-2-1: AUTHORITY TO REGULATE:
   A.   Chief Of Police May Regulate: The chief of police may regulate parking
by causing the placement of traffic control devices advising the public that
parking is prohibited or restricted. Violations of the restrictions or
prohibitions stated on such city signs are unlawful. All signs in place as of
the publication hereof or placed at the direction of the chief of police with
prior approval of the city council after that date, are declared authorized.
   B.   Other Traffic Control Devices: The authority of the city to place other
traffic control devices is delegated to the chief of police with prior approval
of the city council. Violation of the restrictions or prohibitions stated on
such city signs is unlawful. (Ord. 181, 3-8-2000)
5-2-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS AND PRESUMPTIONS:
   A.   Time Limitation: It is unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle
for a period of time longer than seventy two (72) consecutive hours on any city
street and/or public right of way.
   B.   Display For Sale, Wash, Grease, Oil Or Repair: It is unlawful to park a
motor vehicle within a city street and/or public right of way for purposes of
displaying such vehicle for sale; for purposes of washing, greasing, oiling, or
repair, except when the vehicle is undergoing emergency repairs; or when fresh
snow has accumulated over a depth of three inches (3").
   C.   Obstruct Free Movement Of Traffic: No person shall stop, park or leave
standing any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon a street, alley,
public right of way, and or highway in such a manner or under such condition as
to leave available less than twelve feet (12') of such roadway for the free
movement of vehicular traffic.
   D.   Prohibited Parking: It is unlawful to park a motor vehicle on a
sidewalk, in front of a public or private driveway, within fifteen feet (15')
of a fire hydrant, on or in a crosswalk, on any railroad tracks, or within an
intersection.
   E.   Registered Owner Presumed Operator: Whenever a vehicle is ticketed for
unlawful parking, the registered owner of the same shall be presumed to have
been the operator; such presumption may be overcome only by the owner producing
another person who admits to the parking violation and pays the penalty.
   F.   Violation Of State Motor Vehicle Code: A violation of a state motor
vehicle code (Idaho Code title 49) provision within the city is unlawful. (Ord.
181, 3-8-2000)
5-2-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
The police department shall have authority to issue parking tickets in the city
as follows:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: It shall be the duty of the city police
department, upon observing a vehicle parked, standing or stopped in violation
of the provisions of this chapter, to leave upon such vehicle a separate notice
for each posted time limit that such vehicle has been parked or stopped in
violation of the provisions of this chapter. Among other things, each notice
shall bear the date and hour of leaving the same at or upon the vehicle, make
of the vehicle, and its license number, the specific code section violated and
the amount of the fine, instructing the owner or operator of such vehicle to
report to the city clerk. One copy of each notice mentioned herein shall be
filed with the city clerk.
   B.   Duty Of Person Receiving Parking Ticket: In order to eliminate
burdening courts with violations of ordinances and to eliminate, insofar as
possible, public inconvenience, each person receiving a parking ticket under
this chapter left upon his or her vehicle shall:
      1.   Within seven (7) days of the time of such notice, pay to the city
clerk in full satisfaction of such violation, a ten dollar ($10.00) fee for
each notice left upon his or her vehicle.
      2.   Within ten (10) days from the date of said parking violation notice,
if same has not been paid within the seven (7) days above prescribed, pay to
the city clerk, an additional five dollars ($5.00) for each such notice left
upon his or her vehicle. The additional five dollars ($5.00) for each said
ticket or notice being deemed necessary to defray administrative and clerical
expenses. The failure of any operator to report and/or make such payments to
the city clerk within the times prescribed above shall render the owner or
operator thereof subject to an infraction. (Ord. 181, 3-8-2000)
      3.   In the event of nonpayment in accordance with administrative
procedure set out in this section, an infraction citation or complaint for a
parking violation or failure to pay a parking penalty subject to a fine of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) provided that if rule 9 of the Idaho infraction rules
establishes a fixed penalty for this offense, the punishment shall be the
amount fixed by said rule. (Ord. 181, 3-8-2000; amd. Ord. 244, 12-20-2012)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Fire Hydrant Conditions, Free Access
6-1-1: FIRE HYDRANT CONDITIONS, FREE ACCESS:
   A.   Articles Around Hydrant:
      1.   Prohibited: No person shall place or cause to be placed upon or
about any fire hydrant any paint, rubbish, building material, fence or other
obstruction of any character; hitch or cause to be hitched to any fire hydrant
any animal; fasten on any fire hydrant any guy rope or brace, except as stated
in subsection B3 of this section.
      2.   Separate Offense: A separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation of this subsection occurs or continues.
   B.   Articles Within Fifteen Feet:
      1.   Prohibited: No person shall place any personal property, building
material, rubbish, leaves or grass clippings, vehicle, animal or object within
fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant facing the street or the parallel sides,
except as stated in subsection B3 of this section.
      2.   Separate Offense: A separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation of this subsection occurs or continues.
      3.   Exception: Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections B1 and B2
of this section, vehicles may be parked momentarily within fifteen feet (15')
of a fire hydrant to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers.
   C.   Notice To Remove: Any object in violation of subsections A and B of
this section shall, within one week of receipt of a written notice from the
fire department, be removed by the owner of said object to a distance of at
least fifteen feet (15') from the hydrant. The provisions of this section shall
be operative with regard to objects found standing in violation of subsections
A and B of this section on the effective date hereof.
   D.   Failure To Comply; Removal By Fire Department: In the event that the
fire department provides written notice as described in subsection C of this
section ordering the removal of any object or objects and the owner of the
applicable object(s) fails to comply with said notice and duty of removal, the
fire department shall, at the owner's expense, be authorized to prevent,
remove, or abate such condition.
   E.   Violation; Penalty: Any violation of the provisions of this section
shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code.
   F.   Authority Of Fire Department: None of the procedures or provisions of
this section shall limit the authority of the fire department and its agents to
immediately remove obstructions on or about any fire hydrant as necessitated by
an emergency or immediate public need. (Ord. 176, 9-17-1997; amd. 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PRIVATE SALES AND YARD SALES IN CITY PARK
SECTION:
6-2-1: Intent
6-2-2: Private Sale Prohibited
6-2-3: Nonprofit Sales, Permit Required
6-2-1: INTENT:
It is the intent of this chapter that a permit be issued to charitable or
nonprofit organizations, and that sales by private individuals for a profit be
precluded from the city park. (Ord. 134, 5-10-1990)
6-2-2: PRIVATE SALE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a private sale or yard sale in
the public park in the city. (Ord. 134, 5-10-1990)
6-2-3: NONPROFIT SALES, PERMIT REQUIRED:
A person, group or organization may contact the city clerk in advance of a
proposed sales activity and obtain a sales permit from the city clerk. The
permit may be issued by the city clerk to a nonprofit group or organization,
with priority being given to groups or individuals from the city and then Boise
County. (Ord. 134, 5-10-1990)
CHAPTER 3
CITY PARK REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Park Regulations
6-3-2: Violation And Penalty
6-3-1: PARK REGULATIONS:
   A.   Hours Of Operation: All municipal parks of the City shall be opened
daily to the public during the hours of five o'clock (5:00) A.M. to ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M., and it shall be unlawful for any person (other than City
personnel conducting City business therein) to occupy or to be present in said
parks during any hours which said parks are not opened to the public.
   B.   Park hours shall not apply to planned City events, or private events
for which a permit has been issued by the City of Horseshoe Bend. (Ord. 247,
12-16-2015)
6-3-2: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Any violation of this Chapter shall be punishable as a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, any such person shall be fined in an amount not exceeding three
hundred dollars ($300.00) or be imprisoned in the Boise County jail for a
period not exceeding thirty (30) days, or both so fined and imprisoned. (Ord.
247, 12-16-2015)
TITLE 7
WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 1
WATER SERVICE RATES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Short Title
7-1-2: Definitions
7-1-3: Permit Required; Fee
7-1-4: Unlawful To Connect Unless Fee Paid
7-1-5: Application To Turn On
7-1-6: Plumbing
7-1-7: Resale Of Water; Exception
7-1-8: Water Meter
7-1-9: Rates
7-1-10: Billing
7-1-11: Procedure For Discontinuance Of Service For Nonpayment
7-1-12: Reconnection To Water System
7-1-13: Tampering With System
7-1-14: Nonresident Users
7-1-15: Priority In Event Of Shortage
7-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the CITY OF HORSESHOE BEND WATER ORDINANCE. (Ord.
136, 9-13-1990)
7-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   General Definitions: Unless the context otherwise indicates, terms used
herein have the following meanings:
    CITY: The city of Horseshoe Bend.
   COMMERCIAL I: Cafes, cafes and bars, taverns, laundromats and car washes
designed and used for their intended purpose, shall each be deemed to be one
commercial I unit.
   COMMERCIAL II: Banks, grocery stores, business offices of all kinds, service
stations, truck stops, mobile homes and trailers used as other than single-
family residences, post offices, courthouses, railroad depots, beauty shops,
daycare centers and all other uses not otherwise defined in this chapter except
schools and lumber mills; each shall be deemed to be one commercial II unit.
   COMMERCIAL III: Schools and lumber mills shall each be deemed to be one
commercial III unit.
   COUNCIL: The city council of the city.
   COUNTY: The county of Boise, Idaho.
   SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL: The following establishments shall be deemed to
have the following number of units:
      1.   Single residential dwelling, designed for occupancy by one family
only, which is not occupied by more than one family, one unit.
      2.   Duplex, triplex, apartment house or other multi-residential
establishment, designed for occupancy for living purposes by more than one
family, which is divided into separate housekeeping units each of which is
designed for occupancy by one family, each housekeeping unit shall be deemed to
be a separate unit.
      3.   Auto court, trailer court, trailer park and other like
establishment, divided into separate living units, auto spaces and trailer
spaces, with or without housekeeping facilities; each room or suite of rooms,
or each auto or trailer space, which is designed to be occupied for living
purposes by persons living separately from others, shall be deemed to be a
separate unit.
      4.   Lodging house, rooming house, dormitory, rest home, or other
establishment, other than those hereinabove specified in subsections 1, 2 and 3
of this definition, which is occupied, or designed, intended or arranged for
occupancy, for residential purposes by one or more persons to whom rooms are
rented or otherwise made available for sleeping purposes, without separate
housekeeping facilities for each room or suite of rooms; each six (6) beds, or
part of six (6), shall be deemed to be a separate unit for which purpose a
double bed shall be deemed to be two (2) beds. When separate housekeeping
facilities are accorded any room or suite of rooms, each such room or suite of
rooms shall be deemed a separate unit.
      5.   Churches and meeting halls shall be deemed to be one unit each.
   WATER RATE CHARGES: Fees, tolls, rates, rentals or other charges for
services and facilities furnished by city in connection with its water system.
   B.   Additional Definitions: For the purpose of this chapter, additional
terms shall have the meaning indicated in chapter 1 of the last edition, and
any revisions thereof, of the uniform plumbing code adopted by the Idaho
plumbing board. (Ord. 136, 9-13-1990; amd. 2008 Code)
7-1-3: PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   Required; Notice: No connection with the city water mains shall be made
without a permit being issued and twenty four (24) hours' notice having been
given to the city clerk.
   B.   Costs: All such connections shall be made and all such work shall be
done at the expense of the applicant who shall also furnish materials necessary
for such work.
   C.   Supervision; Inspection: All such connection shall be made under the
supervision of the city inspector or someone designated by the council, and no
connections shall be covered until the work has been inspected by said
inspector or his designee. (Ord. 136, 9-13-1990)
   D.   Application; Fee: Applications for such connections must be made to the
clerk and such fee as determined from time to time by resolution of the city
council shall be paid in advance. (Ord. 136, 9-13-1990; amd. 2008 Code)
7-1-4: UNLAWFUL TO CONNECT UNLESS FEE PAID:
It shall be unlawful to connect to such water system without paying the fees
set forth in section
7-1-3 of this chapter, or to make such connection or cover the same without the
supervision and inspection of the city inspector or his designee. (Ord. 136, 9-
13-1990)
7-1-5: APPLICATION TO TURN ON:
   A.   Application to have water turned on shall be made, in writing, to the
city clerk and shall contain an agreement by the applicant to abide by and
accept all of the provisions of this chapter as conditions governing the use of
the city water supply by the applicant. No water service shall be provided to
any residence, business, or other water user unless an account is established
with the City for said premises with the owner or property management company
of the property served.
   B.   In situations in which multiple residential units are on one meter, or
where there are fewer meters than the number of residential units they serve,
the account shall be placed in the name of the owner of the property. The owner
of the property shall be responsible for the total monthly utility bill. (Ord.
136, 9-13-1990; amd. Ord. 256, 2-20-2019)
7-1-6: PLUMBING:
No water shall be turned on for service in premises in which the plumbing does
not comply with the ordinances of the city; provided, that water may be turned
on for construction work in an unfinished building, subject to the provisions
of this chapter. All repairs for service to the pipes and plumbing systems of
buildings shall be made by and at the expense of the owners of the premises
served. The city may, in case of an emergency, repair any service pipes, and if
this is done, the cost of such repair work shall be repaid to the city by the
owner of the premises served. (Ord. 136, 9-13-1990)
7-1-7: RESALE OF WATER; EXCEPTION:
No water shall be resold or distributed by the recipient thereof from the city
supply to any premises other than for which application has been made and the
meter installed, except in case of emergency. (Ord. 136, 9-13-1990)
7-1-8: WATER METER:
   A.   Required:
      1.   All premises using the city water supply must be equipped with an
adequate water meter furnished by the city but paid for by the consumer;
provided, that such water service may be supplied by the city at a flat rate of
charge, until such meter may be installed.
      2.   Before any premises is occupied, a water meter shall be installed
therein as herein required or application made for such water service at the
flat rate of charge until the meter can be installed or no water shall be
furnished such premises.
   B.   Location: Meters shall be installed in a location that will be easy to
access.
   C.   Reading Meters: The city clerk shall cause to be read every water meter
used in the city at such times as are necessary so that the bills may be sent
out at the proper time.
   D.   Testing Meters: Any municipal water meter shall be taken out and tested
upon complaint of the consumer upon payment of a fee of ten dollars ($10.00).
If, upon test, the meter is not within three percent (3%) of being accurate, it
shall be repaired or replaced and the ten dollar ($10.00) fee returned to the
consumer. (Ord. 136, 9-13-1990)
7-1-9: RATES:
   A.   Imposed: Water service charges are hereby imposed for each connection
of the city water system based upon quantity flow of water to the connection;
multiple connections on one meter shall be charged at the rates as determined
from time to time by resolution of the city council; all users on multiple
connections shall be responsible for full payment of charges for water service
charged to such multiple hookup, and water service shall be discontinued for
nonpayment of all or any portion of such water charges as provided in section
7-1-11 of this chapter; which charges shall provide revenue sufficient to pay
the operation and maintenance and repay bonded indebtedness and provide for the
reserve fund for said system, as determined from time to time by resolution of
the city council.
   B.   Relief From Unjust Rates: The owner or occupant of any premises who, by
reason of special circumstances, finds that the charges as determined pursuant
to subsection A of this section are unjust or inequitable as applied to his
premises, may make written application to the council, stating the
circumstances and requesting a different basis of charges for water services to
his premises. If such application be approved, the council may, by resolution,
fix and establish fair and equitable rates for such premises to be effective as
of the date of such application and continuing during the period of such
special circumstances. The council may, on its own motion, find that, by reason
of special circumstances, said charges are unjust and inequitable as applied to
particular premises and may, by resolution, fix and establish fair and
equitable water service charges for such premises during the period of such
special circumstances, or any part thereof.
   C.   Annual Review Of User Charges: The city council shall annually, after
the date of adoption hereof, review user charges and revise the same to reflect
the actual water system operation and maintenance costs and requirements for
the reserve fund and for bond redemption.
   D.   Revenues Of Water System: The user charge system of the city shall
generate sufficient revenue, at all times, to offset the cost of all water
system operation and maintenance of the city as well as funds for bond
redemption and reserve funds as required by law. (Ord. 136, 9-13-1990; amd.
2008 Code; Ord. 253, 6-27-2018)
7-1-10: BILLING:
   A.   Regular Billing Period: The regular billing period for said water
service charges will be for each calendar month as determined by the council.
   B.   Opening And Closing Bills: Opening and closing bills for less than the
normal billing period shall be for not less than one month.
   C.   Billing Time: Bills for water service charges shall be rendered at the
beginning of each billing period and are payable upon presentation, except as
otherwise provided. (Ord. 136, 9-13-1990)
   D.   Delinquent: A bill for water services to any premises shall become
delinquent if not paid by the twenty sixth day of the month in which such bill
is rendered, and water service shall not be restored until a fee as determined
by resolution of the city council and all delinquent bills and charges have
been satisfied. (Ord. 136, 9-13-1990; amd. 2008 Code)
   E.   Collection By Suit: The city may collect unpaid water charges by suit,
in which event, it shall have judgment for the cost of suit and reasonable
attorney fees. (Ord. 136, 9-13-1990)
7-1-11: PROCEDURE FOR DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE FOR NONPAYMENT:
For nonpayment of water bills, water service to any premises shall not be
discontinued until the following procedure has been followed:
   A.   Notice Of Delinquency: After a water bill becomes delinquent as
provided by subsection 7-1-10D of this chapter, the city clerk shall notify the
owner of the premises to which such water service was furnished and the tenant
thereof, if any, in writing, of such delinquency and, if such water bill is not
paid in full within twenty (20) days thereafter, such water service shall be
discontinued unless such owner or tenant requests a pretermination of service
hearing.
   B.   Pretermination Hearing: In the event a pretermination hearing is
requested, such hearing shall be held before the city council after timely
notice to such owner and tenant, if any, who shall have the right to be
represented by counsel and present witnesses in his behalf; a written record of
such hearing shall be kept by the city and a written decision stating the
reasons therefor shall be rendered by the city council within a reasonable
time, stating the facts relied upon by the council, its conclusions and the
reasons for its conclusions.
   C.   Discontinuance Pending Hearing: Water service shall not be discontinued
pending such hearing but, in the event of a decision requiring payment of such
bill or any portion thereof, the same must be paid within ten (10) days after
service or mailing of such decision to the owner and tenant, if any, or water
service shall be discontinued.
   D.   Notices: All notices required hereunder shall be in writing and shall
be mailed by U.S. certified mail, return receipt requested, with postage
prepaid thereon or personally served upon the owner of such premises and
tenant, if any. Service shall be deemed complete upon date of service or
mailing.
   E.   Appeal: The owner or tenant of the premises involved shall have the
right of appeal to the district court from any adverse decision of the city
council, within thirty (30) days from the date of decision.
   F.   Copy Of Ordinance Available: A full copy of the ordinance codified
herein may be obtained from the city clerk at city hall during regular business
hours. (Ord. 136, 9-13-1990)
   G.   Fee: There shall be a fee incurred by the owner or tenant of any
delinquent premises to which notice of discontinuance is served which will
substantially reflect the cost of serving said notice, including, but not
limited to, printing costs, delivery costs and city employee time costs. Said
fee will be set by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 136, 9-13-1990; amd.
2008 Code)
   H.   Restoration Of Service: In the event water service is discontinued,
said notification fee and all other delinquent bills, charges, and fees must be
satisfied in full before water service is restored to the premises.
   I.   Lien For Charges:
      1.   Charges for water shall be a lien upon the premises as provided by
statute. Whenever a bill for water service remains unpaid sixty (60) days after
it has been rendered, the clerk may file with the recorder of Boise County, a
statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain the legal description of
the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice that the city
claims a lien for this amount as well as for all charges for water served
subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
      2.   If the consumer whose water bill is unpaid is not the owner of the
premises and the clerk has notice of this, then notice shall be mailed to the
owner of the premises, if his address is known to the clerk, whenever such
bills remain unpaid for a period of sixty (60) days after it has been rendered.
      3.   The failure of the clerk to record such lien claim or to mail such
notice, or the failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect the
right to foreclose the lien for unpaid water bills as mentioned in subsection J
of this section.
   J.   Sale Of Premises For Nonpayment: Property subject to a lien for unpaid
water charges shall be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of
such sale shall be applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the
case in the foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be by bill
in equity in the name of the city.
   K.   Authorization Of City Attorney: The city attorney is hereby authorized
and directed to institute such proceedings in the name of the city in any court
having jurisdiction over such matters, against any property for which a water
bill has remained unpaid sixty (60) days after it has been rendered.
   L.   Remedies Cumulative: The remedies herein provided for collecting and
enforcing rates are cumulative and may be pursued alternatively or may be used
consecutively when the council so determines. If any remedy is invalid, all
valid remedies shall remain effectual. (Ord. 136, 9-13-1990)
7-1-12: RECONNECTION TO WATER SYSTEM:
When water has been shut off from any premises, either upon the application of
the owner thereof, or for nonpayment of water charges or for any other cause,
it shall be a misdemeanor for any person to again connect such premises with
the city water supply system except when specifically authorized so to do by
the city clerk. (Ord. 136, 9-13-1990)
7-1-13: TAMPERING WITH SYSTEM:
It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the city to tamper with,
alter or injure any part of the city waterworks or water supply system or any
water meter. (Ord. 136, 9-13-1990)
7-1-14: NONRESIDENT USERS:
All water users situated and located outside of the corporate limits of the
city shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter. Charges for water
consumed by all water users situated and located outside of the corporate
limits of the city, shall be one and one-half (11/2) times the rates herein set
forth in this chapter. (Ord. 136, 9-13-1990)
7-1-15: PRIORITY IN EVENT OF SHORTAGE:
In the event of any shortage of water supplied by the city such that it is not
possible to provide water to all users thereof, upon a finding by the city
council that such shortage exists, the mayor shall declare an emergency to
exist. Upon declaring such emergency to exist, the mayor, in his discretion,
shall ration and prioritize the use of water as he may deem necessary to supply
as many water users as possible. In any such event, the mayor shall first
ration and prioritize the use of water outside of the corporate limits of the
city, and if such rationing and prioritization of water use so require, the
mayor shall first discontinue water service to those users outside the
corporate limits of the city before discontinuing water service to users within
the corporate limits of the city. (Ord. 136, 9-13-1990)
CHAPTER 2
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
7-2-1: Purpose; Scope
7-2-2: Definitions
7-2-3: Cross Connections
7-2-4: Use Of Backflow Prevention Devices
7-2-5: Cross Connection Inspection
7-2-6: Installation Permits
7-2-7: Additional Remedies
7-2-8: Penalty
7-2-1: PURPOSE; SCOPE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health of water consumers
by the control of actual and/or potential cross connections. (Ord. 166, 7-16-
1996)
7-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BACKFLOW: The flow, other than the intended direction of flow, of any foreign
liquids, gases or substances into the distribution system of the public water
supply.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device to counteract back pressure or prevent
siphonage.
CONTAMINATION: The entry into or presence in a public water supply of any
substance which may be deleterious to health and/or quality of the water.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical arrangement whereby a public water supply is
connected, directly or indirectly, with any other water supply system, sewer,
drain, conduit, pool, hot tub, storage reservoir, plumbing fixture, body of
water or other device which contains or may contain contaminated water, sewage,
or other waste or liquids of unknown or unsafe quality which may be capable of
introducing contamination to the public water supply as a result of backflow.
HEALTH OFFICER: State of Idaho region II water supply officer, or other
authorized agent of the state or federal government.
PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY: Any system or water supply intended or used for human
consumption or other domestic uses, including source, treatment, storage,
transmission and distribution facilities, where water is furnished to any
collection or number of individuals, or is made available to the public for
human consumption or domestic use.
PURVEYOR: The city of Horseshoe Bend or its authorized agent.
SUPERVISOR: The engineer of the city or other individual designated by the
mayor. (Ord. 166, 7-16-1996)
7-2-3: CROSS CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Protection Required: No water service connection to any premises shall
be installed or continued in use by the purveyor unless the water supply is
protected by backflow prevention devices as may be required by this chapter.
   B.   Declared Nuisance: The installation or maintenance of a cross
connection which will endanger the water quality of the potable water supply of
the city shall be unlawful and is prohibited. Any such cross connection now
existing or hereafter installed is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and
the same shall be abated.
   C.   Rules And Regulations: The control or elimination of cross connections
shall be in accordance with this chapter together with the latest editions of
appropriate manuals of standard practice pertaining to cross connections
control approved by the state of Idaho. The supervisor shall have the authority
to establish requirements more stringent than state regulations if he deems
that the conditions so dictate. The purveyor shall adopt rules and regulations
as necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 166, 7-16-1996)
7-2-4: USE OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
   A.   When Required: Backflow prevention devices shall be installed at the
tees on the premises or the materials used in connection with service
connection or within any premises where, in the judgment of the purveyor and/or
health officer, the nature and extent of the activities, or materials stored on
the premises, would present an immediate and dangerous hazard to health and/or
be deleterious to the quality of the water should a cross connection occur;
even though such cross connection does not exist at the time, the backflow
prevention devices shall be installed under circumstances including, but not
limited to, the following: (Ord. 166, 7-16-1996; amd. 2008 Code)
      1.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply.
      2.   Premises having internal cross connections that are not correctable,
or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impractical to ascertain
whether or not cross connections exist.
      3.   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to assure that cross connections do not exist.
      4.   Premises having a repeated history of cross connections being
established or reestablished.
      5.   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as to
permit entry into the public water supply, or where a cross connection could
reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of process
waters and cooling water.
      6.   Premises where materials of a toxic or hazardous nature are handled
in such a way that if back siphonage should occur, a serious health hazard
might result.
      7.   The following types of facilities will fall into one of the above
categories where a backflow prevention device is required to protect the public
water supply. A backflow prevention device shall be installed at these
facilities:
         a.   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics.
         b.   Laboratories.
         c.   Metal plating industries.
         d.   Sewage treatment plants.
         e.   Food or beverage processing plants.
         f.   Chemical plants using a water process.
         g.   Petroleum processing or storage plants.
         h.   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactor.
         i.   Others specified by the state of Idaho.
      8.   Other premises, as specified by the supervisor, where backflow
prevention devices are required to protect the public water supply.
   B.   Type Of Protective Device Required: The type of protective device
required shall depend on the degree of hazard which exists.
      1.   An air gap separation or reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device shall be installed where the public water supply may be
contaminated with sewage, industrial waste of a toxic nature, or other
contaminant which could cause a health or system hazard as defined in
subsection A8 of this section.
      2.   In the case of a substance which may be objectionable but not
hazardous to health as set forth in subsection A8 of this section, a double
check valve assembly, air gap separation, or a reduced pressure principle
backflow prevention device shall be installed.
   C.   Location: Backflow prevention devices required by this chapter shall be
installed at the meter, at the property line of the premises when meters are
not used, or at a location designated by the purveyor. The device shall be
located so as to be readily accessible for maintenance and testing, and
furthermore, where no part of the device will be submerged.
   D.   Installation Supervision: Backflow prevention devices required by this
chapter shall be installed under the supervision of and with the approval of
the purveyor.
   E.   Approval Required: Any protective device required by this chapter shall
be a model approved by the supervisor. A double check valve assembly or a
reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device will be approved if it
has successfully passed performance tests of the state of Idaho or other
testing laboratories satisfactory to the state of Idaho and the supervisor.
These devices shall be furnished and installed by and at the expense of the
customer.
   F.   Inspection; Testing: Backflow prevention devices installed pursuant to
this chapter, except atmospheric vacuum breakers, shall be inspected and tested
annually, or more often if necessary. Inspections, tests and maintenance shall
be at the customer's expense. Whenever the devices are found to be defective,
they shall be repaired, overhauled or replaced at the customer's expense.
Inspections, tests, repairs and records thereof shall be accomplished under the
purveyor's supervision by the certified testers.
   G.   Underground Sprinkling Device: No underground sprinkling device will be
installed without adequate backflow prevention devices at the point from which
the water for irrigation is taken from the public water supply.
   H.   Failure To Cooperate: Failure of the customer to cooperate in the
installation, maintenance, testing or inspection of backflow prevention devices
required by this chapter shall be grounds for terminating water service to the
premises, or, in the alternative, the installation of an air gap separation at
the customer's expense. (Ord. 166, 7-16-1996)
7-2-5: CROSS CONNECTION INSPECTION:
   A.   Inspection Required: No water shall be delivered to any structure
hereafter built within the city or within areas served by city water until the
same shall have been inspected by the purveyor for possible cross connection
and approved as being free of same.
   B.   Industrial Or Hazardous Facilities: Any construction for industrial or
other purposes which is classified as hazardous facilities pursuant to
subsection 7-2-4A7 of this chapter, where it is reasonable to anticipate
intermittent cross connections, or as determined by the supervisor, shall be
protected by the installation of one or more backflow prevention devices at the
point of service from the public water supply or any other location designated
by the purveyor.
   C.   Periodic Inspections: Inspections shall be made periodically of all
buildings, structures or improvements of any nature now receiving water through
the city system, for the purpose of ascertaining whether cross connections
exist. Such inspections shall be made by the purveyor. (Ord. 166, 7-16-1996)
7-2-6: INSTALLATION PERMITS:
If cross connection control device(s) is found to be necessary, the owner of
the property served must apply to the purveyor for a specific installation
permit. The permit fee shall be the actual cost incurred by city related to the
inspection of the cross connection control device. (Ord. 166, 7-16-1996)
7-2-7: ADDITIONAL REMEDIES:
In the event an improper cross connection is not corrected within the time
limit set by the supervisor, or, in the event the purveyor is refused access to
any property for the purpose of determining whether or not cross connections
exist, delivery of water to the property shall cease until the deficiency is
corrected to the purveyor's satisfaction. In addition, the purveyor may effect
the necessary repairs or modifications at the expense of the property owner and
refuse delivery of water to the property until the cost thereof shall have been
paid. (Ord. 166, 7-16-1996)
7-2-8: PENALTY:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, refuses to comply with, or
resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter or the rules
and regulations as adopted by the purveyor, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall, for each offense, be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 166, 7-16-1996; amd. 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER SERVICE RATES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Short Title
7-3-2: Definitions
7-3-3: Effective Date
7-3-4: Sewer Service Charges
7-3-5: Billing And Collecting
7-3-6: Collection With Water Charges
7-3-7: Disconnection
7-3-8: Responsibility For Maintenance
7-3-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as CITY OF HORSESHOE BEND SEWER ORDINANCE. (Ord. 137,
12-13-1990)
7-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   General Definitions: Unless the context otherwise indicates, terms used
herein have the following meanings:
   CITY: The city of Horseshoe Bend.
   COUNCIL: The city council of the city.
   COUNTY: The county of Boise, Idaho.
   OTHER RESIDENTIAL UNIT EQUIVALENTS: A parcel of land which is designed,
intended or used for commercial, public or industrial purposes (including
motels and hotels) shall be deemed to have the following number of residential
unit equivalents: Each five (5) number of plumbing fixtures, or a portion of
such number, installed in a parcel of land shall be deemed to be one
residential unit equivalent. As used herein, "plumbing fixture" shall be deemed
to mean and include a toilet, a urinal, a shower, a tub, a sink, a basin, a
lavatory, and automatic washing machine, and any other water or sewage receptor
or facility, which is connected, directly or indirectly to a sanitary sewer
line or system and from which water or sewage can be or is drained, directly or
indirectly, into a sanitary sewer line or system.
   RESIDENTIAL UNITS: The following residential establishments shall be deemed
to have the following number of residential units:
      1.   Single residential dwelling, designed for occupancy by one family
only, which is not occupied by more than one family, one residential unit.
      2.   Duplex, triplex, apartment house or other multi-residential
establishment, designed for occupancy for living purposes by more than one
family, which is divided into separate housekeeping units each of which is
designed for occupancy by one family; each housekeeping unit shall be deemed to
be a separate residential unit.
      3.   Auto court, trailer court, trailer park and other like
establishment, divided into separate living units, auto spaces and trailer
spaces, with or without housekeeping facilities; each room or suite of rooms,
or each auto or trailer space, which is designed to be occupied for living
purposes by persons living separately from others, shall be deemed to be a
separate residential unit.
      4.   Lodging house, rooming house, dormitory, rest home, or other
establishment, other than those hereinabove specified in subsections 1, 2 and 3
of this definition, which is occupied, or designed, intended or arranged for
occupancy, for residential purposes by one or more persons to whom rooms are
rented or otherwise made available for sleeping purposes, without separate
housekeeping facilities for each room or suite of rooms; each six (6) beds, or
part of six (6), shall be deemed to be a separate residential unit for which
purpose a double bed shall be deemed to be two (2) beds. When separate
housekeeping facilities are accorded any room or suite of rooms, each such room
or suite of rooms shall be deemed a separate residential unit;
      5.   Cafe, cafe and bar, tavern and laundry designed and used for their
intended purpose shall be deemed to have the residential equivalent of 2.1634
of a residential unit.
      6.   Schools and lumber mills shall have a 0.125 per individual
residential equivalent.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGES: Fees, tolls, rates, rentals or other charges for
services and facilities furnished by city in connection with its sanitation or
sewerage system.
   B.   Additional Definitions: For the purpose of this chapter additional
terms shall have the meaning indicated in chapter 1 of the last edition, and
any revisions thereof, of the uniform plumbing code adopted by the Idaho
plumbing board. (Ord. 137, 12-13-1990; amd. 2008 Code)
7-3-3: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The rates and charges provided herein shall be collected on the effective date
hereof. (Ord. 137, 12-13-1990)
7-3-4: SEWER SERVICE CHARGES:
   A.   Connection Fees: The base rate for connection to the city system shall
be as determined from time to time by resolution of the city council and may be
changed from time to time by resolution or minute entry of the city council so
as to provide sufficient revenue to pay for basic connection costs. If any
connection is unusual in any way, the base rate shall be adjusted to reflect
the increased cost of dealing with the unusual circumstances. The increase in
any connection cost above the base rate is to be decided by the city
maintenance man after taking into account the cost of materials, labor,
equipment, and miscellaneous items.
   B.   Rates:
      1.   Imposed: Sewer service charges are hereby imposed for each
connection to the city sanitary sewage system based upon quantity flow of
sewage into the system which shall provide revenue sufficient to pay the
connection, operation, and maintenance and repay bonded indebtedness and
provide for the reserve fund for said system, all as determined from time to
time by resolution or minute entry of the city council.
      2.   Change In Rates: The city council may change said sewer service
charge and provide for charges for other than normal domestic sewage from time
to time by resolution or minute entry of the city council without the necessity
of amending this chapter.
   C.   User Other Than Normal Domestic Sewage: For any industrial or other
nondomestic connection with respect to which the quantity of the sewage is
greater, or the character of the sewage requires plant treatment and/or
operations greater than that for normal domestic sewage, the sewer service
charges as adopted from time to time by resolution or minute entry of the city
council, as based upon the recommendation of the city engineer, shall be
adjusted upward on an equitable basis as determined by the council by
resolution from time to time and set forth in a schedule of charges. For the
purpose of this section, the quantity for normal domestic sewage shall be
deemed to be an average of approximately four hundred (400) gallons per day.
   D.   Relief From Unjust Rates:
      1.   Application For Relief: The owner or occupant of any premises who,
by reason of special circumstances, finds that the charges as determined
pursuant to either subsection A or subsection B of this section, are unjust or
inequitable as applied to his premises, may make written application to the
council, stating the circumstances and requesting a different basis of charges
for sewer services to his premises. (Ord. 137, 12-13-1990; amd. 2008 Code)
      2.   Application Approved: If such application be approved, the council
may, by resolution, fix and establish fair and equitable rates for such
premises to be effective as of the date of such application and continuing
during the period of such special circumstances. The council may, on its own
motion, find that by reason of special circumstances, said charges are unjust
and inequitable as applied to particular premises and may, by resolution, fix
and establish fair and equitable sewer service charges for such premises during
the period of such special circumstances, or any part thereof.
   E.   Annual Review Of User Charges: The city council shall, annually after
the date of adoption hereof, review user charges and revise the same to reflect
the actual treatment works operation and maintenance cost and requirements for
the reserve fund and for bond redemption.
   F.   Revenue Of Sewage System: The user charge system of the city shall
generate sufficient revenue at all times to offset the cost of all treatment
works operation and maintenance of the city as well as funds for bond
redemption and reserve funds as required by law. (Ord. 137, 12-13-1990)
7-3-5: BILLING AND COLLECTING:
   A.   Billing: The regular billing period for said sewer service charges will
be for each calendar month or bimonthly, as determined by the council. (Ord.
137, 12-13-1990; amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   Opening And Closing Bills: Opening and closing bills for less than the
normal billing period shall be for not less than one month.
   C.   Billing Time: Bills for sewer service charges shall be rendered at the
beginning of each billing period and are payable upon presentation, except as
otherwise provided.
   D.   Collection By Suit: The city may collect unpaid sewer service charges
by suit, in which event, it shall have judgment for the cost of suit and
reasonable attorney fees.
   E.   Remedies Cumulative: The remedies herein provided for collecting and
enforcing rates are cumulative and may be pursued alternatively or may be used
consecutively when the council so determines. If any one remedy is invalid, all
other valid remedies shall remain available for use. (Ord. 137, 12-13-1990)
7-3-6: COLLECTION WITH WATER CHARGES:
   A.   Collection: The sewer service charges shall be collected with the water
bill. The rates and charges for the services, facilities, and water of the city
water system and the charges for the sewer system and associated charges shall
be itemized, billed upon the same bill, and collected as one item by the city
clerk. (Ord. 137, 12-13-1990)
   B.   Discontinuance Of Water Service Upon Delinquency: Upon delinquency in
sewer charges, after compliance with the procedure for discontinuance of
service for nonpayment set forth in section
7-1-11 of this title, the water service shall be discontinued until full
payment of the dual charges and penalties thereon and the charges for
recontinuance of service. (Ord. 146, 3-16-1994)
7-3-7: DISCONNECTION:
   A.   Connection Mandatory: Maintenance or use of cesspools or other local
means of sewage disposal constitutes a public nuisance. All buildings inhabited
or used by human beings which are within one hundred feet (100') from the
sewerage system of the city or any extension hereafter made thereto, and in
which any sewage is produced shall be connected with the sewerage system of the
city within ninety (90) days from completion thereof.
   B.   New Connections And Inflow Sources Prohibited; Compliance Required: The
city shall prohibit new collections from inflow sources and require that all
new sewers and connections are designed and constructed in accordance with
acceptable practices. (Ord. 137, 12-13-1990)
   C.   Disconnection: As an alternative method of collecting such charges,
after compliance with the procedure for discontinuance of service for
nonpayment set forth in section
7-1-11 of this title, the city may disconnect any premises from the sewer
system if the user fails to pay the service charges for his premises after they
shall have become delinquent. The person in charge of the sewer system shall
estimate the cost of disconnection of such premises from the enterprise and the
cost of reconnecting it thereto, and such user shall deposit the cost, as
estimated, of disconnection and reconnection before such premises are
reconnected to the sewer system. In the event such arrearages are paid and
premises are reconnected to the sewer system, the person in charge shall refund
any part of the deposit remaining after payment of all costs of disconnection
and reconnection. (Ord. 146, 3-16-1994)
   D.   Abatement: During the period of nonconnection or disconnection,
habitation of such premises by human beings shall constitute a public nuisance,
whereupon the council shall cause proceedings to be brought to the abatement of
the occupancy of said premises by the human beings. In such event, and as a
condition of connection or reconnection, there shall be paid to the city
reasonable attorney fees and costs of suit arising in said action. (Ord. 137,
12-13-1990)
7-3-8: RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Main And Trunk Sewer Lines: The city shall be responsible for all
maintenance of main and trunk sewer lines.
   B.   Sewer Service Lines: The city will not be responsible for the
maintenance of sewer service lines which connect to the main or trunk sewer
lines. In the event that the city is forced to maintain a sewer service line,
the costs will be passed along to the requisite property owner whose sewer
service line is being maintained by the city. (Ord. 201-01, 11-12-2003)
CHAPTER 4
WASTEWATER
SECTION:
7-4-1: Purpose And Policy
7-4-2: Pretreatment Program Administration
7-4-3: Definitions
7-4-4: Prohibited Discharge Standards
7-4-5: Categorical Pretreatment Standards
7-4-6: State Requirements
7-4-7: Special Agreements
7-4-8: Dilution
7-4-9: Deadline For Compliance With Applicable Pretreatment Requirements
7-4-10: Accidental Discharges
7-4-11: Pretreatment Facilities
7-4-12: Fees
7-4-13: Wastewater Discharges
7-4-14: Wastewater Discharge Data Disclosure
7-4-15: Compliance Schedules For Meeting Applicable Pretreatment Standards
7-4-16: Indirect Discharge Permit (IDP)
7-4-17: Standards Modifications
7-4-18: User Notification And Reporting Requirements
7-4-19: Analytical And Sampling Techniques
7-4-20: Monitoring Facilities
7-4-21: Inspection And Sampling
7-4-22: Confidential Information
7-4-23: Administrative Enforcement Remedies
7-4-24: Judicial Enforcement Remedies
7-4-25: Affirmative Defenses To Discharge Violations
7-4-26: Records Retention
7-4-1: PURPOSE AND POLICY:
   A.   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for all commercial users
of the publicly owned treatment works (POTW) and enables the city to protect
public health and the environment in conformity with all applicable local,
state and federal laws including the clean water act (33 USC 1251 et seq.) and
the general pretreatment regulations (40 CFR part 403).
   B.   The objectives of this chapter are:
      1.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW, which may
interfere with the normal operation of the system or contaminate the resulting
municipal sludge;
      2.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW, which do
not receive adequate treatment and which may pass through the system into
receiving waters or the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the
system;
      3.   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewater and
sludge from the POTW; and
      4.   To protect the public using, and the personnel operating, the POTW.
   C.   This chapter provides for the regulation of users of the POTW through
the enforcement of administrative regulations. This chapter authorizes the
issuance of indirect discharge permits; authorizes monitoring, compliance, and
enforcement activities, including recovery of costs relating to user
noncompliance; establishes administrative review procedures; requires permittee
reporting; and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable distribution
of costs resulting from the program described herein. This chapter does not
provide for the recovery of operations, maintenance or replacement costs of the
POTW or the costs associated with the construction of collection and treatment
systems used by commercial, industrial and other permitted regulated users in
proportion to their use of the POTW, which is the subject of separate
enactments. (Ord. 228, 6-10-2009)
7-4-2: PRETREATMENT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION:
Except as otherwise provided herein, the city's public works director or his/
her designee shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 228, 6-10-2009)
7-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Terms Defined: The use of the singular shall be construed to include
the plural and the plural shall include the singular as indicated by the
context of its use.
   ACT: The clean water act (33 USC 1251 et seq.), as amended.
   APPLICABLE PRETREATMENT STANDARDS: For any specified pollutant, city
prohibited discharge standards, city's specific limitations on discharge, state
of Idaho pretreatment standards, or the federal categorical pretreatment
standards (when effective) whichever standard is appropriate or most stringent.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY: The acting region 10, regional administrator.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER: 1. If the user is a corporation:
         a.   The president, secretary, treasurer, or a vice president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision making functions for the corporation; or
         b.   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operating facilities, provided, the manager is authorized to make management
decisions which govern the operation of the regulated facility including having
the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations, and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure
long term environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can
ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather
complete and accurate information for control mechanism requirements; and where
authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in
accordance with corporate procedures.
      2.   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general
partner or proprietor, respectively.
      3.   If the user is a federal, state, or local governmental facility: the
ranking elected official, or a director or highest official appointed or
designated to oversee the operation and performance of the activities of the
government facility or his/her designee.
      4.   The individuals described in subsections 1 through 3 of this
definition may designate another authorized representative if the authorization
is in writing, the authorization specifies the individual or position
responsible for the overall operation of the facility from which the discharge
originates, or a position of equivalent responsibility, or having overall
responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the written
authorization is submitted to the city.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs): Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures and other management practices to implement
the prohibitions in this chapter. BMPs also include treatment requirements,
operating procedures, and practices to control plant site runoff, spillage or
leaks, sludge or waste disposal or drainage from raw materials storage.
   BYPASS: The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of a
user's treatment facility or its conveyance works.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD: Any regulation containing pollutant
discharge limits promulgated by the U.S. EPA in accordance with sections 307(b)
and (c) of the act (33 USC 1317) which apply to a specific category of users
and which appear in the appropriate subparts of 40 CFR chapter I, subchapter N.
   CATEGORICAL USER: A user regulated by one or more of EPA's categorical
pretreatment standards.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE: The sample resulting from the combination of individual
wastewater samples taken at selected intervals based on an increment of either
flow or time.
   COOLING WATER/NONCONTACT COOLING WATER: Water used for cooling which does
not come into direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste
product or finished product. Cooling water may be generated from any use, such
as air conditioning, heat exchangers, cooling or refrigeration to which the
only pollutant added is heat.
   DOMESTIC USER (RESIDENTIAL USER): Any person who contributes, causes, or
allows the contribution of wastewater into the POTW that is of a similar volume
and/or chemical makeup as that of a residential dwelling unit.
   EXISTING SOURCE: For a categorical industrial user, an existing source is
any source of discharge, the construction or operation of which commenced prior
to the publication by EPA of proposed categorical pretreatment standards, which
will be applicable to such source if the standard is thereafter promulgated in
accordance with section 307 of the act.
   EXISTING USER: For noncategorical users an existing user is defined as any
user that is discharging wastewater prior to the effective date hereof.
   GRAB SAMPLE: A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a onetime basis
without regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of
time.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE: The discharge or the introduction of nondomestic
pollutants into the POTW from a source regulated under section 307(b), (c) or
(d) of the act.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE PERMIT (INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT, DISCHARGE
PERMIT): An authorization or equivalent control document issued by the city to
users discharging wastewater to the POTW. The permit may contain appropriate
pretreatment standards and requirements as set forth in this chapter.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE: Solid, liquid or gaseous waste resulting from any
industrial, manufacturing, trade, or business process or from the development,
recovery or processing of natural resources.
   INTERFERENCE: A discharge which alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, either: 1) inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its
treatment processes or operations; 2) inhibits or disrupts sludge processes,
use or disposal; or 3) is the cause of a violation of the discharge permit
(including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation) or of the
prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of the
following statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder (or more
stringent state or local regulations): section 405 of the clean water act, the
solid waste disposal act (SWDA), including title II more commonly referred to
as the resource conservation and recovery act (RCRA), and including state
regulations contained in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to
subtitle D of the SWDA, the clean air act, and the toxic substances control
act.
   MINOR INDUSTRIAL USER (MIU): A nonresidential user, with an indirect
discharge to the POTW, that does not meet the criteria of a significant
nondomestic user, but whose operation and discharge may warrant inspection to
ensure compliance with discharge prohibitions, pretreatment facility operation,
spill prevention measures, required BMPs and pollution prevention assistance.
   NPDES: National pollutant discharge elimination system permit program as
administered by the USEPA or state.
   NEW SOURCE: 1. Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which
there is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which
commenced after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under
section 307(c) of the act, which will be applicable to such source if such
standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided
that:
         a.   The building, structure, facility, or installation is constructed
at a site at which no other source is located; or
         b.   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         c.   The building, structure, facility, or installation is constructed
for production or wastewater generating processes, which are substantially
independent of an existing source at the same site. Substantial independence
shall be determined by factors such as the extent to which the new facility is
integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility is
engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source.
      2.   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria
of subsections 1b or 1c of this definition, but otherwise alters, replaces or
adds to existing process or production equipment.
      3.   For purposes of this definition, construction of a new source is
deemed to commence when:
         a.   The owner or operator of the facility has entered into a binding
contractual obligation for the purchase of facilities or equipment which are
intended to be used in its operation within a reasonable time. Options to
purchase or contracts which can be terminated or modified without substantial
loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering and design studies do not
constitute a contractual obligation herein; or
         b.   The following are begun as part of a continuous on site
construction:
            (1)   Any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or
equipment, or
            (2)   Significant site preparation work, including clearing,
excavation or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities, which is
necessary for the placement, assembly or installation of new source facilities
or equipment.
   NEW USER (NEW DISCHARGER): A new user is not a new source and is defined as
a user that applies to the city for a new building permit or any person or
business that occupies an existing building and plans to discharge wastewater
to the city's collection system after the effective date hereof.
   NONDOMESTIC COMMERCIAL, OFFICE AND INDUSTRIAL USER; USER: A source of
indirect discharge of effluent into the POTW by means of pipes, conduits,
pumping stations, force mains, constructed drainage ditches, surface water
intercepting ditches, and all constructed devices and appliances appurtenant
thereto. This term includes federal, state, and local facilities as part of the
regulated community, and shall not include "domestic user" as defined herein.
   OTHER WASTES: Decayed wood, sawdust, shavings, bark, lime, refuse, ashes,
garbage, offal, oil, tar, chemicals and all other substances except sewage and
industrial wastes.
   POTW (PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS): Any sewage treatment works owned and
operated by the city and the sewers and conveyance appurtenances discharging
thereto, whether or not owned by the city. The term also means the city of
Horseshoe Bend since the U.S. environmental protection agency issues the NPDES
permits to the city of Horseshoe Bend.
   PASS-THROUGH: The occurrence of an indirect discharge which exits the POTW
into waters of the United States in quantities or concentrations which, alone
or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause
of a violation of any requirement of the POTW's NPDES permit (including an
increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation).
   pH: A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a substance, expressed in
standard units.
   POLLUTANT: Any substance discharged into a POTW or its collection system
which is prohibited or limited by sections
7-4-4,
7-4-5,
7-4-6,
7-4-7, and
7-4-9 of this chapter. This term includes, but is not limited to, dredged
spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge,
munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat,
wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt and industrial,
municipal and agricultural wastes.
   PRETREATMENT: The reduction of the amounts of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties at the
users' location or site in wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in
lieu of discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENT: Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, including categorical pretreatment standards and/or BMPs,
imposed on user by permit.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS OR STANDARDS: Prohibited discharge standards,
categorical pretreatment standards, local limits and/or BMPs established by the
city, state or federal authorities.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGES (PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS): Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
appear in sections
7-4-4 and
7-4-9 of this chapter.
   SEPTIC TANK WASTE (SEPTAGE): Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels,
chemical toilets, campers, trailers, and septic tanks.
   SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE: Substantial physical damage to property, damage to
the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or substantial
and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be expected to
occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property damage does not mean economic
loss caused by delays in production.
   SEWAGE: Water carried human wastes or a combination of water carried wastes
from residences, business buildings, institutions and industrial
establishments.
   SEWER: Any pipe, conduit, ditch or other device used to collect and
transport sewage from the generating source.
   SHALL: Is mandatory.
   SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE: For the purposes of this chapter, significant
noncompliance shall mean:
      1.   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined herein as
those in which sixty six percent (66%) or more of all of the measurements taken
for the same pollutant parameter during a six (6) month period exceed (by any
magnitude) a numeric pretreatment standard or requirement, including
instantaneous limits, as defined or described in this chapter;
      2.   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined herein as those
in which thirty three percent (33%) or more of wastewater measurements taken
for the same pollutant parameter during a six (6) month period equals or
exceeds the product of the numeric pretreatment standard or requirement,
including instantaneous limits, as defined or described in this chapter,
multiplied by the applicable factor (1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oil and grease,
and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
      3.   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement,
including instantaneous limits or narrative standard, that the city believes
has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges, interference, pass-
through, or endangered the health and safety of city personnel or the general
public;
      4.   Any discharge of pollutants that has caused imminent endangerment to
the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the city's exercise of its
emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      5.   Failure to meet, within ninety (90) days of the scheduled date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in an indirect discharge permit or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
      6.   Failure to provide within forty five (45) days after the due date,
any required reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on
compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-
monitoring reports, and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
      7.   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
      8.   Any other violation(s), including a violation of BMPs, which the
city determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the
city's pretreatment program.
   SIGNIFICANT NONDOMESTIC USER (SIU): Any nondomestic user of the POTW that:
      1.   Is subject to categorical pretreatment standards under 40 CFR 403.6
and 40 CFR chapter I, subchapter N, or
      2.   Any other industrial user that discharges an average of three
thousand five hundred (3,500) gpd or more of process wastewater to the POTW
(excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling, and boiler blowdown wastewater); or
contributes a process waste stream which makes up five percent (5%) or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity to the treatment facility
receiving the waste; or is designated as such by the city as defined in 40 CFR
403.3(f), on the basis that the industrial user has a reasonable potential,
either singly or in combination with other contributing industries, for
adversely affecting the POTW's wastewater collection and treatment system, the
quality of sludge, the system's effluent quality, or air emissions generated by
the system or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirements including
BMPs and control of slug discharges.
Upon the subsequent finding that a user, which had met the above criteria, no
longer has reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's operation or
for violating any applicable pretreatment standard or requirement, the city may
at any time, on its own initiative or in response to a written request from the
user and in accordance with procedures in 40 CFR 403.8(f)(6), determine that
such user should not be considered a significant industrial user.
Upon a finding that a significant nondomestic user meets the criteria and all
conditions in 40 CFR 403.3(v)(2), the city may designate the user a
nonsignificant categorical nondomestic user.
   SLUG LOAD: Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration which could cause a
violation of the discharge standards in sections
7-4-4,
7-4-5,
7-4-6, and
7-4-7 of this chapter or any discharge of a nonroutine, episodic nature,
including, but not limited to, an accidental spill or a noncustomary batch
discharge.
   STORMWATER: Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
   THE CITY: The city of Horseshoe Bend, the Horseshoe Bend city council, an
official of Horseshoe Bend, the Horseshoe Bend sewer system, the Horseshoe Bend
public works director or his or her duly authorized designee, representative,
or agent, or POTW.
   TOXIC POLLUTANTS: Pollutants or combination of pollutants listed as toxic in
regulations promulgated by the administrator of the environmental protection
agency under section 307 (33 USC 1317) of the act as referenced in cite 40 CFR
part 423 appendix A. See http://www.epa.gov/waterscience/methods/pollutants-
background.htm .
   TREATMENT PLANT OR WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT: That portion of the POTW
which is designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial
waste.
   UPSET: An exceptional incident in which a user unintentionally and
temporarily is in a state of noncompliance with the standards set forth in
sections
7-4-4,
7-4-5,
7-4-6,
7-4-7, and
7-4-9 of this chapter due to factors beyond the reasonable control of the user
and excluding noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error,
improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack
of preventive maintenance or careless or improper operation thereof.
   USER: See definition of Nondomestic Commercial, Office And Industrial User;
User.
   WASTEWATER: Liquid waste results from industrial and commercial processes
and municipal operations, including liquid or water carried process waste,
cooling and condensing water and sanitary sewage and any other waste. Any other
waste including that which may be combined with any ground water, surface water
or stormwater, that may be discharged to the POTW.
   B.   Abbreviations: The following abbreviations shall have the designated
meanings:
ASPP - Accidental spill prevention plan
BOD - Biochemical oxygen demand
CFR - Code of federal regulations
EPA - U.S. environmental protection agency
gpd - Gallons per day
IDP - Indirect discharge permit
LEL - Lower explosive limit
NPDES - National pollutant discharge elimination system
POTW - Publicly owned treatment works
RCRA - Resource conservation and recovery act
SIC - Standard industrial classification
SWDA - Solid waste disposal act (42 USC 6901 et seq.)
TSS - Total suspended solids
USC - United States Code
(Ord. 228, 6-10-2009)
7-4-4: PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS:
   A.   General Prohibitions: No user shall introduce or cause to be introduced
into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which may cause pass-through or
interference. These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW whether
or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any other
federal, state, or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   B.   Specific Discharge Prohibitions:
      1.   No user shall contribute or cause to be discharged, directly or
indirectly, any of the following described substances into the POTW:
         a.   Any wastewater having a pH less than 6.5 and not higher than 8.5.
         b.   Any toxic and nontoxic pollutants including oxygen demanding
pollutants (BOD, etc.) in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction,
to injure or interfere with any wastewater treatment process, to constitute a
hazard to humans or animals or to exceed the limitations set forth in
categorical pretreatment standards.
         c.   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in another way to the
POTW or to the operation of the POTW. At no time shall two (2) successive
readings on an explosion hazard meter, at the point of discharge into the
system (or at any point in the system), be more than five percent (5%) nor any
single reading over ten percent (10%) of the lower explosive limit (LEL) of the
meter. Prohibited materials include, but are not limited to, gasoline,
kerosene, naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones,
aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides,
sulfides and any other substance which the city deems to be a fire hazard or a
hazard to the system.
         d.   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than one hundred forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F) (60°C) using the test
methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21.
         e.   Any solid or viscous substances which will or may cause
obstruction to the flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of
the wastewater system, such as, but not limited to: grease, garbage with
particles greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension, animal guts or
tissues, paunch manure, bones, hair, hides, or fleshings, entrails, whole
blood, feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent limestone or marble dust, metal,
glass, straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops,
wastepaper, wood, plastics, gas, tar, asphalt residues, and residues from
refining, or processing of fuel or lubricating oil, mud or glass grinding or
polishing wastes.
         f.   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass-through.
         g.   Any noxious or malodorous liquid, gases or solids which either
singly or by interaction are capable of creating a public nuisance or hazard to
life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers for their maintenance
and repair.
         h.   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors,
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems.
         i.   Any substance which may cause the POTW's effluent or treatment
residues, sludges or scums to be unsuitable for reclamation and reuse or to
interfere with the reclamation process. In no case shall a substance discharged
to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance with sludge use or disposal
criteria, guidelines or regulations developed under section 405 of the act; any
criteria, guidelines or regulations affecting sludge use or disposal developed
pursuant to the solid waste disposal act, the clean air act, the toxic
substances control act or state standards applicable to the sludge management
method being used.
         j.   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES and/
or other disposal system permits.
         k.   Any substance with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions.
         l.   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference; but in no case,
wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into the POTW treatment plant
which exceeds forty degrees Celsius (40°C) (104°F). If, in the opinion of the
city, lower temperatures of such wastes could harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process or equipment; have an adverse effect on the receiving streams
or otherwise endanger life, health or property; or constitute a nuisance, the
city may prohibit such discharges.
         m.   Any wastewater at a flow rate and/or pollutant discharge rate
which is excessive over a relatively short time period so that there is a
treatment process upset and subsequent loss of treatment efficiency.
         n.   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of
such half-life or concentration as exceed limits established by the city in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
         o.   Any wastewater which causes a hazard to human life or creates a
public nuisance.
      2.   Pollutants, substances, or wastewater prohibited by this chapter
shall not be processed or stored in such a manner that could result in their
discharge to the POTW.
   C.   Prohibitions On Storm Drainage And Ground Water: Stormwater, ground
water, rainwater, street drainage, subsurface drainage or yard drainage shall
not be discharged through direct or indirect connections to the wastewater
collection system unless specifically authorized by the city. The city may
approve the discharge of such water only when no reasonable alternative method
of disposal and/or treatment is available. If authorization is granted for the
discharge of such waters into the sewer, an indirect discharge permit may be
issued. The user shall pay all applicable charges and fees and meet such other
conditions as required by the city.
   D.   Prohibitions On Unpolluted Water: Unpolluted water in excess of two
thousand (2,000) gallons per day, including, but not limited to, cooling water,
process water or blowdown from cooling towers or evaporative coolers shall not
be discharged through direct or indirect connection to the sewer unless
specifically authorized by the city. The city may approve the discharge of such
water only when no reasonable alternative method of disposal and/or treatment
is available. If authorization is granted for the discharge of such waters into
the sewer, an indirect discharge permit may be issued. The user shall pay all
applicable charges and fees and meet such other conditions as required by the
city.
   E.   Prohibition On Hazardous Waste: Any substance that exhibits a
characteristic of a hazardous waste or is listed as a hazardous waste pursuant
to 40 CFR 261 shall not be discharged through direct or indirect connections to
the wastewater collection system unless a permit is issued by the city. The
city may approve the discharge of such wastes only if the user has complied
with all state and federal hazardous waste management regulations; no
reasonable alternative method of disposal and/or treatment is available; and
the discharge will not cause upset, pass-through, or interference, or otherwise
endanger life, health, or property. If a permit is granted for the discharge of
such wastes, the user shall pay the applicable charges and fees and meet such
other conditions as required by the city.
   F.   Limitations On Point Of Discharge: No person shall discharge any
substances directly into a manhole or other opening into the sewer other than
through an approved building sewer connection unless specifically authorized by
the city. If authorization is granted, an indirect discharge permit may be
issued. The user shall pay all applicable charges and fees and meet such other
conditions as required by the city.
   G.   Septage And Vehicle Transported Waste:
      1.   No septic tanks are allowed within city limits.
      2.   Recreational vehicle sanitary waste disposal stations available to
the public shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter. Issuance of an
indirect discharge permit and payment of appropriate fees may be required.
Recreational vehicle septage waste disposal through a city approved building
sewer connection for such purposes at a private residence is permitted.
   H.   Special Cleanup Projects: Wastewater generated from, including, but not
limited to, the cleanup of spills, leaking underground storage tanks,
monitoring wells or other similar sources shall not be discharged through
direct or indirect connections to the sewer unless an indirect discharge permit
is issued by the city. The city may approve the discharge of such wastewater
only when no reasonable alternative method of disposal and/or treatment is
available. If a permit is granted for the discharge of such wastewaters into
the sewer, the user shall pay the applicable charges and fees and meet such
other conditions as required by the city. Each temporary discharge permit must
be reviewed and reissued if the user wishes to discharge past the original
expiration date. (Ord. 228, 6-10-2009)
7-4-5: CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS:
Categorical pretreatment standards as amended and promulgated by the U.S.
environmental protection agency (EPA) pursuant to the clean water act and found
in the appropriate parts of 40 CFR chapter I, subchapter N, is hereby
incorporated and shall be enforceable by this chapter. (Ord. 228, 6-10-2009)
7-4-6: STATE REQUIREMENTS:
State requirements and limitations on discharges to the POTW shall be met by
all users that are subject to such standards in any instance in which they are
more stringent than federal requirements and limitations, or those in this
chapter or any other applicable ordinance(s). (Ord. 228, 6-10-2009)
7-4-7: SPECIAL AGREEMENTS:
The city reserves the right to enter into special agreements with users setting
out special terms under which they may discharge to the POTW. In no case will a
special agreement waive compliance with a categorical pretreatment standard or
federal pretreatment requirement. However, the user may request a net gross
adjustment to a categorical standard in accordance with 40 CFR 403.15. They may
also request a variance from the categorical pretreatment standard from the
approval authority in accordance with 40 CFR 403.13. (Ord. 228, 6-10-2009)
7-4-8: DILUTION:
No user shall increase the use of potable or process water or, in any other
way, attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for
adequate treatment to achieve compliance with the local limits or the
categorical pretreatment standards. The city may impose mass limitations on
users that are using dilution to meet the pretreatment standards or
requirements of this chapter, or in other cases where the imposition of mass
limitations is deemed appropriate by the city. (Ord. 228, 6-10-2009)
7-4-9: DEADLINE FOR COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Compliance by existing sources covered by categorical pretreatment
standards shall be within six (6) months of the date the standard is effective
unless a shorter compliance time is specified in the appropriate standard. The
city of Horseshoe Bend shall establish a final compliance deadline date for any
existing user not covered by categorical pretreatment standards or for any
categorical user when local limits for said user are more restrictive than
EPA's categorical pretreatment standards. New users shall not be allowed to
operate facilities unless pretreatment operations are in place.
   B.   Any indirect discharge permit issued to a categorical user shall not
contain a compliance date beyond any deadline date established in EPA's
categorical pretreatment standards. Any other existing user or a categorical
user that must comply with a more stringent local limit, and is in
noncompliance with any local limits, shall be provided with a compliance
schedule placed in an indirect discharge permit to ensure compliance within the
shortest time feasible. (Ord. 228, 6-10-2009)
7-4-10: ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES:
   A.   Each user shall provide protection from the accidental discharge of
prohibited or regulated materials or substances established by this chapter.
Where deemed necessary by the city, facilities to prevent accidental discharge
of prohibited materials shall be provided and maintained at the user's cost and
expense. Significant nondomestic industrial users are required to notify the
city immediately of any changes at its facility affecting potential for a slug
load discharge. When required, an accidental spill prevention plan (ASPP)
showing facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the city for review and approval before construction of the
facility or implementation of procedures. Any user required to develop and
implement an ASPP shall submit a plan which addresses, at a minimum, the
following elements:
      1.   Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges;
      2.   Description of stored chemicals;
      3.   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW of any accidental or
slug discharge. Such notification must also be given for any discharge which
would violate any of the standards in sections
7-4-4,
7-4-5,
7-4-6,
7-4-7, and
7-4-8 of this chapter. Accidental spill or slug load notification instructions
shall be posted in conspicuous places on the user's premises advising employees
whom to call; and
      4.   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic
pollutants (including solvents), and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
   B.   Each existing user shall complete and submit its ASPP within sixty (60)
days after notification by the city. Each user shall implement its ASPP as
submitted after such ASPP has been reviewed and approved by the city. Review
and approval of such plans and operating procedures by the city shall not
relieve the user from the responsibility to modify its facility as necessary to
meet the requirements of this chapter.
   C.   Users shall notify the city wastewater treatment plant immediately upon
the occurrence of a slug load or accidental discharge of substances prohibited
by this chapter. The notification shall include location of discharge, date and
time thereof, type of waste, concentration and volume, and corrective actions.
Within five (5) days following an accidental discharge, the user shall submit
to the city a detailed written report describing the cause of the discharge and
the measures to be taken by the user to prevent similar future occurrences. Any
user that discharges a slug load of prohibited materials shall be liable for
any expense, loss or damage to the POTW, in addition to the amount of any fines
imposed on the city on account thereof under state or federal law. (Ord. 228,
6-10-2009)
7-4-11: PRETREATMENT FACILITIES:
   A.   General Requirements: Users shall provide necessary wastewater
pretreatment as required to comply with this chapter and shall achieve
compliance with all applicable pretreatment standards within the time
limitations as specified by appropriate statutes, regulations and ordinances.
Any facilities required to pretreat wastewater to a level acceptable to the
city shall be provided, properly operated and maintained at the user's expense.
Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities shall be submitted to the
city for review and must be acceptable to the city before construction of the
facility. The review of such plans shall in no way relieve the discharger from
the responsibility of modifying its facility or operations as necessary to
produce an effluent acceptable to the city both under the provisions of this
chapter. Within a reasonable time after the completion of the wastewater
pretreatment facility, the user shall furnish its operations and maintenance
procedures for the city to review. Any subsequent significant changes in the
pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall be reported to and be
accepted by the city prior to the user's initiation of the changes.
   B.   Additional Pretreatment Measures: Whenever deemed necessary, the
pretreatment coordinator may require users to restrict their discharge during
peak flow periods, designate that certain wastewaters be discharged only into
specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate points of discharge, separate
sewage waste streams from industrial waste streams, and such other conditions
as may be necessary to protect the POTW, personnel operating the POTW, the
public health or to determine the user's compliance with the requirements of
this chapter.
   C.   Interceptors: Suitable and adequate grease and oil, or sand
interceptors shall be provided for the proper handling of wastewater containing
grease, oil, sand or other substances prohibited by this chapter; except that
such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All interception
units shall be of a type and capacity approved by the city and shall be so
located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such interceptors
shall be provided, inspected, cleaned regularly in accordance with established
BMPs, and maintained in proper operating condition by the user and at the
user's expense. The introduction of chemical, bacterial, enzyme, or any other
additive into an interceptor, directly or indirectly, that causes interference
with the normal operation of the unit or causes pass-through of prohibited
substances is prohibited. Interceptor maintenance and cleaning records shall be
maintained by the user and made available to pretreatment inspectors for review
upon request. (Ord. 228, 6-10-2009)
7-4-12: FEES:
   A.   General Charges And Fees: Users of the POTW shall pay reasonable
charges and fees to compensate the city for its costs associated with
permitting, monitoring, inspection, surveillance and laboratory analyses
required by the federal pretreatment program and this chapter. Sewer system
connection and service charges and fees are established by a separate
ordinance.
   B.   Charges And Fees Related To Noncompliance: If costs are incurred beyond
normal operation through involvement with noncomplying users, the city will
charge the noncomplying user such costs and fees as provided for in subsection
7-4-24C of this chapter. (Ord. 228, 6-10-2009)
7-4-13: WASTEWATER DISCHARGES:
It shall be unlawful to discharge sewage, nondomestic wastes or other wastes to
any sewer within the jurisdiction of the city, and/or to the POTW, without
having first complied with the terms of this chapter, or without having first
obtained the city's approval of a compliance schedule submitted by the user.
(Ord. 228, 6-10-2009)
7-4-14: WASTEWATER DISCHARGE DATA DISCLOSURE:
   A.   General Disclosure: All users proposing to connect to or to discharge
sewage, nondomestic wastes and other wastes to the POTW shall disclose and
submit all relevant information as requested by the city.
   B.   Disclosure Forms:
      1.   Significant nondomestic users shall complete and file with the city
a data disclosure form prescribed by the city. Existing sources shall file data
disclosure forms within one hundred eighty (180) days of promulgation of an
applicable categorical pretreatment standard and ninety (90) days upon
notification by the city. New sources shall file a data disclosure form at
least ninety (90) days prior to commencement of their discharge to the POTW.
Certain new and existing users may be required to submit data disclosure forms
as prescribed herein. This data disclosure form satisfies the requirement of
the user baseline monitoring report as described in 40 CFR 403.12(b). The
disclosure to be made by the user shall be made on written forms provided by
the city and shall include:
         a.   Disclosure of name, address and location of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner.
         b.   Disclosure of standard industrial classification (SIC) number
according to the most current edition of the "Standard Industrial
Classification Manual" as published by the United States office of management
and budget.
         c.   Identification of the pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process.
         d.   Disclosure of wastewater constituents and characteristics. The
user shall submit the results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature
and concentration (daily maximum and average), or mass where appropriate, of
regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process. Although the
city may specify additional or more frequent samples, a minimum of one sample,
representative of daily operations, is required to compile the data necessary
to comply with this section. Sampling and analyses shall be performed in
accordance with section
7-4-19 of this chapter.
         e.   Disclosure of time and duration of discharges, including copies
of flow charts.
         f.   Disclosure of average daily and maximum daily wastewater flow
rates, in gallons per day, including any daily, monthly or seasonal variations,
of all regulated or manufacturing process streams and other streams as
necessary to allow use of the combined waste stream formula of 40 CFR 403.6(e).
All flows shall be measured unless other verifiable techniques are approved by
the city due to cost or infeasibility.
         g.   Disclosure of site plans, floor plans, plumbing plans and details
to show all sewers, sewer connections, inspection manholes, sampling chambers
and appurtenances by size and location.
         h.   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or may be discharged to the sewers
or works of the city and a brief description of the nature, average rate of
production and standard industrial classification of the operations.
         i.   A statement regarding whether or not compliance is being achieved
with this chapter on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional
pretreatment is required for the user to comply with this chapter. The
statement on compliance shall be certified to by a qualified professional and
reviewed and signed by an authorized representative of the user.
         j.   Where additional pretreatment and/or operation and maintenance
activities will be required to comply with this chapter, including categorical
standards, the user shall provide a compliance schedule consisting of a
declaration of the shortest schedule by which the user will provide such
additional pretreatment and/or implementation of additional operational and
maintenance activities. A compliance schedule pursuant to this section must
meet the requirements outlined in section
7-4-15 of this chapter.
         k.   All data disclosure forms shall be signed by an "authorized
representative of the user" as defined in section
7-4-3 of this chapter, and when required by the city, a registered professional
engineer.
         l.   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and
rate of production.
         m.   Type and amount of raw materials used, including chemicals used
in process, which may be discharged to sanitary system (average daily and
maximum daily).
         n.   List of environmental control permits held by or for the
facility.
      2.   The city will evaluate the completeness of the data disclosure form
furnished by the user and may require additional information. The city may
require inspection and sampling manholes and/or flow measuring or recording and
sampling equipment to assure compliance with this chapter. Within thirty (30)
days, after full evaluation and acceptance of the data furnished, the city
shall notify the user of the city's acceptance through the issuance of an
indirect discharge permit, or rejection thereof. Incomplete or inaccurate
applications will not be processed and will be promptly returned to the user
with an explanation of necessary revisions. Any schedules or timetables
submitted by the user shall be subject to review and approval by the city. The
city may deny any application for an indirect discharge permit. (Ord. 228, 6-
10-2009)
7-4-15: COMPLIANCE SCHEDULES FOR MEETING APPLICABLE PRETREATMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   The schedule will contain milestone dates for the commencement and
completion of major events leading to the construction and operation of
additional pretreatment required for the user to comply with the requirements
of this chapter, including categorical standards. Examples of such milestone
dates include hiring an engineer, completing preliminary plans, executing
contract for major components, commencing construction, completing construction
and other acts which may be necessary to achieve compliance with this chapter.
   B.   Under no circumstance shall the city permit a time increment of any
single step directed toward compliance which exceeds nine (9) months.
   C.   Not later than fourteen (14) days following each milestone date in the
schedule and the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress
report to the city, including no less than a statement as to whether or not it
complied with the increment of progress represented by that milestone date and,
if not, the date on which it expects to comply with this increment of progress,
the reason for delay and the steps being taken by the user to return the
construction to the approved schedule. (Ord. 228, 6-10-2009)
7-4-16: INDIRECT DISCHARGE PERMIT (IDP):
   A.   Minor Nondomestic Users: The city may, in its discretion, issue a
general discharge permit to a minor nondomestic user (MIU) to ensure compliance
with applicable pretreatment requirements including implementation of an
accidental spill prevention plan, installation and operation of pretreatment
facilities, or required BMPs. If a permit is issued, the user shall pay the
applicable charges and fees and meet such other conditions as required by the
city.
   B.   Significant Nondomestic Users:
      1.   No significant nondomestic industrial user shall discharge
wastewater into the POTW without first obtaining an indirect discharge permit.
Any violation of the terms and conditions of an indirect discharge permit shall
be deemed a violation of this chapter and subjects the user or permittee to the
sanctions set out in this chapter. Obtaining an indirect discharge permit does
not relieve a permittee of its obligation to comply with all federal and state
pretreatment standards or requirements or with any other requirements of
federal, state, and local laws.
      2.   The city shall issue to each significant nondomestic user an
indirect discharge permit, which will be based on information in the data
disclosure form and include:
         a.   Any fees and charges to be paid upon initial issuance.
         b.   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater pollutant
concentrations, loadings or characteristics.
         c.   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulations and equalization.
         d.   Self-monitoring requirements including flow monitoring frequency
and method, sampling frequencies, number, types and standards for tests.
         e.   Authorized points of discharge and regulated processes.
         f.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities.
         g.   Compliance schedules.
         h.   Special conditions as the city may reasonably require, such as
sampling locations or circumstances of a given discharge.
         i.   Reporting requirements including, but not limited to,
notification of accidental spills, noncompliance, and discharge/process
changes.
         j.   Requirements for submission of special technical reports or
discharge reports where same differs from those prescribed by this chapter.
         k.   Any special agreements the city chooses to continue or develop
between the city and the permittee.
         l.   Standard conditions as apply to all significant industrial users.
      3.   Indirect discharge permits shall be issued for a specific time
period, not to exceed five (5) years. Each permit shall indicate an effective
date and an expiration date.
      4.   Indirect discharge permits are issued to a specific user for a
specific operation and are not assignable to another user or transferable to
any other location without prior written approval of the city.
      5.   Indirect discharge permits shall be voidable upon cessation of
operations or transfer of business ownership. The indirect discharge permit
issued to a particular user is void upon the issuance of a new indirect
discharge permit to that user.
      6.   The city may authorize a significant user subject to a categorical
pretreatment standard to forego sampling of a pollutant regulated by
categorical pretreatment standard if the user has demonstrated through sampling
and other technical factors that the pollutant is neither present nor expected
to be present in the discharge, or is present only at background levels from
the intake water and without an increase in the pollutant due to activities by
the user. The authorization is subject to the conditions as outlined in CFR
403.12(e)(2)(i) through (vii).
      7.   The city may authorize a significant user subject to a categorical
pretreatment standard to reduce its reporting requirement to no less frequently
than once a year, unless required more frequently in a pretreatment standard or
by the approval authority, where the user meets all of the conditions outlined
in CFR 403.12(e)(3).
   C.   Extrajurisdictional Users: Any user located beyond the city limits
required to obtain an indirect discharge permit shall submit a permit
application (DDF) as outlined in section
7-4-14 of this chapter.
   D.   Temporary Indirect Discharge Permits: The city may issue indirect
discharge permits to address temporary nondomestic discharges to the POTW. Each
temporary discharge must receive prior written approval from the city.
Wastewater sources that are subject to temporary permitting include, but are
not limited to, stormwater, ground water, cooling water, process water, cleanup
water from spills, leaking underground storage tanks, and monitoring wells.
Each temporary discharge permit must be reviewed and reissued if the user
wishes to discharge past the original expiration date. Users issued temporary
indirect discharge permits shall pay all applicable charges and fees and meet
such other conditions as required by the city.
   E.   Indirect Discharge Permit Appeals: Users will be provided with a draft
permit for their review and comment prior to permit issuance. Any person,
including the user, may petition the city to reconsider the terms of an
indirect discharge permit as follows:
      1.   The written petition must be filed with the city clerk within twenty
(20) days of the permit's issuance. Failure to submit a timely petition for
reconsideration shall be deemed a waiver of the right to appeal.
      2.   In its petition, the appealing party must indicate the specific
permit conditions objected to, the reasons for this objection, and shall
present alternative conditions to meet the intent of this chapter.
      3.   The effectiveness of the permit shall not be stayed pending the
appeal.
      4.   The public works director or his/her designee shall provide written
action to the appealing party within ten (10) working days from the date the
appeal was filed. If the public works director or his/her designee fails to
respond within ten (10) working days, the petition for reconsideration shall be
deemed denied.
      5.   Decisions of the public works director or his/her designee regarding
the petition for reconsideration may be appealed to the city council by filing
a written request for appeal with the city clerk within fifteen (15) days of
the decision of the public works director or his/her designee. The city clerk
shall address the appeal at its next scheduled meeting. The appealing party may
appear and present evidence and testimony at such meeting. The decision of the
city council regarding the petition shall be in writing.
      6.   Decisions of the Horseshoe Bend city council may be appealed within
twenty (20) days from the city's ruling to the district court for the fourth
judicial district of the state of Idaho.
   F.   Indirect Discharge Permit Modifications: The terms and conditions of an
indirect discharge permit may be subject to modification by the city of
Horseshoe Bend at any time as limitations or requirements are modified or other
just cause exists. Any permit modifications, which result in new conditions,
shall include a reasonable time schedule for compliance as determined by the
city of Horseshoe Bend. Other reasons for modification include, but are not
limited to, the following:
      1.   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state, or local
pretreatment standards or requirements;
      2.   To address significant alterations or additions to the user's
operation, processes, or wastewater since the time of permit issuance or the
last modification;
      3.   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
      4.   To incorporate special conditions resulting from the issuance of a
special order or an enforcement action; or
      5.   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat
to the city's POTW, city personnel, or the receiving waters;
      6.   Violation of any terms or conditions of the wastewater discharge
permit;
      7.   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
      8.   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 CFR 403.13;
      9.   To correct typographical or other errors in the indirect discharge
permit.
   G.   Indirect Discharge Permit Reissuance: A user, required to have an
indirect discharge permit, shall submit a written request for permit renewal at
least sixty (60) days prior to permit expiration. The city shall then provide
the user with the necessary renewal forms and instructions. A user, whose
existing indirect discharge permit has expired and has submitted its renewal
application request within the specified time period, shall be deemed to have
an effective indirect discharge permit until the city issues or denies a new
indirect discharge permit. A user, whose existing indirect discharge permit has
expired and that fails to submit its renewal application request within the
specified time period, shall be deemed to be discharging without an indirect
discharge permit and shall be in violation of the same.
   H.   Indirect Discharge Permit Revocation: Indirect discharge permits may be
revoked for, but not limited to, the following reasons:
      1.   Failure to notify the city of significant changes to the wastewater
prior to the changed discharge;
      2.   Failure to provide prior notification to the city of changed
conditions;
      3.   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the data disclosure form or subsequent permit renewal submittals;
      4.   Falsifying self-monitoring reports;
      5.   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
      6.   Refusing to allow the city timely access to the facility premises
and records;
      7.   Failure to meet discharge limitations;
      8.   Failure to pay fines;
      9.   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
      10.   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater discharge
permit application;
      11.   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of a permitted
facility;
      12.   If the city has to invoke its emergency provisions;
      13.   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any terms
of an indirect discharge permit or this chapter. (Ord. 228, 6-10-2009)
7-4-17: STANDARDS MODIFICATIONS:
All categorical pretreatment standards adopted by the U.S. EPA after the
promulgation of this chapter shall be enforceable by the city through this
chapter. Where a user, subject to a categorical pretreatment standard, has not
previously submitted a data disclosure form as required by section
7-4-14 of this chapter, the user shall file a data disclosure form with the
city within one hundred eighty (180) days after the promulgation of the
applicable categorical pretreatment standard by the U.S. EPA. In addition, any
user operating on the basis of a previous filing of a disclosure statement,
shall submit to the city within one hundred eighty (180) days after the
promulgation of an applicable categorical pretreatment standard, the additional
information required by subsections
7-4-14B1c, B1d, B1f and B1j of this chapter. If deemed necessary by the city,
where categorical pretreatment standards are more stringent, the indirect
discharge permit will be modified. The user shall be informed of any proposed
changes in this chapter at least thirty (30) days prior to the effective date
of change. Any changes or new conditions in this chapter shall include a
reasonable time schedule for compliance. (Ord. 228, 6-10-2009)
7-4-18: USER NOTIFICATION AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Final Compliance Report: Within ninety (90) days following the date for
final compliance by the user with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements set forth in this chapter or an indirect discharge permit, or
within ninety (90) days after commencement of the introduction of wastewater
into the POTW by a new user, including new source users, any user when required
shall submit to the city a report indicating the nature and concentration of
all prohibited or regulated substances contained in its discharge, and the
average and maximum daily flow in gallons. The report shall state whether the
applicable pretreatment standards or requirements are being met on a consistent
basis and, if not, what additional operation, maintenance, and/or pretreatment
is necessary to bring the user into compliance with the applicable pretreatment
standards or requirements. This statement shall be signed by an "authorized
representative of the user" as defined in section
7-4-3 of this chapter. For categorical users, this report shall contain the
information outlined in subsections
7-4-14B1c, B1d, B1f, and B1k of this chapter.
   B.   Periodic Compliance Reports:
      1.   Any user subject to a pretreatment standard set forth in this
chapter, after the compliance date of such pretreatment standard, or, in the
case of a new user, after commencement of the discharge to the POTW, shall
submit to the city at six (6) month intervals as prescribed in the indirect
discharge permit, unless required more frequently by the city, a report
indicating the nature and concentration of prohibited or regulated substances
in the effluent which are limited by the pretreatment standards hereof. In
addition, this report shall include a record of all measured or estimated
average and maximum daily flows during the reporting period. Flows shall be
reported on the basis of actual measurement, provided, however, where cost or
feasibility considerations justify, the city may accept reports of average and
maximum flows estimated by verifiable techniques. This report shall also
include any additional information as may be required by this chapter or the
indirect discharge permit, including production data and flow measurements from
any dilute or nonregulated waste streams.
      2.   Reports of users shall contain all results of sampling and analyses
of the discharge, including the flow and the nature and concentration, or
production and mass where required by the city. All sample results shall
indicate the time, date and place of sampling, and methods of analyses, and
shall certify that the discharge sampled is representative of discharges of
normal work cycles and expected pollutant discharges from the user. The
frequency of monitoring by the user shall be prescribed within the indirect
discharge permit. If a user sampled and analyzed more frequently than what was
required in its indirect discharge permit, it must submit all results of
sampling and analyses of the discharge as part of its self-monitoring report.
      3.   All users not required to obtain an indirect discharge permit shall
provide appropriate reports to the city as may be required.
   C.   Noncompliance Notification, Resampling, And Reporting: If sampling
performed by a user indicates a violation, the user shall notify the city
within twenty four (24) hours of becoming aware of the violation. The user
shall also repeat the sampling within five (5) days and submit the results of
the repeat analysis to the city within thirty (30) days after becoming aware of
the violation, except the user is not required to resample if:
      1.   The city performs sampling at the user at a frequency of at least
once per month, or
      2.   The city performs sampling at the user between the time when the
user performs its initial sampling and the time when the user receives the
results of this sampling.
   D.   Notification Of Significant Production Changes: Any users operating
under an indirect discharge permit incorporating equivalent mass or
concentration limits shall notify the city within two (2) business days after
the user has a reasonable basis to know that the production level will
significantly change within the next calendar month. Any user not providing a
notice of such anticipated change will be required to comply with the existing
limits contained in its indirect discharge permit.
   E.   Hazardous Waste Notification:
      1.   Any user that is discharging more than fifteen (15) kilograms of
hazardous wastes as defined in 40 CFR 261 (listed or characteristic wastes) in
a calendar month or any facility discharging any amount of acutely hazardous
wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e) is required to provide a
onetime notification in writing to the city, EPA regional waste management
division director, and Idaho division of environmental quality. Any existing
user exempt from this notification, shall comply with the requirements
contained herein within thirty (30) days of becoming aware of a discharge of
fifteen (15) kilograms of hazardous wastes in a calendar month or the discharge
of acutely hazardous wastes to the city sewer system. Such notification shall
include:
         a.   The name of the hazardous waste as set forth in 40 CFR part 261,
         b.   The EPA hazardous waste number, and
         c.   The type of discharge (continuous, batch, or other).
         d.   If an industrial user discharges more than one hundred (100)
kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the sewer system, the
notification shall also contain the following information to the extent it is
known or readily available to the industrial user:
            (1)   An identification of the hazardous constituents contained in
the wastes,
            (2)   An estimation of the mass and concentration of such
constituents in the waste streams discharged during that calendar month, and
            (3)   An estimation of the mass of constituents in the waste
streams expected to be discharged during the following twelve (12) months.
      2.   These notification requirements do not apply to pollutants already
reported under the self-monitoring requirements. Whenever the EPA publishes
final rules identifying additional hazardous wastes or new characteristics of
hazardous waste, a user shall notify the city of the discharge of such a
substance within ninety (90) days of the effective date of such regulations. In
the case of any notification made pursuant to this section, an industrial user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
   F.   Notice Of Potential Problems, Including Accidental Spills And Slug
Loads: Any user shall notify the city immediately of all discharges that may
cause problems to the POTW, including any slug loads, as defined in section
7-4-3 of this chapter. The notification shall include the concentration and
volume and corrective action. Steps being taken to reduce any adverse impact to
the POTW should also be noted during the notification. Any user that discharges
pollutants shall be liable for any expense, loss, or damage to the POTW, in
addition to the amount of any fines imposed on the city under state or federal
law.
   G.   Notification Of Changed Discharge: All users shall promptly notify the
city in advance of any substantial change in the volume or character of
pollutants in their discharge, including significant manufacturing process
changes, pretreatment modifications, and the listed or characteristic hazardous
wastes for which the user has submitted initial notification under subsection E
of this section. (Ord. 228, 6-10-2009)
7-4-19: ANALYTICAL AND SAMPLING TECHNIQUES:
   A.   Analytical Requirements: All pollutant analyses, including sampling
techniques, whether performed by the user, an independent contractor, or the
city, shall be performed in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 CFR
part 136 and amendments thereto, unless otherwise specified in an applicable
categorical pretreatment standard. Where 40 CFR part 136 does not include a
sampling or analytical technique for the pollutant in question, sampling and
analyses shall be performed in accordance with sampling and analytical
procedures approved by the administrator of the U.S. EPA.
   B.   Sample Collection:
      1.   Except as indicated in subsection B2 of this section, the user shall
collect wastewater samples using flow proportional composite collection
techniques. The city may authorize the use of time proportional sampling or the
appropriate minimum number of grab samples where the user demonstrates that
this will provide a representative sample of the effluent being discharged. In
addition, grab samples may be required to show compliance with instantaneous
discharge limits.
      2.   Unless otherwise prescribed by the city, samples for oil and grease,
temperature, pH, cyanide, phenols, sulfides, and volatile organic compounds
must be obtained using grab collection techniques. Multiple grab samples
collected during a twenty four (24) hour period may be composited prior to
analysis. (Dilution may be a problem in composited.)
      3.   Samples shall be collected immediately downstream from pretreatment
facilities if such exist or immediately downstream from the regulated or
manufacturing process if no pretreatment exists or as determined by the city
and contained in the user's indirect discharge permit. (Ord. 228, 6-10-2009)
7-4-20: MONITORING FACILITIES:
   A.   When required, each user shall provide and operate at the user's own
expense, a monitoring facility to allow inspection by user and others, sampling
and flow measurement of each sewer discharge to the city. Flows greater than
fifty (50) gpm shall be monitored. Each monitoring facility shall be situated
on the user's premises, except where such a location would be impractical or
cause undue hardship on the user. The city may concur with the facility being
constructed in the public street or sidewalk area providing that the facility
is located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked vehicles.
There shall be ample room in or near such sampling facility to allow accurate
sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The facility, sampling and
measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper
operating condition at the expense of the user. Where required by federal,
state, or local regulations, such monitoring facilities shall be provided at
the end of a process or production unit, or following treatment of a particular
process or production unit, from which regulated toxic pollutants are
discharged.
   B.   All monitoring facilities shall be constructed and maintained in
accordance with all applicable construction standards and specifications.
Construction shall be completed within one hundred twenty (120) days (or such
longer period as may be allowed by the city) of receipt by the user of the
indirect discharge permit. (Ord. 228, 6-10-2009)
7-4-21: INSPECTION AND SAMPLING:
   A.   Right To Enter: The city shall have the right to enter the facilities
of any user to ascertain whether the purpose of this chapter, and any indirect
discharge permit or order issued hereunder, is being met and whether the user
is complying with all requirements thereof. The user shall allow the city or
its representatives, upon presentation of credentials of identification, to
enter upon the premises of the user at all reasonable hours, including all
hours of operation or discharging for the purposes of inspection, sampling or
records examination. The city shall have the right to set up on the user's
property, or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct
flow monitoring and sampling of the user's operations.
   B.   User Security: Where a user has security measures in force which
require proper identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the
user shall make necessary arrangements with its security personnel so that,
upon presentation of suitable identification, city staff will be permitted to
enter without delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
   C.   Right To Safe And Ready Access: The city shall have safe and ready
access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling,
records examination and copying, and performance of any additional duties. Any
temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the facility to
be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the user at the
written or verbal request of the city and shall not be replaced. The costs of
clearing such access shall be borne by the user. Unreasonable delays in
allowing the city safe access to the user's premises shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.
   D.   Search Warrants: If the city is refused access to a building,
structure, or property, or any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate
probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or
that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection
and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this chapter or any
permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health,
safety and welfare of the community, then the city shall seek issuance of a
search warrant from the district court in the fourth judicial district of
Idaho. (Ord. 228, 6-10-2009)
7-4-22: CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION:
Information and data on a user obtained from data disclosure forms, reports,
surveys, indirect discharge permits, and monitoring programs, and from city
inspection and sampling activities, shall be available to the public or other
governmental agency without restriction unless the user specifically requests,
and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the city, that the release of
such information would divulge information, processes or methods of production
entitled to protection as trade secrets under applicable state law. When
requested and demonstrated by the user that the information furnished be kept
confidential, the portions of a report which might disclose trade secrets or
secret processes shall not be made available for inspection by the public, but
shall be made available immediately upon request to governmental agencies for
uses related to the NPDES program or pretreatment program, and in enforcement
proceedings involving the user furnishing the information. Wastewater
constituents and characteristics and other "effluent data" as defined by 40 CFR
2.302 will not be recognized as confidential information and will be available
to the public without restriction. Any such claim must be asserted at the time
of submission by clearly indicating the words "confidential business
information" on each page containing such information. If no claim is made at
the time of submission, all information will be available to the public. (Ord.
228, 6-10-2009)
7-4-23: ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES:
   A.   User Prohibited Conduct: A user shall not: 1) fail to report accurately
the wastewater constituents and characteristics of its discharge; 2) fail to
report significant changes in wastewater constituents or characteristics; 3)
refuse reasonable access to the user's premises by representatives of the city
for the purpose of inspection or monitoring; or 4) violate any state or federal
pretreatment regulation, the provisions of the indirect discharge permit, the
provisions of this chapter or any order of the city with respect thereto. The
city may seek any or all of the remedies or penalties provided in this chapter
(including termination of wastewater treatment service) against any user that
violates any of the foregoing prohibitions. The city reserves the right,
however, to take other action against any user when the circumstances warrant.
Further, the city of Horseshoe Bend is empowered to take more than one
enforcement action against any noncompliant user. These actions may be taken
concurrently. Issuance of a compliance order, administrative fines, penalties,
and/or cease and desist orders shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite for,
taking any other action against a noncompliant user.
   B.   Notification Of Violation; Administrative Adjustment: Whenever the city
finds that any user has violated the prohibitions in subsection A of this
section, the city shall cause to be served upon such user a written notice
either in person or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested,
stating the nature of the alleged violation or violations. The notice may also
state what fine, penalty or other remedy the city will seek against the user
for such alleged violation or violations. Within twenty (20) days of the date
of receipt of the notice, the user shall respond personally or in writing to
the city advising of its position with respect to the allegations. Thereafter,
the user shall be given the opportunity to meet with representatives, employees
or agents of the city to discuss the veracity of the allegations, to establish
a plan for the satisfactory correction of the violations and preclusion of a
recurrence thereof, and to pay the fine or otherwise comply with the penalty or
remedy being sought by the city for the violation or violations. Submission of
a response in no way relieves the user of liability for any violations
occurring before or after receipt of written notice of noncompliance from the
city. Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the city to take any
action, including emergency actions or any other enforcement action, without
first issuing a notice of violation.
   C.   Recovery Of Costs Incurred By The City: Any user that violates any of
the provisions of this chapter or that discharges or causes a discharge
producing a deposit or obstruction or causes damage to or impairs the city's
wastewater disposal system shall be liable to the city for any expense, loss or
damage caused by such violation or discharge. The city shall charge the user
for the cost incurred by the city for any monitoring, surveillance, cleaning,
repair or replacement work caused by the violation or discharge, and for costs
incurred by the city in investigating the violation and in enforcing this
chapter against the user including reasonable administrative costs, inspection
fees, fees for testing, attorney fees, court costs and all expenses of
litigation. Refusal to pay the assessed costs shall constitute a violation of
this chapter, enforceable under the provisions of this section and section
7-4-24 of this chapter.
   D.   Show Cause Hearing: Where the violation of subsection A of this section
is not corrected by timely compliance through the administrative adjustment
procedure set forth in subsection B of this section, the city may order any
user that suffers or permits a violation of subsection A of this section, to
show cause before Horseshoe Bend city council why the proposed enforcement
action (which may include suspension of service) should not be taken. A written
notice shall be served on the user by personal service or by certified or
registered mail, return receipt requested, specifying the time and place of a
hearing to be held by the Horseshoe Bend city council regarding the violation,
the reasons why the enforcement action is to be taken, the proposed enforcement
action and directing the user to show cause before the Horseshoe Bend city
council why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of
the hearing shall be served no less than ten (10) days before the hearing.
Service of the notice may be made on any agent, officer or authorized
representative of a user. The information and evidence presented at the hearing
shall be considered by the Horseshoe Bend city council, who shall then enter
appropriate findings of fact, conclusions of law, and orders with respect to
the alleged violations of the user. A show cause hearing shall not be a bar
against, or prerequisite for, taking any other action against a noncompliant
user.
   E.   Administrative Fines: When the city finds that a user has violated or
continues to violate any provision of this chapter, an indirect discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the city may fine such user in an amount not to exceed one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00). Such fines shall be assessed on a per violation,
per day basis. In the case of monthly or other long term average discharge
limits, fines may be assessed for each day during the period of violation.
Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   F.   Administrative Orders Consent, Compliance, And Cease And Desist:
      1.   The city may enter into consent orders, assurances of voluntary
compliance, or other similar documents establishing an agreement with any user
responsible for noncompliance. Such documents will include specific action to
be taken by the user to correct the noncompliance within a time period
specified by the document. Such documents shall have the same force and effect
as the administrative orders issued pursuant to subsection F2 of this section
and shall be judicially enforceable. Use of a consent order shall not be a bar
against, or prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
      2.   When the city finds that a user has violated or continues to violate
any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the city may:
         a.   Issue a compliance order to the user responsible for the
discharge directing that the user comes into compliance within a time specified
in the order. If the user does not come into compliance within the time
specified in the order, sewer service may be discontinued unless adequate
treatment facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances are installed and
properly operated. Compliance orders may also contain other requirements to
address the noncompliance, including additional self-monitoring and management
practices designed to minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the
sewer; or
         b.   Issue a cease and desist order to the user directing it to cease
and desist all such violations and directing the user to:
            (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
            (2)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
      3.   Issuance of an administrative order shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   G.   Emergency Suspension Of Service And Revocation Of Indirect Discharge
Permit: The city may, after informal notice to the user in writing, revoke the
indirect discharge permit and order the suspension of the wastewater treatment
service to a user when a user fails to comply with an administrative order
issued pursuant to subsection F of this section, or it appears to the city that
an actual or threatened discharge: 1) presents or threatens an imminent or
substantial danger to the health or welfare of persons or substantial danger to
the environment or 2) threatens to interfere with the operation of the POTW.
Any user notified of the city's suspension order shall immediately cease all
discharges. In the event of failure of the user to comply with the suspension
order, the city may immediately take all necessary steps to halt or prevent any
further discharge by such user into the POTW. The city shall have authority to
physically cap, block or seal the user's sewer line (whether on public or
private property) in order to terminate service under this section. All cost
relating thereto shall be borne by the user. The city shall have the right to
enter upon the user's property to accomplish the capping, blocking or sealing
of the user's sewer line. The city shall reinstate the wastewater treatment
service upon clear and convincing proof by the user of the elimination of the
noncomplying discharge or condition creating the threat as set forth above.
   H.   Annual Publication: The city shall publish annually, in a newspaper(s)
of general circulation that provides meaningful public notice with the city's
jurisdiction, a list of those users which, during the previous twelve (12)
months, were in significant noncompliance with applicable pretreatment
standards or other pretreatment requirements. (Ord. 228, 6-10-2009)
7-4-24: JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES:
   A.   Civil Penalties: Any user that violates an order of the city, or that
fails to comply with: 1) any provision of this chapter or 2) any regulation,
rule or permit of the city issued pursuant to this chapter, shall be liable to
the city for a civil penalty. The amount of such civil penalty shall be not
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation. Each day upon which a
violation occurs or continues shall constitute a separate violation. In the
case of a monthly or other long term average limit, penalties shall accrue for
each day during the period of the violation. Such penalties may be recovered by
judicial actions commenced by the city as provided in subsection B of this
section. In addition, the city may commence an action to terminate the user's
wastewater treatment service.
   B.   Injunctive Relief: When the city finds that a user has violated or
continues to violate any provision of this chapter, an indirect discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the city may petition the district court in the fourth judicial
district of Idaho for the issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction, as
appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific performance of the
indirect discharge permit, order, or other requirement imposed by this chapter
on activities of the user. The city may also seek such other action as is
appropriate for legal and/or equitable relief. A petition for injunctive relief
shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action
against a user.
   C.   Criminal Prosecution:
      1.   Any user that wilfully or negligently violates any provision of this
chapter, an indirect discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by fines and/or imprisonment to the maximum extent
allowable under state law. Criminal fines shall be imposed on a per violation,
per day basis.
      2.   Any user that wilfully or negligently introduces any substance into
the POTW which causes personal injury or property damage shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to a penalty and/or
imprisonment to the maximum extent allowable under state law. This penalty
shall be in addition to any other cause of action for personal injury or
property damage available under state law.
      3.   Any user that knowingly makes any false statements, representations,
or certifications in any application, record, report, plan, or other
documentation filed, or required to be maintained, pursuant to this chapter, an
indirect discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or that falsifies,
tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method
required under this chapter shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by fines and/or imprisonment to the maximum extent allowable under
state law. (Ord. 228, 6-10-2009)
7-4-25: AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Operating Upsets:
      1.   Any user that experiences an upset in operations which places the
user in a temporary state of noncompliance with this chapter shall inform the
city thereof within twenty four (24) hours of first awareness of the
commencement of the upset. Where such information is given orally, a written
follow up report thereof shall be filed by the user with the city within five
(5) days. An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with applicable pretreatment standards if certain conditions
are met. The user that wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset
shall demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs or
other relevant evidence that:
         a.   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
         b.   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
         c.   The user has submitted the following information to the city
within twenty four (24) hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this
information is provided orally, a written submission must be provided within 5
days):
            (1)   Description of the upset, the cause thereof and the upset's
impact on the user's compliance status;
            (2)   Duration of noncompliance and, if the noncompliance
continues, the time by which compliance is reasonably expected to occur; and
            (3)   All steps taken or to be taken to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of such an upset or other conditions of noncompliance.
      2.   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof. Users will have the
opportunity for a judicial determination on any claim of upset only in an
enforcement action brought for noncompliance with applicable pretreatment
standards.
      3.   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with applicable pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
   B.   Prohibited Discharge Standards: A user shall have an affirmative
defense to an enforcement action brought against it for noncompliance with the
prohibitions in subsections
7-4-4A, B1b, B1e, B1f, B1h and B1l of this chapter if it can prove that it did
not know, or have reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in conjunction
with discharges from other sources, would cause pass-through or interference
and that either: 1) a local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the
user was in compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass-
through or interference; or 2) no local limit exists, but the discharge did not
change substantially in nature or constituents from the user's prior discharge
when the POTW was regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the
case of interference, was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal
requirements.
   C.   Bypass Provision:
      1.   Users may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause applicable
pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it is also
for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not
subject to the following:
         a.   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the city, if possible at least ten (10) days before the
date of the bypass.
         b.   A user shall submit oral notice of an unanticipated bypass that
exceeds applicable pretreatment standards to the city within twenty four (24)
hours from the time the user becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission
shall also be provided within five (5) days of the time the user becomes aware
of the bypass. The written description shall contain:
            (1)   Description of the bypass and its cause;
            (2)   Duration of the bypass, including the exact dates and times,
and if the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected
to continue; and
            (3)   All steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent
recurrence of the bypass.
         c.   Bypass is prohibited, and the city may take enforcement action
against a user for a bypass, unless:
            (1)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal
injury or severe property damage;
            (2)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as
the use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate backup equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventative maintenance; and
            (3)   The user submitted notices as required under subsections C1a
and C1b of this section.
      2.   The city may approve an anticipated bypass, after considering its
adverse effects, if the city determines that it will meet the three (3)
conditions listed in subsection C1c of this section. (Ord. 228, 6-10-2009)
7-4-26: RECORDS RETENTION:
All users subject to this chapter shall retain and preserve for no less than
three (3) years, any records, books, documents, memoranda, reports,
correspondence and any and all summaries thereof, relating to monitoring,
sampling and chemical analyses made by or in behalf of a user in connection
with its discharge. This records retention period shall be automatically
extended for the duration of any litigation concerning the user or POTW, or
where the user has been specifically notified of a longer retention period by
the city. All records that pertain to matters which are the subject of
administrative adjustment or any other enforcement or litigation activities
brought by the city pursuant hereto shall be retained and preserved by the user
until all enforcement activities have concluded and all periods of limitation
with respect to any and all appeals has expired. (Ord. 228, 6-10-2009)
TITLE 8
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Building Codes Adopted
8-1-2: Copies On File
8-1-3: Building Inspector
8-1-4: Permit Required
8-1-5: Application For Permit
8-1-6: Permit Fees
8-1-7: Construction Requirements
8-1-8: Stop Work Order
8-1-9: Expiration Of Permits
8-1-10: Notice Of Violation
8-1-11: Violation; Penalty
8-1-12: Validity
8-1-1: BUILDING CODES ADOPTED:
The approved editions of the following nationally recognized codes, as adopted
by the state of Idaho or the Idaho building code board, are adopted as the
official building codes of the city (collectively referred to as "building
codes"), except as provided in section
8-1-12 of this chapter:
   International building code.
   International residential code, parts I through IV and IX.
   International energy conservation code.
The adopted versions of the foregoing codes shall be deemed superseded by
successive versions of such codes as they are adopted or approved by the Idaho
building code board effective on the date any such codes are made effective by
the Idaho building code board. Said code is hereby adopted and incorporated as
fully as if set out at length herein, and from the date on which this section
shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the
limits of the city. (Ord. 197, 7-10-2002)
8-1-2: COPIES ON FILE:
In accordance with Idaho Code section 50-901, one copy of the current edition
of the building codes, duly certified by the city clerk, shall be retained by
the city for use and examination by the public, at least one copy of which
shall be in the office of the city clerk. (Ord. 197, 7-10-2002; amd. 2008 Code)
8-1-3: BUILDING INSPECTOR:
The building codes, as adopted herein, shall be enforced by the city. To aid in
said enforcement, the city council may appoint a building inspector to serve as
follows:
   A.   Appointment; Term Of Office: The city council shall have the power to
appoint a person certified as a building inspector by the state of Idaho to be
building inspector who shall hold such office at the discretion of the city
council.
   B.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the building inspector to attend to the
enforcement of the provisions of the building codes as adopted by this chapter.
He or she shall make a thorough and complete inspection of any work done under
permits issued under this chapter. He or she shall report, in writing, to the
council at its first meeting in each month as to the inspections made during
the month preceding or as frequently as requested by the council or the mayor.
   C.   Compensation: The compensation of the building inspector shall be fixed
by the city council and shall be paid in the same manner as other claims
against the city. (Ord. 197, 7-10-2002)
8-1-4: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No building or structure shall be erected, constructed, enlarged, moved, or
converted unless a separate permit for each building or structure has first
been obtained from the city. (Ord. 164, 4-10-1996)
8-1-5: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Form: To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first file an application
therefor, in writing, on a form furnished by the city clerk. (Ord. 164, 4-10-
1996; amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   Registration Number: Except when the permit applicant provides evidence
to the satisfaction of the city building official or city clerk that the
applicant is exempt from the registration requirements pursuant to title 54,
chapter 52 of the Idaho Code, no building permit will be issued without an
Idaho contractor's registration number being presented by the contractor. (Ord.
220, 4-12-2006)
8-1-6: PERMIT FEES:
Permit fees shall be as adopted from time to time by resolution or minute entry
of the city council. (Ord. 197, 7-10-2002; amd. 2008 Code)
8-1-7: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
All construction under a permit must meet all applicable requirements of the
city zoning and subdivision ordinances, sewer and water ordinances, flood
control ordinance and other applicable local law provisions and central
district health department, state plumbing board and state electrical board
requirements and all other applicable Idaho Code provisions. (Ord. 164, 9-10-
1996)
8-1-8: STOP WORK ORDER:
Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this chapter or
other pertinent laws or ordinances, an official designated by the city council
may order the work stopped by notice, in writing, served on any persons engaged
in doing or causing such work to be done, and any such persons shall forthwith
stop such work until authorized by the official to continue with the work.
(Ord. 164, 9-10-1996)
8-1-9: EXPIRATION OF PERMITS:
Every permit issued prior to the effective date hereof shall expire by
limitation and become null and void if the building or work authorized by such
permit is not commenced within one hundred eighty (180) days from the effective
date hereof, or if the building or work authorized by such permit is suspended
or abandoned for a period of one hundred eighty (180) days at any time after
the work is commenced. (Ord. 197, 7-10-2002)
8-1-10: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
Upon finding a violation of the building code, the city designated enforcement
officer shall serve upon the occupant, owner, or agent of such building or
premises a notice of violation. (Ord. 197, 7-10-2002)
8-1-11: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
One convicted of violating the building codes shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day of violation may be considered a separate offense
under the building codes and the fine and/or imprisonment set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code may be imposed for each such offense. (Ord. 197, 7-10-2002;
amd. 2008 Code)
8-1-12: VALIDITY:
The city council hereby declares that should any section, paragraph, sentence
or word of this chapter or of the building codes as adopted herein be declared,
for any reason, to be invalid, it is the intent of the city council that it
would have passed all other portions of this chapter independent of the
elimination herefrom of any such portion as may be declared invalid. (Ord. 197,
7-10-2002)
CHAPTER 2
STREET NAMING AND ADDRESS NUMBERING SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-2-1: Short Title, Purpose And Applicability
8-2-2: Definitions
8-2-3: Approvals Required
8-2-4: Designation Of Street Names
8-2-5: Private Lanes
8-2-6: Street Naming And Address Numbering
8-2-7: Subdivisions
8-2-8: Changes In Street Names
8-2-9: Street Name Signs
8-2-10: Variances
8-2-11: Fees
8-2-12: Violation; Penalty
8-2-1: SHORT TITLE, PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall be known as the CITY OF HORSESHOE BEND STREET NAMING AND
ADDRESS NUMBERING ORDINANCE, and is adopted for the purpose of providing a
uniform street name and addressing milepost system to aid local emergency
vehicles and utility companies and for the proper administration and
enforcement of these systems. This chapter shall apply to all lands within the
incorporated areas of the city. (Ord. 218, 8-8-2007)
8-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words shall have the following meanings:
BOARD: The Boise County board of commissioners.
COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Horseshoe Bend.
COUNTY: Boise County, state of Idaho.
CUL-DE-SAC: A dead end street that provides a turnaround at its terminus.
OFFICIAL ADDRESSING SYSTEM NUMBERING MAPS: The maps showing all of the streets
within the city of Horseshoe Bend with the official address numbering grid
system and address number ranges.
OFFICIAL STREET NAME LIST: The list containing the official street names within
the incorporated areas of the city. Said list shall be composed of all street
names having been given official recognition by the council and the board (as
may be necessary).
OFFICIAL STREET NAME MAPS: The maps showing all of the streets within the city
with the official name shown thereon.
PLAT: A subdivision plat.
PRIVATE STREET: A private access not dedicated to public use or maintained by
the city.
PUBLIC STREET: Those vehicular travelways with right of way owned by the city
or dedicated to public use and maintained by the city.
SHALL: Means that the requirement is mandatory.
STREET: A right of way for public or private use which provides vehicular and/
or pedestrian access. Its designation includes the following terms: avenue,
boulevard, court, drive, place, street, parkway, lane, circle, trail and way.
(Ord. 218, 8-8-2007; amd. 2008 Code)
8-2-3: APPROVALS REQUIRED:
Before any street is named, approval shall be obtained from the council. Any
address numbers shall be assigned and approved by the city clerk or her
designee. Official street names shall be maintained on an official street name
map and official street name list filed in city hall. (Ord. 218, 8-8-2007)
8-2-4: DESIGNATION OF STREET NAMES:
   A.   Incorporated Areas: It is hereby established in the incorporated areas
of the city that the following rules and regulations for the naming of streets
shall apply. The city shall, by resolution, establish the official street name
list. Thereafter, all new streets shall be established in accord with the
standards hereinafter set forth.
   B.   Standards: The following standards shall be used in determining and
approving street names: (Ord. 218, 8-8-2007)
      1.   There shall be no duplication of street names by sound or spelling
in the city and/or county. Differentiation shall not be by the addition of
suffixes, such as street, lanes, etc. (Ord. 218, 8-8-2007; amd. 2008 Code)
      2.   Names of future street dedications, whether public or private common
use, shall be submitted by the person or agency proposing the street dedication
to the city clerk as staff for the council, subject to all provisions of this
chapter.
      3.   A proposed street shall be considered in general alignment with an
existing street, if it is no farther than fifty feet (50') from centerline to
centerline. Where a proposed street is in the same alignment as an existing
street and is a continuation of that street, the name of the existing street
shall be maintained with the appropriate designation.
      4.   Where a proposed street connects two (2) differently named streets
located on the same alignment, the city shall designate the name of the
proposed street, giving consideration to the length, collector status, period
of usage and number of residents affected.
      5.   A cul-de-sac which has an overall length of more than one hundred
feet (100') (as measured from the centerline of the principal street to the
point of radius) shall carry a new name, and must be named in accordance with
the provisions herein.
      6.   Both portions of an L-shaped street shall carry the same name if
either leg is one hundred feet (100') or less in length; all other L-shaped
segments shall carry two (2) names.
      7.   In general, street names shall not be over ten (10) letters in
length including spaces, unless otherwise approved by the city. All street
names shall conform to this limitation except where existing names are to be
continued due to alignments. Street names should be easy to pronounce from
their spelling. Esoteric names which are difficult to pronounce or spell shall
not be accepted.
      8.   Any lack of compliance from the initial maps and street names
adopted shall not be permitted. (Ord. 218, 8-8-2007)
8-2-5: PRIVATE LANES:
   A.   Application: Applications for private street names shall be subject to
approval by the city. Designated private street names shall be listed on the
official street name list, with the accompanying designation "P" for private.
Private street names shall be in full compliance with this chapter.
   B.   Street Signs: The city shall install and maintain private street signs
within the public right of way and shall only install signs for those private
streets which intersect public streets. The applicant will be charged a fee by
the city to manufacture and install said signs. Required interior private
street signs for mobile home courts, etc., shall not be installed or maintained
by the city. In those cases, the applicant shall obtain the street signs from
the city at a fee set by the council and shall be responsible for their
installation and maintenance. Private street signs shall conform to the
standards of section
8-2-9 of this chapter in both cases.
   C.   Indication Of Private Street: All private streets shall have signs
indicating that it is a "private" street with "PVT" in two inch (2") letters
following the name in white letters on blue background. (Ord. 218, 8-8-2007)
8-2-6: STREET NAMING AND ADDRESS NUMBERING:
   A.   Standards: The naming of streets shall conform to the following
standards:
      1.    A street name shall not duplicate any existing street name within
the county or city, except where a new street is a continuation of an existing
street.
      2.    All new streets shall be named as follows:
         a.   Streets having a predominately north-south direction shall be
named "street".
         b.   Streets having a predominately east-west direction shall be named
"avenue" or "way".
         c.   Meandering streets shall be named "drive", "lane", "path" or
"trail".
         d.   Cul-de-sacs shall be named "circle", "court" and "place".
   B.   Address Numbers: All address numbers located within the unincorporated
and city impact areas of Boise County shall be assigned by the county. No other
person or organization, public or private, shall assign any address number to
any residence, business, industry or other use. The following shall be used as
a guide in assigning such address numbers by the city:
      1.   Only one 3-digit number shall be assigned to each business, dwelling
unit or other use.
      2.   Numbers shall be assigned to vacant lots within platted subdivisions
and shall be assigned in such a manner that adequate numbers are reserved for
possible future development or resubdivisions of such land.
      3.   All addresses shall be assigned on the street where the driveway for
the structure originates.
      4.   All addresses located on the north and east sides of streets shall
be even numbers. All addresses on the south and west sides of streets shall be
odd numbers. These requirements may be varied in the case of meandering
streets. When a street has been determined to be running in predominately one
direction, the number shall not be changed if there is slight change in the
street direction.
   C.   Numbers: Approved street address numbers shall be mounted or painted on
all new and existing buildings in such a position as to be plainly visible and
legible from the street fronting the property. Said numbers shall contrast with
their background, be visible in the daytime and nighttime from the street, and
be at least three and one-half inches (31/2") in height. Where the building is
not visible from the street, an additional address number shall be placed in a
location near the driveway that is plainly visible and legible from the street.
   D.   Existing Nonconforming Address Numbers: Existing address numbers not in
conformance with the official addressing map may be changed by order of the
council, giving official written notice at least ninety (90) days in advance of
the effective date of such change to property owners and those local agencies
affected by such changes. (Ord. 218, 8-8-2007)
8-2-7: SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Street Names: Proposed subdivision street names shall be shown on all
preliminary and final subdivision plats when submitted to the council for
review. No preliminary or final plat shall be approved until the street names
have been reviewed and approved by the city after being checked against the
official street name list for possible duplications or other violations of this
chapter.
   B.   Half Or Partial Streets: All half streets or partial streets shall be
named in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Plat Approval: No plat shall be approved by the city for recording
until all provisions of this chapter have been met.
   D.   Street Name Signs: It shall be the responsibility of any subdivider
creating a new street to finance the cost of installing said street name signs
at each and every designated location. Street name signs shall conform to the
city sign specification requirements. (Ord. 218, 8-8-2007)
8-2-8: CHANGES IN STREET NAMES:
   A.   Application For Change: Where necessary or desirable, any person may
make application to the city to change a street name. The city may also
initiate a street name change at its sole discretion for reasons of
duplication, similar pronunciation or spelling or for other reasons relating to
public safety or convenience.
   B.   Changes Due To Duplication, Similar Pronunciation Or Spelling: In the
case of street name changes necessitated due to duplication, similar
pronunciation or spelling, the city shall determine the street name to be
changed and select the new name to be used. The city shall take into
consideration the number of existing addresses on the streets in question, the
length of time each street has used the name in question, the date of the
original dedication of said street(s), each street's compliance with this
chapter and any other factor pertinent to resolving the similar pronunciation
or spelling. No street name(s) may be changed until the proposed names have
been checked against the official street name map and list and approved by the
council.
   C.   Public Hearing: The city shall hold at least one public hearing on this
matter. All property owners and residents having frontage on the affected
street shall be notified by mail under the following procedures:
      1.   The applicant shall submit a list of addresses of all dwellings
located on the affected street to the city.
      2.   The city shall mail notification to all affected residents and
property owners and post on location.
      3.   Failure of the city to mail notice to all residents and property
owners in no way shall affect the validity of such procedures.
   D.   Final Decision: All proposed changes to street names will consider
inconvenience to residents and property owners in the area. All residents and
property owners shall be mailed notification of the city's final decision.
(Ord. 218, 8-8-2007)
8-2-9: STREET NAME SIGNS:
All street name signs shall be located in such a manner as to be clearly
visible to persons operating vehicles on the street. The minimum letter size
shall be four inches (4") in height and placed on a six inch (6") by variable
length blank. Existing names exceeding the ten (10) letter length restriction
shall use four inch (4") lettering, if deemed necessary by the city. All signs
shall be reflectorized lettering in addition to having contrasting colors. All
public street signs shall be green. Private road street signs shall be blue.
All lettering shall be white. All street name signs shall have the names
lettered on both sides and shall be positioned so that the name is visible from
both directions of the street. (Ord. 218, 8-8-2007)
8-2-10: VARIANCES:
The standards and requirements of these regulations may be modified or varied
by the council, where the enforcement of the rules will result in extraordinary
individual hardship; provided, that the public interest is served and
consistency is maintained. The applicant must specifically state the
extraordinary hardship caused by the regulations and prove said variance will
not cause an adverse effect to consistency of addressing throughout the city.
In granting any such variance or modification, the council may impose any
conditions necessary, in order to secure substantial compliance with the
general principles of this chapter. (Ord. 218, 8-8-2007)
8-2-11: FEES:
Fees shall be required by the applicant or appellant as approved by resolution
of the city. (Ord. 218, 8-8-2007)
8-2-12: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Violations:
      1.   No person shall erect or install a street name sign which does not
comply with this chapter.
      2.   No person shall remove, alter, change or otherwise deface a street
name sign which exists in accord with the official addressing system map(s) and
this chapter.
      3.   Failure to continuously display the approved number of address on a
residence or business shall be a violation of this chapter.
   B.   Penalty: Each violation of these regulations shall be a misdemeanor,
and for each day that it continues, each violation shall constitute a separate
offense. Each violation shall be punishable as provided in Idaho Code section
18-113. (Ord. 218, 8-8-2007)
TITLE 9
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Short Title
9-1-2: Purposes
9-1-3: Legal Authority
9-1-4: Applicability
9-1-5: Minimum Requirements
9-1-6: Compliance Required
9-1-7: Buildings Previously Permitted Or Under Construction At Time Of
Ordinance Adoption
9-1-8: Certificate Of Occupancy Or Zoning Compliance Required
9-1-9: Information Required For Zoning Or Building
9-1-10: Interpretation Of Terms And Words
9-1-11: Principles Of Interpretation
9-1-12: Severability
9-1-13: Prior Rights And Permits
9-1-14: Other Laws; Private Restrictions
9-1-15: Enforcement
9-1-16: Violations And Penalties
9-1-17: Zoning Maps
9-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be cited as the "City of Horseshoe Bend Zoning Ordinance."
(Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-1-2: PURPOSES:
The purposes of this Zoning Ordinance are, consistent with the policies of the
Comprehensive Plan, to separate, to the extent possible, land uses that might
be incompatible with one another and to endeavor to assure public services
sufficient to support land uses that are allowed. The purposes must be
implemented in the community as it exists, rather than “on a clean slate.”
Changes of zoning and methods chosen for implementation should fulfill the
purposes stated above and the policies set forth in the Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-1-3: LEGAL AUTHORITY:
This Title is enacted pursuant to authority granted by Chapter 65, Title 67,
Idaho Code (Local Land Use Planning Act); Chapter 13, Title 50, Idaho Code
(Plats and Vacations); and Article 12, Section 2 of the Idaho Constitution as
currently comprised or as subsequently amended. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-1-4: APPLICABILITY:
This title shall apply, to the extent permitted by law, to all land and the use
thereof, within the jurisdictional boundaries of the City of Horseshoe Bend.
Lands owned by the government of the United States of America shall be governed
hereby only to the extent provided by Federal law. Lands owned by the State of
Idaho shall be governed hereby to the extent allowed by state law. (Ord. 232,
4-14-2010)
9-1-5: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title shall be
held to be minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health,
safety and general welfare. Whenever the requirements of this title conflict
with the express requirements of any other locally adopted ordinance, the
ordinance providing the greatest measure of protection for the public health,
safety and general welfare shall prevail.
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title shall be
held to be minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health,
safety and general welfare. Whenever the requirements of this title conflict
with the express requirements of any other locally adopted ordinance, the
ordinance providing the greatest measure of protection for the public health,
safety and general welfare shall prevail. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-1-6: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any building or structure to be moved,
erected, remodeled, altered, enlarged, or rebuilt within the City of Horseshoe
Bend contrary to the provisions of this Title.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any yard, open space, building, structure or
land to be used for any purpose not permitted by this Title, unless such use
has been lawfully established prior to enactment of this Title.
   C.   Any use not permitted by the provisions of this Title is prohibited.
(Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-1-7: BUILDINGS PREVIOUSLY PERMITTED OR UNDER CONSTRUCTION AT TIME OF
ORDINANCE ADOPTION:
Any building or structure for which a building permit has been lawfully issued
or for which a completed application has been accepted prior to the effective
date of this Title may be completed and used in accordance with the plans,
specifications, and permits on which said building permit was granted, if
construction is commenced and inspections are requested within one hundred-
eighty (180) days after the issuance of said permit, and if construction is
diligently pursued to completion. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-1-8: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY OR ZONING COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful to occupy or use any building or premises, or part of building
or premises created, erected, changed, converted, wholly or partly altered, or
enlarged in its use or structure until a certificate of occupancy and a
certificate of zoning compliance has been issued. The City Clerk may issue a
temporary certificate of occupancy for a period of time, not exceeding nine (9)
months, to allow for completion of weather-dependent work or improvements.
Certificates of occupancy or certificates of zoning compliance issued on the
basis of plans and applications approved by the Zoning Administrator or
designee authorize only the use and/or arrangement set forth in such approved
plans and applications or amendments, and not other uses or arrangements. The
City Clerk shall maintain records of certificates of occupancy and certificates
of zoning compliance. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-1-9: INFORMATION REQUIRED FOR ZONING OR BUILDING PERMITS:
An application for a permit governed by this Title shall address the
information necessary to determine compliance with this Title and other
applicable provisions of law. The Zoning Administrator is authorized to
establish administrative procedures, develop application forms and administer
the permitting process as necessary to demonstrate compliance with this Title
and applicable provisions of state law. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-1-10: INTERPRETATION OF TERMS AND WORDS:
For the purpose of this CHAPTER, certain terms or words used herein shall be
interpreted as follows:
   A.   The word "Person" includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company or corporation, as well as an individual.
   B.   The present tense includes the future tense, the singular number
includes the plural and the plural number includes the singular.
   C.   The word "shall" is a mandatory requirement, the word "may" is a
permissive requirement and the word "should" is a preferred requirement.
   D.   The words "used" or "occupied" include the words "intended, designed or
arranged to be used or occupied".
   E.   The word "lot" includes the words "plot", "parcel" and “tract.” (Ord.
232, 4-14-2010)
9-1-11: PRINCIPLES OF INTERPRETATION:
Provided that the context does not give rise to practical difficulties,
interpretations of certain Zoning Ordinance language and certain standards will
usually be applied in the following manner:
   A.   Buildings Across Parcel Description Lines: Provided legal and
contiguous parcels of record are owned by the same property owner(s), building
(s) that have been developed across property lines shall merge the properties
into one parcel for the determination of zoning standards.
   B.   Fences and Wall Height Measurement: Maximum fence and wall height shall
be measured from the finished grade at the property line. That portion of a
wall or fence functioning as a retaining wall shall not be counted in
determining overall fence or wall height.
   C.   Yard Orientation on Through Lots: On through lots, where public road
frontage at both ends exists, either line may be designated by the Zoning
Administrator as the front yard; however, the predominate orientation of
existing structures and the presence of street access limitations on that block
shall determine the front of the structure.
   D.   Setback Encroachments: Setbacks shall not be less than the minimum
dimension specified in the specific section, except as follows:
      1.   Cornices, canopies, eaves, or other similar architectural features
not providing additional floor space within the building may extend into a
required side, front or rear yard setback no more than three feet (3').
      2.   Setbacks will be measured from the property line to the foundation
of the structure.
      3.   A minimum of five feet (5') separation is required between adjacent
building overhangs, canopies, etc.
      4.   Paved, uncovered parking is generally allowed in setback areas,
unless other restrictions provide to the contrary.
   F.   Interpretation of District Boundaries: Where uncertainty exists with
respect to the boundaries of any zoning district as shown on the Official
Zoning Map, the following shall apply:
      1.   Where zone boundaries are indicated as approximately following the
centerline of street or highway right-of-way lines, streams, lakes or other
bodies of water, the centerline shall be construed to be such boundary. Where
the zoning boundary follows a railroad right-of-way, such boundary shall be
deemed to be located in the center of the right-of-way, unless otherwise
clearly designated.
      2.   Where zone boundaries approximately follow lot lines, such lot lines
shall be construed to be the boundaries.
      3.   Where zone boundaries are approximately parallel to the centerlines
or street lines of streets, or the centerlines or right-of-way lines of
highways, such zone boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto and
at such distance there from as indicated on the Official Zoning Map. If no
distance is given, such dimensions shall be determined by the use of the scale
shown on the Official Zoning Map. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-1-12: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this Title or the application to any persons or
circumstances is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance or the
application or provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be
affected thereby. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-1-13: PRIOR RIGHTS AND PERMITS:
The enactment of this chapter shall not terminate or otherwise affect rights,
variances and permits acquired or authorized under the provisions of any
section hereby revised or repealed. Where a building permit has been issued for
the construction of a building or structure, and for an authorized use and
occupancy thereof, in accordance with the law prior to the effective date of
this revised chapter, said building or structure may be in conformance with the
approved plans and on the basis for which they said building permit was issued,
provided construction of said building or structure is commenced within sixty
(60) days of the effective date of the building permit and diligently pursued
to completion. Detailed conditional use applications based upon concept plans
approved prior to the effective date of this revised ordinance shall be subject
to the terms and conditions of this revised chapter. Upon showing an undue
hardship, an applicant may be allowed by the City Council to process such
detailed conditional use application under the terms and conditions of the
previous chapter. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-1-14: OTHER LAWS; PRIVATE RESTRICTIONS:
It is not intended by this Title to impair or interfere with other regulations
of State or local law, or with private restrictions on the use of land,
improvements and structures. Where this Title imposes greater restriction than
that imposed by other law or private restrictions, this chapter shall prevail.
The stricter provisions of the zone and other regulating ordinances or codes
shall apply in the enforcement of this chapter. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-1-15: ENFORCEMENT:
The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for the enforcement of the
provisions of this Title. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-1-16: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any person owning, controlling or managing any building or premises wherein or
whereon there shall be placed or there exists anything in violation of the
provisions of this chapter, or any person, who shall assist in the commission
of any violation of these provisions, or who shall build contrary to the plans
and specifications submitted to, and approved by, the governing body or its
duly appointed officer(s) or, any person who shall omit, neglect or refuse to
do any act required in these provisions, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be subject penalty identified
Chapter 13 of this Title. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-1-17: ZONING MAPS:
   A.   The boundaries of the use Zones shall be established and clearly
indicated upon the Zoning Map adopted and made a part of this chapter by
reference. Public hearings shall be held by the governing body before
establishment and approval of said zones or prior to any future changes. Said
Zoning Map shall be and remain on file in the office of the City Clerk. Zoning
maps and zoning information for specific parcels or lots may be obtained from
the City Clerk's office.
   B.   All amendments of the Official Zoning Map shall follow the procedure
set forth in Section
9-7-02.
   C.   Areas are to be classified according to the established use Zones and
such zoning shall give due consideration as to conformity with an adopted
comprehensive plan and its stated goals and objectives where these exist. (Ord.
232, 4-14-2010)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Definitions
9-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms when used in this chapter shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this Section:
ACCESSORY      A building which is subordinate to, and the use of which is incidental to that of
BUILDING:      the principal building or use on the same lot; but not including any building
               containing a dwelling unit as hereinafter defined.
ACREAGE:       Any tract or parcel of land which has not been subdivided or platted.
               Any facility where adults regularly receive care, maintenance and supervision
ADULT CARE     unaccompanied be a guardian or custodian, regardless of whether the facility
FACILITY:      provides any instruction. This use excludes (1) care of operator's legal wards or
               relatives (2) occasional personal guests and (3) any facility providing overnight
               custodial services for lodging and/or boarding.
               The use of land for farming, dairying, pasturage, agriculture, horticulture,
               floriculture, viticulture, animal and poultry husbandry and the necessary
               accessory uses for parking, treating or storing the produce, provided, however,
               that:
               A.   The operation of any such accessory use shall be secondary to that of normal
AGRICULTURE:   agricultural activities; and
               B.   The above uses shall not include the feeding or sheltering of animals or
               poultry in penned enclosures within one hundred feet (100') of any residential
               zone. Agriculture does not include the operation or maintenance of a commercial
               stockyard or feedyard where large numbers of livestock are fed concentrated feeds
               particularly for the purpose of fattening for market.
ALLEY:         A public way providing the secondary means of access to abutting property and not
               intended as a traffic thoroughfare.
               A transmitting or receiving device used in telecommunications that radiates or
               captures radio signals. Antennas include the following types:
               A.   Omni Directional (or "whip") Antenna - Receives and transmits signals in a
               360 degree pattern, and which is up to 15 feet in height and up to 4 inches in
               diameter.
               B.   Directional (or "panel") Antenna - Receives and transmits signals in a
               directional pattern typically encompassing an arc of 120 degrees.
ANTENNA:       C.   Parabolic (or "dish") Antenna - A bowl shaped device that receives and
               transmits signals in a specific directional pattern.
               D.   Ancillary Antenna - An antenna that is less than 12 inches in its largest
               dimension and that is not directly used to provide personal wireless
               communications services. An example would be a global positioning satellite (GPS)
               antenna.
               E.   Other - All other transmitting or receiving equipment not specifically
               described herein shall be regulated in conformity with the type of antenna
               described herein which most closely resembles such equipment.
               A room or suite of rooms in a multiple-family structure which is arranged,
APARTMENT:     designed or used as a single housekeeping unit and has complete kitchen and
               sanitary facilities permanently installed.
AREA OF CITY   The development area around but outside the city where the action or inaction of
IMPACT:        one jurisdiction affects another jurisdiction.
AUTOMOTIVE,
MOBILE HOME,   The sale or rental of new and used motor vehicles, mobile homes, travel trailers
TRAVEL TRAILER or farm implements, but not including repair work except incidental warranty
and FARM       repair of same, to be displayed and sold on the premises.
IMPLEMENT
SALES:
AUTOMOBILE     General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of motor vehicles; collision
REPAIR:        service, such as body, frame or fender straightening and repair; overall painting
               and steam cleaning of motor vehicles.
AUTOMOBILE     An establishment where automotive fuels and lubricants, accessories and services
SERVICE        are sold at retail; however, where the sale of such is only incidental the
STATION:       establishment or premises shall be classified as a public garage.
               Any use of premises, excluding fully enclosed buildings, on which two (2) or more
AUTOMOBILE     motor vehicles not in operating condition are standing more than thirty (30)
WRECKING YARD: days, or on which used motor vehicles, or parts thereof, are dismantled or
               stored.
               A story partly or wholly underground, but having at least one half (1/2) of its
BASEMENT:      height below the average level of the adjoining ground. Where more than one-half
               (1/2) its height is above the average level of the adjoining ground, a basement
               shall be counted as a story for purpose of height measurement.
               Any structure or portions thereof upon which are placed signs or advertisements
BILLBOARD:     used as an outdoor display. This definition does not include any bulletin boards
               used to display official court or public notices, or a sign advertising the sale
               or lease of the premises on which the sign is located.
               The space along one side of a street between the two (2) nearest intersecting
BLOCK:         streets, or between an intersecting street and a right of way, waterway or other
               similar barrier, whichever is less.
               A building other than a hotel or motel where meals and/or lodging are provided
BOARDING AND   for compensation to three (3) or more unrelated persons, but not more than twelve
ROOMING HOUSE: (12) persons, who are not transients, and kitchen facilities are not provided in
               the individual rooms.
               Any structure with substantial walls and roof securely affixed to the land and
               entirely separated on all sides from any other structure by space or by walls, in
BUILDING:      which, there are no communicating doors, windows or openings, which is designed
               or intended for the shelter, enclosure or protection of persons, animals,
               chattels or property of any kind.
BUILDING AREA: The buildable area of a lot is the space remaining after the adherence to the
               minimum open space requirements of this Title.
BUILDING,      A building located on its own lot and physically separated from other buildings
DETACHED:      by required yards and/or open space.
BUILDING,      A building owned or used by the Federal, State, County or City government, or any
GOVERNMENT:    political subdivision, agency or instrumentality thereof.
               The vertical distance measured from the sidewalk level or its equivalent
               established grade opposite the middle of the front of the building to the highest
BUILDING       point of the roof in the case of a flat roof; to the deck line of a mansard roof;
HEIGHT:        and to the mean height level between eaves and ridge of a gable, hip or gambrel
               roof; provided that where buildings are set back from the street line, the height
               of the building may be measured from the average elevation of the finished lot
               grade at the front of the building.
BUILDING LINE: For the purpose of this Title, the building line is the same as the front yard
               setback line. (See Exhibit 2)
BUILDING,      Any building which does not conform to the requirements of this Title.
NONCONFORMING:
BUILDING,      A building in which is conducted the main or principal use of the lot on which
PRINCIPAL:     said building is situated.
BUILDING SITE: Any lot, tract, parcel, or subdivision of land, either public or private, upon
               which a building is placed or is to be placed.
               The purchase, sale, exchange or other transaction involving the handling or
               disposition of any article, substance or commodity for profit or livelihood or
BUSINESS:      the ownership or management of office buildings, offices, recreation or amusement
               enterprises or the maintenance and use of offices or professions and trades
               rendering services.
COMPATIBILITY: Development which is designed to work together with nearby land uses, forms
               homogeneous transitions and is capable of existing together in harmony.
COMPOSTING,    Processing waste in a controlled environment to produce a stable product by
REAR:          microbiologically degrading organic matter under aerobic conditions in the rear
               yard of the home.
               A structure attached or made a part of the main structure which is open to the
CARPORT:       weather on at least two (2) sides, intended for the use of sheltering not more
               than two (2) motor-driven vehicles.
               Care, supervision, or education for compensation during part of a twenty-four
               (24) hour day, for a child or children not related by blood or marriage to the
               person or persons providing the care, in a place other than the child's or
               children's own home or homes. There are three (3) types of childcare facilities:
CHILD CARE     A.   Family Day Care Home - means a home, place or facility providing day care
FACILITY:      for six (6) or fewer children.
               B.   Group Day Care Facility - means a home, place or facility providing day care
               for seven (7) to twelve (12) children.
               C.   Day Care Center - means a home, place or facility providing day care for
               thirteen (13) or more children.
CITY CLERK:    The Clerk of the City.
               The "Clear Vision (Site) Triangle" is defined as follows:
               A.   No sign, structures or vegetation in excess of three feet in height shall be
               placed in the Clear Vision (Site) Triangle.
               B.   The clear vision triangle at street intersections or street and railroad.
               Intersections is the vision triangle formed horizontally by measuring forty (40)
               feet along the roadway edges or roadway and railroad track edges from the
CLEAR VISION   intersection of the roadway edges or roadway edge and railroad track and
(SITE)         connecting those points. The clear vision triangle shall be formed vertically by
TRIANGLE:      measuring between three (3) and ten (10) feet above grade.
               C.   The clear vision (site) triangle at a driveway and street intersection,
               shall be formed horizontally by measuring ten (10) feet into the lot as measured
               from the sidewalk edge, which is closest to the property line (or from the
               property line if no sidewalk exists), and twenty (20) feet along the sidewalk
               edge (or property line if no sidewalk exists) parallel to the street, and
               vertically by measuring between three (3) and ten (10) feet above grade. (See
               Exhibit 1)
 
EXHIBIT 1 - CLEAR (SITE) VISION TRIANGLE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/09b6c0d93abcbf13fb4398182a4460a14a33b72d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-961.png]
 
               A building used for the care, diagnosis and treatment of sick, ailing, infirm or
CLINIC:        injured persons or those who are in need of medical and surgical attention; but
               which building does not provide board, room or regular hospital care and
               services.
               A building or portion thereof or premises owned or operated by an organized
               association of persons for a social, literary, political, educational or
CLUB or LODGE: recreational purpose primarily for the exclusive use of members and their guests;
               but still not including any organization, group or association, the principal
               activity of which is to render a service usually and ordinarily carried on as a
               business.
COMMERCIAL     A modular building equipped with the necessary service connections and made so as
COACH:         to be readily moveable as a unit on its own running gear and originally
               designated to be used without a permanent foundation.
COMMERCIAL     Any profit-making activity which is generally related to the entertainment field,
ENTER-TAINMENT such as motion picture theaters, carnivals, nightclubs, cocktail lounges and
FACILITIES:    similar entertainment activities.
COMPATIBILITY: Development which is designed to work together with nearby land uses, forms
               homogeneous transitions and is capable of existing together in harmony.
COMPREHENSIVE  The Comprehensive Plan for the city officially adopted by the Council as such.
PLAN:
               A use which, because of special requirements or characteristics, may be allowed
               in a particular zoning only after review by the City Council and granting of
CONDITIONAL    conditional use approval imposing such conditions as necessary to make the use
USE:           compatible with other uses permitted in the same zone or vicinity. Conditional
               uses are issued for uses of land and may be transferable from one owner of the
               land to another.
               Real estate, portions of which are designated for separate ownership and the
CONDOMINIUM:   remainder of which is designated for common ownership solely by the owners of
               those portions. Real estate is not a condominium unless the undivided interests
               in the common elements are vested in the unit owners.
               A building housing any facility, however named, whether operated for profit or
CONVALESCENT   not, the purpose of which is to provide skilled nursing care and related medical
HOME:          services for two (2) or more individuals suffering from illness, disease, injury,
               deformity or requiring care because of old age.
DAY CARE       See Child Care Facility and Adult Care Facility
CENTER:
DENSITY:       A unit or measurement; the number of dwelling units per acre of land.
               An establishment, whether it be the primary or an accessory use, other than
DRIVE-UP       automobile service station or parking lot, which is designed to accommodate the
WINDOW:        motor vehicles of patrons in such manner as to permit the occupants of such
               vehicle, while remaining therein, to make purchases or receive services at a
               window or service area.
               A building, or portion thereof, contains one or more dwelling units. The term
DWELLING:      "dwelling" does not include any recreational vehicle, motel, hotel, guesthouse or
               boarding house as defined herein.
DWELLING,      A building, or portion thereof, containing three (3) or more dwelling units
MULTIPLE       excluding attached single family townhouse units located on individual lots.
FAMILY:
DWELLING,      A building designed for use and occupancy by no more than one family.
SINGLE FAMILY:
DWELLING ROW:  A row of three (3) to six (6) attached one family dwellings, not more than two
               and one-half (2 1/2) stories in height, nor more than two (2) rooms deep.
               One or more rooms designed for, or used as, a residence for not more than one
               family, including all necessary household employees of such family, and
               constituting a separate and independent housekeeping unit, with a single kitchen
DWELLING UNIT: permanently installed. A dwelling unit may be occupied by a family (related by
               blood or marriage), or by up to five (5) unrelated individuals. The term does not
               imply or include such types of occupancy as a lodging or boarding house, club,
               sorority, fraternity or hotel.
EASEMENT:      A grant of the right to use land for a specific purpose of purposes.
ESTABLISHED    The sidewalk line grade at the front lot line as established by the engineer.
GRADE:
FACADE:        The front or chief face of a building.
               One or more persons related by blood, marriage, adoption or a group of not more
FAMILY:        than eight (8) persons (excluding servants) not related by blood or marriage,
               living together as a single housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit.
FLOOR AREA,    The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors including the
GROSS:         exterior walls of a building or portion thereof.
               That portion of the gross floor area of the building occupied by the listed use
FLOOR AREA,    or uses and shall include hallways, storage and packaging space, dressing or
NET:           restrooms and laboratory or work rooms; provided, however, that floor space
               within the building reserved for parking or loading of vehicles, and basement
               space used only for building maintenance and utilities shall be excluded.
FRONTAGE:      All property on one side of a street between two (2) intersecting streets or
               natural barriers.
               A road which has unlimited access to collector and access streets but has limited
FRONTAGE ROAD: access to arterial streets. Access onto arterial streets is limited to one
               thousand five hundred feet (1,500') between points.
GARAGE,        An accessory building for the storage of not more than three (3) motor-driven
PRIVATE:       vehicles of which not more than one shall be a commercial vehicle of not more
               than two (2) tons' capacity.
               A structure that performs major mechanical and body work, straightening of body
GARAGE:        parts, painting, welding, storage of automobiles not in operating condition or
               other work involving noise, glare, fumes, smoke or other characteristics to an
               extent greater than normally found in a service station.
               A group residence in which eight (8) or fewer unrelated mentally and/or
               physically handicapped or elderly persons reside and who are supervised at the
               group residence in connection with their handicap or age related infirmity.
GROUP HOME:    Resident staff, if employed, need not be related to each other or to any of the
               mentally and/or physically handicapped or elderly persons residing in the group
               residence. No more than two (2) of such staff shall reside in the dwelling at any
               one time. Idaho Code, Section 67-6531.
               A structure for human habitation, containing one or more rooms with bath and
GUEST HOUSE:   toilet facilities, but not including a kitchen or facilities which would provide
               a complete housekeeping unit.
HEALTH         The local Health Department or State Department of Health and Welfare that has
AUTHORITY:     jurisdictional authority.
               The research, documentation, protection, restoration and rehabilitation of
HISTORIC       buildings, structures, objects, zones, areas, and sites significant in the
PRESERVATION:  history, architecture, archaeology or culture of this community, the state, or
               the nation.
HISTORIC       Any building, structure, area or site that is significant in the history,
PROPERTY:      architecture, archaeology or culture of this community, the state, or the nation.
               Any gainful occupation engaged in by an occupant of a dwelling unit including
               handicrafts, dress-making, millinery, laundering, preserving, office of a
               clergyman, teaching of music, dancing and other instruction when limited to
               attendance of one pupil at a time, and other like occupations which meet all of
               the following conditions:
               A.   The use is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for
               dwelling purposes.
               B.   The use is conducted entirely within a dwelling and is carried on by the
               inhabitants thereof.
               C.   No article shall be sold or offered for sale on the premises, except such as
HOME           is produced by the occupants on the premises, and no mechanical or electrical
OCCUPATION:    equipment shall be installed or maintained other than such is customarily
               incidental to domestic use.
               D.   The use does not change the character of the dwelling or adversely affect
               the uses permitted in the residential zone.
               E.   The use creates no additional traffic and requires no additional parking
               space.
               F.   No persons are employed other than those necessary for domestic purposes.
               G.   Not more than one-fourth (1/4) of the gross area of one floor of said
               dwelling is used for such use.
               H.   The entrance to the space devoted to such use is from within the building
               and no internal or external alterations or construction features not customary in
               dwellings are involved.
HOMES FOR
AMBULATORY     See Group Home Rest Home/Elderly:
AGED:
               A building designed for occupancy as the more or less temporary abiding place of
HOTEL:         individuals who are lodged with or without meals, in which there are six (6) or
               more guest rooms, and in which no provisions are made for cooking in any
               individual room or suite.
INSTITUTION:   Building and/or land designed to aid individuals in need of mental, therapeutic,
               rehabilitative counseling or other correctional services.
               An outdoor space where waste and discarded or salvaged materials are bought,
               sold, exchanged, baled, packed, disassembled, stored or handled, including house
               wrecking yards, used lumber yards and places where such uses are conducted
JUNK YARD:     entirely within a completely enclosed building, such as pawn shops and
               establishments for the sale, purchase or storage of used furniture and household
               equipment or for used cars in operable condition, or salvaged materials
               incidental to manufacturing operations.
               Any lot or premises or portion thereof, on which three (3) or more dogs, cats and
KENNEL,        other household domestic animals over eight (8) weeks of age are maintained,
COMMERCIAL:    harbored, possessed, boarded, bred or cared for in return for compensation or
               kept for sale.
KENNEL,        Any lot or premises or portion thereof, in which more than three (3) dogs, cats
NONCOMMERCIAL: or other household domestic animals over eight (8) weeks of age are kept and/or
               boarded.
               A place devoted to experimental study such as testing and analyzing.
LABORATORY:    Manufacturing of a product or products is not to be permitted within this
               definition.
               An off-street space or area on the same lot with a building or contiguous to a
LOADING SPACE: group of buildings for the temporary parking of a commercial vehicle while
               loading or unloading merchandise or materials and which abuts upon a street,
               alley or other appropriate means of access.
               A building with not more than five (5) guest rooms where lodging is provided for
LODGING HOUSE: compensation pursuant to previous arrangement, but not open to the public or
               transients.
               A parcel of land of sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements for use,
               coverage and area and to provide such yards and other open spaces as are herein
               required. Such lot shall have frontage on an improved public street, or on an
LOT:           approved private street, and may consist of:
               A.   A single lot of record;
               B.   A portion of a lot of record; or
               C.   A combination of complete lots of record, or of portions of lots of record.
               The square footage enclosed within the boundary of a lot or parcel. The flagpole
LOT AREA:      or stem portion of a flag lot shall not be considered part of the lot area. Lot
               area shall be determined exclusive of land that is used for public or private
               streets, highways, alleys, roads and rights-of-way.
LOT,           Premises on which new or used passenger automobiles, trailers, mobile homes or
AUTOMOBILE     trucks in operating condition are displayed in the open for sale or trade, and
SALES:         where no repair or service work is done.
LOT, CORNER:   A lot which is bounded on two (2) or more sides by street lines; where the angle
               of intersection does not exceed one hundred thirty-five degrees
LOT COVERAGE:  The area of a lot occupied by the principal building or buildings and accessory
               buildings.
LOT DEPTH:     The distance between front and rear lot lines measured in the mean direction of
               the side lot lines.
               The boundary property line encompassing a lot. The front lot line is the boundary
               line which abuts a public street. For a corner lot, the owner may select either
LOT LINE:      street line as the front lot line. The rear lot line is the lot line most nearly
               parallel to and most remote from the front property line. All other lot lines are
               side lot lines. An interior lot line is a sideline in common with another lot.
LOT, DOUBLE    A lot other than a corner lot having frontage on two (2) parallel or
FRONTED:       approximately parallel streets. On a double fronted lot both street lines shall
               be deemed front lot lines.
               A lot or parcel of land which includes a narrow projection or "flagpole" to the
LOT, FLAG:     public right-of-way. The flagpole, which shall not be considered as part of the
               lot area, serves as a private or privately shared access to the buildable area of
               the lot or parcel.
LOT, FRONTAGE: That portion of a lot which abuts a public right-of-way or other access.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot or reversed corner lot.
LOT LINE:      The boundary property line encompassing a lot.
               The front lot line for a regular-shaped lot is the property boundary which abuts
               a public or private street.
               The front lot line for an undeveloped corner lot is either one of the property
               boundaries, which abuts a public or private street, as selected by the property
LOT LINE,      owner.
FRONT:         The front lot line for a flag lot may be either (1) the closest line, parallel or
               most nearly parallel to the public or private street, at the end of the flagpole,
               or (2) a line perpendicular or nearly perpendicular to the public or private
               street, at the end of the flagpole, depending upon which orientation provides for
               the closest matching of like yards of adjoining properties.
               The front lot line for a regular-shaped lot is the property boundary which abuts
               a public or private street. The front lot line for an undeveloped corner lot is
               either one of the property boundaries, which abuts a public or private street, as
LOT LINE,      selected by the property owner. The front lot line for a flag lot may be either
FRONT:         (1) the closest line, parallel or most nearly parallel to the public or private
               street, at the end of the flagpole, or (2) a line perpendicular or nearly
               perpendicular to the public or private street, at the end of the flagpole,
               depending upon which orientation provides for the closest matching of like yards
               of adjoining properties.
               The boundary line of a lot which is opposite and most distant from the front lot
               line. For the purpose of establishing the rear lot line, the following shall
               apply:
LOT LINE,      A.   In the case of a lot with a rear boundary formed by a single line that is
REAR:          parallel or nearly parallel to the front lot line, such rear boundary is the rear
               lot line.
               B.    In the case of a lot with a rear boundary formed by two (2) or more lines,
               the rear lot line shall be a line at least ten (10) feet in length within the
               lot, furthest removed from and most parallel to the front lot line.
LOT LINE,      Any property line that is not a front or rear lot line.
SIDE:
LOT, NON-      A lot of record which does not meet the dimensional requirements of this Title.
CONFORMING:
               An open, graded and surfaced area, other than a street or public way, to be used
LOT, PARKING:  for the storage, for limited periods of time, of operable passenger automobiles
               and commercial vehicles, and available to the public, whether for compensation,
               free or as an accommodation to clients or customers.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot which has been recorded in the records of Boise County.
LOT OF RECORD, Any single lot or parcel of land which was of record and a legal buildable lot or
ORIGINAL:      parcel at the time of adoption of the Horseshoe Bend Zoning Ordinance (November
               15, 1995), which has not had subsequent boundary changes.
LOT, REVERSED  A corner lot, the rear of which abuts upon the side of another lot, whether
CORNER:        across an alley or not.
               The distance between the side lot lines, measured in one of the following
               manners, whichever is applicable:
               A.   In the case of a regular-shaped lot, the width shall be measured along the
               front lot line; or
               B.    In the case of an irregular-shaped lot, the width shall be the average
               distance between the side lot lines, with the average distance to be measured at
               ten (10) foot intervals for the first one hundred feet of the lot depth beginning
LOT WIDTH      at the front lot line; or
(AVERAGE):     C.   In the case of a regular-shaped flag lot, the width shall be measured at a
               distance of twenty (20) feet from the inside end of the flag pole; or
               D.   In the case of an irregular-shaped flag lot, the width shall be the average
               distance between the side lot lines, with the average distance to be measured at
               ten (10) foot intervals for the first one hundred (100) feet of the lot depth
               beginning at the front lot line.
               In addition to the above manners of measurement, in no instance shall the
               dimension of a lot at its front setback line be less than the minimum average lot
               width required for the zoning district in question.
               A factory built structure that is manufactured or constructed according to the
               National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, and
               as may be amended, which became effective June 15, 1976, and is to be used as a
MANUFACTURED   place for human habitation, but which is not constructed or equipped with a
HOME:          permanent hitch or other device allowing it to be moved other than for the
               purpose of moving to a permanent site, and which does not have permanently
               attached to its body or frame any wheels or axles. For purposes of this code, two
               types of manufactured homes are established, "Stock" and “Enhanced.”
MANUFACTURED   Any site, lot, tract, plot or parcel of land, designed for the placement of ten
HOME           (10) or more manufactured homes, located and maintained for dwelling purposes on
COMMUNITY:     a permanent basis on individual lots, pads, or spaces; whether those lots, pads,
               or spaces be individually owned, leased, or rented.
               A manufactured home that has all the architectural placement standards listed
               below:
               A.   The manufactured home shall be multi-sectional and enclose a space of not
               less than one thousand (1,000) square feet.
               B.   Has exterior siding and roofing which is similar in material and appearance
               to the exterior siding and roofing material commonly used on residential
               dwellings within the city or which is comparable to the predominant material used
               on surrounding dwelling.
               C.   Has a pitched roof with a minimum pitch of 2:12 (two inches of rise to
               twelve inches of run).
               D.   Eaves are optional with the exception that where eaves are consistent with
               the predominant construction of immediate surrounding dwellings, the home shall
               have an eave that projects a minimum of six inches (6") along any wall that faces
               a street.
               E.   Has a foundation fascia that is similar in appearance and durability to the
MANUFACTURED   masonry foundation or other foundation systems comparable with site-built
HOME ENHANCED: dwellings and approved by the Planning and Development Services Department. It
               shall surround the entire perimeter of the structure and completely enclose the
               space between the siding and the finished grade.
               F.    Is placed on a foundation base such that the finished floor area of the
               home is located not more than twelve inches (12") above grade or twenty-four
               inches (24") above grade if the home is over a basement. Graded earth shall not
               be closer than six inches (6") to the siding of the home.
               G.    Is permanently affixed in accordance with the manufacturer's
               specifications, with the running gear and towing hitch removed and set upon a
               foundation base having an anchoring system that is totally concealed under the
               structure.
               H.   If located within a residential area on an individual lot, the dwelling unit
               shall have a garage or carport constructed of like materials. Horseshoe Bend City
               may require an attached or detached garage in lieu of a carport where such is
               consistent with the predominant construction of immediately surrounding
               dwellings.
MANUFACTURED   A subdivision designed and intended for exclusive (manufacture home) residential
HOME           use.
SUBDIVISION:
MANUFACTURED   A manufactured home that does not have all the architectural placement standards
HOME STOCK:    of an Enhanced Manufactured Home.
               A building, or group of buildings, on the same premises, either detached or in
               connected rows, containing sleeping or dwelling units, independently accessible
               from the outside, with garage space or parking space located on the premises and
MOTEL:         designed for, or occupied by, travelers. The term includes, but is not limited
               to, any buildings or building groups designated as auto courts, motor lodges,
               tourist courts or by any other title or sign intended to identify them as
               providing lodging to motorists.
               Any use lawfully occupying a building, structure, or land at the effective date
NONCONFORMING  of this Title, or of subsequent amendments thereto or at the time of annexation
USE:           or rezone, which does not conform to the regulations for the Zone in which it is
               located.
               Land, building, structure or combination thereof for the storage, cultivation,
NURSERY:       transplanting of live trees, shrubs or plants offered for retail sale on the
               premises including products used for gardening or landscaping.
OPEN SPACE,    An open area for passive or active recreation developed, designated and protected
PRIVATE:       for the benefit and private use of the employees or residents within a planned
               development or residential development.
PARAPET or     That portion of a building wall that rises above the roof level.
PARAPET WALL:
               An open, graded and surfaced area, other than a street or public way, to be used
PARKING LOT:   for the storage, for limited periods of time, of operable passenger automobiles
               and commercial vehicles, and available to the public, whether for compensation,
               free or as an accommodation to clients or customers.
               Usable space within a public or private parking area or a building, which meets
PARKING SPACE: the parking standards of this Title, exclusive of access drives, aisles or ramps,
               for the storage of one passenger automobile or commercial vehicle.
PORCH:         A roofed entrance to a building, projecting out from the wall or walls of the
               main structure and commonly open in part to the weather.
PERSONAL       Any enterprise conducted for gain, which primarily offers services to the general
SERVICES:      public such as shoe repair, watch repair, barber shops, beauty parlors and
               similar activities.
PLANNED UNIT   A parcel of land which is planned and developed as a unit under single ownership
DEVELOPMENT:   or control, containing one or more uses, buildings and common open space or
               recreational facilities.
               A street, alley, or bridge that is not:
               A.   Laid out or established by the State of Idaho or a subdivision of the State;
PRIVATE        B.   Dedicated to the State or a subdivision of the State and accepted by such
STREET:        entity;
               C.   Used by the public for a period of not less than five (5) years;
               D.   Worked and kept up by, at the expense of, the public during that period of
               time.
PROFESSIONAL   The use of offices and related spaces for such professional services as are
ACTIVITIES:    provided by medical practitioners, lawyers, architects, engineers and similar
               professions.
               The erection, construction, alteration, operation or maintenance of buildings,
               power plants or substations, water treatment plants or pumping stations, sewage
PUBLIC SERVICE disposal or pumping plants and other similar public service structures by a
FACILITY:      public utility, by a railroad whether publicly owned or privately owned, or by a
               Municipal or other governmental agency, including the furnishing of electrical,
               gas, rail transport, communication, public water and sewage services.
               Public parks, schools, administrative and cultural buildings and structures, not
PUBLIC USES:   including public land or buildings devoted solely to the storage and maintenance
               of equipment and materials and public service facilities.
QUASI-PUBLIC   Religious Facilities (Churches, Temples, Synagogues, Mosques and other Religious
USE:           Facilities), parochial schools, colleges, hospitals and other facilities of an
               educational, religious, charitable, philanthropic or nonprofit nature.
               A portable vehicle or structure used primarily for recreation, hobbies,
               vacations, extended travel, camping, sports and aquatic use. Recreational
               Vehicles (RV's) may be self-propelled, towed or transported by trailer. RV's may
RECREATIONAL   include, but are not limited to, motor homes, converted buses, camping and travel
VEHICLE:       trailers, light-duty trailers and transporters, horse and cattle trailers, boats,
               rafts and their trailers and off-street vehicles such as snowmobiles, dune
               buggies, all-terrain vehicles and any type of three or four wheeled sport racing/
               drag vehicle.
               Any area, tract, plot or site of land, whereupon two (2) or more travel trailers
RECREATIONAL   are placed, located and maintained for dwelling purposes on a semi-permanent
VEHICLE PARK:  basis and for which a fee or rental for such use is collected by or collectable
               to the person holding ownership of the land.
               Any land, building, or part thereof, other than a boarding house, where meals are
RESTAURANT:    provided for compensation, including, among others, such uses as cafe, cafeteria,
               coffee shop, lunch room, tea room and dining room.
               A strip of land taken or dedicated for use as a public way. In addition to the
RIGHT OF WAY:  roadway, it normally incorporates the curbs, lawn strips, sidewalks, lighting and
               drainage facilities, and may include special features (required by topography or
               treatment) such as grade separation, landscaped area, viaducts and bridges.
ROADSIDE       A temporary structure designed or used for the display or sale of agricultural
STAND:         and related products, the majority of which have been grown on adjacent land.
               For purposes of determining the number of off-street parking spaces for certain
SEAT OR        uses, the number of seats is the number of seating units installed or indicated
SEATING:       on each twenty four (24) lineal inches of benches, pews or space for loose
               chairs.
               Buildings and premises where gasoline, oil, grease, batteries, tires and motor
               vehicle accessories may be supplied and dispensed at retail and where, in
               addition, the following services may be rendered and sales made:
               A.   Sales and service of spark plugs, batteries and distributor's parts;
               B.   Tire servicing and repair, but not recapping or regrooving;
               C.   Replacement of mufflers and tailpipes, water hoses, fan belts, brake fluid,
               light bulbs, fuses, floor mats, seat covers, windshield wipers and blades, grease
               retainers, wheel bearings, mirrors and the like;
               D.   Radiator cleaning and flushing;
               E.   Washing, polishing and sale of washing and polishing materials;
               F.   Greasing and lubrication;
               G.   Providing and repairing fuel pumps, oil pumps, lines;
SERVICE        H.   Minor servicing and repair of carburetors;
STATION:       I.   Adjusting and repairing brakes;
               J.   Minor motor adjustment not involving removal of the head or crankcase or
               racing the motor;
               K.   Sales of cold drinks, packaged food, tobacco and similar convenience goods
               for service station customers, as accessory and incidental to principal
               operations;
               L.   Provisions of road maps and other informational material to customers and
               provision of restroom facilities; and
               M.   Warranty maintenance and safety inspections. Uses permissible at a filling
               station do not include major mechanical and body work, straightening of body
               parts, painting, welding, storage of automobiles not in operating condition or
               other work involving noise, glare, fumes, smoke or other characteristics to an
               extent greater than normally found in filling stations. A service station is
               neither a repair garage nor a body shop.
               The space on a lot required to be left open and unoccupied by buildings or
SETBACK AREA:  structures, either by the front and side yard requirements of this Title, or by
               delineation on a recorded subdivision map.
               A line established by this Title, generally parallel with and measured from the
SETBACK LINE:  lot line, defining the limits of a yard in which no building or structure may be
               located above ground except as may be provided herein.
               Any totally enclosed area designed and operated for the use of rifles, shotguns,
SHOOTING RANGE pistols, silhouettes, skeet, trap, black powder, archery, or any other similar
- INDOOR:      sport shooting that is designed to offer a totally controlled shooting
               environment that includes impenetrable walls, floors, and ceilings, adequate
               ventilation, lighting systems and acoustical treatment for sound attenuation.
SHOOTING RANGE An area designed and operated for the use of rifles, shotguns, pistols,
- OUTDOOR:     silhouettes, skeet, trap, black powder, archery, or any other similar sport
               shooting.
               A group of commercial establishments, planned, developed, owned, and managed as a
SHOPPING       unit related in location, size, and types of shops to the trade area that the
CENTER:        unit serves. It provides on-site parking in definite relationship to the type and
               size of stores. One store may be an anchor tenant.
SIDEWALK:      The portion of the road right of way outside the roadway which is improved for
               the use of pedestrian traffic.
               Any display or device consisting of attached or painted letters, symbols or
               designs, and including any moving parts, lighting, sound equipment, framework,
SIGN:          background material or structural support, which display or device is intended to
               communicate business identification, an advertisement, announcement, direction or
               other message or attract, distract, hold, direct or focus public attention.
               "Sign" shall not include commodities and their attached labels and price tags.
SPECIAL        A special exception granted by the City Council for a use which is not identified
EXCEPTION:     as an allowed or conditional use within the zoning Zone subject to conditions set
               forth in this Title.
               A right of way which provides vehicular and pedestrian access to adjacent
               properties, the dedication of which has been officially accepted. The term
               "street" also includes the terms highway, thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue,
               boulevard, lane, place or other such terms.
               A.   Local Street: A minor street which has the primary purpose of providing
STREET:        access for residential traffic.
               B.   Arterial Street: Provides access from one part of the community to another
               and also provides for the movement of vehicles through the community.
               C.   Collector Street: Accommodates circulation within and between neighborhoods.
               D.   Private Street: A street that is not accepted for public use or maintenance
               which provides vehicular and pedestrian access.
STRUCTURAL     Any change which would prolong the life of the supporting members of a building
ALTERATIONS:   or structure, such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
STRUCTURE:     Anything constructed or erected, either on the ground or on something having
               location on the ground.
SUPPLY YARDS:  A commercial establishment storing and offering for sale building supplies, coal,
               heavy equipment, feed and grain and similar goods.
TAVERN or      A building, wherein alcoholic beverages are sold for consumption on the premises,
LOUNGE:        not including restaurants where the principal business is serving food.
               A townhouse is a structure containing separate living units and is owned by
TOWNHOUSE:     persons having divided interest in said structure, including the real property
               upon which it is situated.
TRAVEL         A vehicular portable structure designated as a temporary dwelling for travel,
TRAILER:       recreational and vacation use. This definition also applies to motor homes.
               Any area, tract, plot or site of land, whereupon two (2) or more travel trailers
TRAVEL TRAILER are placed, located and maintained for dwelling purposes on a semi-permanent
PARK:          basis and for which a fee or rental for such use is collected by or collectable
               to the person holding ownership of the land.
               A modification of the requirements of this Title as to lot size, lot coverage,
               width, depth, front yard, side yard, rear yard, setbacks, parking space, height
               of the buildings or; other Title provisions affecting the size or shape of
               structures or the placement of structures upon lots. The variance is an
               adjustment or special exception made in the application of the regulations set
VARIANCE:      forth in this Title to a particular piece of property which, because of special
               circumstances, may be deprived of privileges commonly enjoyed by other properties
               in the same zone or vicinity. A variance shall not be considered a right or
               special privilege, but may be granted to an applicant only upon a showing of
               undue hardship because of characteristics of the site and that the variance is
               not in conflict with the public interest.
               An open space on the same lot with a principal building or group of buildings,
               which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its lowest level upward, except as
YARD:          otherwise permitted in this Title, and which extends along a lot line and at
               right angles thereto to a depth or width specified in the yard regulations for
               the zone in which the lot is located.
YARD SETBACK,  The yard extending across the full width of the lot adjacent to the front street
FRONT:         line.
YARD SETBACK,  The yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying between the rear
REAR:          line of the lot and the nearest line of the principal building.
YARD SETBACK,  The yard lying between the nearest wall of the principal building, accessory
SIDE:          building and side lot line, and extending from the front yard or the front lot
               line to the rear yard.
 
EXHIBIT 2 - YARD SETBACKS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/09b6c0d93abcbf13fb4398182a4460a14a33b72d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-963.png]
 
 
                           Single family dwellings arranged on individual lots
ZERO LOT LINE DEVELOPMENT: as either detached structures with one or more side
                           walls on a side property line or attached sidewalls
                           on a property line.
                           A portion of the jurisdiction of the city whereby
ZONE:                      there are uniform land use regulations and
                           requirements.
                           An official having knowledge in the principles and
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:      practices of zoning who is appointed by the Council
                           to administer this Title.
                           A notation attached to a building permit, occupancy
                           permit or business license, or issued separately by
ZONING CERTIFICATE:        the City to certify that the building, structure,
                           use, or occupancy specified is in compliance with
                           relevant zoning regulations and approvals. (Ord.
                           232, 4-14-2010, amd. Ord. 261, 11- -2019)
 
CHAPTER 3
STAFF AND COUNCIL DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES AND AUTHORITY
SECTION:
9-3-1: Purpose
9-3-2: Publication Information
9-3-3: Standards For Allowed Uses
9-3-4: Written Reports
9-3-5: Building Permits
9-3-6: Public Notice
9-3-7: Records And Files
9-3-8: Zoning Enforcement Program
9-3-9: Revisions And Amendments
9-3-10: Special Studies
9-3-11: Interpretations
9-3-12: Use Classification
9-3-1: PURPOSE:
The Horseshoe Bend City Council shall have legislative authority on all zoning
and land use decisions in the City. The Staff's function is under the direction
of the Council. The specific duties and responsibilities of staff follow. (Ord.
232, 4-14-2010)
9-3-2: PUBLIC INFORMATION:
Provide and maintain a continuing program of public information on zoning
matters and provide planning and zoning assistance to the public as requested.
(Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-3-3: STANDARDS FOR ALLOWED USES:
Review the standards for those allowed uses which must meet specific standards
prior to approval, and provide notice to the applicant and adjacent property
owners as herein specified. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-3-4: WRITTEN REPORTS:
Accept, evaluate and submit a written report, including findings of fact and
recommended conclusions of law, to appropriate authority for all Council level
applications. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-3-5: BUILDING PERMITS:
Review building permit applications for zoning compliance. (Ord. 232, 4-14-
2010)
9-3-6: PUBLIC NOTICE:
Provide public notice of all public hearings held for the review of planning
and zoning applications. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-3-7: RECORDS AND FILES:
Maintain records and files of all zoning applications and of the hearings and
actions thereon. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-3-8: ZONING ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM:
Investigate possible violations of this Title and take the actions necessary
and appropriate to remedy such violations. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-3-9: REVISIONS AND AMENDMENTS:
Initiate revisions and amendments of the Zoning Ordinance and the Comprehensive
Plan. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-3-10: SPECIAL STUDIES:
Prepare special studies and plans as appropriate. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-3-11: INTERPRETATIONS:
Make interpretations of the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance and
Comprehensive Plan. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-3-12: USE CLASSIFICATION:
Determine the classification of all uses not specifically identified in the
Zoning Ordinance. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PROCEDURES
SECTION:
9-4-1: Introduction
9-4-2: Application Required
9-4-3: City Clerk - Designation
9-4-4: City Clerk - Responsibility And Authority
9-4-5: Coordination With Other Departments And Agencies
9-4-6: Fees
9-4-7: Determination Of Level Of Review
9-4-8: Levels Of Zoning Review
9-4-8-1: Administrative Level Review
9-4-8-2: Council Level Review
9-4-9: Public Hearings
9-4-9-1: Public Hearing - When Required
9-4-9-2: Notice And Publication Of Hearing
9-4-9-3: Conduct of Hearings
9-4-10: Application Referrals
9-4-11: Application Reconsideration
9-4-1: INTRODUCTION:
The purpose of this Chapter is to define the general procedures for obtaining
zoning approval from the City of Horseshoe Bend, the various levels of zoning
review and the requirements for public notice and conduct of hearings. (Ord.
232, 4-14-2010)
9-4-2: APPLICATION REQUIRED:
Every person seeking zoning, variance, conditional use, conditional use
modification, annexation, rezone, planned unit developments, area-specific
amendments to the Comprehensive Plan and special exception approval as herein
defined shall submit an application to the City Clerk on a prescribed form,
accompanied by the appropriate filing fee as approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-4-3: CITY CLERK - DESIGNATION:
This Title shall be administered by the City Clerk or his/her designee(s).
(Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-4-4: CITY CLERK - RESPONSIBILITY AND AUTHORITY:
For the purposes of this Title, the City Clerk shall have the following
responsibility and authority:
   A.   Advise interested persons regarding zoning and subdivision ordinance
provisions.
   B.   Notify the public and interested media as required by law.
   C.   Advise applicants regarding required applications and ordinance
compliance.
   D.   Administer and issue land use and development permits, notifications
and similar administrative duties.
   E.   Investigate possible violations of this Title and take the actions
necessary and appropriate to remedy such violations.
   F.   Assist the City Council in implementing the provisions of this Title.
   G.   Any employee or agent designated by the Mayor of the City of Horseshoe
Bend may act on behalf of the City of Horseshoe Bend concerning any matter or
proceeding arising out of this Title. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-4-5: COORDINATION WITH OTHER DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES:
The City Clerk is directed to coordinate with other departments and public
agencies concerning all permits which may be required by this title and by
previously or subsequently adopted laws. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-4-6: FEES:
The City Council will establish by resolution a schedule of fees, charges and
expenses and for matters pertaining to the administration and enforcement of
this Title requiring investigations, advisory reports, inspections, legal
advertising, postage and other expenses. The schedule of fees will be available
in the office of the City Clerk, and may be altered or amended only by the City
Council. Until all applicable fees, charges and expenses have been paid in
full, no application shall be deemed complete for processing pursuant to this
title.
The City Clerk shall maintain a current list of fees for all zoning
applications identified in Section 9-7. The fees for zoning applications may be
revised only by the City Council. Current fee schedules may be obtained from
the Horseshoe Bend City Clerk. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-4-7: DETERMINATION OF LEVEL OF REVIEW:
The Administrator shall advise the public on the preparation of applications.
The Administrator shall decide the appropriate review procedure for each
application filed consistent with the requirements of this Title. The decision
of the Zoning Administrator may be appealed to the City Council. (Ord. 232, 4-
14-2010)
9-4-8: LEVELS OF ZONING REVIEW:
Two levels of zoning review are hereby established: Administrative and Council
level. All applications submitted to the Zoning Administrator shall be subject
to one or more of these reviews. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-4-8-1: ADMINISTRATIVE LEVEL REVIEW:
There is hereby established a category of uses that are considered to be
allowed uses but for which final approval may be withheld until certain
standards and/or criteria are complied with. The Zoning Administrator is
authorized to review the required approval standards and/or criteria for this
category of allowed uses and issue or withhold final approval. The action of
the Zoning Administrator on administrative applications may be appealed to the
City Council as hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-4-8-2: COUNCIL LEVEL REVIEW:
Certain zoning applications require action by the Horseshoe Bend City Council.
An advertised public hearing is required for Council Review. Decisions of the
City Council can be appealed through the judicial system. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-4-9: PUBLIC HEARINGS:
   A.   The purpose of the public hearing process is to provide the following:
      1.   An opportunity for citizens to present their views on an issue which
may affect them.
      2.   A definition of the issues upon which a decision is to be made.
      3.   Essential evidence upon which a decision can be made. To further
this process, all material contacts received by public officials outside of the
public hearing shall be disclosed prior to the commencement of the public
hearing. Material contacts shall be defined as those contacts received outside
the public hearing process which shall have a significant effect on the opinion
of a public official on a given issue.
      4.   An understanding of whether or not the proposal is in harmony with
local ordinances and regulations. City staff reports shall be entered as a part
of the public record.
   B.   If there is a question of conflict of interest, as defined by Idaho
Code 67-6506, for any public official, it shall be disclosed prior to the
commencement of the hearing.
   C.   Public Officials shall not bring up the pros and cons of the subject of
the hearing prior to all testimony and evidence being submitted.
   D.   At the commencement of the hearing, the Mayor may establish a time
limit to be observed by all speakers. Persons representing groups may be given
more time than individuals presenting their own views.
   E.   The Mayor conducting the hearing shall present an opening statement
setting forth the purpose of the hearing and the rules under which it shall be
conducted.
   F.   No person shall be permitted to speak at a public hearing until such
person has been recognized by the Mayor.
   G.   A transcribable, verbatim record of hearings shall be made and kept for
a period of not less than six (6) months after final decision on the matter. In
order to assure accuracy of the record, each person shall speak before the
microphone in an orderly and constructive fashion, giving his or her full name
and address and stating views as briefly as possible.
   H.   Speakers shall not be interrupted by the audience, public officials or
city staff until their time limit has expired or until they have completed
their comments.
   I.   At the conclusion of the speaker's comments, public officials, when
recognized, shall be allowed to question the speaker and the speaker shall be
limited to answers to the questions asked. The question and answer period shall
be not included in the speaker's time limit.
   J.   Rebuttals shall only be allowed if they provide new, relevant and
factual information.
   K.   If all sides of the issue cannot be heard in the time allotted, the
hearing may be recessed to a later time stated by the Mayor. Persons not having
had an opportunity to be heard may sign a roster in order to secure their
opportunity to speak at the time stated.
   L.   Any person not conforming to these procedures may be prohibited from
speaking during a public meeting. Should any person refuse to comply with such
prohibition, he or she may be removed from the room by order of the Mayor.
(Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-4-9-1: PUBLIC HEARING - WHEN REQUIRED:
The purpose of a public hearing is to give potentially affected persons an
opportunity to offer oral testimony in support of or in opposition to an
application or proposal. The resultant opinions and evidence submitted create
part of the record upon which the decision-makers must base their decisions.
(Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-4-9-2: NOTICE AND PUBLICATION OF HEARING:
   A.   Publication of Notice of Hearing: At least fifteen (15) and not more
than thirty (30) days prior to the public hearing, notice of the time and place
and a summary of the proposal shall be published in a newspaper of general
publication within the city.
   B.   Papers, Radio and Television: A notice may also be made available to
other papers, radio and television stations serving the City for use as a
public service announcement.
   C.   Notice to Political Subdivision: Notice of the time and place and a
summary of the proposal shall be sent to all political subdivisions providing
services within Horseshoe Bend's planning area, including school zones, at
least fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing.
   D.   Material Change In Proposal: Following the Council hearing, if the
Council makes a material change in the proposal, further notice and hearing
shall be provided before the Council approves the proposal. A record of the
hearings, findings made and actions taken shall be maintained.
   E.   Notice to Property Owners: For conditional use applications, rezone
applications and site-specific appeals, additional notice shall be provided by
mail to the applicant and to property owners, purchasers of record and
residents within the land being considered; within (300') of the external
boundaries of the land being considered; and any additional area that may be
impacted by the proposed change as determined by Administrator.
   F.   Criteria Determining if Additional Areas May be Impacted: The criteria
used by the Zoning Administrator for determining if additional areas may also
be impacted by the proposed changes shall be as follows:
      1.   The application could result in significant adverse traffic,
environmental, aesthetic, noise, pollution or population density impacts
occurring outside the minimum three hundred feet (300') notice area.
      2.   The public interest would be better served by expanding the area to
be notified.
   G.   Posting of Notice: Notice shall also be posted in a conspicuous place
on the premises not less than seven calendar days prior to the hearing. The
Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for the timely posting of all sites
and for the documentation of such postings. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-4-9-3: CONDUCT OF HEARINGS:
The Horseshoe Bend City Council shall conduct said hearings in conformity with
the following standards. At all such hearings:
   A.   Sign-in Roster: A sign-in roster shall be kept at the entrance to the
hearing room for all persons who wish to testify at the hearing on a particular
application issue.
   B.   Conduct of Hearing: The Mayor shall conduct the hearing in accordance
with the rules herein set forth. In order to accommodate all participants, the
Mayor may determine the allotted time for each speaker.
   C.   Record: A transcribable record shall be taken and maintained.
   D.   Preliminary Presentation of Facts: The Mayor shall call upon the staff
to make a preliminary presentation of facts. The Mayor shall conduct the public
hearing in the following manner.
      1.   Invite the applicant (or in case of an appeal, the appellant) to
make a presentation of evidence to the Council.
      2.   The staff will provide a presentation of the report.
      3.   Those who are in favor of the request may provide testimony.
      4.   Those who are opposed of the request may provide testimony.
      5.   Those who are neutral of the request may provide testimony.
      6.   The applicant will be provided time for rebuttal.
      7.   The public hearing will be closed.
In situations where the Council is acting as an appeals body and if the
appellant is not an applicant for an approval or permit, then the Mayor shall
call upon the applicant to present evidence to the Council.
   E.   Exhibits: Every document referred to by any person during testimony
(including charts, maps, photographic evidence or any other evidence) shall be
offered into the record. Every exhibit offered shall be marked and entered into
the record of the proceeding. Such exhibits shall be maintained with the City
Clerk during the appeal period.
   F.   Public Testimony: After the staff presentation and testimony by the
applicant (or in the case of an appeal, the appellant), the Mayor shall open
the hearing for public testimony and shall invite the public to address the
Council in the order of names found on the sign-in roster. If in the opinion of
the Mayor the number of persons testifying is of sufficient number as to unduly
delay the process of the hearing, the Mayor may limit public testimony to three
minutes for each member of the public. The public hearing may be continued upon
motion to a date certain, which shall be announced to the public there
assembled.
   G.   Appeal Hearings: During appeal hearings before Council testimony shall
be limited to those issues that were set forth in the written appeal(s). If
they desire, the Council may ask questions or request information regarding
aspects of the project that were not included in the written appeal.
   H.   Full Name and Address: All persons testifying before the Council except
staff, shall state, for the record, their full name and address.
   I.   Questions from Council: Members of the Council may question any person
who testified at any time or may, upon unanimous consent of the members
present, recall a person for further testimony.
   J.   Persons Attending Not on Roster: Before the close of the public
testimony, the Mayor shall ask if any persons attending who did not sign the
roster wish to be heard and any such person shall be heard for further
testimony.
   K.   Comments from Staff: At the close of public testimony, the Mayor may
solicit comments from staff for additional facts or clarification as a result
of the testimony given. After comments from staff, the applicant shall be given
an opportunity to address final comments to the Council. If Council is hearing
an appeal by someone other the applicant, the applicant shall be given an
opportunity to make final statements to the Council. The Mayor may determine
the time allowed for final comments subject to the right of the Council to
grant such additional time as it deems necessary.
   L.   Hearing Declared Closed: After all testimony, the Mayor shall declare
the public hearing closed and shall bring the matter back before the Council
for discussion and action. The discussion and decision may be deferred until
another date certain which shall then be announced to the public there
assembled. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-4-10: APPLICATION REFERRALS:
Any Administrative level decision may be appealed to the Council in accordance
with the procedures established in Section 9-4-8-1 of this title. All such
appeals must be written, accompanied by the appropriate fee and submitted to
the City Clerk prior to the deadlines set forth herein. If the appeal deadline
falls on a weekend or holiday, the appeal period is automatically extended to
the next workday. Each appeal must clearly state the name, address and phone
number of the person or organization appealing and the specific issues, items
or conditions that are being appealed. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-4-11: APPLICATION RECONSIDERATION:
Reconsideration is a procedure by which an applicant or other affected person
seeks to have a final decision-maker revisit the outcome or rationale of a
quasi-judicial land use decision. The determination to reconsider rests solely
in the discretion of the decision-maker. If the decision-maker agrees to
reconsider it shall specify the procedures to be followed and inform those
entitled to notice. If the decision maker determines that it will not
reconsider, it should state the reasons why and notify those entitled to
notice. The decision not to reconsider shall be deemed a final decision for
purposes and timing of maintaining an appeal. A decision to reconsider shall
toll the time for appeal until a final decision has been rendered after
reconsideration. A person(s) may ask for reconsideration of a land use
application if the request for reconsideration is made at the next regularly
scheduled meeting of the City Council and the person testified at the previous
hearing and must address a specific error or omission.
   A.   Denied Application: No application which has been denied shall be
resubmitted in either the same or substantially the same form or with reference
to substantially the same premises or the same purpose in less than one year
from the date of final action thereon.
   B.   Comprehensive Plan Change: If a Comprehensive Plan change is approved
by the City Council, an applicant may apply for a zone change within one year.
   C.    Application Reconsideration: A person(s) may ask for reconsideration
of a land use application if the request for reconsideration is made at the
next regularly scheduled meeting of the City Council and the person testified
at the previous hearing. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
CHAPTER 5
ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING CLASSIFICATIONS - ADOPTION AND AMENDMENT OF ZONING MAP
SECTION:
9-5-1: Establishment Of Zoning Classifications
9-5-2: Effect Of Zoning
9-5-3: Residential Zone(s)
9-5-4: Commercial Zone(s)
9-5-5: Mixed Use(s)
9-5-6: Industrial Zone(s)
9-5-7: Public Use(s)
9-5-8: Official Zoning Map
9-5-9: Zoning Regulations
9-5-9-1: Minimum Requirements
9-5-9-2: Boundaries Of Zones Established
9-5-9-3: Interpretation Of Zone Boundaries Established
9-5-10: Conformity Required
9-5-10-1: General Intent
9-5-10-2: Prohibited Uses
9-5-11: Interpretation Of Zones, Zones Established
9-5-12: Public (P)
9-5-12-1: Public Zone Established
9-5-13: Residential Zones (R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4)
9-5-13-1: Residential Zones Established
9-5-13-1-1: Single-Family Residential Zone (R-1)
9-5-13-1-2: Combined Residential Zone (R-2)
9-5-13-1-3: Multiple Family Residential Zone (R-3)
9-5-13-1-4: Multiple Family Residential Zone (R-4)
9-5-14: Interpretation Of Land Use Tables
9-5-15: Commercial Zones (C-1, C-2)
9-5-15-1: Commercial Zones Established
9-5-15-1-1: Neighborhood Commercial Zone (C-1)
9-5-15-1-2: Community Commercial Zone (C-2)
9-5-16: Mixed Use Zone (MXU)
9-5-17: Industrial Zones (M-1, M-2)
9-5-17-1: Light Industrial Zone Established
9-5-17-2: Heavy Industrial Zone Established
9-5-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING CLASSIFICATIONS:
In order to classify, regulate, restrict, and segregate the uses of lands and
buildings from incompatible uses, to allow uses where public infrastructure is
sufficient to support such uses, to regulate and restrict the height, bulk and
construction of buildings, to regulate the dimensions and area of yards and
other open spaces around buildings and uses, to implement the policies of the
Comprehensive Plan, and to regulate the intensity of land use and the density
of residences, the zoning districts set forth herein are established and shall
be applied as depicted upon the adopted Official Zoning Map of the
jurisdiction. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-5-2: EFFECT OF ZONING:
The regulations for each district set forth by this Title are minimum
regulations and shall apply to each type of land use, except as otherwise
provided. No building, structure or land shall be used or occupied and no
building or structure or part thereof shall be erected, constructed,
reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in conformity with the
regulations specified in this Title for the zoning district in which it is
located. No building or other structure shall be erected or altered to provide
for greater height or bulk, accommodate or house a greater number of
residential units, or to occupy a greater percentage of lot area than allowed
by this Title. No yard area or lot existing at the time of passage of this
title shall be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set
forth in this Title. Yards or lots created after the effective date of the
ordinance codified in this title shall meet at least the minimum requirements
set forth in this Title. Uses and structures lawfully existing on the date of
adoption of this Title may continue so long as they are not changed in ways
that conflict with provisions of this Title. No aspect of nonconformity may be
expanded contrary to the provisions of this Title, except by means of variance
or special exception. The uses allowed by zoning districts are exclusive. Only
land uses authorized by this ordinance or by administrative application of
provisions of this Title may be established in the land use zones depicted on
the Official Zoning Map. The descriptions of types of land use zones addressed
by this Title are intended to explain, in general terms, how zones will be
applied to implement the Comprehensive Plan. The specific entries in the use
and bulk and placement matrices are intended to identify specific uses that fit
within the general descriptions set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 232, 4-14-
2010)
9-5-3: RESIDENTIAL ZONE(S):
Residential (R) zones are intended to provide a living environment that
supports a place for families and individuals to live with limited adverse
influence from commercial or industrial activity and to permit other accessory
uses that are associated and compatible with residential use. Certain
residential zones may be established that allow higher residential densities,
and hence higher activity levels, but always with the goal of enjoyment of a
residential environment. Residential zones are primarily applied in the areas
designated Residential in the Comprehensive Plan. Permitted uses, conditionally
permitted uses and lot area and building bulk and placement requirements shall
comport with the standards set forth in the zoning matrix contained in this
Title. A primary distinction between low density and higher density residential
neighborhoods should be the ability of community infrastructure to accommodate
higher levels of activity without creating undue congestion, without unduly
stressing utility systems that support development and without compromising the
quality of public facilities available to provide public service. (Ord. 232, 4-
14-2010)
9-5-4: COMMERCIAL ZONE(S):
Commercial (C) land use zones are intended to support uses that include retail
sales and services for household and traveling consumers by allowing a variety
of retail, professional, or service businesses. Businesses involving the
manufacture, processing, or fabrication of goods or providing service or repair
to commercial products or equipment are not generally permitted unless
activities can be conducted within buildings that can thrive in the midst of
commercial infrastructure. Commercial zones are to be applied in areas
identified by the text and mapping of the Comprehensive Plan as being suitable
for commercial business, primarily addressing lands located near arterial and
collector streets. Residential uses may be allowed within a commercial zone by
conditional use permit when the presence of housing will not compromise present
or future commercial uses or when the housing environment within the commercial
zone will not be unsuitable for residential occupancy by virtue of congestion,
environmental factors or activity levels. Uses permitted by right in the
Industrial zone may be conditionally allowed in certain commercial zones by
special use permit so long as no industrial activities or processes are
conducted outdoors or in a manner that creates adverse environmental effects.
(Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-5-5: MIXED USE(S):
The Mixed Use (s) (MXU) allows a measure of design flexibility by permitting
variation land uses (residential and commercial). (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-5-6: INDUSTRIAL ZONE(S):
The Industrial (I) land use zone permits light industrial uses such as
warehousing, assembly, processing and light manufacturing as permitted uses and
conditionally allows heavy industrial uses such as fabrication, manufacturing,
refining and processes that produce external effects such as noise, emissions,
and outside activities by special use permit. The Industrial zone is primarily
applied in areas designated suitable for industrial development by the text and
future land use map of the Comprehensive Plan. Residential uses may only be
established in an Industrial one if subordinate and accessory to a primary
industrial use and should be permitted only by special use permit. (Ord. 232,
4-14-2010)
9-5-7: PUBLIC USES(S):
Land uses to be established by public agencies may be permitted in accordance
with the use matrix adopted as part of this Title. Any such use shall be
subject to provisions of state and federal law. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-5-8: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
The zones established in this Title shall be applied as depicted on the
Official Zoning Map which is hereby incorporated into this Title by reference
as it exists today or as modified by the text of subsequent amending
ordinances. The Administrator shall maintain the Official Zoning Map to reflect
changes made by the Governing Board from time to time and shall depict such
changes on the Official Zoning Map. Each change shall be documented at the time
the map is modified, including reference to the ordinances authorizing changes.
A register of such changes including descriptions of the lands affected thereby
shall be maintained by the Administrator throughout the duration of the
existence of the Official Zoning Map, until it is superseded by a replacement
zoning map. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-5-9: ZONING REGULATIONS:
9-5-9-1: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
The regulations for each zone set forth by this chapter shall be minimum
regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or
land, except as hereinafter provided. When an original lot or parcel of record
has one half (½) or less of its area in a zone more restrictive than the zone
which includes the remainder, the Zoning Administrator may permit the
regulation of the less restrictive zone to be applied to the entire parcel. In
addition to all other regulations as specified in this Title, the following
provisions shall be adhered to. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-5-9-2: BOUNDARIES OF ZONES ESTABLISHED:
The location and boundaries of the zoning or land uses zones established herein
are shown upon the map or maps entitled "Zoning Map, Horseshoe Bend, Idaho"
which is hereby incorporated into and made part of this Title by reference. The
original copy of said map or maps shall be filed with the City Clerk. The
Zoning Map or Maps, together with all notations, reference and other
information shown thereon, and all amendments thereto, are a part of this Title
and shall have the same force and effect as if said map or maps are fully set
forth and described herein. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-5-9-3: INTERPRETATION OF ZONE BOUNDARIES ESTABLISHED:
Wherever any uncertainty exists as to the boundary of any Zone shown on any
zoning map made a part thereof, the following rules shall apply:
   A.   Where any such boundary line is indicated as following a street, alley
or public way, it shall be construed as following the centerline thereof.
   B.   Where a boundary line is indicated as approximately following a lot
line, such lot line shall to be such boundary line.
   C.   Where a boundary line divides a lot or crosses un-subdivided property,
the location of such boundary shall be indicated upon the zoning Map. (Ord.
232, 4-14-2010)
9-5-10: CONFORMITY REQUIRED:
9-5-10-1: GENERAL INTENT:
Except as otherwise provided herein, land, buildings and premises in any zone
shall hereafter be used only in accordance with the regulations herein
established for that zone. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-5-10-2: PROHIBITED USES:
Uses not specified in the land use tables are prohibited unless determined by
the City Council as a conditional use permit. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-5-11: INTERPRETATION OF ZONES, ZONES ESTABLISHED:
For the purpose of promoting pride of ownership, health, safety, morals and
general welfare within its area of jurisdiction, the City is hereby divided
into the following use Zones. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-5-12: PUBLIC (P):
9-5-12-1: PUBLIC ZONE ESTABLISHED:
The Zone, designed by the symbol "P" is to provide space in suitable locations
for governmental buildings and land uses in conformance with the purpose of
this Title. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-5-13: RESIDENTIAL ZONES (R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4):
9-5-13-1: RESIDENTIAL ZONES ESTABLISHED:
Certain Zones, designed by the symbol "R" followed by a numeral, or a number
and a letter, and referred to collectively as Residential Zones or R Zones, are
established:
   A.   To provide space in suitable locations for the various types of
residential accommodations needed in the City; and
   B.   To provide a means of regulating the density and distribution of the
population in conformance with the purpose of this Title. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-5-13-1-1: SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONE (R-1):
The purpose of this zone is to preserve residential neighborhoods to prevent
overcrowding of the land and to encourage the development of low-density areas
of five (5) units per acre. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-5-13-1-2: COMBINED RESIDENTIAL ZONE (R-2):
The purpose of this zone is to provide residential development which is well
designed and properly located in the community with medium densities of (6) six
to eight (8) units per acre and adjacent to shopping, recreation, cultural and
other community facilities. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-5-13-1-3: MULTIPLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONE (R-3):
The purpose of this zone is to provide residential development, which is well
designed and properly located in the community with medium to high-density
residential densities of nine (9) to nineteen (19) units per acre. This type of
zoning pattern is intended to create transition areas and buffer zones between
commercial areas and medium density residential development. It is also
intended to permit high-density activities adjacent to more intensive community
use areas. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-5-13-1-4: MULTIPLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONE (R-4):
The purpose of this zone is to provide residential development, which is well
designed and properly located in the community with high-density residential
densities twenty (20) units to thirty (30) units per acre. This type of zoning
pattern is intended to create transition areas and buffer zones between
commercial areas and medium density residential development. It is also
intended to permit high-density activities adjacent to more intensive community
use areas. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-5-14: INTERPRETATION OF LAND USE TABLES:
Matrix-style land use tables that address allowable uses and building bulk and
placement standards are made part of this Title and shall be interpreted
consistent with the principles and rules set forth in this section.
   A.   If the letter "A", for "Allowed", appears in the box at the
intersection of a column and a row, the use is allowed in that classification,
subject to the development and operational requirements of this and other
applicable ordinance provisions.
   B.   If the letter "CU", for "Conditionally Permitted", appears in the box
at the intersection of a column and a row, the use is conditionally allowed in
that classification, subject to obtaining a conditional use permit and subject
to the development and operational requirements of this and other applicable
ordinance provisions. The responsibility of demonstrating that a special use
permit request is appropriate rests with the applicant.
   C.   Uses not designated as allowed (A) or conditionally permitted (CU) are
prohibited. If either an "A" or "CU" appears in the box at the intersection of
a column and a row, the use is prohibited in the zoning classification.
   D.   The land use tables in this section indicate whether a specific use is
allowed in a zone classification. Specific uses are divided among multiple
tables, each of which represents a broad category of land uses.
   E.   Any proposed use not listed in the table may be classified by the City
Clerk as a permitted use (A), conditional use (CU), or prohibited, based on the
listed use(s) to which the proposed use is most similar. If the City Clerk
determines that the proposed use is not similar to any use in the table, the
proposed use shall not be permitted. The City Clerk may use the Standard
Industrial Classifications (SIC) as a basis for comparing the nature of a
proposed or identified use. The determination of the City Clerk may be appealed
to the City Council as provided herein.
TABLE 1A:   PUBLIC ZONE (P), RESIDENTIAL ZONES
(R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4) - REQUIREMENTS
"P" Prohibited "A" Allowed "CU" Conditional Use
Requirements Zones
             (PUBLIC) P R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4
Requirements                                      Zones
                                                  (PUBLIC) P R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4
Single family dwelling unit                       P          A   A   A   A
Duplex                                            P          CU  A   A   A
Triplex and fourplex multi-family dwellings units P          P   CU  CU  A
More than four multi-family dwellings units       P          P   P   CU  A
Adult care facility                               P          P   CU  A   A
Homes for ambulatory aged
Rest home/elderly                                 P          P   CU  A   A
Manufactured home community                       P          P   CU  CU  CU
Boarding and rooming house                        P          CU  A   CU  CU
Government or public facility facility of         A          P   P   CU  CU
nonindustrial character
Religious facilities*                             P          CU  CU  CU  CU
Day care                                          P          CU  CU  CU  CU
Bed and breakfast inn                             P          A   A   A   A
Parks                                             A          A   A   A   A
Schools                                           A          A   A   A   A
Group home                                        P          A   A   A   A
*   Churches, Temples, Synagogues, Mosques and other Religious Facilities
 
TABLE 1B:   PUBLIC ZONE (P), RESIDENTIAL ZONES
(R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4) - DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS
Requirements Zones
             P R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4
Requirements                Zones
                            P        R-1      R-2        R-3        R-4
Setbacks*:                                                       
   Front yard:           N/a      30 ft.   20 ft.     20 ft.     20 ft.
   Side yard - interior:
    1-story              N/a      10 ft.   10 ft.     10 ft.     10 ft.
    2- story             N/a      10 ft.   10 ft.     10 ft.     10 ft.
   More than 2 stories   N/a      10 ft.   10 ft.     10 ft.     10 ft.
Side yard - street          N/a      20 ft.   15 ft.     15 ft.     15 ft.
Rear yard - 1 or 2 Stories  N/a      20 ft.   20 ft.     20 ft.     20 ft.
Rear yard - More Than 2     N/a      30 ft.   30 ft.     30 ft.     30 ft.
Stories
Lot area:
   Interior Lots (sq. ft.N/a      10,000   9,000      9,000      5,000
                                              8,000/     8,000/     5,000/ plus
   Corner Lots (sq .ft.) N/a      15,000   9,000 dup. plus 1,000 1,000 per
                                                         per unit   unit
Average lot width:
   Interior Lots (Lineal N/a      75       75         75         75
Feet)
   Corner Lots (Lineal   N/a      75       75         75         75
Feet)
Street Frontage ( Lineal    N/a      75       75         75         75
Feet)
Maximum Dwelling Units Per  N/a      5        8          19         30
Acre
% of Land Covered by        N/a      35%      40%        45%        45%
Structure
Height Restriction          25 ft.** 25 ft.** 25 ft.**   25 ft.**   25 ft.**
*   Setbacks may be subject to current adopted Building Codes.
**   Based upon fire district restrictions.
 
(Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-5-15: COMMERCIAL ZONES (C-1, C-2):
9-5-15-1: COMMERCIAL ZONES ESTABLISHED:
Certain Zones, designated by the symbol "C", followed by a numeral, or numeral
and letter, and referred to collectively herein as "C" or Commercial Zone, are
established to preserve and enhance property values by providing space in
suitable locations for the various types of business activity needed to serve
the people and commerce in the city in conformance with the Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-5-15-1-1: NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL ZONE (C-1):
The purpose of this zone is to direct the location of local commercial service
needs and to restrict incompatible uses which may be better located in highway
oriented community shopping areas due to size of the shopping center, location
within the community, residential neighborhood areas being serviced and other
factors. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-5-15-1-2: COMMUNITY COMMERCIAL ZONE (C-2):
The purpose of this zone is to direct the location of service activities, which
are related to retail, travel or highway related services. (Ord. 232, 4-14-
2010)
9-5-16: MIXED USE ZONE (MXU):
The purpose of this zone is establish to provide lands for and encourage the
development of well-planned and designed mixed use which would accommodate
certain, professional offices, light industrial and other similar activities.
TABLE 2A:   COMMERCIAL ZONES (C1, C2) and MIX USE (MXU)
"P" Prohibited "A" Allowed "CU" Conditional Use
Land Use Zones
         C-1 C-2 MXU
Land Use                                                         Zones
                                                                 C-1 C-2 MXU
Medical, professional and administrative offices                 A   A   A
Indoor theater                                                   CU  A   CU
Retail store                                                     CU  A   A
Clinics                                                          CU  A   A
Automobile service station                                       P   A   CU
Commercial and private off street parking lot for passenger      P   A   CU
automobiles
Mortuaries                                                       P   A   CU
Hotel/motel                                                      CU  A   A
Radio, television, fm broadcasting stations, including aerials   CU  A   CU
Bowling alley, dance hall, similar commercial establishments for CU  A   CU
public gathering or recreational use
Auction establishments                                           P   A   P
Nursery (plants)                                                 CU  A   CU
Recreational vehicle park                                        P   A   P
Club or lodge                                                    CU  A   CU
Day care, school for students of art, dancing dramatics, music,  CU  A   P
business or secretarial work
Religious facilities*                                            CU  CU  CU
Retail and repairs                                               A   A   CU
Residential as part of a planned unit development                CU  CU  CU
Manufacturing, assembling, fabricating, processing, packing,     P   CU  CU
repairing, or storage uses
Surface automobile sales and service                             P   A   P
Surface trailer and recreational vehicle sales and rental        P   A   P
Tavern or lounge                                                 P   A   P
Automobile and truck repair shop                                 P   A   P
Contractors shop                                                 CU  CU  A
Restaurant                                                       A   A   A
*   Churches, Temples, Synagogues, Mosques and other Religious Facilities
 
TABLE 2B:   COMMERCIAL ZONES (C-1, C-2) and
MIX USE (MXU), DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS
Requirements  Zones
                C-1 C-2 MXU
Requirements                  Zones
                                 C-1        C-2        MXU
Setbacks***
   Front yard                 0*         0*         20
   Side yard - interior       0*         0*         0
    1 - Story                 0*         0*         20
    2- Story                  0*         0*         20
   More than 2 stories        0*         0*         20
Side yard - street               0*         0*         0
Rear yard - 1 or 2 Stories       0**        0**        0
Rear yard - More Than 2 Stories  0**        0**        0
Lot area
   Interior Lots (sq. ft.)    0          0          0
   Corner Lots                0          0          0
Average lot width
   Interior Lots (Lineal Feet)0          0          0
   Corner Lots (Lineal Feet)  0          0          0
   Street Frontage (Lineal Fee0)         0          0
Maximum Dwelling Units Per Acre  0          0          0
% of Land Covered by Structure   0          0          0
Height Restriction               25 ft.**** 25 ft.**** 25 ft.****
*   When a Commercial Zone lot abuts a residential zone front or side yard, a
10 ft. setback is required.
**   When a Commercial Zone lot abuts a residential zone rear yard, a 20 ft.
setback is required.
***   Setbacks may be subject to current adopted Building Codes.
****   Based upon fire district restrictions.
 
(Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-5-17: INDUSTRIAL ZONES (M-1, M-2):
9-5-17-1: LIGHT INDUSTRIAL ZONE ESTABLISHED:
The Light Industrial (M-1) Zone is established to provide for and encourage the
grouping together of light industrial uses capable of being operated under
standards to the location and appearance of buildings and treatment of the land
about them. Such buildings will be unobtrusive and not detrimental to
surrounding commercial or residential uses. Areas set aside as M-1 may be
classified as such in conformity with the Comprehensive Plan and where it is
found that in the public's best interest there is a need for industrial
activities substantially free from residential or retail commercial activities
with the subsequent finding that industrial uses are the highest and best use
for the land involved. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-5-17-2: HEAVY INDUSTRIAL ZONE ESTABLISHED:
The Heavy Industrial (M-2) Zone is established to provide for the location of
all industrial land use, which is incompatible with other zone within the city,
which, for reasons of health, safety or general welfare is excluded from the M-
2 zone. No use intended to be included, which by reason of its location with
respect to the boundaries of the Zone or by reason of its operational
characteristics, would create hazardous conditions. Areas set aside as M-
2 identifies land uses that may be considered as a nuisance due to sound, odors
or vibrations.
TABLE 3A: INDUSTRIAL ZONES (M-1) and (M-2)
"P" Prohibited "A" Allowed "CU" Conditional Use
Land Use Zones
         M-1 M-2
Land Use                                                                Zones
                                                                        M-1 M-2
Mini-storage units                                                      A   A
Wholesaling, warehousing, storage & distribution                        A   A
Contracting equipment, maintenance                                      A   P
Food processing                                                         CU  CU
Commercial boarding kennel                                              CU  P
Broadcasting tower for radio or television                              CU  CU
Gravel pits, rock quarries, sand and clay pits and other natural        P   CU
resources of commercial value
Cellular communication tower                                            CU  A
Sales of heavy building materials and machinery                         A   A
Sheet metal, roofing or sign painting shop                              A   A
Storage warehouse                                                       A   A
Bulk storage of flammable liquids and gases above ground and for resale P   CU
Indoor Shooting Range                                                   CU  CU
Outdoor Shooting Range                                                  CU  CU
 
TABLE 3B:   INDUSTRIAL ZONE (M-1) and (M-2)
DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS
Requirements Zones
             M-1 M-2
Requirements                    Zones
                                M-1       M-2
Setbacks**
   Front yard                0*        0*
   Side yard - interior      0*        0*
    1 - Story                0*        0*
    2 - Story                0*        0*
   More than 2 stories       0*        0*
Side yard - street              0*        0*
Rear yard - 1 or 2 Stories      0*        0*
Rear yard - More Than 2 Stories 0*        0*
Lot area
    Interior Lots (sq. ft.)  0         0
   Corner Lots               0         0
Average lot width
   Interior Lots (Lineal Feet0         0
   Corner Lots (Lineal Feet) 0         0
Street Frontage (Lineal Feet)   0         0
Maximum Dwelling Units Per Acre 0         0
% of Land Covered by Structure  0         0
Height Restriction              25 ft.*** 25 ft.***
*   When an Industrial Zone lot abuts, touches, or adjoins, or is across the
street from a residential Zone a 20 ft. setback is required.
**   Setbacks may be subject to current adopted Building Codes.
***   Based upon fire district restrictions.
 
(Ord. 232, 4-14-2010; amd. Ord. 260, 11- -2019)
CHAPTER 6
ZONING CERTIFICATES
SECTION:
9-6-1: Zoning Certificate Required
9-6-2: Zoning Certificate Not Required
9-6-3: Temporary Uses
9-6-4: Revocations
9-6-1: ZONING CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
Every application for a permit or license affecting the use of land or of a
structure shall also be deemed an application for a Zoning Certificate. In the
case of a new use, where no other permit or license is required, an application
for a Zoning Certificate shall be filed on a separate form. The Zoning
Administrator shall approve or deny specific applications for a Zoning
Certificate within fifteen (15) working days after receipt. Approval may be
made contingent upon such conditions as are reasonably necessary to secure the
public welfare. The Zoning Administrator shall require guarantees to assure
removal of temporary uses and of any debris or refuse resultant there from, so
as to restore the premises to its prior condition and shall establish the date
of such removal. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-6-2: ZONING CERTIFICATE NOT REQUIRED:
No zoning certificate shall be required for any of the following specified uses
and structures when such uses are permitted in the Zone:
   A.   Lawful minor accessory uses, not requiring any other permit or license;
   B.   Lawful signs of a type for which no building permit or sign permit are
required. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-6-3: TEMPORARY USES:
   A.   Temporary uses may be allowed in appropriately zone areas without full
site development as otherwise required by this Title. Such uses may include,
but are not limited to, erection of temporary structures such as tents, fences,
booths or parking of trailers for activities such as carnivals, circuses,
fairs, religious meetings, temporary outdoor displays and/or sale of Christmas
trees, art objects or other items and other similar activities conducted either
outdoors or within temporary structures. A temporary use is a land use
established for a period of time not to exceed ninety (90) days in a calendar
year and does not require permanent site improvements. The actual use embodied
by a temporary use permit must be a permitted use in the zoning district in
which it is proposed to be located. The temporary use permit may be allowed
subject to conditions required by the Zoning Administrator so long as the
Zoning Administrator determined that granting the Temporary Use Permit will not
harm the public interest if the required conditions are complied with.
   B.   An application for a temporary use shall include a written description
of the use, proposed starting date of the use, and a site plan that shows the
location of the use, access, setbacks from property lines, parking, restroom
facilities (if applicable), and any other pertinent information that the Zoning
Administrator may require to evaluate the use. An application for a temporary
use shall include the names and addresses of abutting land owners. The Zoning
Administrator will prepare a notice of the administrative permit request and
mail it to abutting property owners who will have seven (7) days from the date
of mailing within which to respond with written comments supporting or opposing
the request. Notice of the proposal may also be sent to City of Horseshoe Bend
operating departments for comment.
   C.   A temporary use may be approved, approved with conditions or denied by
the Zoning Administrator. A temporary use permit is valid on the date of
approval or on the date requested by the applicant and will be valid for the
time period requested or no more than ninety (90) days during a calendar year,
such days to be designated at the time of issuance. The Zoning Administrator,
when deciding a temporary use permit request, should consider the following:
      1.   Whether the proposed temporary use would be consistent with the
general policies of the Zoning Ordinance and Comprehensive Plan.
      2.   Whether the use would otherwise be permitted within the zoning
district wherein located.
      3.   Whether granting the temporary use permit would be detrimental to
the nearby neighborhood or to the community in general.
      4.   Whether the proposed temporary use would create a traffic hazard.
      5.   Whether the proposed temporary use would impair the functioning of
community facilities or delivery of public services.
   D.   Other uses which clearly are not associated with a holiday, the growing
season, or a construction project may be considered for approval by the Zoning
Administrator. The three aforementioned classes of uses may be approved
provided they comply with the following criteria:   
      1.   Are issued for a set time period as requested by the applicant and
agreed to by the Zoning Administrator not exceeding ninety (90) calendar days.
      2.   The proposed use shall not (except as permitted for temporary,
outdoor display or sale of merchandise) allow for placement of any structure,
vehicle, sign, etc. within a vision triangle, required setback, required
parking stall, service drive area, dedicated trash dumpster location, sidewalk,
or any other position on a lot which may interfere with vehicular or pedestrian
circulation, or the normal functions of other uses on the property, or be
potentially hazardous to the public.
      3.   The approval shall include language that the certificate does not
exempt the applicant from having to comply with regulations administered and
enforced by other city, state and federal agencies.
      4.   No permit, except in the case of seasonal uses or uses incidental to
construction, shall be issued for structures or uses which are intended to be
placed upon unimproved property. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-6-4: REVOCATIONS:
Upon violation of any of the conditions or terms of a zoning certificate issued
pursuant to the Chapter, the Zoning Administrator may cause the certification
to be revoked. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
CHAPTER 7
CITY COUNCIL APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
9-7-1: Adoption, Amendment And Repeal Of Comprehensive Plan
9-7-2: Amendment; Reclassification Of The Zoning Ordinance And Map
9-7-2-1: Power To Amend
9-7-2-2: Application Required
9-7-2-3: Public Hearing
9-7-3: Regulatory Taking
9-7-4: Taking Guidelines
9-7-5: Amendment Of Zoning Ordinance Text
9-7-6: Annexation
9-7-6-1: Zoning Upon Annexation
9-7-6-2: Application Required
9-7-6-3: Public Hearing
9-7-7: Annexation Procedures
9-7-8: Conditional Use Permit Procedure
9-7-8-1: Description And Purpose
9-7-8-2: Application Required
9-7-8-3: Public Hearing
9-7-8-4: Action By Council
9-7-8-5: Conditions
9-7-8-6: Process Of Approval, Appeal, Judicial Review
9-7-9: Variance Procedure
9-7-9-1: Definition
9-7-9-2: Purpose
9-7-9-3: Application Required
9-7-9-4: Public Hearing
9-7-9-5: Action
9-7-9-6: Duration Of Approval
9-7-9-7: Appeal
9-7-10: Development Agreement
9-7-10-1: Purpose
9-7-10-2: Development Agreement Commitment
9-7-10-3: Applicability
9-7-10-4: Application Procedures
9-7-10-5: Recordation
9-7-10-6: Standards
9-7-10-7: Enforcement
9-7-10-8: Modification And Termination
9-7-10-9: Hearing
9-7-10-10: Other Conditional Use Approval
9-7-1: ADOPTION, AMENDMENT AND REPEAL OF COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
   A.   The Council shall conduct at least one public hearing, following notice
and hearing proceedings set forth in Sections
9-4-9,
9-4-9-1,
9-4-9-2 and
9-4-9-3 in which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard.
   B.   The Council, prior to adoption, amendment or repeal of the
Comprehensive Plan, shall conduct at least one public hearing using the same
notice and hearing. Following the hearing of the Council, if the Council makes
a material change in the Plan, further notice and hearing shall be provided
before the Council adopts the Plan or amendment.
   C.   No plan or amendment shall be effective unless adopted by resolution or
ordinance by the Council.
   D.   Any person may petition the Council, for a plan amendment at any time.
   E.   Any person seeking an amendment to the Comprehensive Plan text or map
shall submit to the Zoning Administrator an application form as prescribed by
the City Council, designating the change desired the reasons therefore, and
wherein the proposed amendment would be in the public interest. The Zoning
Administrator shall transmit the requested amendment to the City Council. Upon
receipt of the request, the City Council shall consider the amendment in
accordance with this Section.
   F.   Amendment fees are established by Council resolution and are non-
refundable. If the requested amendment is for a map change, it may take place
under the same fee concurrent with an application for amendment of the Zoning
Map or an application for annexation; provided, procedural requirements for
each application are met. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-7-2: AMENDMENT; RECLASSIFICATION OF THE ZONING ORDINANCE AND MAP:
9-7-2-1: POWER TO AMEND:
   A.   This chapter may be amended whenever the Council deems that amendment
is required for public convenience or necessity, or for general welfare. Any
amendment shall be enacted pursuant to this Section, and for purposes of this
Section, includes any measure to change Zone boundaries, establish or
disestablish Zones, to change Zone regulations, to add, repeal or amend any
other provisions of any Section or the whole of this Title.
   B.   An amendment to the text of this Title or to the Official Zoning Map
may be initiated by a Resolution of Intention by the City Council or by an
application of one or more of the owners of property affected by the proposed
amendment. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-7-2-2: APPLICATION REQUIRED:
Application: Any person seeking an amendment of the Zoning Ordinance or Map
shall submit to the Zoning Administrator an application, designating the change
desired the reasons therefore, and how the proposed amendment would further
promote the objectives and purposes of the Zoning Ordinance. Said application
shall be accompanied by a filing fee. The Zoning Administrator shall then
transmit the requested amendment to the Council. Upon receipt of the request,
the Council shall consider the amendment, giving particular attention to the
effects of any proposed change upon the delivery of services by any political
subdivision providing public services, including school zones, within the
planning area of the City.
   A.   Applications from a property owner shall be filed with the City Clerk,
accompanied by such data and information necessary to assure the fullest
presentation of facts.
   B.   No application from an owner of property for the same general purpose
concerning the same property, which has been denied by the City, shall be
received or processed within twelve (12) months of such denial except by
unanimous action of the Council. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-7-2-3: PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Hearing Required: Prior to considering an amendment, the Council shall
conduct at least one public hearing, as per Sections
9-4-9,
9-4-9-1,
9-4-9-2 and
9-4-9-3, in which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard.
   B.   Map Amendments: In the case of map amendments, which are in accordance
with the adopted Comprehensive Plan, additional notice shall be provided by
mail to property owners or purchasers of record within three hundred feet
(300') of the external boundaries of the land being considered, and any
additional area that may be impacted by the proposed change as determined by
the Council.
   C.   Posting Notice: Notice shall also be posted on the premises not less
than one week prior to the public hearing.
   D.   Adverse Impacts: If the request is not in accordance with the adopted
Plan, or would result in demonstrable adverse impacts upon the delivery of
services by any political subdivision providing public services within the
planning area, including school zones, the request shall be submitted to the
City Council. The City Council may then adopt or reject an amendment to the
plan under the notice and hearing procedures provided in this Section. After
the plan has been amended, the Zoning Ordinance may then be amended as provided
for in this Section.
   E.   Material Change: Following the Council's hearing, if the Council makes
a material change from that which was presented at the public hearing, further
notice and hearing shall be provided before the Council accepts the amendment.
The Council may also adopt initiative after holding a hearing as required under
the above provisions.
   F.   Notice: When notice is required to be given to two hundred (200) or
more property owners or purchasers of record, an alternative form of procedure
of official notice of the public hearing and Council shall be that the public
hearing notice shall be published in the official newspaper two (2) consecutive
times.
   G.   Public Hearing Required by Council: Amendments to the Zoning Ordinance
or Map may be adopted City Council in which parties in interest and citizens
shall have an opportunity to be heard. The Council shall use the notice and
hearing procedures.
   H.   Amending Ordinance: The Council, upon acceptance of said amendment
shall adopt an ordinance amending the Ordinance or Map.
   I.   Reversal of Council Action: If the Council adopts a zoning
classification or map amendment pursuant to a request by a property owner, the
Council shall not subsequently reverse its action or otherwise change the
zoning classification of said property without the consent, in writing, of the
current property owner for a period of four (4) years from the date the Council
adopted said individual property owner's request for a zoning classification
change or Map amendment. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-7-3: REGULATORY TAKING:
The owner of real property that is the subject of zoning or subdivision
decisions or conditions of approval under this Title may file a request for a
regulatory taking analysis with the City Clerk within twenty-eight (28) days
from the date of the final decision.
   A.   A decision is not a final City decision until a decision is made by the
Council. Every final decision concerning a site specific land use request shall
be provided to the applicant along with notice of the landowner's right to
request a regulatory taking analysis.
   B.   Upon request, the City shall prepare a written taking analysis of any
decision or condition(s) of approval on any site specific zoning or development
application. The regulatory taking analysis shall comply with the process set
forth in this Title including use of the most current checklist developed by
the Idaho Attorney General. The analysis shall be provided to the real property
owner no longer than forty-two (42) days after the date of filing the request
with the City Clerk. A regulatory taking analysis prepared pursuant to this
section shall be considered public information. The request for a taking
analysis and the analysis shall be part of the application record. During the
preparation of a taking analysis, any time limitations related to the
application or action shall be told.
   C.   If the taking analysis concludes that the decision or attached
conditions constitute a taking, the application shall be immediately returned
to the City Council for corrective action.
   D.   The City's decision is voidable if a written taking analysis is not
prepared after a request has been made pursuant to this chapter. A private real
property owner, whose land is the subject of city action, and such property is
affected by the City's action without the preparation of a requested taking
analysis as required by this Section may seek judicial determination of the
validity of the governmental action by initiating a declaratory judgment action
or other appropriate legal procedure. A suit seeking to invalidate a city
action for noncompliance with paragraph B of this section must be filed in a
District Court in the county in which the private property owner's affect real
property is located. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-7-4: TAKING GUIDELINES:
The regulatory taking analysis shall follow the most current taking guidelines
of the Idaho Attorney General. If the following guidelines are modified by the
State Attorney General, which revised list shall be utilized in the City of
Horseshoe Bend of taking analysis.
   A.   Does the regulation or action result in a permanent or temporary
physical occupation of private property?
   B.   Does the regulation or action require a property owner to dedicate a
portion of property or to grant an easement?
   C.   Does the regulation deprive the owner of all economically viable uses
of the property?
   D.   Does the regulation have a significant impact on the landowner's
economic interest?
   E.   Does the regulation deny a fundamental attribute of ownership?
   F.   Does the regulation serve the same purpose that would be served by
directly prohibiting the use or action; and does the condition imposed
substantially advance that purpose? (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-7-5: AMENDMENT OF ZONING ORDINANCE TEXT:
   A.   The Governing Board may amend, by ordinance, the text of this Zoning
Ordinance in accordance with applicable provisions of Idaho Code and the City
of Horseshoe Bend Comprehensive Plan.
   B.   Any application for a Zoning Ordinance text amendment shall address the
questions posed by the application, the information required by state law and
information otherwise required by this Title or by the City Council. In
addition to information required by the application form, an application to
change the text of the Zoning Ordinance shall provide a description of the
amendment requested along with a statement that describes the rationale for the
request, the proposed text of the amendment, how it would better implement the
Comprehensive Plan, and the public purpose that would be achieved by amendment
of the Zoning Ordinance. All applications for Zoning Ordinance text amendments
shall be submitted to the City Council. An amendment, if approved, shall be
implemented by the passage of an ordinance. Amendment of the text of the Zoning
Ordinance is a legislative act committed to the sound discretion of the City
Council. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-7-6: ANNEXATION:
9-7-6-1: ZONING UPON ANNEXATION:
Prior to annexation of an unincorporated area, the Council shall follow the
notice and hearing procedures provided in Sections
9-4-9,
9-4-9-1,
9-4-9-2 and
9-4-9-3. Immediately following the adoption of an ordinance of annexation, the
Council shall amend the City Map to reflect the annexed property. (Ord. 232, 4-
14-2010)
9-7-6-2: APPLICATION REQUIRED:
Every person seeking annexation into the City of Horseshoe Bend shall file with
the City Clerk, an application as prescribed in Section
9-4-2. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-7-6-3: PUBLIC HEARING:
The Council shall hold at least one public hearing for each annexation request
as prescribed in Sections
9-4-9,
9-4-9-1,
9-4-9-2 and
9-4-9-3. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-7-7: ANNEXATION PROCEDURES:
Annexation of the lands into Horseshoe Bend shall follow the procedures
applicable to the category of lands as established by this section, The
implementation of any annexation wherein the City Council determines that
annexation is appropriate shall be concluded with the passage of an ordinance
of annexation.   
   A.   Procedures for Category 'A' Annexations: Lands lying contiguous or
adjacent to the Horseshoe Bend limits may be annexed by the City if the
proposed annexation meets the requirements of Category 'A'. Upon determining
that a proposed annexation meets such requirements, Horseshoe Bend may initiate
the planning and zoning procedures set forth in Chapter 65, Title 67, Idaho
Code, to establish the comprehensive planning policies, where necessary, and
zoning classification of the lands to be annexed.
   B.   Procedures for Category 'B' Annexations: Horseshoe Bend may annex lands
that would qualify under the requirements of Category 'B' annexation if the
following requirements are met.
      1.   The lands are contiguous or adjacent to the Horseshoe Bend limits
and lie within the City's area of city impact.
      2.   The land is laid off into lots or blocks containing not more than
five (5) acres of land each, whether the same shall have been or shall be laid
off, subdivided or platted in accordance with any statute of the State of Idaho
or otherwise, or whenever the owner or proprietor or any such person by or with
his authority has sold or begun to sell off such contiguous or adjacent lands
by meets and bounds in tracts not exceeding five (5) acres, or whenever the
land is surrounded by the City. Splits of ownership which occurred prior to
August 14, 2002, and which were the result of placement of public utilities,
public roads or highways, or railroad lines through the property shall not be
considered as evidence of a intent to develop such land and shall not be
sufficient evidence that the land has been laid out or subdivided in lots or
blocks. A single sale after August 14, 2002, of five (5) acres or less to a
family member of the owner for the purpose of constructing a residence shall
not constitute a sale within the means of this section. For purposes of this
section, "family member" means a natural person or the spouse of a natural
person who is related to the owner by blood, adoption or marriage within the
first degree of consanguinity.
      3.   Preparation and publication of a written annexation plan,
appropriate to the scale of the annexation contemplated, which includes, at a
minimum, the following elements:
         a.   The manner of providing tax-supported municipal services to the
lands proposed to be annexed;
         b.   The changes in taxation and other costs, using examples, which
would result if the subject lands were to be annexed;
         c.   The means of providing fee-supported municipal services, if any,
to the lands proposed to be annexed;
         d.   A brief analysis of the potential effects of annexation upon
other units of local government which currently provide tax-supported or fee-
supported services to the lands proposed to be annexed; and
         e.   The proposed future land use plan and zoning designation or
designations, subject to public hearing, for the lands proposed to be annexed.
      4.   Compliance with the notice and hearing procedures governing a zoning
boundary change as set forth in Section 67-6511, Idaho Code, on the question of
whether the property should be annexed and, if annexed, the zoning designation
to be applied thereto; provided however, the initial notice of public hearing
concerning the question of annexation and zoning shall be published in the
official newspaper of the city and mailed by first class mail to every property
owner with lands included in such annexation proposal not less than twenty-
eight (28) days prior to the initial public hearing. All public hearing notices
shall establish a time and procedure by which comments concerning the proposed
annexation may be received in writing and heard and, additionally, public
hearing notices delivered by mail shall include a one (1) page summary of the
contents of the City's proposed annexation plan and shall provide information
regarding where the annexation plan may be obtained without charge by any
property owner whose property would be subject to the annexation proposal.
      5.   In addition to the standards set forth elsewhere in this Section,
annexation of the Property, owned by a nongovernmental entity, that is used to
provide outdoor recreational activities to the public and that has been
designated as a planned unit development of fifty (50) acres or more and does
not require or utilize any city services must have the express written
permission of the nongovernmental entity owner.   
      6.   After considering the written and oral comments of property owners
whose lands would be annexed and other affected persons, the City Council may
proceed with the enactment of an ordinance of annexation and zoning. In the
course of the consideration of any such ordinance, the City must make express
findings, to be set forth in the minutes of the City Council meeting at which
the annexation is approved as follows:
         a.   The land to be annexed meets the applicable requirements of this
section and does not fall within the exceptions or conditional exceptions
contained in this section.
         b.   The annexation would be consistent with the public purposes
addressed in the annexation plan prepared by the City.
         c.   The annexation is reasonably necessary for the orderly
development of the city.   
      7.   In addition to the standards set forth elsewhere in this Section,
annexation of the following lands must meet the following requirements:
         a.   Property, owned by Boise County or any entity within the County,
that is used as a fairgrounds area under the provisions of Chapter 8, Title 31,
Idaho Code, or Chapter 2, Title 22, Idaho Code, must have the consent of a
majority of the Board of County Commissioners of Boise County; and
         b.   Property, owned by a nongovernmental entity, that is used to
provide outdoor recreational activities to the public and that has been
designated as a planned unit development of fifty (50) acres or more and does
not require or utilize any city services must have the express written
permission of the nongovernmental entity owner.
      8.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, railroad
rights-of-way property may be annexed pursuant to this section only when
property within the Horseshoe Bend limits adjoins or will adjoin both sides of
the rights-of-way.
   C.    Procedures for Category 'C' Annexations: Horseshoe Bend may annex
lands that would qualify under the requirements of Category 'C' annexation if
the following requirements are met:
      1.   Evidence of consent to annexation based upon the following
procedures:
         a.   Following completion of all procedures required for consideration
of a Category 'B' annexation, but prior to enactment of an annexation ordinance
and upon an affirmative action by the City Council, the City shall mail notice
to all private landowners owning lands within the area to be annexed, exclusive
of the owners of lands that receive water or sewer service and owners of lands
that are subject to a recorded consent to annex. Such notice shall invite
property owners to either give written consent or express written opposition to
the annexation, include a description of how that consent or opposition can be
made and where it can be filed, and inform the landowner where the entire
record of the subject annexation may be examined. Such mailed notice shall also
include a legal description of the lands proposed for annexation and a simple
map depicting the location of the subject lands.
         b.   Each landowner desiring to consent to or oppose the proposed
annexation must submit the consent or opposition, in writing, to the City Clerk
by a date specified in the notice, which shall not be sooner than twenty-one
(21) days after the date of the mailing of such notice.
         c.   After the date specified in the notice for receipt of written
consent or opposition, the City Clerk shall compile and present to the City
Council a report setting forth:
            (1)   The total physical area sought to be annexed; and
            (2)   The total physical area of the lands, as expressed in acres
or square feet, whose owners have consented in writing to the annexation, plus
the area of all lands receiving water or sewer service from the City and the
area of all lands subject to a recorded consent to annex.
Objections received after the conclusion of the twenty-one (21) day period
shall not be considered unless the late objection is due to the City's failure
to follow the procedures provided herein. Objections received from owners of
lands subject to a recorded consent to annex, or from owners receiving water or
sewer service from the City, shall not be considered objections for purposes of
this section. The Clerk shall report the results to the City Council.
         d.   Upon receiving such report, the City Council shall review the
results and may thereafter confirm whether consent was received from the owners
of a majority of the land areas and those providing written consent, in
addition to all lands subject to the implied consent provisions set forth
herein and those subject to consent of record in the office of the Boise County
Recorder. The results of the report shall be reflected in the minutes of the
City Council. If the report, as accepted by the City Council, confirms that
owners of more land area have consented to annexation than oppose such
annexation, the City Council may enact an ordinance of annexation, which
thereafter shall be published and become effective according to the terms of
the ordinance. If the report confirms that owners of more land area oppose
annexation than consent to such annexation, the Category 'C' annexation shall
not be authorized. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-7-8: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT PROCEDURE:
9-7-8-1: DESCRIPTION AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Certain types of uses possess unique and special characteristics, which
require special consideration prior to their being permitted in a particular
zone. A conditional use permit may be granted to an applicant if the proposed
use is otherwise prohibited by the terms of the Ordinance, but may be allowed
with conditions under specific provisions of the Ordinance, subject to the
ability of political subdivisions, including school zones, to provide services
for the proposed use, and when it is not in conflict with the Comprehensive
Plan.
   B.   The reason for special consideration involves, among other things, the
size of the area required for the full development of such use, the nature of
traffic problems incidental to operation of the use, the effect such use has on
any adjoining land uses and the effect such use has on the growth and
development of the community as a whole.
   C.   The purpose of review shall be to determine that the characteristics of
any such use shall not be unreasonable or incompatible with the type of uses
permitted in surrounding areas, and for stipulating such conditions as maybe
reasonable so that the basic purposes of the Chapter shall be served. Nothing
construed herein shall be deemed to require the Council to grant a conditional
use permit.
   D.   No building permit shall be issued when a conditional use permit is
required by the terms of this Chapter, unless a conditional permit has been
granted by the City Council and then only in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the conditional use permit.
   E.   No conditional use permit shall be transferable from one property to
another. In the event the property changes hands, the new owner, if he or she
desires to continue the conditional use, shall appear before the City Council
for review. Said continuance shall be subject to the same terms and conditions
of the original permit. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-7-8-2: APPLICATION REQUIRED:
Every person seeking a conditional use permit shall file with the City Clerk an
application as prescribed in Chapter 9, Section
9-4-2. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-7-8-3: PUBLIC HEARING:
The City Council shall hold at least one public hearing for each application
for conditional use permit as prescribed in Chapter 9, Sections
9-4-9,
9-4-9-1,
9-4-9-2 and
9-4-9-3 of this title. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-7-8-4: ACTION BY THE COUNCIL:
The Council may grant or deny a conditional use permit by the majority of the
members of the Council present at the meeting where the application is
considered. Whenever the Council grants or denies a permit, it shall specify in
its findings:
   A.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
   B.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
   C.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a permit.
(Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-7-8-5: CONDITIONS:
Upon granting a conditional use permit, conditions may be attached, including
but not limited to the following, for the purpose of:
   A.   Minimizing adverse impact on other development (special yards of
spaces, fences and walls).
   B.   Controlling the sequence and timing.
   C.   Controlling duration of the use.
   D.   Assuring that development is maintained property.
   E.   Designating the location and nature of development, including signs.
   F.   Requiring the provision for on-site public facilities or services.
   G.   Requiring more restrictive standards than those generally required in
an ordinance: (surfacing of parking areas to City specifications, regulation of
points of vehicular ingress and egress, landscaping and maintenance, regulation
of noise, vibration, odors or other similar nuisances).
   H.   Specifying the period of time for which a permit is issued and
conditions which, if not followed, will bring about revïcation of the
conditional use permit.
   I.   Requiring mitigation of effects of the proposed use upon services
delivered by any political subdivision, including school zones, providing
services within the planning area of Horseshoe Bend. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-7-8-6: PROCESS OF APPROVAL, APPEAL, JUDICIAL REVIEW:
   A.   Effective Date: The permit shall not become effective until twenty (20)
calendar days from the date of the action by the Council.
   B.   Judicial Review: An applicant denied a permit or aggrieved by a
decision may within twenty-eight (28) days after all remedies have been
exhausted under the ordinances of the City seek judicial review under the
procedures provided by Idaho Code 67-5215(b) through (g) and 67-5216 (67-6519).
(Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-7-9: VARIANCE PROCEDURE:
9-7-9-1: DEFINITION:
A modification of the requirements of this chapter as to lot size, lot
coverage, width, depth, front yard, side yard, rear yard, setbacks, parking
space, height of the buildings or; other Ordinance provisions affecting the
size or shape of structures or the placement of structures upon lots. The
variance is an adjustment or special exception made in the application of the
regulations set forth in this chapter to a particular piece of property which,
because of special circumstances, may be deprived of privileges commonly
enjoyed by other properties in the same zone or vicinity. A variance shall not
be considered a right or special privilege, but may be granted to an applicant
only upon a showing of undue hardship because of characteristics of the site
and that the variance is not in conflict with the public interest. (Ord. 232,
4-14-2010)
9-7-9-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of a variance is to provide fair treatment and to see that
individuals are not penalized because of site characteristics beyond their
control. A variance shall not be considered a right or special privilege but
may be granted to an applicant only upon a showing that:
   A.   Undue hardship exists because of special physical characteristics of
the site which prevent the literal application of zoning regulations; and
   B.   The variance is not in conflict with the public interest.
Hardships must result from special site characteristics relating to size, shape
or dimensions of a site or the location of existing structures thereon; from
geographic, topographic or other physical conditions; or from population
densities, street locations or traffic conditions. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-7-9-3: APPLICATION REQUIRED:
An application for a variance shall be filed with the City Clerk on a form
prescribed by the Council. The application shall be accompanied by an accurate
scale drawing of the site and any adjacent property affected, showing all
existing and proposed locations of streets, property lines, uses, structures,
driveways, pedestrian walks, off-street parking, off-street loading facilities
and landscaped areas, as applicable. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-7-9-4: PUBLIC HEARING:
Notice and an opportunity to be heard shall be provided to property owners
adjoining the parcel under consideration. A notice of public hearing shall be
given not less than fifteen (15) calendar days nor more than thirty (30)
calendar days prior to the date of the public hearing by mailing notices to
adjacent property owners. The notice shall contain the address or location of
the property for which the application is taken as well as a brief description
of the nature of the variance requested. Public Hearing procedures outlined in
Sections
9-4-9,
9-4-9-1,
9-4-9-2 and
9-4-9-3 shall be followed. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-7-9-5: ACTION:
The City Council may grant a variance based on the application, investigation
and evidence submitted, upon finding the following:
   A.   That literal interpretation and enforcement of the regulation would
result in practical difficulty or unnecessary physical hardship inconsistent
with the objectives of the Zoning Ordinance.
   B.   That there are extraordinary site characteristics applicable to the
property involved or intended use of the property which does not generally
apply to other properties classified in the same zone.
   C.   That literal interpretation and enforcement of the regulation would
deprive the applicant of privileges enjoyed by the owners of other properties
classified in the same zone.
   D.   That the granting of the variance will not constitute a grant or
special privilege inconsistent with the limitations on other properties
classified in the same zone.
   E.   That the granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
health, safety or welfare or materially injurious to properties or improvements
in the vicinity. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-7-9-6: DURATION OF APPROVAL:
The use of construction permitted under the terms of any variance shall be
commenced within a six (6) month period. If not commenced, the variance is no
longer valid. An extension of an additional six (6) months may be granted if
requested prior to expiration of the approval. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-7-9-7: APPEAL:
An applicant denied a permit or aggrieved by a decision may within twenty -
eight (28) days after all remedies have been exhausted under the ordinances of
the City seek judicial review under the procedures provided by Idaho Code 67-
5215(b) through (g) and 67-5216 (67-6519).
9-7-10: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT:
9-7-10-1: PURPOSE:
The City zoning plan regulates the use of land and structures by assigning uses
to one or more Zones. Idaho Code section 67-6511A permits a procedure for
accommodating specific land uses in the City while continuing to provide for
the protection of the public health, safety and welfare. This ordinance is
intended to provide reasonable standards and procedures in order to:
   A.   Implement the goals and policies of the City Comprehensive Plan;
   B.   Preserve and protect the character of the City;
   C.   Assure the public health, safety and welfare of present and future
citizens of the City;
   D.   Protect and enhance the natural resources of the City and integrate new
development harmoniously into the City's natural environment;
   E.   Protect property rights by balancing the rights of abutting and
neighboring landowners to enjoy their property without undue disturbance from
abutting or neighboring uses;
   F.   Provide for specific land uses in neighborhoods that are determined
compatible but prohibited by current zoning; and
   G.   Improve circulation and reduce traffic congestion and hazards on
existing and proposed streets. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-7-10-2: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT COMMITMENT:
A development agreement is a written commitment, as contemplated under Idaho
Code section 67-6511A, which, as a condition of rezoning, including rezoning
upon annexation, specifies the use requirements and use restrictions different
from the requirements of a particular zone, and which may be submitted by an
applicant for a zone change or required by the City Council as a condition of a
zoning classification change.
   A.   By permitting or requiring commitments pursuant to this Title, the City
does not obligate itself to approve a proposed zone change or annexation that
is requested concurrent with a proposed development agreement.
   B.   Nothing in this Title shall be construed as relieving the property
which is subject to development agreement restrictions from further compliance
with all other permit and ordinance requirements of the City.
   C.   A development agreement shall only be modified after public hearing by
the City Council.
   D.   A development agreement may be terminated by the City Council, after
public hearing, for failure to comply with any of the commitments expressed in
the agreement. Upon termination of the agreement the Council shall rezone the
property to its prior zoning designation. In the case of an initial zoning
designation established at the time of annexation, termination of the agreement
shall result in a City zoning designation deemed appropriate by the Council.
   E.   All public hearings to consider modifying or terminating a development
agreement shall comply with the notice and hearing provisions of Section 67-
6509 of the Idaho Code. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-7-10-3: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Use: Use of development agreements in the annexation or rezoning
process may be utilized in any zone, regardless of lot size, subject to the
standards provided for in this Title.
   B.   Subsequent Actions: A development agreement shall not prevent the City
in subsequent actions applicable to the property from applying new standards,
regulations or policies that do not conflict with the written commitments
within the development agreement.
   C.   Encumbrance: The development agreement is binding on the owner of the
subject property and each other person acquiring an interest in the property.
The owner, lessee, or owners of a valid interest in the property and all
subsequent property owners of the property encumbered by the development
agreement shall comply with all conditions, terms, obligations and duties
contained in the development agreement. Failure to comply may result in
termination of the agreement in accordance with Section 13 of this Title. (Ord.
232, 4-14-2010)
9-7-10-4: APPLICATION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Request for or Requirement of a Development Agreement: A development
agreement may be requested by the applicant or required by the City Council.
      1.   In the event an applicant seeks to enter into a development
agreement, the development agreement shall be submitted to the City with the
rezone application.
      2.   If an application does not include a development agreement and the
City Council determines that the application should not be approved without a
development agreement, the Council may determine the basic terms of the
development agreement during the public hearing on the rezone application or as
part of its decision on the application. The terms of the development agreement
shall include the use restrictions and use requirements for the subject
property including such terms as are listed under Section 4.b.2) of this Title
that the Council deems appropriate.
      3.   Any zoning change may be conditioned upon the applicant entering
into a development agreement approved by the City Council. Failure of the owner
of the subject property to enter into a development agreement that is required
by the City Council shall be grounds to deny the zoning change or annexation
request.
   B.   Filing Requirements: When the applicant requests a development
agreement, the City's representatives may require such information as is
reasonably necessary to process the application. Depending upon the nature of
the property which is the subject of the application, this information may
include, but is not limited to, the following:
      1.   A conceptual master plan, at an adequate scale, that addresses:
         a.   Vehicular and pedestrian circulation, to include adjacent and
proposed paths and roadways, as well as parking and snow removal;
         b.   Existing and proposed buildings and uses, including open space
and common areas;
         c.   Conceptual grading and landscaping;
         d.   Schematic building plans;
         e.   Proposed design criteria (height, setbacks, density, etc.);
         f.   Utility capacity, connections, and layout; and
         g.   Other items as requested by the Zoning Administrator, City
Engineer, Public Works or the City Council;
      2.   A draft development agreement which shall be reviewed by the City
Attorney, and shall contain at a minimum, the following:
         a.   List of uses to be allowed;
         b.   Identification of development standards required under the
agreement;
         c.   Identification of locations for permitted uses on a proposed
conceptual plan;
         d.   Planned implementation of improvements with a construction and
completion schedule;
         e.   Provision that the standards, processes and information contained
in the land use ordinances of the City shall apply to the development of the
property in the development agreement;
         f.   A provision that the property owners and other interested parties
consent that failure to comply with the terms of the agreement, including the
construction schedule of improvements, shall result in a reversion of the
zoning of the real property to the zoning designation existing immediately
prior to the agreement; or, in the case of an initial zone at annexation, the
zoning of the real property shall be changed to a zoning designation deemed
appropriate by the City Council;
         g.   A provision specifying that the agreement and all conditions,
terms, and duties and obligations included in said agreement shall be an
encumbrance on the real property;
         h.   Any other matter required by the City Council or City Attorney as
deemed appropriate. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-7-10-5: RECORDATION:
The development agreement shall be signed by the owner of the property and the
Mayor in behalf of the City and shall be attached to the ordinance establishing
the zoning map amendment. The agreement shall be recorded in the office of the
Boise County Recorder within ten (10) days of adoption of the ordinance
establishing the zoning map amendment by the City Council. The ordinance number
shall be clearly referenced on the Official Zoning Map for the City. The
development agreement shall take effect upon the adoption of the amendment to
the zoning ordinance. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-7-10-6: STANDARDS:
   A.   Applicability: The standards identified in the subsections below apply
to all annexations and rezones involving development agreements, unless
otherwise specified.
   B.   Comprehensive Plan: The application should be compatible with the
City's Comprehensive Plan.
   C.   Neighborhood:
      1.   There shall be compatible transition in scale, building form, and
proportion between the proposed structure/use and existing structures and
landscape.
      2.   All development within the project area must comply with the
standards and criteria established in the Horseshoe Bend City land use
ordinances.
      3.   Alteration to the existing grade shall be in compliance with the
City's Zoning and Subdivision Ordinances.
      4.   The proposed use(s) and development of the subject property shall be
appropriate for the location, the lot and the neighborhood.
      5.   The proposed use(s) and development shall not adversely affect the
character, public health, safety, and/or general welfare of the neighborhood or
the community.
   D.   Infrastructure:
      1.   The proposed use(s) and development of the subject property shall
not cause undue traffic congestion, or dangerous traffic conditions.
      2.   The proposed use(s) and development of the subject property shall
not adversely impact other infrastructure such as, but not limited to, public
utilities and communication systems, water, wastewater, and drainage systems,
as well as snow storage and snow removal. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-7-10-7: ENFORCEMENT:
Development agreements may be enforced by the City through any means deemed to
be appropriate, including, but not limited to, specific enforcement, injunctive
relief, monetary damages, criminal penalties and/or termination of the
development agreement. Such enforcement options shall not be considered
exclusive, but may be combined as deemed appropriate by the City. (Ord. 232, 4-
14-2010)
9-7-10-8: MODIFICATION AND TERMINATION:
   A.   Modification of Agreements: Development agreements may only be modified
through the public hearing process.
   B.   Termination of Agreements: Development agreements may be terminated or
amended by the City Council, after public hearing for failure to comply with
the commitments expressed in the development agreement.
      1.   Upon termination of a development agreement pursuant to this Title,
the City Council shall reverse the property to the prior zoning designation or
in the case of initial zone at annexation, to a zoning designation deemed
appropriate by the City Council.
      2.   All uses that are not compatible with the subsequent zoning
designation following termination of the development agreement shall cease. The
owner of the property shall apply for a conditional use permit for the
property, if the use(s) are conditionally allowed within the subsequent zone.
   C.   Notice: In the event the City believes that grounds exist for
revocation of the development agreement, the property owner shall be given
written notice, by certified mail, of the apparent violation or noncompliance,
providing a statement of the nature and general facts of the violation or
noncompliance and providing the property owner fifteen (15) calendar days to
furnish evidence:
      1.   That corrective action has remedied the violation or noncompliance;
      2.   That rebuts the alleged violation or noncompliance; and/or
      3.   That a request to amend the development agreement has been
submitted. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-7-10-9: HEARING:
In the event that a property owner fails to provide evidence reasonably
satisfactory to the City Council as required in Section
9-6-4 of this Title, the City Council shall hold a public hearing in accordance
with this Title to consider terminating or modifying the development agreement.
   A.   The City Council shall provide the property owner notice and reasonable
opportunity to be heard concerning the matter and a public hearing shall be
conducted.
   B.   Within ten (10) calendar days of the completion of the hearing, the
City Council shall issue a written decision taking no action, terminating the
development agreement or modifying the development agreement. (Ord. 232, 4-14-
2010)
9-7-10-10: OTHER CONDITIONAL USE APPROVAL:
   A.   Animal Clinic, Animal Hospital, Veterinary Office and Kennel:
      1.   Will be located at least five hundred (500) feet from any residence
including motels and hotels, except for an owner's residence. The Zoning
Administrator may modify these requirements if the animals are completely
housed in soundproof structures that completely screen them from view of the
abutting residential property.
      2.   Will comply with all State and local regulations relative to such an
operation and maintain adequate housekeeping practices designed to prevent the
creation of a nuisance and to reduce to a minimum the factors of noise and
odor.
   B.   Bulk Storage of Flammable Liquids and Gases above Ground and for
Resale:
      1.   Will be located at least five hundred (500) feet from a residential
zone, any residence, motel or hotel, except for an owner's residence.
      2.   Will be erected subject to the approval of the appropriate fire
zone.
      3.   Will have suitable loading and unloading spaces and off-street
parking facilities subject to the approval of the appropriate fire zone
   C.   Contractor's Yard:
      1.   Will be located a minimum distance of three hundred (300) feet from
any residence, except for an owner's residence.
      2.   Will have a screening fence around areas utilized for storage of
equipment.
      3.   Will be limited to storage, maintenance and processing incidental to
contracting work. There shall be no general industrial or commercial uses.
   D.   Gravel Pits, Rock Quarries, Sand and Clay Pits and Other Natural
Resources of Commercial Value:
      1.   The extent and method of rehabilitation shall be determined in
advance of issuing a zoning permit with due consideration given to what is
suitable and compatible with the surrounding area.
      2.   Upon depletion of the area, all temporary buildings and structures,
except property line fences and structures for the loading, measuring or
weighing of salable material in storage, shall be entirely removed from the
property.
      3.   Safety fencing shall be erected around all pits that create a safety
hazard.
   E.   Outdoor Storage of Commercial and Industrial Materials:
      1.   Will be screened from view from any existing, adjoining residence or
residentially zoned area, whether or not such property is separated by an
alleyway or street.
      2.   Will not be located in any front yard setback area.
   F.   Stockpiling of sand, gravel or other minerals:
      1.   Prohibited: The city prohibits any and all mining, dredging or
stockpiling of sand, gravel or other minerals within the city limits, with the
exception made for stockpiling the aforementioned materials in increments less
than twenty (20) yards, or for a period of less than thirty (30) days, and
unless otherwise allowed by the provisions of this title.
      2.   Conditional Use Permit Required: In order to stockpile sand, gravel
or other minerals within the city, an application for a conditional use permit
must be received and approved by the city council. Such conditional use permit
may include, but is not limited to, the regulation of aesthetics, hours of
operation, impact on adjoining properties, noise, dust, and odors. In the event
of an existing extraction practice of mining, dredging, or stockpiling of sand,
gravel or other minerals within the city limits, such entity must obtain a
conditional use permit within one hundred eighty (180) days from the passage
hereof.
      3.   Violation: Any violation of the provisions of this subsection shall
be a misdemeanor. Any person or persons found in violation of this subsection
shall also be liable for any costs to the city that result from the violation.
(Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
CHAPTER 8
GENERAL AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-8-1: Land
9-8-2: Structures
9-8-3: Miscellaneous
9-8-4: Supplementary Use Zone Regulations
9-8-4-1: Intent
9-8-4-2: Unique Land Uses
9-8-4-2-1: Home Occupations
9-8-4-2-2: Drive-Up Windows
9-8-5: Conflict With Other Laws
9-8-1: LAND:
   A.   Compliance Required: Land or premises shall be used, unless otherwise
provided in this Title, only in conformity with the regulations herein set
forth for the use in zones in which such land or premises are located.
   B.   Access to Public Street: No building shall be constructed or erected
upon a lot or parcel of land, which does not abut upon a public street or have
permanent easement for access to a public street, which easement shall have a
minimum width of twenty-five feet (25') unless an easement of lesser width was
of record prior to the adoption of this Title.
   C.   Zero Lot Line: No building permit shall be issued nor shall any
structure be built upon any lot which allows zero lot line until such time as
the owner, developer, contractor, builder or person responsible for the
structure has submitted to the Zoning Administrator, a survey map of the
property identifying the property corners. All property corners shall be
physically marked so that no part of the proposed construction shall extend
beyond the appropriate boundary. The requirement for a survey shall not apply
to residential areas, except in the event that a person is seeking a variance
to allow a structure or some portion of a structure to extend into that area
normally protected by setback lines or to or beyond the lot line.
   D.   Zoning of Public Ways: All street, alley and railroad rights of way,
not otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed to be in the same zone
as the property immediately abutting upon such alley, street or railroad rights
of way. Where the centerline of a street or alley serves as a zone boundary,
the zoning of such street or alley to the centerline unless otherwise
specifically designated, shall be deemed to be the same as that of the abutting
property. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-8-2: STRUCTURES:
   A.   Conformity Required: No building, structure or land shall be used or
occupied and no building or structure or part thereof shall be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in conformity
with all of the regulations herein specified for the zone in which it is
located. All new construction, structural alterations, or remodels will be done
under the most current edition of the International Building Code adopted by
the City.
   B.   Compliance with Zone Regulations: No building or structure, other than
a building for conditional use, shall be erected, converted, enlarged,
reconstructed or structurally altered except in conformity with the area
regulations of the zone in which the building is located. Nor shall any
building or land be used for any purpose other than is permitted in the zone in
which the building or land is located.
   C.   Dwelling Units: Every building hereafter erected or structurally
altered to provide dwelling units shall be located upon a lot as herein defined
and in no case shall there be more than one (1) such building on one (1) lot
unless otherwise provided in this Title.
   D.   Criteria for Increase in Dwelling Units: A residence may not be
converted to accommodate an increased number of dwelling units unless:
      1.   The yard dimensions still meet the yard dimensions required by the
zoning regulations for new structures in that zone;
      2.   The conversion is in compliance with all other relevant codes and
ordinances.
   E.   Temporary Uses: Temporary buildings, construction trailers, equipment,
and materials used in conjunction with construction work only may be permitted
in any zone during the period construction work is in progress, but such
temporary facilities shall be removed upon completion of the construction work.
Temporary structures must be placed on the site where construction is taking
place. Storage of such facilities or equipment beyond the completion date of
the project shall require a zoning permit authorized by the Zoning
Administrator.
   F.   Dwelling in Industrial Zone: A dwelling shall not be erected in the
Industrial Zone. However, the sleeping quarters of a watchman or caretaker are
permitted.
   G.   Residential Structures Prohibited: No residential structure shall be
erected upon the rear of a lot or upon a lot with another dwelling, except that
in a two-story garage with living quarters upon the second floor, such quarters
may be occupied by a servant (and his family) of the family occupying the main
structure. There may also be constructed a guest house (without kitchen) or
room for guests within an accessory building; provided, such facilities are
used for the occasional housing of guests of the occupants of the main
structure and not for permanent occupancy by others. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-8-3: MISCELLANEOUS:
   A.   Parking and Storing of Certain Vehicles: Automotive vehicles or
trailers of any kind or type without current license plates shall not be parked
or stored on any residentially-zoned property other than in a completely
enclosed building or carport. Further, no boats, motor homes or other
recreational vehicles may be parked more than seventy-two (72) consecutive
hours in front of any residentially zoned property. One boat and one
recreational vehicle may be stored in the side or rear yard.
   B.   Enclosed Trash Areas: All trash and/or garbage collection areas for
commercial, industrial and multi-family residential uses shall be enclosed on
at least three (3) sides by a solid wall or fence of at least four feet (4') in
height or within an enclosed building or structure. Adequate vehicular access
to and from such area or areas for collection of trash and/or garbage as
determined by the Zoning Administrator shall be provided.
   C.   Reduction of Yard or Lot: No yard or lot existing at the effective date
hereof shall be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set
forth herein. Yards or lots created after the effective date hereof shall meet
at least the minimum requirements set forth herein.
   D.   Street Signs and House Numbers: Street signs and house numbers are
installed, in accordance with city ordinances, which adequately identify the
location of such building for emergency purposes.
   E.   Frontage on Public Right of Way: For the purpose of insuring orderly
development and to provide adequate access for fire-fighting equipment and
other services to all buildings, no residence or commercial building shall be
erected or moved onto any lot, tract or parcel of land in any use zone adopted
under the provisions of this Title unless said lot, tract or parcel of land has
seventy-five (75) feet of frontage on a public right of way and has reasonably
efficient access thereto for vehicular traffic and has been legally subdivided.
Provided further, that a building permit may be issued for construction of a
residence on a private easement where, in the opinion of the City Council, the
following conditions have been reasonably met:
      1.   Minimum easement width of twenty-five (25) feet.
      2.   Maximum easement length of four hundred (400) feet.
      3.   Minimum turn-around radius of fifty (50) feet.
      4.   Maximum grade of ten (10) percent.
      5.   The easement must serve land which otherwise would have no access to
a public road.
   G.   Preexisting Plans, Construction or Designated Use: Nothing in this
Title shall be deemed to require any change in the plans, construction or
designated use of any buildings upon which actual construction was lawfully
begun prior to the adoption of this Title and upon which building actual
construction has been diligently carried on and; provided further, such
building shall be completed within one year. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-8-4: SUPPLEMENTARY USE ZONE REGULATIONS:
9-8-4-1: INTENT:
The following provisions shall be subject to the general regulations of this
Title and to the special provisions and exceptions in this and the following
sections of this Chapter so as to secure the intent of this Title. In all cases
of administration and enforcement of this Title for which no other specific
provisions are made in this Chapter and other provisions of this Title, the
City Council shall provide for the same by order, resolution or the adoption of
a rule, regulation or by-law, which provision shall be in accord with and
consistent with the objectives and standards of this Title.
Uses not specified within use zones are prohibited unless determined by the
City Council or its authorized representative to be similar in nature to those
specified. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-8-4-2: UNIQUE LAND USES:
Certain unique land uses pose special problems that may have detrimental
influences on surrounding land uses. The performance standards for such unique
land uses, as outlined in this Title, shall be adhered to in addition to all
other provisions of this Title. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-8-4-2-1: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   A.   Certain limited business or professional uses may be conducted as a
home occupation within a residential dwelling as a permitted land use subject
to specific limitations established to maintain compatibility with the
surrounding residential neighborhood.
      1.   Examples of permissible use types include home offices, home child
care, handicrafts, computer activities, tailoring, barber/hair salon or similar
businesses. The purpose of this section is to establish standards for home
occupations that retain and do not disturb the residential character of a
neighborhood.
      2.   Before establishing a home occupation, an application fee must be
paid and an application must be approved by the Zoning Administrator, in
response to an application which addresses necessary information to demonstrate
compliance with this Title in addition to providing an accurate and concise
description of the requested home occupation.
      3.   The Zoning Administrator will review the application materials and
may grant, grant with conditions, or deny a home occupation permit upon finding
that the home occupation will not change the character of the neighborhood or
create a nuisance (noise, dust, odor, excessive traffic, etc.) and that it
complies with the standards established by this Title. The Zoning Administrator
will review the application to determine that the use will meet the home
occupation standards addressed by this Title. A permit may be revoked or a
violation may be prosecuted for non-compliance with ordinance standards or
conditions of approval. A decision by the Zoning Administrator may be appealed
to the City Council, in accordance with procedures established by this Title
and by the procedures resolution of City of Horseshoe Bend. A Home Occupation
Permit is non-transferable and is valid so long as there is compliance with the
conditions of approval issued with the permit and home occupation standards set
forth herein are met.
   B.   Home Occupation Performance Standards. All home occupations shall
comply with the following standards, in addition to the site-specific
conditions required by the Administrator:
      1.   The home occupation must be clearly subordinate, both visually and
with respect to space occupied, to the primary residential use. Not more than
one quarter (1/4) of the floor area of the actual dwelling unit may be used in
the conduct of the home occupation.
      2.   No outside storage of goods, equipment, materials or other
instruments of production or packaging of any kind related to the home
occupation shall be permitted.
      3.   No home occupation shall create a need for parking or traffic beyond
that required for the primary single-family residential use.
      4.   There shall be no change in appearance that would alter the
residential character of the premises.
      5.   No more than one sign, not exceeding four (4) square feet in area,
non-illuminated, and mounted flat against the wall of the principal residence,
is permitted.
      6.   A permitted home occupation shall have no more than one full-time
employee equivalent who is not a family member on the premises.
      7.   Employees (other than the resident and one employee), of a permitted
home occupation, may not work, gather, park, or meet, at the residence of a
home occupation on a regular or frequent basis.
      8.   A home occupation must be fully enclosed within the residence or
approved accessory building. Home occupation daycare shall provide care to no
more than six (6) children at any time, inclusive of residents of the household
requiring daycare. Daycare for more than six (6) children in a home shall
require a conditional use permit, if allowed by the zone where the home is
located.
      9.    Excepting activities conducted exclusively indoors with no external
consequences, operation of a permitted home occupation shall not be conducted
prior to six o’clock (6:00) a.m. or after (10:00) p.m.
      10.   No home occupation shall create noise, dust, vibration, odors,
smoke, glare, electrical interference, fire hazard, or any other hazard or
nuisance beyond that caused by typical single-family residential occupancy in a
residential neighborhood.
      11.   Uses of the following type or with the following characteristics
are expressly prohibited as home occupations:
         a.   Repair and/or servicing, storing or painting of automobiles,
trucks, boats, RVs, motorcycles, and ATV's.
         b.   Any use requiring sewage pre-treatment in accordance with the
City of Horseshoe Bend wastewater treatment ordinance.
         c.   Any business creating external noise, odors, vibrations, or other
potential nuisance factors including levels of customer traffic that could have
the effect of disrupting peaceful occupancy of neighboring dwellings. (Ord.
232, 4-14-2010)
9-8-4-2-2: DRIVE-UP WINDOWS:
   A.   Will be enclosed on the property line with landscaping and fencing,
except for ingress and egress, to prevent trash from moving onto other
properties.
   B.   Will have at least a six (6) foot high, sight-obscuring fence or
landscaping along the property lines that adjoin a residence with approval from
Zoning Administrator. All speakers shall be screened with landscaping or
fencing.
   C.   Will provide for adequate trash receptacles.
   D.   Will avoid the direction of night lighting toward any residence. (Ord.
232, 4-14-2010)
9-8-5: CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS:
It is not intended by this Chapter to interfere with other regulations of State
or local law, or with private restrictions on the use of land, improvements and
structures. Where this Chapter imposes greater restriction than that imposed by
other law or private restrictions, this Chapter shall prevail. All other
ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed upon
the effective date of this Chapter. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
CHAPTER 9
CITY COUNCIL APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
9-9-1: General Provisions
9-9-2: Action By Council
9-9-3: Time Limit For Initiation Of Development
9-9-4: Amendment And Reclassification: Power To Amend
9-9-5: Ordinance Required
9-9-6: Annexation
9-9-7: Comprehensive Plan Amendment
9-9-8: Special Exception
9-9-8-1: Restrictive Regulations
9-9-8-2: Modification, Extension And Revocation
9-9-8-3: Non-Transfer
9-9-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
The Horseshoe Bend City Council shall approve, deny, or modify any application
to amend this Title, to change the boundary of a zone, to amend the
Comprehensive Plan, to annex property into the corporate limits, to establish a
use exception to the Zoning Ordinance. Prior to taking action on any such
application, the Council shall advertise for and hold a public hearing in
accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections
9-4-9,
9-4-9-1,
9-4-9-2 and
9-4-9-3. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-9-2: ACTION BY COUNCIL:
The Council shall set a date, time and place of hearing the application in
accordance with the provisions of Sections
9-4-9,
9-4-9-1,
9-4-9-2 and
9-4-9-3. Following the hearing, the Council may approve, disapprove or modify
the application. The Council is enjoined from granting less restrictive
regulations, standard or land use classifications than those applied for and as
publicized prior to the public hearing held by the City Council. (Ord. 232, 4-
14-2010)
9-9-3: TIME LIMIT FOR INITIATION OF DEVELOPMENT:
Any approval by the City Council given pursuant to the provisions of this Title
shall lapse and become null and void twelve (12) months following the date on
which it was given.
Unless, prior to the expiration date, construction or development is commenced
and diligently pursued toward completion on the site, which was the subject of
the application. Upon written request to the City Council, containing the
reasons therefore, the City Council may grant an extension of time for
development not to exceed an additional twelve (12) months. No permit fees will
be refunded without written request to the City Council prior to the twelve
(12) month expiration date. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-9-4: AMENDMENT AND RECLASSIFICATION; POWER TO AMEND:
This Title may be amended whenever the Council deems an amendment is required
for public convenience or necessity, or for the general welfare. Any amendment
shall be enacted pursuant to this section, and for purposes of this section,
includes any measure to change zone boundaries, establish or disestablish
zones, to change zone regulations, to add, repeal or amend any other provisions
of this section of the whole of this Title. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-9-5: ORDINANCE REQUIRED:
In the event the Council shall have approved or modified an application, the
Council shall cause to be prepared the appropriate ordinance of amendment.
However, no ordinance amending the "City of Horseshoe Bend Zoning Ordinance"
shall become effective until a public hearing has been held for which fifteen
(15) days notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be published in
the official newspaper of the city. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-9-6: ANNEXATION:
Requests for annexation of property into the City of Horseshoe Bend must be
heard by the City Council as described in Section
9-7-6 and
9-7-7 of this Title. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-9-7: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AMENDMENT:
The Mayor and City Council shall schedule a public hearing to decide whether to
adopt the amendment. The Mayor and City Council shall consider the proposed
amendment pursuant to the procedures established in 67-6509 of the Idaho Code.
(Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-9-8: SPECIAL EXCEPTION:
At the hearing before the City Council, the Council shall hear all persons
interested in the special exception then pending before it and in so doing must
make the following findings:
   A.   That the decision to grant or deny the application is based upon the
findings of Section
9-7-8-4.
   B.   That the approval, denial or modification of the special exception does
not provide precedent for any other parcel in the city.
   C.   In the event the application is denied, the actions, if any, that the
applicant could take to obtain a special exception permit. (Ord. 232, 4-14-
2010)
9-9-8-1: RESTRICTIVE REGULATIONS:
The Council may impose more restrictive regulations or standards. (Ord. 232, 4-
14-2010)
9-9-8-2: MODIFICATION, EXTENSION AND REVOCATION:
Upon request of the holder of a special exception, the Council may modify or
extended the term, conditions and limitations of said permit in accordance with
the limitations and requirements of Section
9-7-8-5 of this Title. The Council may revoke or modify upon notice and
hearing, a Special Exception for the breach or violation of any condition or
limitation of said permit. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-9-8-3: NON-TRANSFER:
Special Exceptions shall be non-transferable through assignment, sale or other
means of conveyance without written acknowledgment by the assignee, purchaser
or convey in writing of agreement to be bound by conditions which were set
forth in the approval of the application pursuant to Section
9-7-8. Exceptions shall not be considered as establishing binding precedent
upon the City. A Special Exception shall become void if not utilized within
twelve (12) months of issuance, or if the authorized use is abandoned for more
than a period of six (6) months. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
CHAPTER 10
EXCEPTIONS, ACCESSORY AND NON-CONFORMING USES, FENCE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-10-1: General Regulations
9-10-1-1: Intent
9-10-1-2: Original Lots Of Record
9-10-2: Accessory Uses
9-10-2-1: General
9-10-2-2: Restrictions On Tower And Gable Structures
9-10-2-3: Permitted Accessory Uses
9-10-2-4: Permitted Uses In Rear Yards
9-10-3: Zoning Rights Of Way And Annexed Land
9-10-4: Temporary Use Of Any Property
9-10-5: Legal Nonconforming Structures
9-10-6: Legal Nonconforming Uses
9-10-7: Legal Nonconforming Lots
9-10-8: Nonconforming Uses
9-10-9: Establishing A Legal Nonconforming Use
9-10-10: Nonconforming Use Abandonment
9-10-11: Expansion Of Legal Nonconforming Uses And Conditional Uses
9-10-12: Nonconforming Mobile Home
9-10-13: Conversion Of A Nonconforming Use To An Allowed Use
9-10-14: Zoning Rights-Of-Way And Annexed Land
9-10-15: Fence Regulations
9-10-16: Micro-Pathway Regulations
9-10-17: Most Restrictive Regulations Govern
9-10-1: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
9-10-1-1: INTENT:
The following provisions shall be subject to the general regulations of this
Title and to the special provisions and exceptions in this and the following
Sections so as to secure the intent of this Title. In all cases of
administration and enforcement of this Title for which no specific provisions
are made in this Section and other provisions herein, the City Council shall
provide for the same by order, resolution or adoption of a rule, regulation or
by-law, which provision shall be in accord with and consistent with the
objections and standards of this Title. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-10-1-2: ORIGINAL LOTS OF RECORD:
Any single lot or parcel of land, held in one ownership, which was of record
and a legal lot at the time of adoption of this Title, but does not meet the
requirements of the zone in which it is located for minimum lot width or area,
may be utilized for a permitted use if all other requirements of this Title are
met. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-10-2: ACCESSORY USES:
9-10-2-1: GENERAL:
An accessory use, as defined and regulated herein, is permitted in any zone
where the principal use to which it is an accessory is permitted. (Ord. 232, 4-
14-2010)
9-10-2-2: RESTRICTIONS ON TOWER AND GABLE STRUCTURES:
No tower, gable, spire or similar structure shall be used for sleeping or
eating quarters, or for any commercial purposes other than such as incidental
to the main use. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-10-2-3: PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES:
   A.   Such uses shall be limited to two (2) stories in height and shall not
encroach upon required setback areas in commercial and industrial zones.
   B.   Cornices, canopies, eaves or other projections which do not increase
the volume of the space enclosed by the building and do not project into any
required yard more than two (2) feet; provided that an unroofed stair and
landing together with a railing may project not more than three (3) feet into a
front yard or six (6) feet into the rear.
   C.   Chimney, not more than eight (8) feet in width and projecting more than
twenty-four (24) inches.
   D.   Driveways. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-10-2-4: PERMITTED USES IN REAR YARDS:
The following shall be permitted in rear yards:
   A.   Unroofed balcony in rear yard, provided that no such balcony shall
project more than four-feet (4') into such yard.
   B.   Back Yard composting as defined in Chapter 2 - Definitions). (Ord. 232,
4-14-2010)
9-10-3: ZONING RIGHTS OF WAY AND ANNEXED LAND:
All streets, alleys, railroad rights-of-way, canal rights-of-way and other
public ways, if not otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed to be in
the same zone as the property immediately abutting upon such alleys, streets,
public ways, waterways and railroad rights-of-way. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-10-4: TEMPORARY USE OF ANY PROPERTY:
This Title shall not limit or interfere with the temporary use of any property
as a public voting place, or with the construction, installation or operation
of the following by any public agency or private corporation, when such
construction is otherwise in conformity with all Federal, State, County and
City regulations.
   A.   Public street or highway.
   B.   Poles, towers, wires, cables, conduits, vaults, laterals, pipes, mains,
wells, valves or any other similar distributing and transmitting equipment for
telephone or other communications, electric power, gas, water and sewer lines,
provided that the installation shall conform when applicable with the rules and
regulations of any Federal or State commissions and agencies, or any other
authorities having jurisdiction and subject to other City ordinance provisions,
rules and regulations; except that poles, towers, or similar installations of a
height of seventy feet (70') or greater are subject to
9-7-04. Electrical substations are considered a major utility facility and are
subject to the requirements of this Title.
   C.   Railroad right-of-way, excluding yards and stations.
   D.   Incidental appurtenances to any of the above. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010
9-10-5: LEGAL NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
   A.   A legal nonconforming structure is one that was in compliance with all
land use and building code requirements at the time it was constructed, or that
was constructed or established before land use regulations were enacted, but
does not conform to the structure requirements of the current land use codes of
the City of Horseshoe Bend. It is the policy of City of Horseshoe Bend to
encourage maintenance and continued vitality of existing legal nonconforming
structures until a change of land use is undertaken by the owner in conformance
with requirements of the Zoning Ordinance.
   B.   Any legal nonconforming permanent structure may continue to be used and
maintained as otherwise allowed by this Title. A nonconforming structure shall
not be enlarged in area in any way that increases its non-conformity. A
structure used to house a non-conforming nonresidential use may be enlarged by
up to ten percent (10%) of its square footage so long as any such enlargement
does not increase the non-conformity of any setbacks or building bulk
regulations.
   C.   A damaged or destroyed legal nonconforming structure may be repaired or
reconstructed provided that the extent of the previously existing
nonconformance is not increased.
   D.   Any structure legally built prior to the adoption of land use
regulations within a currently required yard setback area shall be deemed a
legal non-conforming structure and the nonconforming dimension shall not be
expanded by additional construction, unless otherwise qualifying for a
variance. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-10-6: LEGAL NONCONFORMING USES:
All existing uses of land that are not permitted uses in the zoning district in
which such use is being conducted, and all uses which, if presently initiated,
would require a conditional use permit, and which do not have a conditional use
permit, are deemed legal nonconforming uses. Legal nonconforming uses shall not
be expanded or extended in any way, except as otherwise expressly allowed by
this Title. A legal nonconforming use shall not be changed except to a use that
complies with the regulations of the zoning district in which the subject
property lies or to diminish its non-conformity. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-10-7: LEGAL NONCONFORMING LOTS:
   A.   All existing platted subdivision lots that do not meet the minimum lot
area and dimension standards of the district within which they are located are
hereby deemed nonconforming lots. Any lot that was legally created prior to
November 15, 1995 may be used in conformance with the uses permitted by the
zoning district with in which it is located, provided that all yard and setback
requirements are met. If lot area is deficient in a residential zone by no more
than fifty percent (50%), any such non-conforming lot may be used only for
construction of a detached single-family dwelling. Undeveloped, nonconforming
lots of at least fifty percent (50%) of the minimum required lot area may be
used and have a single-family structure erected upon them.
   B.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any such lot is contiguous to one or
more lots of common ownership and any combination of such lots will meet the
area or dimension standards of this title, such lots shall be considered to be
an undivided parcel for the purposes of this Title. Accordingly, the separate
lots shall be treated as a single parcel concerning the issuance of a building
permit for any residential construction on the lot, or contiguous commonly
owned lots where this condition exists. No nonconforming or conforming lot
shall be reduced in area or dimensions if such reduction would result in a
greater degree of nonconformity. In the least dense residential district in
City of Horseshoe Bend, any lot with an area less than the minimum required for
the least dense residential district may only be developed to the minimum
residential use allowed in the zone. Any lot in any (Residential District) that
has an area less than the minimum square footage desired, but at least fifty
percent (50%) of the minimum area, unless it adjoins one or more substandard
lots held in common ownership, may only be developed with a single-family
dwelling unit.
   C.   The Administrator is authorized to take such steps as are necessary,
including civil or criminal litigation, to abate, penalize or prevent the use
of any unlawful structure, lot or use. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-10-8: NONCONFORMING USES:
Any use or structure lawfully occupying a building or land at the effective
date of this Title or subsequent amendments thereto or at any time of
annexation or rezone, which does not conform with the regulations of the zone
in which it is located shall be deemed a nonconforming use and may continue to
operate as it did prior to the adoption of the Title. A nonconforming use shall
exist if the owner or developer of such use has lawfully, in reliance on
existing laws, ordinances or permits, made substantial expenditures or
otherwise committed him or herself, to a substantial disadvantage, before the
law, ordinance or permit is changed. Substantial shall be measured by
consideration of all factors evidencing a change in position.
The right to maintain a nonconforming use runs with the land and is not
terminated by a change in ownership, provided the nonconforming use is not
enlarged, expanded or altered.
   A.   Preexisting Use: Any use lawfully occupying a building or land on the
effective date hereof, or of subsequent amendments thereto, which does not
conform to the regulations for the zone in which it is located shall be deemed
to be a nonconforming use and may be continued. Maintenance and minor repairs
necessary to keep a nonconforming use in sound condition during such
continuance shall be permitted.
   B.   Enlargement: A nonconforming building may be enlarged or extended only
if thereafter the entire building is devoted to a conforming use.
   C.   Alterations: No building partially occupied by a nonconforming use
shall be altered in such a way to permit the enlargement or expansion of the
space occupied by such nonconforming use.
   D.   Use Enlarged or Extended: No nonconforming use may be enlarged or
extended in such a way as to occupy any required open space, or any land beyond
the boundaries of the lot on which it existed on the effective date hereof, nor
may any such nonconforming use displace any conforming use in the same building
or on the same parcel.
   E.   Destruction: Any nonconforming building destroyed by fire or other
calamity to an extent of fifty percent (50%) or more of the appraised value
immediately prior to such destruction may not be restored unless such
restoration shall make the building a conforming building and any intended use
shall be a conforming use; provided however, that nothing in this Title shall
be construed to prevent the restoration and the resumption of former lawful use
of any building that is damaged or partially destroyed by fire, or other
calamity, to the extent of less than fifty percent (50%), provided that such
restoration is started within one calendar year and diligently prosecuted to
completion. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-10-9: ESTABLISHING A LEGAL NONCONFORMING USE:
A Legal Nonconforming Use may be established upon application through the
Administrative Level review process outlined in Section 9-4-08.1, subject to
review of verification documentation submitted by the applicant. Following is a
list of some, but not all, types of documentation which are accepted as
verification of a Legal Nonconforming Use (Grandfather Right):
   A.   Documentation:
      1.   Rental property receipts showing dates of use, directories,
      2.   Utility bills, etc.
      3.   Business receipts showing types of the service or goods provided,
dated phone directories, etc.
      4.   Statements from utilities, such as power, water, or gas, which
indicate date and type of use, i.e. commercial, multi-family residential, etc.
      5.   Licenses such as beer, liquor, retail, or professional occupation
showing dates of use.
      6.   Notarized statements from neighbors who have observed the
nonconforming use over the required time period.
   B.   Procedures: Every application for a Certificate of Legal Nonconforming
Use shall be deemed to be an application for a Zoning Certificate. The Zoning
Administrator must review the verifying documentation submitted and make a
determination of approval or denial of the application within (15) calendar
days of receipt of application and will submit the findings and conclusions in
writing to the applicant. The decision of the Zoning Administrator may be
appealed by the applicant, or any affected person, within ten (10) calendar
days of the date of the approval or denial in accordance with Chapter 4 of this
title. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-10-10: NONCONFORMING USE ABANDONMENT:
Whenever a nonconforming use of land or building has discontinued for a
continuous period of (6) months, or in case a building originally designed for
a commercial or industrial use for a continuous period of one year; or whenever
there is otherwise evident a clear intent on the part of the owner to abandon a
nonconforming uses, such use shall not thereafter be reestablished, and the use
of the premises thereafter shall be in conformity with the regulations for the
zone. Any nonconforming use which is illegally expanded shall lose its
nonconforming status. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-10-11: EXPANSION OF LEGAL NONCONFORMING USES AND CONDITIONAL USES:
Expansion to conditional uses or legal nonconforming uses which do not exceed
twenty (20) per cent of the existing facility (based on square footage, or
other dimensional measure), or other minor changes to such uses, may be allowed
with approval by staff. Expansions to such uses, which exceed twenty (20) per
cent or which cannot be considered minor, shall be reviewed by the City Council
as a conditional use permit, also subject to the findings below:
   A.   That the proposed conversion, restoration, enlargement or expansion
will not alter the zoning classification of the nonconforming uses;
   B.   That the proposed conversion, restoration, enlargement or expansion
conforms to all existing requirements of the Horseshoe Bend Zoning Ordinance;
   C.   That the proposed conversion, restoration, enlargement or expansion
will not place an undue burden on existing transportation and service
facilities in the vicinity.
   D.   That the proposed enlargement or expansion is not inimical to the best
interest of the surrounding neighborhood. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-10-12: NONCONFORMING MOBILE HOME:
A nonconforming mobile home in any residential zone may be enlarged or replaced
provided that the Zoning Administrator shall make the following findings and
issue a Zoning Certificate:
   A.   Such enlargement or replacement meets all current Idaho and Federal
construction codes for mobile homes.
   B.   All setbacks and other regulations as required in the zone in which the
mobile home is located are adhered to.
   C.   Hook-up to City sewer and water is required.
   D.   Home and property are under single ownership. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-10-13: CONVERSION OF A NONCONFORMING USE TO AN ALLOWED USE:
A nonconforming use may be converted to a use that is allowable within the
zoning classification applicable to the nonconforming use after issuance of a
Zoning Certificate as provided in Section 6-01 of this Title. (Ord. 232, 4-14-
2010)
9-10-14: ZONING RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND ANNEXED LAND:
All streets, alleys, railroad right-of-way, canal rights-of-way and other
public ways, if not otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed to be in
the same zone as the property immediately abutting upon such alleys, streets,
public ways, waterways and railroad rights-of way.
This Title shall not limit or interfere with the temporary use of any property
as a public voting place, or with the construction, installation or operation
of the following by any public agency or private corporation, when such
construction is otherwise in conformity with all Federal, State, County and
City regulations.
   A.   Public street or highway.
   B.   Pole, towers, wires, cables, conduits, vaults, laterals, pipes, mains,
wells, valves or any other similar distribution and transmission equipment for
telephone or other communication, electric power, gas, water and sewer lines,
provided that the installation shall conform, when applicable, with the rules
and regulations of any Federal or State commissions and agencies, or any other
authorities having jurisdiction and subject to other City ordinance provisions,
rules and regulations; except poles, towers, or similar installations of height
of seventy feet (70') or greater are subject to Section 7-04. Electrical
substations are considered a major utility facility and subject to the
requirements of this Title.
   C.   Railroad right-of-way, excluding yards and stations.
   D.   Incidental appurtenances to any of the above. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-10-15: FENCE REGULATIONS:
   A.   No fence, wall, berm, shrubbery, or hedge shall unreasonably obstruct
or interfere with traffic visibility. Fences, walls, berms, shrubbery and
hedges are permitted in any required yard or along the edge of any yard to a
height of six feet (6'). Provided, that no fence, wall, berm, shrubbery, or
hedge which obstructs sight-lines at elevations between three feet and ten feet
(3' - 10') shall be placed or permitted to remain on any lot within twenty-five
feet (25') of the intersection of a lot line and a street right-of-way line.
The same sight-line limitations shall apply to corner lots within the side yard
area adjacent to the street which intersects the street upon which the building
fronts. No tree shall be permitted to remain within said restricted sight-line
areas unless the foliage line is kept clear between the elevations described
above. In any required front yard, no fence, wall, berm, shrubbery, or hedge
shall be permitted which materially impedes vision across such yard between the
height of three feet and ten feet (3' - 10').
   B.   No fence or wall shall be constructed or installed in any zone without
the review and approval of such by the Zoning Administrator. An administrative
application shall be submitted to determine compliance with the following
approval criteria.
   C.   Electric fences are prohibited within the corporate limits of the City
of Horseshoe Bend.
   D.   Barbed wire may be permitted in commercial and industrial zones only
when used as the top section for security fences. Any barbed wire forming part
of a security fence shall be a minimum of seventy-two (72) inches above grade.
Public correctional or penal facilities are exempted from this limitation.
   E.   For the purposes of this section, walls lattice work and screens shall
be considered to be fences and shall be built and maintained in compliance with
the provisions thereof.
   F.   The use of boxes, sheet metal, old or decayed wood, broken masonry
blocks or other like unsightly materials for fencing is hereby prohibited.
   G.   Upon and within lots in all residential Zones for dwelling units:
      1.   Interior lots: Solid or closed non-vision fences to a height of
thirty-six (36) inches, or open-vision type fences to a height of forty-eight
(48) inches, may be built from the front yard setback to and including the
front property line. Fences to a height of seventy-two (72) inches may be built
from the front yard setback to and including the rear property line.
      2.   Corner lots:
         a.   Any fence, wall or planting on or within the clear vision
triangle shall be limited to thirty-six (36) inches in height measured from the
crown of the street.
         b.   Solid or closed non-vision fences to a height of thirty-six (36)
inches or open vision type fences to a height of forty-eight (48) inches, may
be built along the front property line and along the side property line to the
front yard setback, except that a fence of seventy-two (72) inches in height
may be built upon street and side property lines from the front yard setback to
and across the rear property line provided that no fence which exceeds thirty-
six (36) inches in height may be erected in the clear vision triangle.
         c.   Concrete and masonry walls of any height, and fences over six
feet (6') tall must also be approved by the Building Department. (Ord. 232, 4-
14-2010)
9-10-16: MICRO-PATHWAY REGULATIONS:
The placement of micro-pathways is intended to encourage non-motorized forms of
travel, and to provide safe, convenient and aesthetic alternative travel routes
to common destinations such as schools, parks and shopping areas. These may be
provided with approval of the City Council. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-10-17: MOST RESTRICTIVE REGULATIONS GOVERN:
Wherever the regulations made under the authority of this Title require a
greater width or size of yards or courts, are more restrictive as to height of
building or permit a less number of stories, or require a greater percentage of
lot to be left unoccupied, or impose standards which are more restrictive than
are required by any other City Ordinance or regulation, the provisions of this
Title shall govern. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
CHAPTER 11
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS 1 ,  2
SECTION:
9-11-1: General Provisions
9-11-2: Accessible Parking Spaces
9-11-2-1: Quantity
9-11-2-2: Dimensions
9-11-2-3: Design
9-11-2-4: Location
9-11-3: Common Facilities For Joint And Mixed Uses
9-11-4: Public And Private Parking Areas
9-11-4-1: Ingress And Egress
9-11-4-2: Residential Zone Parking
9-11-4-3: Required Findings
9-11-4-4: Parking Area And Service Drive Improvements
9-11-5: Off-Street Parking Requirements
 
Notes
     NOTE: This ordinance does not take the place of the American Disabilities Act
1 (ADA) requirements. Variances and interpretations can only be reviewed by the
  U.S. Department of Justice -- Office on the Americans with Disabilities Act.
     ADA Accessible Parking Spaces: Where off-street parking spaces are required by
2 this Title there shall also be required parking spaces for persons with
  disabilities as provided in the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).
9-11-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
Off-street parking and loading facilities shall be subject to the following
regulations and requirements in addition to the general regulations of the
Horseshoe Bend Zoning Ordinance; Stall size and service drive dimensional
requirements are set forth in Exhibit 4, "Minimum Standards for Standard
Vehicles", of this chapter:
   A.   Use:
      1.   Parking facilities shall be used for vehicle parking only. No
automobile sales, dead storage, repair work or dismantling of any kind shall be
permitted.
         a.   The use allowed in the building and the corresponding parking
spaces required and fixed shall be subscribed on the zoning certificate. Any
enlargement or addition to a building, or any change in use of a building, or
an enlargement or increase in intensity of use of a building, shall require an
amendment to the zoning certificate upon which shall be subscribed the
enlargement of a building or use thereof, or the change in use of said
building, and the number of parking spaces required and established as a result
of such.
   B.   Fractional Requirements: Any fractional requirement shall require one
space.
   C.   Restricted Parking: Off-street parking space requirements are based on
each space being available on a first-come, first-use basis. If a parking space
is to be restricted by one or more parking spaces being assigned to a
particular individual or user, such parking space shall be so designated and
such restriction shall be subscribed upon the Zoning Certificate. Off-street
parking requirements shall be increased by twenty percent (20%) of the number
of such restricted spaces.
   D.   Distance for Private Off-Street Parking When Off-Site: The required
off-street parking location shall be designated on the Zoning Certificate for a
particular premises, and shall be located not more than the following distances
measured along the sidewalk or a walkway available for public use from the
primary entrance or elevator bank of the premises to the nearest entrance of
the parking lot:
      1.   For retail or commercial customer parking, medical-dental clinics,
churches, restaurants, bars and entertainment facilities: six hundred (600)
feet.
      2.   For employee parking on a daily basis where the car is used
occasionally regardless of the nature of the employment: one thousand five
hundred (1,500) feet.
      3.   For residential uses: six hundred (600) feet.
      4.   When off-site parking is provided, a directional sign shall be
erected on the premises advising the public of the distance and direction to
additional parking.
   E.   Staff Determination: The Administrator shall determine parking space
requirements for a use not specifically provided by this Title, but the space
shall be the same as a use which has similar traffic generating
characteristics.
   F.   Reduction of Parking Requirements: Parking space requirements for a
particular use as established by Exhibit 8 of this chapter may be reduced upon
application for conditional use permit in accordance with the provisions and
procedures required by (conditional use permit ) Section
9-7-4 of this Title and upon determination by the City Council based on a
specific showing by the applicant that the intensity of the particular use will
need a lesser amount of parking space. An application for a reduction in the
parking space requirements shall include a survey of persons using and working
on the premises and such additional information as the City Council may require
by which to demonstrate that the use by the regular employees and business
invitee, licensees and visitors to the businesses and occupations in and upon
the premises shall require less off-street parking space than required by the
pertinent provisions of the Horseshoe Bend Zoning Ordinance.
      1.   In the event a determination is made that the parking space
requirements may be reduced, the City Council shall determine the off-street
parking space requirements which shall be subscribed upon the conditional use
permit.
      2.   In making the determinations allowed in this Section, the schedule
of parking requirements shall be deemed the normal standard for average
intensity of use of the particular use specified and to the extent that the
intensity of use is less than such norm, or the number of individuals using the
premises provides less than the average number of cars, the parking
requirements may be reduced.
   G.   Compact Spaces: A maximum of thirty-five percent (35%) of the total
spaces provided may be designed, designated and used for compact size vehicles.
The minimum standards for compact vehicle spaces and driveways are set forth in
Exhibit 5. Compact spaces shall be located along the perimeter of the parking
lot or in those areas most distant from the structure being served. Parking
areas immediately adjacent to or within close proximity to building entrances
shall be designated for full size spaces. Compact spaces shall be clearly
marked as such on the pavement or curb. Surplus parking (spaces exceeding
ordinance requirements) shall also comply with the thirty-five percent (35%)
standard for compact spaces. The percentage of compact spaces may be increased
by conditional use approval from the City Council. The applicant must
demonstrate that the routine use of the parking lot will exceed the thirty-five
percent (35%) standard.
   H.   With the exception of auto sales lots in commercial zones, it shall be
unlawful to maintain or place vehicles on a property of another for the purpose
of sale.
   I.   Off-Site or Shared Parking: Whenever any required parking or loading
areas are located on a site which is not within the property limits of the
facility being served, the permit applicant shall present an agreement
authorizing use of the off-site parking for the duration of use of the site.
Such agreement shall subject to approval by the Zoning Administrator. The
primary considerations for such approval shall be the functionality of the
parking spaces, the safety of parking users and the effects on neighboring land
uses. Any change in use or increase in use during the term of the agreement
shall require re-evaluation of the conditions and factors upon which the
agreement was based.
   J.   Ordinance Procedure - Required Spaces Determined by Zoning
Administrator: Where this Title requires the Administrator to prescribe the
number of parking and loading spaces, the Administrator shall base his/her
determination on the following:
      1.   Traffic generation, giving particular attention to attendance
potential at any facility.
      2.   Location of the facility and the peak hours of operation.
      3.   Extent and frequency of loading/unloading operations.
      4.   The number of employees during peak period.
      5.   Any other factors that would affect parking and loading
requirements. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-11-2: ACCESSIBLE PARKING SPACES:
This section applies only to the quantity, dimensional standards, and location
of accessible parking spaces. Please note that this section is not a substitute
for the International Building Code (IBC), but rather provides for zoning-
related standards consistent with the purpose of the IBC. This section does not
supersede the IBC. The most restrictive of the two - the IBC and this section -
shall prevail in the event of any discrepancies. All other provisions not
addressed in this section which are related to accessible parking spaces shall
be governed by the IBC.
   A.   Location of Handicapped-Accessible Spaces: The spaces for persons with
disabilities shall be located as near as practical to a primary accessible
entrance. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-11-2-1: QUANTITY:
The required number of accessible spaces shall be as follows:
EXHIBIT 3 - ACCESSIBLE PARKING SPACES
 
Total Number of Parking Spaces in Lot Required Minimum Number of Accessible
                                      Spaces
1-25                                  1
26-50                                 2
 
(Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-11-2-2: DIMENSIONS:
   A.   All accessible spaces shall be a minimum of eight feet (8') in width
plus a five foot (5') wide adjacent access aisle.
   B.   One (1) in every eight (8) accessible spaces, but not less than one,
shall have an adjacent access aisle eight feet (8') in width and shall be
designated as "Van Accessible".
   C.   Exception: If all required spaces are designed in conformance with the
"Universal Parking Design" (eleven feet (11') wide stalls with five foot (5')
wide adjacent access aisle), then Section above shall not apply.
   D.   All accessible spaces shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20') in
length. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-11-2-3: DESIGN:
   A.   Access aisles shall not be restricted by planters, curbs, or wheel
stops.
   B.   Access aisles shall be level with the parking space.
   C.   Two (2) accessible spaces may utilize the same adjacent access aisle.
   D.   Accessible parking spaces shall be designed as reserved for the
disabled by a sign showing the symbol of accessibility. Such sign shall not be
obscured by a vehicle parking in the space. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-11-2-4: LOCATION:
   A.   Access aisles shall be connected to an accessible route to the
accessible entrance of a building. The parking access aisle must either:
      1.   Blend with the accessible route; or
      2.   Have a curb ramp. Such ramp opening must be located within the
access aisle boundaries and not within the parking space boundaries.
   B.   Parking spaces for disabled people and accessible passenger loading
zones that serve a particular building shall be the spaces or zones located
closest to the nearest entrance on an accessible route.
   C.   At least half (1/2) of the spaces are encouraged to be located adjacent
to the buildings so that the disabled will not have to cross traffic aisles.
   D.   Parking Space Sizes: Off-street parking spaces shall meet the minimum
dimensions for the types of spaces and conditions. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-11-3: COMMON FACILITIES FOR JOINT AND MIXED USES:
   A.   Joint or mixed use of off-street parking facilities shall be as
follows:
      1.   Mixed Uses: Total requirements for off-street parking spaces shall
be the sum of the requirements for the various uses.
      2.   Joint Use: The Zoning Administrator upon application for a permit in
accordance with the provisions and procedures described below, may authorize
the joint use of parking facilities provided:
         a.   The applicant shows there is no substantial conflict in the
principal operating hours of the building, structure or use for which the joint
use of parking facilities is proposed;
         b.   The parking facility for such proposed joint use is no further
than three hundred (300) feet from the building, structure or use for which the
off-street parking is required; and
         c.   The parties concerned in the joint use of off street parking
facilities shall submit a written agreement in a form to be recorded for such
joint use, approved by the City Attorney as to form and content, and such
agreement, when approved as conforming to the provisions of this Chapter, shall
be recorded in the office of the County Recorder and copies thereof filed with
the City Clerk.
         d.   The Zoning Administrator will review the application relative to
the approval criteria and make a determination of approval or denial within
thirty (30) calendar days of receipt of application and will submit the
findings and conclusions, with required conditions, in writing to the
applicant. In the event the Zoning Administrator approves said application, a
radius notice will be sent informing owners of properties within three hundred
(300) feet of the subject property of the Zoning Administrator's decision and
of their right to appeal that decision pursuant to Section
9-4-8-1 of this Title. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010
9-11-4: PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PARKING AREAS:
9-11-4-1: INGRESS AND EGRESS:
   A.   Access driveways providing reasonable access to required private or
public parking areas including garages may extend through the front or street
side setback in a perpendicular manner provided they comply with Section
9-11-4-4. Driveways, which extend through the setback in other than a
perpendicular manner, may be approved if due to physical limitations of the
site or for aesthetic or safety purposes. The Zoning Administrator may approve
such unusual driveways upon a determination that the following are true:
      1.   The driveway is clearly for access to a garage or parking area; and
      2.   The proposed driveway does not have a negative impact on adjacent
properties; and
      3.   The driveway is required because of physical limitations of the
site; or
      4.   The driveway is required to enhance the aesthetics of the site such
as preserving existing trees; or
      5.   The driveway is required for safety reasons such as avoiding backing
into a busy street or a street with limited motorist visibility.
   B.   Driveways which are not approved by the Zoning Administrator require a
variance from the City Council. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-11-4-2: RESIDENTIAL ZONE PARKING:
Public or private parking areas and parking spaces shall not be permitted in
any required yard of any residential land use zone, except as follows:
   A.   Trailers, camp trailers, boats, boat trailers, recreational vehicles
and all other vehicles not in daily use are restricted from parking in the
front and street side yard setbacks or adjacent street for more than forty
eight (48) hours.
   B.    Alley loaded parking and parking structures may encroach into rear or
interior side setbacks per Section
9-11-4.
   C.   Open air public or private parking areas and service drives, which are
utilized in conjunction with any building or use permitted in a residential
land use zone, shall be permitted in side yards that do not abut a street;
provided that a minimum five foot (5') wide landscaping and screening area be
constructed and maintained adjacent to the adjoining property line as provided
for in Section
9-11-4-4. No vehicle or the parking thereof shall be permitted in said minimum
five foot (5') wide landscaping and screening area. In the case of detached
single family residential uses in the R-1, R-2 and R-3 Zones, a three foot (3')
wide landscaping and screening area is required.
   D.   Cars, trucks, trailers, boats, boat trailers and recreational vehicles
shall not be parked on:
      1.   Required yard areas;
      2.   Unimproved parking areas;
      3.   Areas not designed for vehicle parking;
      4.   The required side and rear yard setbacks; and,
      5.   Adjacent residential zoned street for more than forty-eight (48)
hours.
   E.   No commercial vehicle or trailer shall be parked, stored, or otherwise
left unattended at any place in a residential Zone whether on a lot or on the
public right-of-way for over two (2) hours except while actually engaged in
pickup or delivery activities, or during the course of actual construction,
alteration or repair of buildings and structures or any other permitted use in
the immediate proximity.
   F.   All parking areas, driveways, and other vehicular access, for single
family or two-family residential uses, shall be paved of asphalt, concrete, or
other hard surface material approved by the Zoning Administrator. Other
residential uses are subject to standards in accordance with Sections
9-11-4-2,
9-11-4-3 and
9-11-4-4.
   G.   Driveways for single family or two-family residential uses shall be a
minimum of nine feet (9') wide. Driveways or service drives for other
residential uses are subject to Section
9-11-4-3 J.
   H.   Interior garage dimensions shall comply with Section
9-11-4-4 A.1.
   I.   Driveways are permitted in the front and street side setbacks in
accordance with Section
9-11-4-1.
   J.   For single family residential uses, individual driveways in the front
setback shall not exceed a width of thirty-three feet (33') within the setback.
For the purpose of this section, individual driveways are those vehicular
access ways separated from any other vehicular access way by a minimum of five
feet (5') of landscaping or similar material not designed to accommodate
vehicles. More restrictive standards shall prevail where applicable.
   K.    The Zoning Administrator may permit up to one half (1/2) of the
parking required for a single family or two-family residential use to conform
to compact parking stall dimensional standards on lots having topographic or
other physical constraints. However, interior garage dimensions must comply
with Section
9-11-4-4 and the requirements of this section.
   L.   Parking on substandard lots of record is regulated by Section
9-11-4-3 F. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-11-4-3: REQUIRED FINDINGS:
   A.   Service drives:
      1.   May not landlocked adjacent property due to topographic or parcel
layout; and
      2.   May not interfere with the continuity of public streets.
When public streets are feasible and necessary to the proper development of the
public street system as determined by the City Engineer, then public streets
shall be required.
   B.   Service drives shall be designed and constructed to facilitate the flow
of traffic, provide maximum safety for traffic ingress and egress, and provide
maximum safety for pedestrian and vehicular traffic on site.
   C.   The service drive must not encourage or promote the use of the service
drive as a "pass-through" between public streets.
   D.   Grade: Maximum grade for service drives shall be ten percent (10%)
unless specifically approved by the City Engineer and the Fire District. A
maximum grade of two percent (2%), unless specifically approved by the City
Engineer, shall be required for the initial 80 feet from the intersecting curb
to provide a landing at the junction of the service drive and the public right-
of-way.
   E.   Where determined by the City Engineer for drainage control, vertical
curbing is required.
   F.   Except single-family or two-family dwellings on a single lot, parking
spaces in groups of three or more (3+) shall be served by a service drive
designed to prevent backing onto a public street.
   G.   Service drives shall comply with the requirements of the Fire District.
   H.   Service drives shall be designed to intersect the public right-of-way
at a ninety (90) degree angle or as near to that angle as possible.
Discrepancies shall require review and approval by the City Engineer.
   I.   A service drive, which provides access to any type or degree of
development from a local street, shall be setback a minimum of fifty feet (50')
from an intersection of public streets as depicted in the following manner.
Under unusual circumstances, the Planning Director may waive this requirement.
   J.    Service Drive Widths:
      1.   Drive through lanes and associated escape lanes shall each be a
minimum of ten feet (10') wide.
      2.   A driveway for a single-family dwelling and for a two-family
dwelling may be a minimum of nine feet (9') wide.
      3.   One-way service drives without parking on either side shall be a
minimum of ten feet (10') wide. Two-way service drives without parking on
either side shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20') wide.
      4.   Garages shall be setback twenty feet (20') or greater, or between
three (3) to eight (8) feet from the edge of the service drive. The combined
width of the service drive and the garage setback shall be a minimum of twenty-
eight feet (28').
      5.   Except at the intersection of a service drive and public road, the
service drive shall be narrowed to twenty feet (20') where occupied by a
crosswalk.
      6.   Twenty-four feet (24') of clear width shall be maintained between
building appurtenances, such as carport overhangs, that border service drives.
(Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-11-4-4: PARKING AREA AND SERVICE DRIVE IMPROVEMENTS:
All public or private parking areas and parking spaces shall be designed and
laid out to conform to the minimum standards required by this Chapter and in
accordance with the minimum standards for parking lot design as follows:
   A.   Minimum dimensional standards for parking lot designs are stated in
"EXHIBIT 4, Minimum Standards for Standard Vehicles."
      1.   The minimum unobstructed interior width of a two-car private
residential garage shall be twenty (20) feet. The minimum unobstructed depth of
the stalls must be twenty (20) feet for the first stall and may be sixteen (16)
feet for the second stall. These dimensions must be kept clear of any permanent
obstructions including, but not limited to, mechanical units.
      2.   Vehicle backup areas shall be provided. This area may include the
width of the service drive or alley.
      3.   Except at the intersection of a service drive and public road, the
service drive shall be narrowed to twenty feet (20') where occupied by a
crosswalk.
      4.   Twenty-four feet (24') of clear width shall be maintained between
building appurtenances, such as carport overhangs, that border service drives.
EXHIBIT 4 - MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR STANDARD VEHICLES
Parking Angle Stall Width Curb Length Per Car  Stall Depth Driveway Width
A             B           C                    D           E
Parking Angle Stall Width Curb Length Per Car  Stall Depth Driveway Width
A             B           C                    D           E
0             9'-0"       23'- 0"              9'-0"       12'-0"
20            9'-0"       26'4"                15'-3"      11'-0"
30            9'-0"       18'-0"               17'-8"      11'-0"
40            9'-0"       14'-0"               19'-6"      12'-0"
45            9'-0"       12'-9"               20'-5       13'-0"
50            9'-0"       11'-9"               21'-0"      14'-0"
60            9'-0"       10'5"                21'-10"     16'-0"
70            9'-0"       9'-8"                21'-10"     18'-0"
80            9'-0"       9'-2"                21'-4"      20'-0"
90            9'-0"       9'-0"                20'-0"      22'-0"
 
EXHIBIT 5 - MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR COMPACT VEHICLES
 
Parking Angle Stall Width Curb Length Per Car Stall Depth Driveway Width
A             B           C                   D           E
45            7'-6"       10'-6"              16'-0"      11'-0"
60            7'-6"       8'-9"               16'-9"      14'-0"
75            7'-6"       7'-10"              16'-4"      17'-5"
90            7'-6"       7'-6"               15'-0"      20'-0"
 
   B.   Surfacing: All parking lots, service drives, vehicle storage areas, and
vehicle sales lots shall be paved and constructed to meet the City of Horseshoe
Bend Standards, for base course and asphaltic concrete mat thickness; curbs and
gutters where applicable; utilizing the appropriate traffic index. The design
shall be prepared by a licensed, professional engineer.
   C.   Exceptions: Gravel surface may be utilized within industrial zones for
enclosed storage yards or grounds maintenance areas and for recreational
vehicle storage lots approved through the Conditional Use Permit process.
Gravel surface may be allowed in commercial zones where the outdoor storage use
has been approved through a Conditional Use Permit.
EXHIBIT 6 - PARKING DIAGRAM1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/09b6c0d93abcbf13fb4398182a4460a14a33b72d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1171.png]
 
   D.   Within the commercial zones, storage yards must be enclosed by a six
(6) foot high, solid fence and may not be located in front of the main
building. All areas must obtain approval from the City Engineer.
   E.   Grading: Except parking areas for single-family and two-family
dwellings, parking areas shall be graded to prevent storm water runoff from
crossing the sidewalk or from running onto adjacent properties or rights-of-
way.
   F.   Bumper: All parking areas shall be provided with a substantial wheel
restraint which will prevent cars from encroaching upon abutting private and
public property or overhanging beyond the designated parking stall dimensions,
except that the requirements of this subsection may be waived by the City
Council for proper cause.
   G.   Bumper Overhang: When the City Council approves parking stall
dimensions that allow bumper overhang onto a sidewalk or landscape strip, the
parking stall dimension may be reduced two feet (2') in length if two feet (2')
in width is added to the required sidewalk or landscape strip. Bumper overhang
shall not damage landscaping.
   H.   Landscaping and Screening: All parking and storage areas (except those
in conjunction with single family residences) including vehicle sales areas,
truck parking areas, bus parking areas and service drives shall meet the
following standards:
      1.   Along all streets there must be provided a continuous landscape area
in accordance with the following standards:
         a.   The City Council shall require street trees with a minimum size
of two inch (2") caliper in the landscape area.
         b.   Shrubs, lawn or other ground cover approved by the City Council
shall be installed in all landscape areas. Landscape plants shall not include
plastic or other artificial materials. The use of rock mulch shall be allowed
at the discretion of the City Council. Only natural colored rock mulch shall be
allowed with no patterning of the material.
         c.   All landscaped areas shall be provided with an underground
irrigation system.
      2.   A minimum five (5) to six (6) ft. high solid screen shall be
provided when a parking lot is adjacent to residential land uses. This screen
may include fencing, walls and/or landscape combinations that will provide a
dense barrier.
      3.   A minimum of five percent (5%) of the parking lot area, including
drives, shall be landscaped with interior planters. Perimeter required
landscaping shall not constitute part of the percentage. The City Council may
approve a transfer of all or part of the required interior landscaping to other
areas of the site.
      4.   Existing healthy trees should be retained as approved by Zoning
Administrator and be considered in the design and grading of the property.
      5.   The Zoning Administrator may grant up to a ten percent (10%)
reduction in the required number of parking spaces in order to preserve an
existing tree(s).
      6.   The Zoning Administrator may grant up to a ten percent (10%)
reduction in the required number of parking spaces in order to preserve an
existing tree(s).
   I.   Clear Vision Triangle: A clear vision triangle shall be observed in
regard to all visual barriers including all vegetation (except deciduous trees
pruned at least eight (8) ft. in height above the sidewalk and fourteen (14)
feet above the roadway, walls, signs, vehicles, solid fences or other sight
obstructions exceeding three (3) feet in height. As shown in Exhibit 7 below.
EXHIBIT 7
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/09b6c0d93abcbf13fb4398182a4460a14a33b72d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1173.png]
 
   J.   Lighting: Any lights provided to illuminate any public or private
parking area or vehicle sales area shall be so arranged as to reflect the light
away from any abutting or adjacent residential land use zone or residential
use.
   K.   Marking: All parking spaces shall be substantially marked in compliance
with the provisions of this Title. The edge of a service drive shall be marked
when bordered by garages that are setback from said service drive.
   L.   Ingress and Egress: Ingress and egress of parking structures shall be
designed with due regard for visibility and safety.
   M.   Pedestrian Access: The development shall provide sidewalks and
crosswalks that completely link, parking areas, buildings, open spaces and
adjacent pathways. Sidewalks shall be at least four feet (4') wide, sited and
illuminated to provide safe passage and observation of the pathway route.
Sidewalk crossings of service drives shall be provided and clearly
distinguished from the service drive.
   N.   Service Drives:
      1.   Service drives and parking lots shall allow public access to places
of public use and/or interest.
      2.   Service drives that serve more than forty (40) dwelling units will
be designed based upon the standards of this Title and by a traffic plan
prepared by a traffic engineer, submitted to and approved by the City Engineer
and the Zoning Administrator for the interior roadway and parking system. The
required transportation plan shall include the following information: The
adequacy of approach streets and highways to accommodate development traffic;
the need to expand or modify existing facilities; the locations and design of
development driveways; pedestrian and bicycle facilities; consideration for
service/emergency vehicular movement; safety for vehicular and pedestrian
traffic; livability of the residential environment; economy of land use,
construction and maintenance; and recommended street layout and dimensional
standards. This requirement may be waived when it can be shown by the applicant
that no section of on-site roadway will exceed two hundred and forty (240)
vehicles per day.
   O.   Utility Location: Residential projects, that at a later date may be
subdivided, should place utilities in the roadway or in easements parallel and
next to the roadway. Projects that are later subdivided and do not comply with
this recommendation may be subject to significant reconstruction and relocation
costs.
   P.   Safety: As a means to improve traffic safety and to improve the visual
quality of an area, the number of driveway intersections with public or private
roadway in residential projects shall be minimized. Use of parking courts,
alleys and common driveways is strongly encouraged. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-11-5: OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
EXHIBIT 8 - OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS
Land Use Unit of Measure Spaces Required
Land Use                   Unit of Measure         Spaces Required
Single Family Residential  Per Unit                2.0
Duplex Residential         Per Unit                2.0
Multi-Family Residential   Per Unit                1.5
Child Care Facilities      Per 10 Children         1.0
Mobile Home Park           Per Lot                 1.33
Home for Physically and/or
Mentally Handicapped or                            2.0 for up to 5 residents.
Elderly Persons Including  Per Resident            1.0 for each 2 residents
Rehabilitation For Drugs                           over 5, or fraction
and/or Alcohol (Plus 1 per                         thereof.
2 Staff)
Housing for Elderly        Per Unit                0.4
Nursing Home               Per Bed                 0.25
Motel & Hotel              Per Room                1.0
Clinic                     Per 250 sq. ft.         1.0
                           Net Leasable Area
Offices                    Per 250 sq. ft.         1.0
                           Net Leasable Area
Religious Facilities*      Per Seat in principal   0.25
                           assembly room or area
Theater                    Per Seat                0.25
Restaurant & Bar           Per Seat                0.50
Dance Hall, Skating Rink   Per 100 sq. ft. Gross   1.0
Lodge Hall & Social Club   Floor Area
Neighborhood Commercial    Per 250 sq. ft. Gross   1.0
                           Floor Area
General Commercial         Per 250 sq. ft. Gross   1.0
                           Floor Area
Bulky Retail (Autos,       Per 600 sq. ft. Gross
Appliances, Furniture,     Floor Area              1.0
etc.)
Wholesaling & Warehousing  Per 2,000 sq. ft. Gross 1.0
                           Floor Area
Manufacturing              Per 500 sq. ft. Gross   1.0
                           Floor Area
Mortuary                   Per Seat                0.25
Retail sales
establishments handling
only durable goods or
bulky merchandise such as
machinery, furniture or    600 square feet of net
vehicles, personal service floor area.             1.0
and repair shops,
wholesale stores, building
supplies and landscaping
materials, animal feed and
supplies
*   Churches, Temples, Synagogues, Mosques and other Religious Facilities ADA
Accessible Parking Spaces: Where off-street parking spaces are required by
this Title there shall also be required parking spaces for persons with
disabilities as provided in the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).
 
(Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
CHAPTER 12
SIGN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-12-1: Purpose
9-12-2: Definitions
9-12-3: Applications And Permits
9-12-3-1: Sign Permits
9-12-3-2: Applications For Sign Permits
9-12-3-3: Sign Application
9-12-3-4: Computations Of Dimensions For Sign Area
9-12-3-5: Public Liability Bond
9-12-4: Removal Of Illegal Or Unsafe Signs
9-12-4-1: Unsafe Signs
9-12-4-2: Nonconforming Signs
9-12-4-3: Signs Conditions
9-12-4-4: Obsolete Sign Copy
9-12-5: Political Signs
9-12-6: Signs Allowed Without A Permit
9-12-7: Prohibited Signs
9-12-8: Types Of Signs Allowed
9-12-8-1: Awnings
9-12-8-2: Changeable Copy Signs
9-12-8-3: Center Signs
9-12-8-4: Directional Signs
9-12-8-5: Free-Standing Signs
9-12-8-6: Hanging Signs
9-12-8-7: Projecting Signs
9-12-8-8: Temporary Signs
9-12-8-9: Wall Signs
9-12-8-10: Window Signs
9-12-8-11: Permitted Signs
9-12-9: Size And Design Standards
9-12-9-1: Maximum Aggregate Area Of All Signs
9-12-9-2: Prohibited Lighting
9-12-10: Lighting
9-12-10-1: Internally Lighted Signs
9-12-10-2: Neon Signs
9-12-10-3: Sign Lighting Methods
9-12-10-4: Residential Subdivision Signs
9-12-11: Separability
9-12-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Section is to establish standards for the fabrication,
erection, and use of signs, symbols, markings, and advertising devices within
the City. These standards are enacted to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare of persons within the community. They are intended to aid in the
development and promotion of business and industry by providing sign
regulations which encourage aesthetic creativity, effectiveness and flexibility
in the design of such devices without creating detriment to the general public.
(Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-12-2: DEFINITIONS:
Words and phrases used in this Section shall have the meanings set forth in
this section and in Chapter 2 of this Title. All other words and phrases shall
be given their common, ordinary meaning, unless the context clearly requires
otherwise. Section headings or captions are for reference purposes only and
shall not be used in the interpretation of this Title.
ABANDONED SIGN:           A sign which no longer advertises a bona fide
                          business, lessor, owner, product or activity.
                          The change or alteration of a sign structure or
ALTERATIONS:              design, whether by extension, enlargement, or in
                          moving from one location or position to another.
ANIMATED SIGN:            Any sign that uses movement or change of lighting to
                          depict action or create a special effect or scene.
                          The entire area within a single face of a sign within
                          a contiguous perimeter which forms the outside shape
AREA OF SIGN/             of the copy area, excluding any necessary supports,
SIGN AREA:                ornamental trim, column covers and other such
                          incidental objects attached thereto which upon which
                          the sign may be placed.
                          That which has form or beauty and which is not
ART:                      intended to display a commercial message, including
                          paintings, photography, sculpture or drawing.
AWNING SIGN:              A sign displayed on or attached flat against the
                          surface or surfaces of an awning.
                          A type of temporary sign usually made of lightweight
BANNER SIGN:              fabric, plastic, or similar material. Governmental
                          flags or emblems shall not be considered banner
                          signs.
BILLBOARD:                A structure for the permanent display of off-premise
                          advertising.
                          The width of a building facing the street to which
                          the building or business is oriented. In the case of
BUILDING FRONTAGE:        corner lots the frontage shall be one of the streets
                          to which the building is oriented, to be determined
                          by the Administrator.
                          A sign affixed to the surface(s) of an attached or
CANOPY SIGN:              free-standing canopy that is visible from a public
                          right-of-way.
                          A free-standing sign associated with multi-tenant
CENTER SIGN:              developments designed to advertise two or more
                          businesses or tenants and approved through a master
                          sign plan.
                          A sign or portion thereof with characters, letters,
                          or illustrations that can be changed or rearranged
CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN:     without altering the face of the sign. A sign on
                          which the message changes more than one time per day
                          shall be considered an animated sign.
CITY:                     The City of Horseshoe Bend, Idaho.
                          A permanent sign identifying the City of Horseshoe
CITY ENTRY SIGN:          Bend or the central business zone. No advertising is
                          permitted on city entry signage.
                          The area formed by a line measured from the corner of
                          the property back forty (40) feet along each right-
                          of-way, and connected by a line drawn between them to
CLEAR VISION TRIANGLE:    form a triangle. The triangle also includes the area
                          formed by a line measured ten (10) feet along the
                          edge of driveway and twenty (20) feet along the
                          right-of-way, connected by a line drawn between them
                          to form a triangle.
                          A public event which is of interest to the community
COMMUNITY OR CIVIC EVENT: as a whole rather than the promotion of any product,
                          political candidate, religious leader, or commercial
                          goods or services.
                          An informational sign which identifies the architect,
                          engineer, contractor, or other individual or firms
CONSTRUCTION SIGN:        involved with the construction of a building, or
                          announcing the character of the building or
                          enterprise.
                          Any graphic, letter, numeral, symbol, insignia, text,
COPY:                     sample, model, device, or combination thereof which
                          is intended to advertise, identify, or notify.
DARK SKY:                 Preventing against direct glare and excessive
                          lighting.
                          A sign that foremost contains words such as
                          "entrance," "enter," "exit," "in," "out," or
DIRECTIONAL SIGN:         characters indicating traffic or pedestrian traffic
                          directions and used either in conjunction with such
                          words or separately.
                          Any fabric banner or bunting containing distinctive
FLAG:                     colors, patterns or symbols used as a symbol of a
                          government or political subdivision.
                          Any sign which contains a light source which changes
                          color, position or can be turned on and off more
FLASHING SIGN:            frequently than one time every five (5) seconds.
                          Excluded from the definition are public service
                          message center signs, such as those indicating time
                          and temperature.
                          Any sign erected on a freestanding frame, platform,
FREESTANDING SIGN:        base, mast, or pole and not structurally attached to
                          any building.
                          The vertical distance measured from the adjacent
                          street grade as measured from the top of curb (or
                          edge of pavement where no curb exists) to the highest
                          point of the sign or visual appurtenances. The height
HEIGHT OF SIGN:           of any landscape berm or other structure erected to
                          support or ornament the sign shall be measured as
                          part of the sign height. For residential subdivision
                          identification signs, architectural elements
                          primarily related to the entry feature are not
                          regulated as part of the sign height.
                          A freestanding sign with a solid base, including rock
                          signs, or with supports that are designed to be
MONUMENT SIGN:            structurally similar to the sign construction, and
                          which incorporate architectural features which
                          complement the sign construction.
                          Any sign or portion of a building illuminated or
NEON SIGN:                outlined by tubes using electrically stimulated neon
                          or other gas.
                          Lighting designed in a manner where the light source
NIGHT-SKY LIGHTING:       is shielded and/or down-cast to prevent any spill-
                          over of direct rays on to abutting properties or
                          upwards to the sky.
                          Any advertising structure or sign which was lawfully
NON-CONFORMING SIGN:      erected and maintained prior to the effective date of
                          this Section, and which fails to comply to any
                          applicable regulations and restrictions herein.
                          Any lightweight plastic, fabric, or other material
PENNANT:                  whether or not containing a message of any kind,
                          suspended from a rope, wire, or string, usually in a
                          series, designed to move in the wind.
                          A sign constructed and intended to exist for the
PERMANENT SIGN:           duration of time that the use or occupant is located
                          on the premises.
POLE SIGN:                A freestanding sign that is supported by one or more
                          poles.
PRINCIPAL BUILDING:       The building in which is conducted the primary use on
                          the property.
                          Any sign affixed to a building or wall in such a
PROJECTING SIGN:          manner that its leading edge extends more than twelve
                          (12) inches beyond the surface of a building or wall.
                          A sign mounted on, and supported by, the main roof
ROOF SIGN:                portion of a building, or above the uppermost edge of
                          a parapet wall of a building and which is wholly or
                          partially supported by such a building.
                          Any device, fixture, placard or structure that uses
                          any color, form, graphic, illumination, symbol or
                          writing to advertise, announce the purpose of, or
SIGN:                     identify the purpose of a person or entity, to
                          communicate information of any kind to the public.
                          Noncommercial flags or any flags displayed from
                          flagpoles or staffs will not be considered to be
                          signs.
                          A sign intended for use during a specified, limited
TEMPORARY SIGN:           time, and removed from display following that
                          specified time.
                          Any sign attached parallel to, but within twelve
                          inches of, a wall, painted on the wall surface of, or
WALL SIGN:                erected and confined within the limits of an outside
                          wall of any building or structure, which is supported
                          by such wall or building, and which displays only one
                          sign surface.
                          Any sign installed upon or within two feet of a
WINDOW SIGN:              window for the purpose of viewing from outside the
                          premises. This term does not include displayed
                          merchandise. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
 
9-12-3: APPLICATIONS AND PERMITS:
9-12-3-1: SIGN PERMITS:
No person shall erect, alter, or relocate any permanent or temporary sign
greater than four square feet in sign area within the City without first
obtaining a Sign Permit from the City, unless the sign is exempt under Section
9-12-7 of this Title. Any person who hangs, posts, or installs a sign which
requires a permit under this chapter and who fails to obtain a permit before
installing the sign, shall be in violation of this chapter. (Ord. 232, 4-14-
2010)
9-12-3-2: APPLICATIONS FOR SIGN PERMITS:
Must include the following:
   A.   A site plan drawn to scale which specifies the building frontage, the
location of the sign structure(s), and drawings which show the scale of the
sign in context with the scale of the building if the sign is to be mounted on
the building.
   B.   Colored rendering including dimensions of all sign faces, descriptions
of materials to be used, manner of construction and method of attachment, and,
if requested, color samples.
   C.   A copy of a State of Idaho Electrical Installation Permit for any
internally lighted or neon sign.
   D.   A sign permit application on the form provided by the City.
   E.   The application shall be accompanied by the written consent of the
owner of the premises upon which the sign is to be erected.
   F.   The building permit fee for signs as approved by resolution of the City
Council. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-12-3-3: SIGN APPLICATION:
Complete sign permit applications will be reviewed by the Zoning Administrator
and within ten days of the receipt of the complete application and the
application fee and either approved, denied, or returned with requested
modifications. Any applicant who feels a denial is not justified has the right
to appeal the decision to the City Council, and to appear on the next regularly
scheduled meeting for which proper notice can be given and for which agenda
space is available. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-12-3-4: COMPUTATIONS OF DIMENSIONS FOR SIGN AREA:
The area of a sign face shall be computed by means of the smallest square,
circle, rectangle, triangle, or combination thereof that will encompass the
extreme limits of the sign display, not including the supporting structure. Any
color or material that forms an integral part of the sign shall also be
factored in when calculating sign area. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-12-3-5: PUBLIC LIABILITY BOND:
Firm, association, partnership, or corporation shall construct, erect , alter,
repair, paint, or remove any sign or sign person, post of any design or
description which is now or may hereafter be erected within three feet (3') of,
on or over any public sidewalk, street, or alley of Horseshoe Bend, or which
shall project from, or be erected on any building within said City without
first securing a permit from the City. No permit shall be issued by the City
unless said person, firm, association, partnership or corporations shall have
on file in the office of the City Clerk of Horseshoe Bend, a public liability
policy of insurance or surety bond providing limits of not less than fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000.00) on account of injury to or death of one person,
and subject to the same limit for each person, and not less than one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) on account of injury to or death of two (2) or
more persons in any sign. Said policy of insurance or surety bond shall name
the City as additional insured against any and all damages, losses, claims and
demands, expenses and cost on account of any accident occurring during the
construction, erection, alteration, repair, painting or removal of any sign as
herein provided. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-12-4: REMOVAL OF ILLEGAL OR UNSAFE SIGNS:
9-12-4-1: UNSAFE SIGNS:
Any sign which has been determined to be unsafe by the Horseshoe Bend Building
Official, or which has been constructed, erected or maintained in violation of
this Section, must be repaired, made safe, made in conformance with this Title,
or removed within ten (10) working days after receipt of certified notice from
the City. Failure to respond to remedy the violation is unlawful, and the
person having charge or control over the sign will be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-12-4-2: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
Nonconforming signs shall not be enlarged, extended, structurally reconstructed
or altered in any manner, except that the sign face (gross surface area portion
of the sign) may be changed as long as the new sign face is equal to or reduced
in height, sign area, and/or projection.
   A.   A sign permit is not needed for a new sign face, or a change in the
advertising content appearing on the sign face.
   B.   Nonconforming signs may remain, provided they are maintained in good
repair, except for the following.
   C.   Removal is required if the sign and/or the structure supporting the
sign is damaged or destroyed to the extent of fifty percent (50%) or more of
the sign's replacement value. If the damage or destruction is less than fifty
percent (50%), the sign must be under repair within sixty (60) days and all
repairs must be completed within six (6) months. The sign shall not be enlarged
in any manner.
   D.   If the nonconforming sign is relocated and/or the supporting structure
is replaced, the new sign shall be conforming.
   E.   Any sign, display or device allowed in this Title may contain (in lieu
of any other copy) lawful noncommercial messages that do not direct attention
to a business operated for profit or to a commodity or service for sale. The
sign, display or device must comply with all other requirements of this Title.
   F.   If a business changes but does not require remodeling in excess of the
fifty (50) percent threshold, the new business will be allowed to change
existing nonconforming sign faces.
   G.   No temporary sign, prohibited sign or sign for an illegal use shall be
eligible for nonconforming status. A change of property ownership on which a
nonconforming sign is located shall not require replacement of the sign unless
the terms of this section apply. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-12-4-3: SIGNS CONDITIONS:
It is the affirmative obligation of the owner of every sign within the City to
maintain the sign in a good state of repair at all times. Non-conforming signs
may be repaired and maintained provided the repairs are for the purpose of
maintaining the sign in its original condition, do not increase the degree of
nonconformity in the sign, and are in accordance with this Title. (Ord. 232, 4-
14-2010)
9-12-4-4: OBSOLETE SIGN COPY:
Any sign copy that no longer advertises or identifies a use conducted on the
property on which said sign is erected must have the sign copy covered or
removed within fifteen (15) days after written notification from the City.
(Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-12-5: POLITICAL SIGNS:
Political signs shall not be posted in any place or in any manner that is
destructive to public property upon posting or removal. No political signs
shall be posted in a public right-of-way nor shall any such sign be posted on a
utility pole. No political sign shall be posted more than sixty (60) days
before an election. All candidates for public office, their campaign committees
or other persons responsible for the posting of campaign material shall remove
such material within two (2) weeks following election day. (Ord. 232, 4-14-
2010)
9-12-6: SIGNS ALLOWED WITHOUT A PERMIT:
The following signs shall not be subject to the permit process as defined by
this Title.
   A.   Signs not exceeding six square feet in area, erected for the
convenience of the public, such as signs identifying restrooms, public
telephones, walkways and similar features or facilities.
   B.   Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings and dates of erection,
when cut into the surface or the façade of the building or when projecting not
more than two inches.
   C.   Religious symbols and seasonal decorations erected within the
appropriate public holiday season.
   D.   Signs located in the interior of any building or within an enclosed
lobby or court of any building or group of buildings.
   E.   Works of fine art displayed in conjunction with a commercial enterprise
where the enterprise does not receive direct commercial gain.
   F.   Flags, symbols, or insignias. The Flag of Idaho, the United States, or
any or any other flag adopted or sanctioned by the legislative body of Idaho or
the United States.
   G.   Hours of operation or other such information signs. Neon "Open" signs
are subject to the provisions of Section
9-12-10-2 of this chapter.
   H.   Private Signs. Any sign that is intended for use from within a private
facility. Signs located on private property, not oriented to the general
public, and intended to provide information or direction to those using the
facility.
   I.   Official notices and/or signs posted by a government entity, court or
other public body.
   J.   Temporary signs less than four (4) square feet per face in size and
advertising the premises on which the sign is located as "For Sale", "For
Lease," or "For Rent."
   K.   Signs for a community or civic event (as defined in Section
9-12-3), as long as said signs are removed within twenty-four (24) hours after
the event. At the discretion of the Zoning Administrator, a sign claiming
exemption under this provision may require separate approval by the City
Council prior to display. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-12-7: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
No person shall erect, maintain, or relocate any sign as specified in this
Section in any zone:
   A.   Signs creating traffic hazards. A sign at or near any public street, or
at the intersection of any public streets, situated in such a manner as to
create a traffic hazard by obstructing vision. Additionally, any sign at any
location which would interfere with, obstruct the view of, or be confused with
any authorized traffic sign.
   B.   Signs within the clear vision triangle (As defined in Exhibit 1, page
21).
   C.   Signs within public right-of-ways. Except as provided elsewhere in this
Title, signs encroaching upon or overhanging public rights-of-way. No sign
shall be attached to any utility pole, light standard, street tree or any other
public facility located within the public right-of-way.
   D.   Hazardous signs. A sign which, due to structural weakness, design
defect, or other reason, constitutes a threat to the health, safety, and
welfare of any person or property.
   E.   Flashing signs or lights. Any sign which contains an intermittent light
source, or which includes the illusion of intermittent or flashing light by
means of animation, or an externally mounted intermittent light source. A sign
on which the only intermittent lights display an indication of time or
temperature shall not be considered a flashing or electronic message sign for
the purpose of this Title.
   F.   Animated signs. Permanent signs designed with electronic switches and/
or electric lamps that display only stationary images which change copy no more
than once per day are allowed with a permit and are not defined as animated
signs.
   G.   Signs on vacant property. No sign over four square feet per face shall
be erected or maintained on a property on which either no structure is erected
or on which the primary structure is vacant. This provision shall not include
those properties for which a valid building permit exists. This provision shall
also not include signs advertising the property "for sale" or "for lease" as
long as said sign is no larger than thirty-two (32) square feet.
   H.   Roof signs (as defined herein). This Section shall not pertain to
mansard roof signs provided that the highest portion of any sign attached to a
mansard roof is no more than two-thirds (2/3) the height of the building to
which it is attached.
   I.   A rotating or revolving sign, or signs, where all or any portion of the
sign physically moves in some manner.
   J.   Wind signs. Any pennant, propeller, or similar device which is designed
to flutter, rotate, whirl, or display other movement under the influence of the
wind.
   K.   Bench Signs. Any outdoor furniture with commercial signage.
   L.   Mobile Signs. A sign mounted on wheels.
   M.   Vehicle Signs. Signs mounted on vehicles, with the exception of student
driver and auto transportation services, or those painted on vehicles parked in
the same location for more than seventy-two (72) hours and visible from the
public right-of-way. If said vehicle is licensed, registered and used as a
vehicle in the normal day-to-day operations of the business, it shall not be
deemed a vehicle sign.
   N.   Inflatable signs or displays. Any inflatable object used for
promotional or sign purposes. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-12-8: TYPES OF SIGNS ALLOWED:
9-12-8-1: AWNINGS:
The copy area of awnings shall be included in the sign area permitted provided
that no more than twenty-five percent (25%) of any one face of an awning may be
used for signage. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-12-8-2: CHANGEABLE COPY SIGNS:
The copy on any changeable copy sign shall not be changed more than once per
day. Changeable copy signs shall be maintained in a legible and serviceable
manner. These signs must be constructed with a frame and made of durable
material. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-12-8-3: CENTER SIGNS:
A developer who retains platting and/or ownership control over one or more lots
or buildings intended for business occupancy in a commercial, mixed use or
industrial zone or a similar type project shall submit a master sign plan to
the City Council for approval. The project shall be allowed one center sign per
street frontage, except more than one center sign is allowed if the project has
more than one thousand two hundred (1,200) feet of frontage on the same street.
A center sign is a sign designed to advertise multiple tenants and may exceed
the maximum height normally allowed by up to twenty percent (20%) and the
maximum area normally allowed by up to thirty percent (30%).
The master sign plan shall show sign colors, styles and locations of buildings,
maximum size, illumination and materials to be used. All signs in a master sign
plan shall be in harmony with the adjacent and nearby building architecture and
colors. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-12-8-4: DIRECTIONAL SIGNS:
Directional signs shall be a maximum of four (4) square feet in size and four
(4) feet in height. If business identification is used on a directional sign,
it shall only be incidental and secondary in all aspects to the directional
text and/or symbols of the sign. Only one (1) directional sign is allowed per
entrance to a property. Directional signs must be constructed as permanent
signs and be placed outside the public right-of-way. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-12-8-5: FREE-STANDING SIGNS:
   A.   The maximum height of any free-standing sign shall be twenty (20) feet.
   B.   A maximum of one free-standing sign per legal building lot, except
corner lots may be allowed one sign per street frontage.
   C.   The support structure of all free-standing signs shall be fully
enclosed and covered with material that complements the architectural theme and
coloring of the principal building on the property. Decorative elements such as
sculptured metal, wrought iron or other aesthetically-pleasing materials
incorporated into the design that do not fully enclose the supports may be
allowed as determined by the Zoning Administrator. Bare and/or exposed metal
poles are prohibited.
   D.   All free-standing signs shall be placed within a landscaped area that
is at least the size of the sign background area. For example, a sixty (60)-
square foot sign must be located within a minimum sixty (60)-square foot area
of landscaping. Said landscaped area shall include vegetation, sod, or other
plant material. A street buffer shall be considered to meet the intent of this
requirement.
   E.   All permanent, free-standing signs in non-residential zones shall
include the street address(es) of the subject property. Numbering shall be a
minimum of three and one-half inches (3.5") tall and be of a contrasting color.
   F.   No part of any free-standing sign, including the footing, shall be
located closer than two (2) feet from the front property line and five (5) feet
from the side and rear property lines.
   G.   Free-standing signs are allowed a maximum sign area of one hundred
(100) square feet, without regard to the number of placards displayed. All
placards displayed shall be totaled in the sign area, unless otherwise approved
as a center sign.
   H.   Free-standing signs projecting over a public right-of-way must have at
least fourteen (14) feet of ground clearance.
   I.   Residential subdivisions of more than twenty (20) lots shall be allowed
one free standing identification sign at each major entrance to the
subdivision. Said sign shall not be permitted on any public right-of-way, shall
be no higher than nine (9) feet above natural grade, and shall not exceed a
maximum sign area of fifty (50) square feet. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-12-8-6: HANGING SIGNS:
Hanging signs may be placed on a building or underneath an approved canopy,
awning or colonnade, but may not project beyond the same. Signs hanging over a
public right-of-way must have at least eight feet of ground clearance. (Ord.
232, 4-14-2010)
9-12-8-7: PROJECTING SIGNS:
Projecting signs may be placed on any building in accordance with Section
9-12-2. No projecting sign may extend, at any point, more than three feet from
the surface to which it is attached. Signs projecting over a public right-of-
way must have at least eight (8) feet of ground clearance. (Ord. 232, 4-14-
2010)
9-12-8-8: TEMPORARY SIGNS:
Temporary signs are those signs installed on a Property with the intent of
being displayed for more than forty-eight (48) hours. All signs intended for
display for a period longer than ninety (90) days shall be considered to be
permanent signs and will be required to meet the provisions of this Title. All
temporary signs greater than four (4) square feet per face in size are required
to obtain a temporary sign permit.
   A.   A temporary sign permit may be obtained through the Zoning
Administrator for fifteen (15), thirty (30), sixty (60), or ninety (90) day
time periods.
      1.   In no instance shall a temporary sign requiring a permit be
displayed for more than ninety (90) days per year per business.
      2.   A permit must be obtained for every new temporary sign to be
displayed.
   B.   The temporary sign permit shall be attached to the approved sign so
that it is visible from the nearest public right-of-way.
   C.   All signs to be placed on private property shall obtain the written
consent of the property owner and file that consent with the Zoning
Administrator prior to issuance of a permit.
   D.   The maximum size of any temporary sign requiring a permit is sixteen
(16) square feet. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-12-8-9: WALL SIGNS:
Wall signs may be placed on a structure provided that they meet the following
standards and requirements:
   A.   Area: For wall signs oriented to a public street, the sign shall not
exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the wall area. For wall signs not oriented to a
public street, the sign shall not exceed eight percent (8%) of wall area. "Wall
Area" shall mean the wall surface of a single-tenant structure or the
storefront of a multi-tenant structure. When a combination of wall and
freestanding signs are used on a single site, the total area for wall signs
oriented to a public street shall be reduced by fifty percent (50%).
   B.   Height: No wall sign shall exceed the height of the wall face.
   C.   Lighting: Neon lighting may be permitted if contained within channel
letters or raceways. Skeleton neon is not permitted. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-12-8-10: WINDOW SIGNS:
Permanent window signs may be placed in or on any window provided that no more
than twenty-five percent (25%) of the total transparent area of the window is
obscured. The aggregate area of temporary signs shall be included in the
aggregate area for all signs associated with the use, and in no case shall the
aggregate area exceed that allowed under this Section. Merchandise displayed in
windows that does not involve copy is not regulated by this Title. (Ord. 232,
4-14-2010)
9-12-8-11: PERMITTED SIGNS:
Sign types shall be permitted in each zone in accordance with the following
table and in accordance with the ordinance sections listed.
EXHIBIT 9 - SIGNS
SIGN TYPES ZONE
           R MXU C I
SIGN TYPES                ZONE
                          R MXU C I
Awnings                   C A   A A
Billboards                N N   N N
Changeable Copy           N C   A A
Center Signs              N C   A A
Free-standing             N C   A A
Hanging                   N C   A A
Projecting                N C   A A
Subdivision               A A   A A
Temporary (See 9-12-08.8) N C   C C
Wall                      N C   A A
Window                    N A   A A
R-residential, MXU- mix-use, C-commercial, I-industrial zones
A = Allowed                        
N = Not Permitted
C = Conditional Use   
*   If a use is allowed in an "R" zone with a Special Use Permit or
Accessory Use Permit, a sign may be allowed for that use if it is approved
as part of the permitting application, even if the above chart lists the
sign as "Not Permitted."
 
(Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-12-9: SIZE AND DESIGN STANDARDS:
9-12-9-1: MAXIMUM AGGREGATE AREA OF ALL SIGNS:
The maximum aggregate area of all signs, both permanent and temporary, shall
not exceed the total allowable sign area established by this Title. All sign
faces displayed shall be included in determining the sign area for a building.
   A.   Total sign area permitted for any use shall not exceed a total of two
square feet of sign area per lineal foot of building frontage for the principal
building.
   B.   Total sign area permitted for all wall, window, or other surface
mounted signs shall not exceed a total of ten percent (10%) of the facade to
which they are attached. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-12-9-2: PROHIBITED LIGHTING:
In no case will "day-glo", fluorescent, reflective colored material that gives
the appearance of changing color, or brilliant luminescent colors be permitted.
(Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-12-10: LIGHTING:
Allowed methods of illumination are divided into several types as described
below; all other forms of sign lighting are prohibited. All lighted signs shall
comply with lighting standards as set forth in this Title.
   A.   Unlighted. A sign with neither an internal light nor an external source
intended specifically for the purpose of lighting the sign.
   B.   Internally Lighted. A sign with an internal light intended to
illuminate translucent portions of the sign.
   C.   Externally Lighted. A sign with an external light source intended
specifically to illuminate the sign. External light fixtures, which produce
glare shall not be permitted.
   D.   Neon. A sign with exposed neon tubes.
   E.   Darksky lighting. All illuminated signs shall be designed as Darksky
lights. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-12-10-1: INTERNALLY LIGHTED SIGNS:
Only the copy portion of internally lighted signs may be translucent in nature.
All other areas, including background, shall be constructed, treated and
colored in a manner which makes those areas opaque. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-12-10-2: NEON SIGNS:
Neon used to draw attention to any business or building in any manner is
considered a sign and shall be regulated according to the provisions of this
Title and as follows:
   A.   Application for any neon sign exceeding four (4) square feet in sign
area is required to receive design review approval from the City Council.
   B.   Any business proposing more than two (2) neon signs, regardless of sign
area, is required to receive design review approval from the City Council.
   C.   Neon lighting that is mounted inside a window shall be regulated as a
window sign, Section
9-12-8-10. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-12-10-3: SIGN LIGHTING METHODS:
Sign lighting methods shall be permitted in each zone in accordance with the
following table:
EXHIBIT 10 - LIGHTING TYPE
 
LIGHTING TYPE ZONE
              R MXU C I
Internal      N C   A A
External      C C   A A
Non-Lighted   A C   A A
Neon          N N   A N
   R-residential, MXU- mix-use, C-commercial, I-industrial zones
A = Allowed
N = Not Permitted
C = Conditional Use
 
(Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-12-10-4: RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION SIGNS:
Subdivisions within the Residential Zones may be allowed one externally
illuminated sign per public street entrance. Said lighting source shall be a
maximum of forty-two (42) Watts, six hundred and thirty (630) Lumens and be
uni-directional spot lights. Photo-cell timers tied to a dawn-to-dusk schedule
are encouraged. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-12-11: SEPARABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this Title is for any
reason held to be unconstitutional or unenforceable for any reason, such
holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of the
ordinance. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
CHAPTER 13
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
SECTION:
9-13-1: Enforcement
9-13-2: Penalties
9-13-3: Abatement Proceedings
9-13-1: ENFORCEMENT:
The Zoning Administrator or his/her designee is authorized to enforce the
provisions of this title. It shall be deemed a violation of this Title to
construct any building, structure or improvement for the purpose of
establishing any land use contrary to the requirements of this Title, to
violate any express prohibition or exceed any express limitation contained in
the text or exhibits of this Title or to use any land, building, or premises,
contrary to the provisions of this Title, contrary to the terms or conditions
of a permit, variance or in a manner contrary to the terms and conditions
established by the City Council. Violations of this Title are hereby declared
to be unlawful and subject to the penalties established by this section and by
other provisions of law. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-13-2: PENALTIES:
Failure to comply with any provision or requirement of this Title or terms or
conditions of permits shall be deemed a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to
exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or imprisonment for a term not
exceeding six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. In the
discretion of the City Council, any violation of this Title may be charged as
an infraction, subject to a fine alone in an amount not to exceed the limits
established by state law. The City Council may elect to pursue enforcement by
filing criminal charges, pursuing enforcement by charging as infraction and/or
by proceeding in any form of civil legal action related to any violation of
this Title deemed likely to achieve compliance. Each day a violation continues
may be considered a separate offense. Any landowner, tenant, subdivider, or
builder, who commits, participates in, assists in or maintains such violation
shall be guilty of a violation. Nothing contained in this Title shall prevent
any other public official or affected person from taking such lawful action as
is necessary to restrain or prevent any violation of this Title. (Ord. 232, 4-
14-2010)
9-13-3: ABATEMENT PROCEEDINGS:
Agency legal counsel or his designee may commence action or proceedings for the
abatement of any violation of this title as a nuisance in the manner provided
by law, and may apply to such court or courts as may have jurisdiction to grant
relief as to abate, terminate and remove unlawful uses, buildings or
structures, and restrain and enjoin any person, firm, or corporation from
setting up, erecting, building, maintaining, or using any building, structure,
vehicle, or property contrary to the provisions of this Title or to any permits
or authorizations issued pursuant to this Title. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
CHAPTER 14
SPECIFIC AREA PLAN
SECTION:
9-14-1: Specific Area Plan (SAP) Established
9-14-1-1: General Purpose Of Specific Area Plan
9-14-2: Specific Area Plan: Land Use Controls
9-14-3: Specific Area Plan: Development Standards
9-14-3-1: Minimum Area
9-14-3-2: Development Type And Intensity
9-14-3-3: Other Development Standards
9-14-4: Initiation
9-14-5: Required Supporting Materials For Application
9-14-6: Elements Of Specific Area Plan
9-14-7: City Council Action
9-14-8: Status Of Specific Area Plan
9-14-9: Zoning Map Designation
9-14-10: Review Of Plans
9-14-11: Adopted Specific Area Plans
9-14-1: SPECIFIC AREA PLAN (SAP) ESTABLISHED:
A specific area plan (SAP) is established by this chapter. This SAP provides
areas for the development and administration of SAP, prepared in accord with
the Horseshoe Bend Comprehensive Plan. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-14-1-1: GENERAL PURPOSE OF SPECIFIC AREA PLAN:
The specific area plan provide a means to modify or create new zoning
regulations for unique areas and developments, such as mixed use developments
and planned communities or planned developments, where other conventional
zoning mechanisms cannot achieve the City of Horseshoe Bend's desired results.
Each SAP has its own non-transferable set of regulations based upon the City of
Horseshoe Bend's Zoning and Subdivision Ordinances. The regulations may combine
some or all the following elements for a defined area into one document: zoning
standards, design guidelines, site plan, infrastructure plan, phasing plan and
other elements as appropriate. Specific area plans are adopted into the zoning
code by Title and become either the base zone or an overlay zone for the
property.
At the most basic level, a SAP may simply be an overlay zone that retains the
existing base zoning for a small site, but modifies and/or expands it in
certain ways such as allowing different dimensional standards, streetscape
treatments and architectural designs. Even a small and basic SAP should include
a fairly detailed site plan and illustrations since the purpose is to be very
"specific" about how the property will be developed based upon the City of
Horseshoe Bend's Zoning and Subdivision Ordinances.
At the most complex level, a SAP may address a very large site of hundreds or
even thousands of acres. In this case, the SAP may include many different
chapters with detailed standards for the issues addressed in each chapter. For
example, a large Planned Community SAP may include a complete and detailed Land
Use Plan, conceptual master plan, with lot layout patterns, building envelopes
and street and general utility networks. Detailed Zoning Standards could be
included that addressed setbacks, heights, mix of uses, and parking ratios. A
Design Chapter could describe materials, architectural styles and sign
programs. A Landscape Section could address common open space areas with a
plant palette and irrigation plans. A Transportation Chapter could include
roadway cross sections and streetscapes, pathways and maybe a public
transportation or Transportation Management program. An Infrastructure Chapter
could address the location, sizing and timing of sewer, water, fire and other
facilities and the potential development impacts related thereto. An
Environmental Chapter could address water quality, riparian protection,
revegetation of graded slopes, storm water runoff, erosion control, potential
environmental impacts, and similar issues. A Phasing Chapter could identify how
the construction would proceed and at which point in time certain
infrastructure elements would be installed. A Review Process chapter could
describe the specific review and approval process for individual phases within
the project. In this case, the SAP might constitute all aspects of project
approval short of subdivision final plat approval. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-14-2: SPECIFIC AREA PLAN - LAND USE CONTROLS:
No use other than a pre-existing legal non-conforming use shall be permitted in
a SAP district except in accord with a valid SAP. Any permitted or conditional
use authorized by this Title may be included in an adopted SAP, consistent with
the Comprehensive Plan. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-14-3: SPECIFIC AREA PLAN - DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
9-14-3-1: MINIMUM AREA:
The minimum gross area of a SAP shall be five (5) acres. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-14-3-2: DEVELOPMENT TYPE AND INTENSITY:
The type of uses and amount of development in a SAP shall be as established by
the SAP, but shall not include uses prohibited by the Comprehensive Plan Land
Use Map and/or its attendant policies, if applicable. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-14-3-3: OTHER DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
Other development standards shall be as prescribed by the SAP. (Ord. 232, 4-14-
2010)
9-14-4: INITIATION:
An amendment to reclassify property to a SAP District may be initiated by a
property owner or authorized agent, or the City Council. If the property is not
under a single ownership, the majority of ownership shall join in the
application, and a map showing the extent of ownerships shall be submitted with
concept plans and materials.
A majority of ownership shall be defined as either seventy-five percent (75%)
of the affected owners or seventy-five percent (75%) of the affected land area.
All projects under this chapter shall have a scoping meeting between the
applicant and the City of Horseshoe Bend shall be conducted to determine which
supporting materials and SAP elements shall be appropriate and required for the
proposal. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-14-5: REQUIRED SUPPORTING MATERIALS FOR APPLICATION:
In addition to the plans and materials required to accompany an application for
a zone change, an application for rezoning to a SAP shall include the following
information, as appropriate for the site and project proposal and as determined
by the scoping meeting:
   A.   A map showing the proposed SAP boundaries and the relationship of the
district to uses and structures within a three hundred (300)-foot radius of the
SAP boundaries.
   B.   A map or aerial photo of the proposed SAP and a minimum of one thousand
three hundred and twenty (1,320) feet beyond its boundary, showing sufficient
topographic data to indicate clearly the character of the terrain; waterways;
the type, location and condition of trees and other natural vegetation; and the
location of existing development.
   C.   A map and written assessment of all environmentally sensitive plant and
animal species or habitats and wildlife corridors on the property and in the
vicinity.
   D.   A map and written assessment of all historically and/or archeologically
important structures or sites on the property and in the vicinity.
   E.   A map and written assessment of any environmental and/or geologic
hazards associated with the property.
   F.   A map depicting all existing infrastructure and a written assessment of
the adequacy of the existing and proposed infrastructure to serve the proposed
project at urban standards.
   G.   A fiscal impact analysis of the proposed project including initial cost
of infrastructure provision, ongoing service provision and expected revenue
generation through build-out of the project. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-14-6: ELEMENTS OF SPECIFIC AREA PLAN:
A SAP shall include some or all of the following elements, as appropriate for
the site and project proposal:
   A.   A map depicting the proposed pattern of land use and open space, with
acreage by land use type.
   B.   A written document, describing in detail the zoning standards for all
land uses, including but not limited to: setbacks, height, density, parking,
floor area ratios, landscaping, signage, lighting requirements and similar
issues. When the existing base zone is left in place and the SAP becomes an
overlay zone, this document need only address the elements that differ from the
standards of the base zone.
   C.   A map depicting the proposed street and lot pattern.
   D.   A map depicting the location and configuration of all infrastructure/
public services and facilities proposed within the SAP. Such facilities include
but are not limited to roads, sewers, lift stations, drainage facilities, fire
stations, police substations, parks, libraries, communications equipment and
similar facilities.
   E.   A phasing plan for development of all uses and supporting
infrastructure.
   F.   A capital improvement program for all existing and proposed
infrastructure required and necessary for the development.
   G.   A written and illustrated document, describing in detail any design
guidelines for the development, including but not limited to: architectural
style, materials, colors, themes, streetscapes, landscaping, and other public
realm elements and similar issues.
   H.   A written document describing the review, approval and amendment
process for all proposed uses and phases in the project.
   I.   Other elements as appropriate such as grading plans, wildlife
mitigation plans, open space management plans, hazardous materials remediation
plans, etc. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-14-7: CITY COUNCIL ACTION:
The City Council shall consider an application for reclassification to a SAP
and shall at the same time consider the proposed SAP accompanying the
application. A request to reclassify to a SAP shall be accompanied by an
ordinance for a SAP.
   A.   Required Findings. The City Council shall approve or approve with
conditions of a SAP upon finding that:
      1.   The SAP is consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of the
Comprehensive Plan, with particular emphasis placed upon those polices related
to diversity of housing, mixing and integration of uses, pedestrian and transit
design, level of service provision and environmental protection;
      2.   The SAP is compatible with surrounding development and properly
integrates land uses and infrastructure with adjacent properties;
      3.   The SAP includes adequate provisions for utilities, services,
roadway networks and emergency vehicle access; and public service demands will
not exceed the capacity of existing and planned systems;
      4.   The SAP will enhance the potential for superior urban design and
land use in comparison with development under the base SAP provisions that
would apply if the SAP were not approved. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-14-8: STATUS OF SPECIFIC AREA PLAN:
A SAP adopted by ordinance of the City Council shall be administered as
prescribed by the Council and as established by the provisions of the SAP for
review, approval and amendment. Adopted SAPs shall be listed by name and number
in Section 9-15-11 of this Title and shall be maintained on file in the City
Clerk as a bound and printed document. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-14-9: ZONING MAP DESIGNATION:
A SAP shall be noted by the designation "SAP," followed by the number of the
SAP based on order of adoption. SAP shall be noted by the designation "SAP"
followed by the name and number of the SAP and the name of the SAP. On the
zoning map, the SAP may be either appended to the base zone as an overlay, or
may be the primary zoning with no other base zone. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-14-10: REVIEW OF PLANS:
Application for building permits for projects in a SAP shall be accepted only
if the project plans are consistent with the standards of the adopted SAP.
(Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-14-11: ADOPTED SPECIFIC AREA PLANS:
This section to be reserved for the listing of adopted SAPs by name and number.
(Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
CHAPTER 15
AREA OF CITY IMPACT AGREEMENT
SECTION:
9-15-1: Horseshoe Bend Area Of City Impact Boundary
9-15-2: Annexation
9-15-3: Applicable Plan Policies And Ordinances
9-15-4: Coordination Of Plan Amendments, Ordinance Amendments And Zoning
Applications
9-15-5: Renegotiation
9-15-1: HORSESHOE BEND AREA OF CITY IMPACT BOUNDARY:
The Horseshoe Bend Area of City Impact is the area designated on the Horseshoe
Bend Area of City Impact Boundary Map dated August 14, 2002, or the latest
Horseshoe Bend Area of City Impact Boundary adopted by the City Council
incorporated herein by reference, and attached hereto, copies of which are
available for inspection at the Horseshoe Bend Planning Department.
   A.   Upon annexation of any portion of the Area of City Impact into
Horseshoe Bend, the provisions of this Chapter shall no longer apply to such
annexed areas. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-15-2: ANNEXATION:
Horseshoe Bend shall limit its annexation to those lands within its Area of
City Impact. If Horseshoe Bend wishes to annex lands outside of its Area of
City Impact, it shall renegotiate its Area of City Impact Boundary with Boise
County in accord with Idaho Code 67-6526(d) unless renegotiation is not
required pursuant to Idaho Code 50-222, Annexation by Cities, Category A. (Ord.
232, 4-14-2010)
9-15-3: APPLICABLE PLAN POLICIES AND ORDINANCES:
The Horseshoe Bend Comprehensive Plan adopted by Horseshoe Bend as of September
9, 2009 shall apply within the unincorporated part of the Horseshoe Bend Area
of City Impact.
   A.   Title 8, Chapter 2 Street Naming System Ordinance shall apply to all
property within the Horseshoe Bend City Area of Impact. Street names and
addresses shall be assigned by Horseshoe Bend. Existing street names and
addresses in the Horseshoe Bend Area of City Impact, not in compliance with the
Street Naming System Ordinance at the time this section goes into effect, shall
not be changed until address changes are necessary for address continuity.
(Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-15-4: COORDINATION OF PLAN AMENDMENTS, ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS AND ZONING
APPLICATIONS:
   A.   At least thirty (30) days prior to the City Council hearing all County
and City amendments to their respective Comprehensive Plans and Zoning
Ordinances which apply within the Horseshoe Bend Area of City Impact shall be
sent by the entity considering such amendment to the other entity. The city
shall send all zoning ordinance amendments to the county.
   B.   At least thirty (30) days prior to any public hearing, all County
applications for subdivisions, rezones, and conditional use permits within the
Horseshoe Bend Area of City Impact shall be sent to Horseshoe Bend. Written
comments and recommendations shall be sent to Boise County no later than
twenty-four (24) days after the referral is received. The City Council may
direct staff for review and comment on such applications.
   C.   Applications for subdivisions and rezones within the Horseshoe Bend
Area of City Impact shall occur as a result of a request for annexation to
Horseshoe Bend; however, Boise County may consider such applications in those
exceptions where annexation is not approved by Horseshoe Bend or where the
parcel on, which such application is filed is not contiguous to Horseshoe Bend
and therefore cannot be annexed. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
9-15-5: RENEGOTIATION:
   A.   In accordance with Idaho Code 67-6526(d), the Horseshoe Bend City
Council or the Board of Boise County Commissioners may request to renegotiate
any provision of this Chapter. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of such
written requests by each part, a meeting between the two jurisdictions shall
occur.
   B.   While renegotiation is occurring, the provisions of this Chapter shall
remain in effect until this chapter is amended or a substitute ordinance is
adopted by Horseshoe Bend and Boise County, in accordance with the notice and
hearing procedures provided in Boise County and Idaho Codes, or until a
declaratory judgment from the Zone Court is final. However, this Chapter or
stipulated portions thereof shall be of no further force and effect if both
jurisdictions so agree by mutually adopted resolution. (Ord. 232, 4-14-2010)
TITLE 10
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS 1
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS; DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Short Title
10-1-2: Purpose; Authority
10-1-3: Jurisdiction
10-1-4: Interpretation
10-1-5: Definitions
 
Notes
1 1. This title requires compliance with any standards adopted by resolution of
  the council.
10-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited as the CITY OF HORSESHOE BEND
SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-1-2: PURPOSE; AUTHORITY:
In order to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of present
and future residents, and to bring about a coordinated and efficient
development of the city, the following regulations contained in this title for
the subdividing of land within the city and area of impact of the city are
hereby adopted. These regulations are authorized by Idaho Code title 50,
chapter 13; title 67, chapter 65; and the Idaho constitution article 12,
section 2, as amended or subsequently codified. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001; amd.
2008 Code)
10-1-3: JURISDICTION:
These regulations shall apply to the subdivision of land within the corporate
limits of the city, including the property outside the corporate limits of the
city as defined by the city and Boise County under the requirements of Idaho
Code sections 54-1306 and 67-6526, as amended. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-1-4: INTERPRETATION:
All subdivisions as herein defined shall be submitted for approval by the
council and shall comply with the provisions of these regulations. These
regulations shall supplement all other regulations, and where a conflict with
other laws, regulations, ordinances or resolutions, the more restrictive
requirements shall apply. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Construction Of Words: Terms or words used herein shall be interpreted
as follows:
      1.   The present tense includes the past or future tense, the singular
includes the plural and the plural includes the singular.
      2.   The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive; and the
word "should" is preferred.
      3.   The masculine shall include the feminine.
   B.   General Definitions: As used in this title, the following words and
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    ADMINISTRATOR: An official having knowledge in the principles and practices
of subdividing, who is appointed by the city council to administer this title.
   AGENCY WITH JURISDICTION: Any agency which must review a subdivision plat
application and whose approval of that plat is indicated by its endorsement on
the plat.
   ALLEY: A minor public way providing secondary access at the back or side of
a property.
   AREA OF IMPACT: An area mutually agreed upon, including a plan and
ordinances, between the city and county as provided for by Idaho Code sections
50-1306 and 67-6526.
   BLOCK: A group of lots, tracts, or parcels within well defined boundaries,
usually streets.
   BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and
intended for the shelter, housing or enclosure of any individual, animal,
process, equipment, goods or materials of any kind or nature.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE: An imaginary line established by a zoning ordinance
that requires all buildings to be set back a certain distance from lot lines.
   BUILDING SITE: An area proposed or provided and improved by grading,
filling, excavation or other means for erecting pads for buildings.
   CEMETERY: A lot that has been platted for the selling of sites for the
burial of animal or human remains.
   CITY: City of Horseshoe Bend, Idaho.
   CITY COUNCIL: The city council of Horseshoe Bend, Idaho.
   CITY ENGINEER: City engineer of Horseshoe Bend, Idaho.
   COMMON AREA: Land within a development, not individually owned or dedicated
for public use, which is designed and intended for the common use or enjoyment
of the residents of the development. It may include complementary structures
and improvements.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: An adopted document that herein may be referred to as a
comprehensive plan or comprehensive development plan.
   CONDOMINIUM: An estate consisting of an undivided interest in common of real
property, in an interest or interests in real property, or in any combination
thereof; together with a separate interest in real property, in an interest or
interests in real property, or in any combination thereof.
   COUNTY RECORDER: The office of the Boise County recorder.
   COUNTY SURVEYOR: The professional land surveyor appointed by the Boise
County board of commissioners to check plats and make surveys, maps and plats
ordered by the Boise County commissioners.
   CUL-DE-SAC: A dead end street provided with turnaround space at its
terminus.
   CULVERT: A drain that channels water under a bridge, street, road or
driveway.
   DEDICATION: The setting apart of land or interests in land for use by the
public. Land becomes dedicated when accepted by the applicable governmental
body as a public dedication, either by ordinance, resolution or entry in the
official minutes of that body.
   DEVELOPER: Authorized agent(s) of a subdivider or the subdivider himself.
   DRIVE-UP WINDOW: An establishment, whether it be the primary or an accessory
use, other than automobile service station or parking lot, which is designed to
accommodate the motor vehicles of patrons in such a manner as to permit the
occupants of such vehicles, while remaining therein, to make purchases or
receive services at a window or service area.
   DRIVEWAY: A private access connecting a building, such as a house or garage,
with a street.
   DUPLEX: A detached building containing two (2) dwelling units, each of which
include a separate bathroom and kitchen. The two (2) units must be able to
function as dwelling units independently of each other.
   DWELLING UNIT: Any building or other structure proposed or built for
occupancy by people.
   EASEMENT: A grant of the right to use land for a specific purpose or
purposes.
   EMERGENCY ACCESS: A means of providing secondary access to a development for
emergency vehicles. Emergency access must meet the requirements of the uniform
fire code 1991, article 10, division II and as subsequently amended.
   FLOODPLAIN: The relatively flat area or lowland adjoining the channel of a
river, stream, lake or other body of water which has been or may be covered by
water of a flood of 100-year frequency. The floodplain includes the channel,
floodway or floodway fringe, as established pursuant to engineering practices
of the U.S. army corps of engineers, as follows:
    Channel: A natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible extent, with
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct continuously or periodically
flowing water.
    Flood: The temporary inundation of land adjacent to and inundated by
overflow from a river, stream, lake or other body of water.
    Flood Of 100-Year: A flood magnitude which has a one percent (1%) chance of
being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
    Floodway: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot (1').
    Floodway Fringe: That part of the floodplain which is beyond the floodway.
Such areas include those portions of the floodplain which will be inundated by
a flood of 100-year frequency.
   GOVERNING BODY: The city council of the city.
   HIGHWAY: A street designated as a highway by an appropriate state or federal
agency.
   HILLSIDE SUBDIVISION: Any subdivision, or portion thereof, having an average
slope of ten percent (10%) or more or where adverse slope stability, erosion or
sedimentation are likely to cause damage.
   IMPROVEMENT: Any alteration to the land or other physical construction
associated with subdivision and building site developments.
   LOOP: A minor street in which both terminal points are on the same street of
origin.
   LOT: A unit of land constituting a part of a block of a recorded subdivision
so recorded for transfer of ownership.
   LOT AREA: The area of any lot shall be determined exclusive of street,
highway, alley, road or rights of way of record.
   LOT TYPES: As used in these regulations, lot types are as follows:
    Corner Lot: A lot located at the intersections of two (2) or more streets.
    Interior Lot: A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on only one
street other than a corner lot.
    Through Lot: A lot with frontage on more than one street other than a
corner lot.
   MANUFACTURED HOME: A factory built structure that is manufactured or
constructed according to the national manufactured housing construction and
safety standards act of 1974, and as may be amended, which became effective
June 15, 1976, and is to be used as a place for human habitation, but which is
not constructed or equipped with a permanent hitch or other device allowing it
to be moved other than for the purpose of moving to a permanent site, and which
does not have permanently attached to its body or frame any wheels or axles.
For purposes of this title, two (2) types of manufactured homes are
established, "enhanced" and "stock".
   MANUFACTURED HOME COMMUNITY: Any site, lot, tract, plot or parcel of land,
designed for the placement of ten (10) or more manufactured homes located and
maintained for dwelling purposes on a permanent basis on individual lots, pads,
or spaces; whether those lots, pads, or spaces be individually owned, leased,
or rented.
   MANUFACTURED HOME, ENHANCED: A manufactured home that has all the
architectural placement standards listed below:
   A.   The manufactured home shall be multi-sectional and enclose a space of
not less than one thousand (1,000) square feet.
   B.   Has exterior siding and roofing which in material and appearance is
similar to the exterior siding and roofing material commonly used on
residential dwellings within the city or which is comparable to the predominant
material used on surrounding dwellings.
   C.   Has a pitched roof with a minimum pitch of two inches (2") of rise to
twelve inches (12") of run.
   D.   Eaves are optional, with the exception that where eaves are consistent
with the predominant construction of immediate surrounding dwellings, the home
shall have eaves that project a minimum of six inches (6") along any wall that
faces a street.
   E.   Has a foundation fascia that is similar in appearance and durability to
the masonry foundation or other foundation systems comparable with site built
dwellings and approved by the planning and development services department. It
shall surround the entire perimeter of the structure and completely enclose the
space between the siding and the finished grade.
   F.   Is placed on a foundation base such that the finished floor area of the
home is located not more than twelve inches (12") above grade or twenty four
inches (24") above grade if the home is over a basement. Graded earth shall not
be closer than six inches (6") to the siding of the home.
   G.   Is permanently affixed in accordance with the manufacturer's
specifications, with the running gear and towing hitch removed and set upon a
foundation base having an anchoring system that is totally concealed under the
structure.
   H.   If located within a residential area on an individual lot, the dwelling
unit shall have a garage or carport constructed of like materials. The city may
require an attached or detached garage in lieu of a carport where such is
consistent with the predominant construction of immediately surrounding
dwellings.
   MANUFACTURED HOME, STOCK: A manufactured home that does not have all the
architectural placement standards of an enhanced manufactured home.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING SUBDIVISION: A subdivision designed and intended for
exclusive (mobile home) residential use.
   MOBILE HOME: A transportable, factory built home designed to be used as a
year round residential dwelling and built prior to enactment of the national
manufactured housing construction and safety standards act of 1974, which
became effective June 15, 1976.
   MOBILE HOME PARK: Any area, tract, plot or parcel of land, developed and
designed for placement of mobile homes located and maintained for dwelling
purposes on a permanent or semipermanent basis.
   MOBILE HOME, REHABILITATED: Any mobile home constructed prior to June 15,
1976, the effective date of the national manufactured housing and safety
standards act (HUD code), that is currently sited within Idaho or that may be
brought into the state after July 1, 1998, which has been upgraded to comply
with Idaho Code title 44, chapter 25, and received a "certificate of
compliance" from the division of building safety of the state of Idaho.
   MONUMENT: Any permanent marker either of concrete, galvanized iron pipe or
iron or steel rods, used to identify any tract, parcel, lot or street lines, as
specified in Idaho Code section 50-1303.
   OPEN SPACE: An area open to the sky for outdoor recreation activity
exclusive of streets, buildings or other covered structures.
   ORIGINAL PARCEL OF LAND: An original lot or tract as recorded on any plat of
record on file in the office of the county recorder, or any unplatted
contiguous parcel of land held in one ownership as of the date of adoption
hereof.
   OWNER: An individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership or
corporation having any interest, legal or equitable, in the land to be
subdivided.
   PERFORMANCE BOND: An amount of money or other negotiable security paid by
the subdivider or his surety to the city clerk which guarantees that the
subdivider will perform all actions required by the governing body regarding an
approved plat, and provides that if the subdivider defaults and fails to comply
with the provisions of an approved plat, the subdivider or his surety will pay
damages up to the limit of the bond, or the surety will itself complete the
requirements of the approved plat.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: A parcel of land which is planned and developed as
a unit under single ownership or control, containing one or more uses,
buildings and common open spaces or recreational facilities.
   PLAT: The drawing, mapping or planning of a subdivision, cemetery, town site
or other tract of land or a replatting of such including certifications,
descriptions and approvals including the following:
    Final Plat: The final and formal presentation of drawings of an approved
subdivision development, the original and one copy of which is filed with the
county clerk and recorder; and
    Preliminary Plat: The first formal presentation of drawings of a proposed
subdivision.
   PRESSURIZED IRRIGATION SYSTEM, INDIVIDUAL LOTS: A pressurized water
distribution system that distributes nonpotable water to individual lots for
irrigation proposes. Typical sources of water include nontreated Payette River
water, canal water, irrigation return water or well water.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV): A portable vehicle or structure used primarily
for recreation, hobbies, vacations, extended travel, camping, sports and
aquatic use. RVs may be self-propelled, towed or transported by trailer. RVs
may include, but are not limited to, motor homes, converted buses, camping and
travel trailers, light duty trailers and transporters, horse and cattle
trailers, boats, rafts, and their trailers, and off street vehicles such as
snowmobiles, dune buggies, all-terrain vehicles, and any type of three (3) or
four (4) wheeled sport racing/drag vehicle.
   RESERVE STRIP: A strip of land between a partial street and adjacent
property which is reserved or held in public ownership for future street
extension or widening.
   RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land dedicated or reserved for use as a public way
which normally includes streets, sidewalks and other public utilities or
service areas.
   SECONDARY ACCESS: A second means of vehicular access to a development which
may be improved to city standards, private street standards or emergency access
requirements.
   STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS: The specifications as specified in this title or as
officially adopted by the city.
   STATE: The state of Idaho.
   STATE HIGHWAY: State Highway 55.
   STREET: A right of way which provides access to adjacent properties, the
dedication of which has been officially accepted. The term "street" also
includes the terms highway, thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, boulevard,
lane, place and other such terms.
   STREET, ARTERIAL: A street designed to carry through traffic with limited
access to abutting property. Direct lot access is restricted.
   STREET, COLLECTOR: A street designated to intercept traffic from the local
street system and carry it to the nearest arterial street, while providing
limited access to abutting property. Directed lot access is restricted.
   STREET, DEAD END: A street connecting to another street at one end only and
not having provision for vehicular turnaround at its terminus.
   STREET, FRONTAGE: A minor street, parallel to and adjacent to an arterial
street, to provide access to abutting properties.
   STREET, LOCAL: A street designed to provide service to abutting property
usually with unrestricted access.
   STREET, PARTIAL: A dedicated right of way providing only a portion of the
required street width, usually along the edge of a subdivision or tract of
land.
   STREET, PRIVATE: A street that is not accepted for public use or maintenance
which provides vehicular and pedestrian access.
   SUBDIVIDER: The individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association,
syndicate, trust or other legal entity that executes the application and
initiates proceedings for the subdivision of land in accordance with the
provisions of this title. The subdivider need not be the owner of the property;
however, the subdivider shall be the agent of the owner or have sufficient
proprietary rights in the property to represent the owner.
   SUBDIVISION: A. The result of an act of dividing an original lot, tract or
parcel of land into more than two (2) parts for the purpose of transfer of
ownership or development, which shall also include the dedication of a public
street and may include the addition to, or creation of, a cemetery.
Subdivisions shall be divided into minor subdivisions, major subdivisions and
large scale developments, as those terms are defined in this section.
   B.   However, this title shall not apply to any of the following:
         1.    An adjustment of lot lines as shown on a recorded plat which
does not reduce the area, frontage, width, depth or building setback lines of
each building site below the minimum zoning requirements, and does not change
the original number of lots in any block of the recorded plat;
        2.    An allocation of land in the settlement of an estate of a
decedent or a court decree for the distribution of property;
         3.    The unwilling sale of land as a result of legal condemnation as
defined and allowed in the Idaho Code;
         4.   Widening of existing streets to conform to the comprehensive
plan;
         5.    Acquisition of street rights of way by a public agency in
conformance with the comprehensive plan; and
         6.    The exchange of land for the purpose of straightening property
boundaries which does not result in the change of present land usage.
   SUBDIVISION TYPES:
    Large Scale Development: A subdivision the size of which consists of fifty
(50) or more lots or dwelling units.
    Major Subdivision: Any subdivision not able to qualify as a minor
subdivision, including, but not limited to, a subdivision of ten (10) or more
lots, or any size subdivisions requiring any new street or extension of the
local government facilities, or the creation of any public improvements.
    Minor Subdivision: Any subdivision containing not more than ten (10) lots
fronting on an existing street; not involving any new street or road, or the
extension of municipal facilities, or the creation of any public improvements;
and not adversely affecting the remainder of the parcel or adjoining property;
and not in conflict with any provision or portion of the city comprehensive
plan, title 9 of this code, or this title.
   SURVEYOR: Any person who is licensed in the state as a public land surveyor
to do professional surveying.
   TRAILER, TRAVEL: A vehicular portable structure designed as temporary living
quarters for travel, recreational and vacation uses.
   UTILITIES: Installations for conducting water, sewage, gas, electricity,
cable, storm water and similar facilities providing service to and used by the
public.
   VICINITY MAP: A small scale map showing the location of a tract of land in
relation to a larger area.
   YARD: An open space on the same lot with a building or building group lying
between the front, rear, or side wall of a building and the nearest lot line,
unoccupied except for projections and specific minor uses or structures allowed
in such open space under the provisions of title 9 of this code.
   YARD, FRONT: A yard extending the full width of the lot on which a building
is located and situated between the front lot line and a line parallel thereto
and passing through the nearest point of the building.
   YARD, REAR: A yard extending the full width of the lot on which a building
is located and situated between the rear lot line and a line parallel thereto
and passing through the nearest point of the building.
   YARD, SIDE: A yard on the same lot as a building situated between the side
lot line and a line parallel thereto and passing through the nearest point of
the building and extending from the front yard to the rear. (Ord. 193, 12-13-
2001)
CHAPTER 2
SUBDIVISION PLATS AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
10-2-1: Application For Subdivision Approval Generally
10-2-2: Preapplication Submission Of Plans
10-2-3: Preliminary Plat
10-2-4: Final Plat
10-2-5: Record Of Plat, Plat Approval
10-2-6: Sale Of Lots, Plat To Be Recorded
10-2-7: Lot Splits
10-2-1: APPLICATION FOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL GENERALLY:
Any person desiring to create a "subdivision" as herein defined shall submit
all necessary applications to the administrator. The following procedures shall
be followed for subdividing within the scope of these regulations:
   A.   Plat Approval: A plat shall be drawn for each subdivision of land
located either within the corporate city limits or contiguous to the corporate
city limits and submitted to the administrator and council as provided in
section
10-2-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Official Recording: No plat or division of land shall be filed in the
office of the county recorder until such time as compliance with the provisions
of this code and certification of the entities, as provided by Idaho Code, have
been completed. Plats shall be recorded in the office of the county recorder,
Boise County.
   C.   Agenda: Each plat submitted for preliminary approval shall be placed on
the council's agenda only after fulfilling the requirements provided herein. A
plat not meeting all the requirements may be submitted; provided, however, the
subdivider shall request, in writing, the specific exceptions required and
enumerate, in detail, the reason the plat qualifies for such exemptions.
   D.   Application Forms: Any application for preliminary plat, subdivision
approval, total or partial vacation of an existing subdivision, or easement for
the benefit of the public shall be made on forms obtainable from the
administrator and the accuracy of the data provided is certified by the
subdivider or applicant. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001; amd. 2008 Code)
10-2-2: PREAPPLICATION SUBMISSION OF PLANS:
Prior to filing a request for a preliminary plat application, the subdivider
shall meet with the administrator to discuss the proposed subdivision.
Following this meeting, the subdivider shall submit to the administrator a
sketch plan of the development proposal to enable review and comment. Such
plans may be generalized in content, and such submission shall not require the
official filing of a subdivision application and fee. The sketch plan shall
include the following:
   A.   Sketch Plan: The preapplication shall include at least one copy of a
sketch plan. The sketch plan shall include the entire developmental scheme of
the proposed subdivision, in schematic form, and including the following:
      1.   The general layout and approximate dimensions of streets, blocks and
lots in sketch form;
      2.   The existing conditions and characteristics of the land on and
adjacent to the proposed subdivision site; and
      3.   The areas set aside for schools, parks and other public facilities.
   B.   Action By Administrator: The administrator shall review said plans and
data as submitted and, within thirty (30) days, advise the subdivider, in
writing, as to the general conformance or nonconformance of the plans with this
title. These same findings shall be submitted to the council for review. Such
review shall include the following:
      1.   Compliance of the proposed development with existing local or state
governmental goals and objectives or comprehensive plan.
      2.   Determination if additional special permits such as rezone, special
development permit or variance, are needed and the manner of coordinating such
permits, and if ordinance conflicts exist.
      3.   Consideration of any unique environmental features or hazardous
concerns that may be, directly or indirectly, associated with the subject
property, such as areas that have been designated by the state of Idaho as
areas of critical concern, unique plant or animal life, floodplain, airport
flight pattern and other land use data.
      4.   Consideration of other local and state governmental agencies that
the subdivider should contact before preparing a preliminary plat. (Ord. 193,
12-13-2001; amd. 2008 Code)
10-2-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Filing Of Preliminary Plat Application And Data: The subdivider shall
file with the administrator a complete subdivision application form and
preliminary plat data as required in this title.
   B.   Combining Preliminary And Final Plat In Minor Subdivisions: The
applicant may request that the subdivision be processed as both a preliminary
and final plat if all the following exist:
      1.   The proposed subdivision does not exceed ten (10) lots;
      2.   No new street dedication or street widening is involved;
      3.   No major special development considerations are involved such as
development in a floodplain, hillside development or the like;
      4.   All required information for both preliminary and final plat is
complete and in an acceptable form; and
      5.   The proposed subdivision is not in conflict with any comprehensive
plan or zoning ordinance of the city.
A request to combine both preliminary plat and final plat into one application
shall be acted upon by the council upon recommendation of the administrator.
   C.   Required Information And Data:
      1.   The contents of the preliminary plat and related information shall
be in such a form as stipulated by the city council; however, any additional
maps or data deemed necessary by the council may also be required.
      2.   The subdivider shall submit to the administrator at least the
following:
         a.   Six (6) copies of the preliminary plat of the proposed
subdivision, drawn in accordance with the requirements hereinafter stated. Each
copy of the preliminary plat shall be on good quality paper, shall have the
dimensions of not less than twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x
36"), shall be drawn to a scale of not less than one inch to one hundred feet
(1" = 100'), shall show the drafting date, and shall indicate thereon, by
arrow, the general northerly direction;
         b.   Six (6) sets of preliminary engineering plans (not meant to be
cross sections or detailed designs) for streets, water, sewers, sidewalks and
other required public improvements; however, such engineering plans shall
contain sufficient information and detail to make a determination as to
conformance of the proposed improvements to applicable regulations, ordinances
and standards;
         c.   A written application requesting approval of the preliminary
plan; and
         d.   Appropriate information that sufficiently details the proposed
development within any special development area such as hillside, planned unit
development, floodplain, cemetery, mobile home, large scale development,
hazardous and unique areas of development.
      3.   The following shall be submitted separately:
         a.   The name of the proposed subdivision;
         b.   The name, address and telephone numbers of the subdivider or
subdividers and the engineer or surveyor who prepared the plat;
         c.   The name and address of all adjoining owners of property and
residents within three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of the
land being considered, whether or not bisected by a public right of way, as
shown on record in the county assessor's office;
         d.   The legal description of the subdivision;
         e.   The statement of the intended use of the proposed subdivision,
such as residential single-family, two-family and multiple housing, commercial,
industrial, recreational or agricultural and a designation of any sites
proposed for parks, playgrounds, schools, churches or other public uses;
         f.   A map of the entire area scheduled for development if the
proposed subdivision is a portion of a larger holding intended for subsequent
development. A map shall be submitted showing the location of existing
buildings, water bodies or courses and the location of currently dedicated
streets at the point where they adjoin and/or are immediately adjacent;
provided, that actual measured distances shall not be required;
         g.   A vicinity map showing the relationship of the proposed plat to
the surrounding area (1/2 mile radius, scale option);
         h.   The land use and existing zoning of the proposed subdivision and
the adjacent land;
         i.   Streets, street names, rights of way and roadway widths,
including adjoining streets or roadways;
         j.   Lot lines and blocks showing the dimensions and numbers of each;
         k.   Contour lines, shown at five foot (5') intervals where land slope
is greater than ten percent (10%) and at two foot (2') intervals where land
slope is ten percent (10%) or less, referenced to an established bench mark,
including location and elevation;
         l.   A site report as required by the appropriate health district
where individual wells or septic tanks are proposed;
         m.   Any proposed or existing utilities, including, but not limited
to, storm and sanitary sewers, irrigation laterals, ditches, drainages,
bridges, culverts, water mains, fire hydrants and their respective profiles;
         n.   Any dedications to the public and/or easements, together with a
statement of location, dimensions and purpose of such;
         o.   Any additional required information for special developments as
specified in chapter 5 of this title; and
         p.   A statement as to whether or not a modification/waiver is being
requested, as specified in section
10-6-3 of this title, will be requested with respect to any provision of this
title describing the particular provision, the modification/waiver requested
and the reasons therefor.
      4.   The final plat shall clearly show the following:
         a.   Primary control points, approved by the city engineer, or a
description and ties to such control points, to which all dimensions, angles,
bearings and similar data on the plat shall be referenced. Such primary control
points must include either a section corner, quarter section corner, or meander
corner according to government survey.
         b.   Location and description of monuments.
         c.   Tract boundary line, property lines, lot lines, and right of way
lines of streets, easements and other rights of way, with accurate dimensions,
bearings or deflection angles and radii, arcs and center angles of all curves.
         d.   Names and locations of adjoining subdivisions.
         e.   The length of all lot lines dimensioned in feet and decimals
thereof, and the value of all required true bearings and angles dimensioned in
degrees, minutes and seconds.
         f.   The blocks numbered consecutively throughout the entire
subdivision and lots numbered consecutively throughout each block, with areas
to be excluded from platting marked "reserved" or "not a part".
         g.   The outline of any property, other than streets or alleys, by
lengths and bearings, with the area marked "public" and showing the proposed
use.
         h.   A title which shall include the name of the subdivision, name of
the city, county and state, and the location and description of the subdivision
referenced to section, township and range.
         i.   Scale, north arrow and date.
   D.   Procedure For Approval Of Preliminary Plat:
      1.   Administrative Review:
         a.   Certification By Council, Public Hearing: Upon receipt of the
preliminary plat and all other required data as provided for herein, the
administrator shall certify the application as complete and shall affix the
date of application acceptance thereon. The council shall schedule a public
hearing, which hearing shall be held within forty five (45) days of the date of
certification of a complete application. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
         b.   Review By Agencies: The city clerk shall transmit one copy each
of the preliminary plat to each of the following agencies for review and
recommendations and may request recommendations from such other agencies as may
be necessary. If no written recommendation from any agency listed herein is
received within five (5) working days after such notification, the approval of
the preliminary plat by such agency will be considered to be granted.
            (1)   Boise County assessor.
            (2)   Boise County surveyor.
            (3)   Horseshoe Bend school district.
            (4)   Idaho transportation department.
            (5)   Idaho Power Company.
            (6)   Applicable telephone company.
            (7)   Applicable cable system franchise.
            (8)   Applicable drainage and irrigation entity.
            (9)   Horseshoe Bend library district.
            (10)   Horseshoe Bend fire district. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001; amd.
2008 Code)
         c.   Recommendation By Administrator: The administrator shall provide
that any transmittal as provided in subsection D1b of this section will be
returned within fifteen (15) days. At the end of the fifteen (15) day period,
the administrator shall supply all agency responses to the council.
      2.   Public Notice: The administrator shall notify all adjoining property
owners whose names and addresses have been provided by the subdivider. Such
written notice shall be mailed by first class mail at least fifteen (15) days
prior to the council meeting. The council's failure to comply with the notice
provision shall not invalidate the council's action, provided the spirit of the
procedure is observed.
      3.   Action By Council:
         a.   Council Findings: In determining the acceptance of a proposed
subdivision, the commission shall consider the objectives of this title and at
least the following:
            (1)   The conformance of the subdivision with the comprehensive
development plan;
            (2)   The availability of public services to accommodate the
proposed development;
            (3)   The continuity of the proposed development with any capital
improvement program;
            (4)   The public financial capability of supporting services for
the proposed development; and
            (5)   The other health, safety and environmental problems that may
be brought to the council's attention.
         b.   Action On Preliminary Plat: The council may approve,
conditionally approve, disapprove or table for a period not to exceed thirty
five (35) days. Such action shall occur within thirty five (35) days of the
date of the regular meeting at which the plat is first considered by the
council. The action, and the reasons for such action shall be stated, in
writing, by the council and forwarded to the applicant. Upon granting or
denying a preliminary plat, the council shall specify:
            (1)   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the
application;
            (2)   The reasons for recommending approval or denial; and
            (3)   The actions if any, that the applicant could take to obtain
approval of the preliminary plat.
         c.   Action On Combined Preliminary And Final Plat: If the council's
conclusion is favorable to the subdivider's request for the subdivision to be
considered as both a preliminary plat and final plat, then action shall be
taken in the same manner as herein specified for a final plat. The council may
approve, approve conditionally or disapprove the combined application.
   E.   Approval Period:
      1.   Failure to file with and obtain the certification of the acceptance
of the final plat application by the council within six (6) months after action
by the city council shall cause all approvals of said preliminary plat to be
null and void, unless an extension of time is applied for by the subdivider and
granted by the city council.
      2.   In the event that the development of the preliminary plat is made in
successive, contiguous segments in an orderly and reasonable manner, and
conforms such segments, if submitted within successive intervals for one-half
(1/2) year, it may be considered for final approval without resubmission for
preliminary plat approval. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-2-4: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Filing Of Final Plat: After the approval or conditional approval of the
preliminary plat, the subdivider may cause the total parcel, or any part
thereof, to be surveyed and a final plat prepared in accordance with the
approved preliminary plat. The subdivider shall submit to the administrator the
following:
      1.   Five (5) copies of the final plat; and
      2.   Five (5) copies of the final engineering construction drawings for
streets, water, sewers, sidewalks and other public improvements.
   B.   Contents: The final plat shall include and be in compliance with all
items required under Idaho Code title 50, chapter 13 and shall be prepared in
accordance with the specifications set forth in Idaho Code section 50-1304. The
final plat shall include at least the following:
      1.   A written application for approval of such final plat as stipulated
by the city council;
      2.   Proof of current ownership of the real property included in the
proposed final plat;
      3.   Such other information as the council may deem necessary to
establish whether or not all proper parties have signed and/or approved said
final plat;
      4.   Conformance with the approved preliminary plat and meeting all
requirements or conditions thereof;
      5.   Conformance with all requirements and provisions of this title;
      6.   Conformance with acceptable engineering practices and local
standards; and
      7.   Building sites on each lot adjusted to setback requirements.
   C.   Procedure For Approval Of Final Plat:
      1.   Review By Council:
         a.   Acceptance: Upon receipt of the final plat, and compliance with
all other requirements as provided for herein, the administrator shall certify
the application as complete and shall affix the date of acceptance thereon.
         b.   Submission Of Final Plat: The council shall review the final plat
for compliance with the approved or conditionally approved preliminary plat. If
the council determines that there is substantial difference in the final plat
than that which was approved as a preliminary plat or conditions which have not
been met, the council may require that the final plat be submitted in the same
manner as required in the preliminary plat process. Upon the determination that
the final plat is in compliance with the preliminary plat and all conditional
requirements have been met, the council shall place the final plat on the city
council agenda within forty five (45) days from the date that an acceptable
final plat application was received and acknowledged.
      2.   Agency Review: The administrator may transmit one copy of the final
plat, or other documents submitted, for review and recommendation to the
departments and agencies as he deems necessary to ensure compliance with the
preliminary approval and/or conditions of preliminary approval. Such agency
review shall also include the construction standards of improvements,
compliance with health standards, the cost estimate for all improvements and
the legal review of the performance bond.
      3.   City Council Action: The city council, at its next meeting following
receipt of any agency report, shall consider any comments from concerned
persons and agencies to arrive at a decision on the final plat. The city
council shall approve, conditionally approve, disapprove or table the final
plat for additional information within thirty (30) days of the date of the
first regular meeting at which the plat is considered. Upon granting or denying
the final plat, the city council shall specify:
         a.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
         b.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
         c.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit.
   D.   Conditional Approval Of Final Plat: With respect to financial
guarantees, the approval of all final subdivision plats shall be conditioned on
the accomplishment of one of the following:
      1.   The construction of improvements required by this title shall have
been completed by the subdivider and approved by the city council; or
      2.   Surety acceptable to the city council shall have been filed in the
form of a cash deposit, certified check, negotiable bond, irrevocable bank
letter of credit or surety bond.
   E.   Approval Period: The final plat shall be filed with the county recorder
within one-half (1/2) year after written approval by the city council.
Otherwise, such approval shall become null and void unless the subdivider,
prior to said expiration date, applies for an extension of time and such
extension is granted by the city council.
   F.   Required Certificates: The following certifications and signatures
shall be included on the final plat prior to recording by the county recorder:
(Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
      1.   Certification and signature of the mayor and the city engineer
verifying that the subdivision meets the requirements of the city and has been
approved by the city council; and (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001; amd. 2008 Code)
      2.   Certification of the sanitation restriction on the face of the plat
in accordance with the provisions of Idaho Code section 50-1326.
   G.   Record Of Final Plat: Upon approval of the final plat by the city
council, the subdivider's prepayment of recording fees, posting of surety bond
or other acceptable guarantee and the inclusion of those certifications and
signatures on the final plat as set forth in subsection F of this section, the
subdivider shall furnish proof to the administrator that the final plat has
been recorded. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-2-5: RECORD OF PLAT, PLAT APPROVAL:
No final plat shall be filed with the county recorder or dwelling units
constructed on property until the plat has been approved by the city council.
(Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-2-6: SALE OF LOTS, PLAT TO BE RECORDED:
No lots shall be sold until the plat has been recorded in the office of the
county recorder. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-2-7: LOT SPLITS:
Any time that an original tract of land, a lot of a recorded plat, or any other
parcel of land is divided or partitioned into not more than two (2) lots,
parcels, or sites for the purpose of transfer of ownership or development, the
following application process and procedures shall be followed:
   A.   Application: An application for lot split on a form provided by the
zoning administrator shall be made and shall contain, at a minimum, the
following information:
      1.   Name, address, telephone number of the applicant.
      2.   Legal description of property and proof of ownership or agency.
      3.   Description of existing use.
      4.   Zone.
      5.   Legal description of each lot as created by the lot split.
      6.   Description of proposed use.
      7.   Documentation of the permission of the owner of the parcel to be
split.
      8.   Description of proposed lot design including locations of all
easements and property boundaries.
      9.   Recorded survey, if required by city engineer.
   B.   Procedure: Prior to approving an application under this section, the
city council shall make the following findings:
      1.   The minimum requirements under the city code for acreage, density,
lot area and setback have been complied with;
      2.   The proposed lot split is in conformity with the comprehensive plan;
and
      3.   The proposed lot split is in the public interest and will not
adversely impact adjoining property interests.
   C.   Notice: Within ten (10) days after a decision has been rendered, the
council shall provide the applicant with written notice of the action on the
request. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
CHAPTER 3
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Minimum Standards Required
10-3-2: Location
10-3-3: Street Widths
10-3-4: Intersections
10-3-5: Street Names
10-3-6: Pedestrian Walkways
10-3-7: Blocks
10-3-8: Lots
10-3-9: Easements
10-3-10: Landscaping Buffers And Reserve Strips
10-3-11: Public Sites And Open Spaces
10-3-1: MINIMUM STANDARDS REQUIRED:
All plats submitted pursuant to the provisions of this title, and all
subdivisions, improvements and facilities done, constructed or made in
accordance with said provisions shall comply with minimum design standards set
forth in this chapter; provided, however, that any higher standards adopted by
any highway district, the Idaho transportation department or health agency
shall prevail over those set forth herein. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-3-2: LOCATION:
Street locations shall conform to the following standards:
   A.   Local Streets: Local streets shall be so arranged as to discourage
their use by through traffic.
   B.   Stub Streets: Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the arrangement
of streets in new subdivisions shall be such that said streets extend to the
boundary line of the tract to make provisions for the future extension of said
streets into adjacent areas, and shall have a cul-de-sac or temporary cul-de-
sac. A reserve street may be required and held in public ownership.
   C.   Relation To Topography: Streets shall be arranged in proper relation to
topography so as to result in usable lots, safe streets and acceptable
gradients.
   D.   Alleys: Alleys shall be provided in multiple dwelling or commercial
subdivisions unless other provisions are made for service access and off street
loading and parking. Dead end alleys shall be prohibited in all cases.
   E.   Frontage Streets: Where a subdivision abuts or contains an arterial
street, it shall be required that there be frontage streets approximately
parallel to and on each side of such arterial street, or such other treatment
as is necessary for the adequate protection of residential properties and to
separate through traffic from local traffic.
   F.   Cul-De-Sac Streets: Cul-de-sac streets shall not be more than five
hundred feet (500') in length and shall terminate with an adequate turnaround
having a minimum radius of fifty feet (50') for right of way.
   G.   Half Streets: Half streets shall be prohibited except where unusual
circumstances make such necessary to the reasonable development of a tract in
conformance with this title and where satisfactory assurance for dedication of
the remaining part of the street is provided. Whenever a tract to be subdivided
borders on an existing half or partial street, the other part of the street
shall be dedicated within such tract.
   H.   Private Streets: Private streets within subdivisions shall be
prohibited. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-3-3: STREET WIDTHS:
Street right of way widths shall comply to the following:
   A.   Local Streets: Local streets shall have a minimum width of right of way
of fifty (50) to sixty feet (60').
   B.   Collector Streets: Collector streets shall have a minimum width right
of way of sixty (60) to eighty feet (80').
   C.   Arterial Streets: Arterial streets shall have a minimum width right of
way of eighty (80) to one hundred feet (100'). (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-3-4: INTERSECTIONS:
Intersections shall conform to the following standards:
   A.   Angle Of Intersection: Streets shall intersect at ninety degrees (90°)
or as closely thereto as possible, and in no case shall streets intersect at
less than seventy degrees (70°).
   B.   Clear Vision Triangles: The clear vision triangle at a street
intersection shall be formed by measuring forty feet (40') along the roadway
edges or roadway and from the intersection of the roadway edges or roadway edge
and connecting those points.
   C.   Number Of Streets: No more than two (2) streets shall cross at any one
intersection.
   D.   "T" Intersections: "T" intersections may be used wherever such design
will not restrict the free movement of traffic.
   E.   Centerline Offsets: Street centerline shall be offset by a distance of
at least one hundred twenty five feet (125').
   F.   Vertical Alignment Of Intersection: A nearly flat grade with
appropriate drainage slopes is desirable within intersections. This flat
section shall be extended a minimum of one hundred feet (100') each way from
the intersection. An allowance of two percent (2%) maximum intersection grade
in rolling terrain, and four percent (4%) in hilly terrain, will be permitted.
(Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-3-5: STREET NAMES:
The naming of streets shall conform to the following standards:
   A.   A street name shall not duplicate any existing street name within the
county except where a new street is a continuation of an existing street.
Street names that may be spelled differently but sound the same as existing
street names shall not be used. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
   B.   All new streets shall be named as follows:
      1.   Streets having a predominately north-south direction shall be named
"street". (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001; amd. 2008 Code)
      2.   Streets having a predominately east-west direction shall be named
"avenue" or "way".
      3.   Meandering streets shall be named "drive", "lane", "path" or
"trail".
      4.   Cul-de-sacs shall be named "circle", "court" and "place". (Ord. 193,
12-13-2001)
10-3-6: PEDESTRIAN WALKWAYS:
Right of way for pedestrian walkways in the middle of long blocks may be
required where necessary to obtain convenient pedestrian circulation to
schools, parks or shopping areas. The pedestrian easement shall be at least ten
feet (10') wide. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-3-7: BLOCKS:
Every block shall be so designed as to provide two (2) tiers of lots, except
where lots back onto an arterial street, natural feature or subdivision
boundary. Blocks shall not be less than five hundred feet (500') long in all
cases. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-3-8: LOTS:
Lots shall conform to the following standards:
   A.   Zoning: Lots within any subdivision shall comply in all respects with
the official height and area regulations set forth in title 9 of this code.
   B.   Future Arrangements: Where parcels of land are subdivided into
unusually large lots (such as when large lots are approved for septic tanks),
the parcels shall be divided, where feasible, so as to allow for future
resubdividing into smaller parcels. Lot arrangements shall allow for the
ultimate extension of adjacent streets through the middle of wide blocks.
Whenever such future subdividing or lot splitting is contemplated, the plan
thereof shall be approved by the city council prior to the taking of such
action.
   C.   Sufficient Area For Septic Tank: Where individual septic tanks have
been authorized, sufficient area shall be provided for a replacement sewage
disposal system. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-3-9: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Utility: Unobstructed utility easements shall be provided along front
lot lines, rear lot lines and side lot lines when deemed necessary. Total
easement width shall not be less than twelve feet (12').
   B.   Drainageway: Unobstructed drainageway easements shall be provided as
required by the city council.
   C.   Natural Drainage Courses: All natural drainage courses shall be left
undisturbed or be improved in a manner which will improve the hydraulics and
ease of maintenance of the channel. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-3-10: LANDSCAPING BUFFERS AND RESERVE STRIPS:
Planting strips and reserve strips shall conform to the following standards:
(Ord. 193, 12-13-2001; amd. 2008 Code)
   A.   Planting Strips: Planting strips shall be required to be placed next to
the incompatible features such as highways, railroads, commercial or industrial
uses to screen the view from residential properties. Such screening shall be a
minimum of twenty feet (20') wide, and shall not be a part of the normal street
right of way or utility easement.
   B.   Reserve Strips:
      1.   Private Reserve Strips: Privately held reserve strips controlling
access to streets shall be prohibited.
      2.   Public Reserve Strips: A one foot (1') reserve may be required to be
placed along half streets which are within the subdivision boundaries and shall
be deemed in fee simple to the city for future street widening. (Ord. 193, 12-
13-2001)
10-3-11: PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES:
Public sites and open spaces shall conform to the following standards:
   A.   Public Uses: Where it is determined that a proposed park, playground,
school or other public use as shown on the future acquisition map, as
authorized in Idaho Code section 67-6517, is located in whole or in part within
a proposed subdivision, the city council shall notify the appropriate public
agency concerning the land proposed to be acquired. Within thirty (30) days of
the date of notice, the public agency may request the governing body to suspend
consideration on the subdivision for sixty (60) days. If an agreement is not
reached within sixty (60) days, the city council shall resume consideration of
the subdivision.
   B.   Natural Features: Existing natural features which add value to
residential development and enhance the attractiveness of the community (such
as trees, watercourses, historic spots and similar irreplaceable assets) shall
be preserved in the design of the subdivision.
   C.   Special Development: In the case of planned unit developments and large
scale developments, the city council may require sufficient public and/or
private parks or open space facilities of acceptable size, location and site
characteristics that may be suitable for the proposed development. (Ord. 193,
12-13-2001)
CHAPTER 4
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Improvements Required
10-4-2: Monuments
10-4-3: Streets And Alleys
10-4-4: Curbs And Gutters
10-4-5: Street Signs
10-4-6: Streetlights
10-4-7: Sidewalks And Pedestrian Walkways; Crosswalks
10-4-8: Underground Utilities
10-4-9: Water Supply And Sewer Systems
10-4-10: Storm Drainage, Flood Controls
10-4-11: Fire Hydrants, Water Mains
10-4-12: Greenbelt Areas, Landscape Screening
10-4-13: Construction Plans
10-4-14: Guarantee Of Improvements
10-4-15: Inspections
10-4-16: Inspector On Development Site
10-4-17: Failure To Complete Public Improvement Construction
10-4-18: Warranty Requirement
10-4-1: IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED:
Every subdivider shall be required to install the following public and other
improvements in accordance with the following conditions and specifications.
(Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-4-2: MONUMENTS:
Monuments shall be set in accordance with Idaho Code section 50-1303. (Ord.
193, 12-13-2001)
10-4-3: STREETS AND ALLEYS:
All streets and alleys shall be constructed in accordance with the standards
and specifications adopted by the city or other applicable agency. (Ord. 193,
12-13-2001)
10-4-4: CURBS AND GUTTERS:
   A.   Generally:
      1.   Standard six inch (6") vertical curbs and gutters shall be
constructed on collector and arterial streets.
      2.   Rolled curbs and gutters shall be required on minor streets.
      3.   All construction shall be in accordance with the standards and
specifications adopted by the city or other applicable agency.
   B.   Driveways, Curb Cuts: All driveway openings and curbs shall be as
specified by the city, the Idaho transportation department, or other applicable
agency. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-4-5: STREET SIGNS:
Street name signs shall be installed in the appropriate locations at each
street intersection in accordance with the local standards. A per street sign
fee shall be paid by the subdivider. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-4-6: STREETLIGHTS:
All subdividers within the city limits and within the area of city impact shall
be required to install, at the subdivider's expense, streetlights in accordance
with city specifications and standards at locations designated by the council.
After installation and acceptance by the city, the city shall pay the cost of
maintenance and power and assume ownership of the streetlights. (Ord. 193, 12-
13-2001)
10-4-7: SIDEWALKS AND PEDESTRIAN WALKWAYS; CROSSWALKS:
   A.   Sidewalks: Sidewalks shall be required on both sides of the street;
except, that where the average width of lots, as measured at the street
frontage line or at the building setback line, is over one hundred feet (100'),
sidewalks on only one side of the street may be allowed.
   B.   Pedestrian Walkways: Pedestrian walkways, when required, shall have
easements at least ten feet (10') in width and include a paved walk at least
five feet (5') in width.
   C.   Standards And Specifications: Sidewalks and crosswalks shall be
construed in accordance with the standards and specifications of the city or
other applicable agency. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-4-8: UNDERGROUND UTILITIES:
Underground utilities are required. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-4-9: WATER SUPPLY AND SEWER SYSTEMS:
   A.   Construction: All public water supply or sewer systems (serving 2 or
more separate premises or households) shall be constructed in accordance with
any adopted local plans and specifications. All new public water supply or
sewer systems shall be an extension of an existing public system whenever
possible. In the event that the proposed public water supply or sewer system is
not an extension of an existing public system, there shall be a showing by the
subdivider that the extension is not feasible and not in the best interest of
the public.
   B.   Water And Sewer Plans: All water and sewer plans shall be submitted to
the Idaho department of health and welfare or its authorized agent for approval
in accordance with the provisions of Idaho Code section 50-1326.
   C.   Water Mains, Valves, Hydrants And Connections: All water mains, valves,
hydrants and connections to the city water distribution system shall be
provided and installed by the subdivider in accordance with the standards and
specifications of the city and in conformance with existing laws. Fire hydrants
shall be no farther apart than four hundred feet (400') in commercial areas and
seven hundred fifty feet (750') in residential areas, unless the uniform fire
code allows less.
   D.   Irrigation Lines And Distribution Lines: Irrigation lines and
distribution lines shall be provided in accordance with standard city
specifications.
   E.   Public Sanitary Sewer System: A public sanitary sewer system (not to be
construed as a privately sponsored cooperative, mutual use or other system
developed and controlled by private individuals or groups) shall be installed
in all subdivisions where they are within the service area of an existing
public system and can be reached by a reasonable extension of said public
system. Construction plans, specifications and maintenance programs for
sanitary sewer systems shall be approved by the agency controlling the system
prior to recording of the final plat. The council shall review a sanitary sewer
system proposed to be developed as a privately sponsored and controlled
facility in relationship to proposed or adopted urbanizing or growth area
comprehensive plans and sewerage plans or programs and shall base its
subdivision approval on treatment capabilities, such as dry lines, density
requirements, the need for entirely new systems, and other treatment
possibilities that are in harmony with officially recognized practices of the
city.
   F.   Public Water System: A public water system (not to be construed as a
privately sponsored cooperative, mutual use or other system developed and
controlled by private individuals or groups), shall be installed where
subdivisions are within the service area of an existing public system and can
be reached by a reasonable extension of said public system. Construction plans
shall be approved by the agency controlling the system prior to recording of
the final plat. The council shall review a water system proposed to be
developed as a privately sponsored and controlled facility in relationship to
proposed or adopted urbanizing or growth area water plans or programs and shall
base its subdivision approval in harmony with the officially recognized
practices of the city. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-4-10: STORM DRAINAGE, FLOOD CONTROLS:
   A.   Storm Drainage System Required: An adequate storm drainage system shall
be required in all subdivisions. The requirements for each particular
subdivision shall be established by the city or other applicable agency and
construction shall follow the specifications and procedures established by the
same.
   B.   Interceptor Ditches: Interceptor ditches shall be established above all
cut/fill slopes, and the intercepted water conveyed to a stable channel or
natural drainageway with adequate capacity.
   C.   Curb, Gutter And Pavement Design: Curb, gutter and pavement design
shall be such that water on roadways is prevented from flowing off the roadway.
   D.   Natural Drainageways: Natural drainageways shall be riprapped or
otherwise stabilized below drainage and culvert discharge points for a distance
sufficient to convey the discharge without channel erosion.
   E.   Runoff: Runoff from areas of concentrated impervious cover (for
example, roofs, driveways and roads) shall be collected and transported to a
natural drainage with sufficient capacity to accept the discharge without undue
erosion.
   F.   Waste Material From Construction: Waste material from construction,
including soil and other solid materials, shall not be deposited within the
100-year floodplain.
   G.   Drainageways Or Hydraulic Structures: Drainageways or hydraulic
structures in "major waterways" (defined as draining a basin area of 10 acres
or more) shall be designed for the 100-year flood or to accommodate the runoff
projected in any applicable soil conservation service hydrology guide for
residential development, whichever is greater. In "minor waterways" (defined as
draining a basic area of less than 10 acres), such structures shall be designed
for the 50-year flood or to accommodate the runoff projected in any applicable
soil conservation service hydrology guide for residential development,
whichever is greater.
   H.   Development Prohibited: With the exception of road crossings, approved
drainage structures and recreation and open space uses which do not involve the
destruction of vegetative cover, development shall be prohibited within the
100-year floodplain for major waterways, and the 50-year floodplain for minor
waterways.
   I.   Sediment Catchment Ponds: Sediment catchment ponds shall be constructed
and maintained downstream from each development, unless sediment retention
facilities are otherwise provided. Any facility used shall provide for the
removal of surface debris and contaminants, as well as sediment retention.
   J.   Completion Of Drainage System: The overall drainage system shall be
completed and made operational at the earliest possible time during
construction.
   K.   Alterations Of Major Drainageways: Alterations of major drainageways
shall be prohibited except for approved road crossings and drainage structures.
   L.   Open Channel Drainageways: Natural or improved open channel
drainageways shall be preserved or provided for in major waterways; except,
that at road crossings, conduits may be permitted. Minor waterways shall be
permitted to be enclosed in conduits.
   M.   Hydrologic Measuring Devices: The city reserves the right to require
installation of hydrologic measuring devices in drainageways within any
development at public expense. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-4-11: FIRE HYDRANTS, WATER MAINS:
Adequate fire protection shall be required in accordance with city or other
applicable agency standards. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-4-12: GREENBELT AREAS, LANDSCAPE SCREENING:
Greenbelts or landscape screening may be required for the protection of
residential properties from adjacent major arterial streets, waterways,
railroad rights of way or other features. Subdivision plats shall show the
location of any greenbelt areas. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-4-13: CONSTRUCTION PLANS:
It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider of every proposed subdivision
to have prepared by a registered engineer, a complete set of construction
plans, including profiles, cross sections, specifications and other supporting
data, for all required public streets, utilities and other facilities. Such
construction plans shall be based on preliminary plans which have been approved
with the preliminary plat, and shall be prepared in conjunction with the final
plat. Construction plans are subject to approval by the responsible public
agencies and all construction plans shall be prepared in accordance with the
public agencies' standards or specifications. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-4-14: GUARANTEE OF IMPROVEMENTS:
In lieu of the actual installation of required public improvements before
filing of the final plat, the city council may permit the subdivider to provide
a financial guarantee of performance in one or a combination of the following
arrangements for those requirements which are over and beyond the requirements
of any other agency responsible for the administration, operation and
maintenance of the applicable public improvements.
   A.   Performance Bond: The bond shall be in an amount equal to one hundred
ten percent (110%) of the total estimated cost for completing construction of
the specific public improvements, as estimated by the city engineer and
approved by the city council, and shall be with a surety company authorized to
do business in the state of Idaho, acceptable to the city council.
   B.   Term Length; Accrue To City: The term length in which the bond is in
force shall be for a period to be specified by the city council for the
specific public improvement. Said bond shall accrue to the city covering
construction, operation and maintenance of the specific public improvement.
   C.   Cash Deposit, Certified Check, Negotiable Bond Or Irrevocable Bank
Letter Of Credit:
      1.   A cash deposit, certified check, negotiable bond or an irrevocable
bank letter of credit, acceptable by the city council, shall be deposited with
an escrow agent or trust company with a dollar value equal to one hundred ten
percent (110%) of the estimated cost of construction for the specific public
improvement, as estimated by the city engineer and approved by the city
council.
      2.   The escrow time for the cash deposit, certified check negotiable
bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be for a period to be specified
by the city council.
      3.   In the case of cash deposits or certified checks, an agreement
between the city council and the subdivider may provide for progressive payment
out of the cash deposit or reduction of the certified check, to the extent of
the cost of the completed portion of the public improvements. (Ord. 193, 12-13-
2001)
10-4-15: INSPECTIONS:
Before approving a final plat and construction plans and specifications for
public improvements, an agreement between the subdivider and the city council
shall be made to provide for checking or inspecting the construction and its
conformity to the submitted plans. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-4-16: INSPECTOR ON DEVELOPMENT SITE:
The city shall have the right to place an inspector of its own choosing on the
development site, with all expenses to be borne by the developer. (Ord. 193,
12-13-2001)
10-4-17: FAILURE TO COMPLETE PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT CONSTRUCTION:
In the event the subdivider shall, in any case, fail to complete such work
within the period of time as required by the conditions of the guarantee for
the completion of public improvements, it shall be the responsibility of the
city council to proceed to have such work completed. In order to accomplish
this, the city council shall reimburse itself for the cost and expense thereof
by appropriating the cash deposit, certified check, irrevocable bank letter of
credit, or negotiable bond which the subdivider may have deposited in lieu of a
surety bond, or may take such steps as may be necessary to require performance
by the bonding or surety company. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-4-18: WARRANTY REQUIREMENT:
Developers and engineers shall warrant workmanship, materials and engineering
design for one full year from the time of acceptance by the city. Developers or
engineers, at their own expense, can be required to correct any defects which
may exist, for which they are notified, within one year. Whenever a developer
or engineer is required to make corrections or repairs to any defect, the
warranty period shall be extended for one full year after said repairs or
corrections are completed on the repair work. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
CHAPTER 5
SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Purpose And Summary Of Provisions
10-5-2: Supplementary Provisions
10-5-3: Preservation Of Natural Features
10-5-4: Development Evaluation
10-5-5: Engineering Plans
10-5-6: Grading Plans
10-5-7: Development Standards
10-5-8: Vegetation And Revegetation
10-5-9: Maintenance Required
10-5-10: Underground Utilities
10-5-11: Application Of Provisions
10-5-12: Site Development Plan
10-5-13: Site And Structure Requirements
10-5-14: Control During Development; Time Limit
10-5-15: Large Scale Development Subdivisions
10-5-16: Cemetery Subdivisions
10-5-17: Subdivision Within Floodplain
10-5-18: Subdivision Within Area Of Critical Concern
10-5-1: PURPOSE AND SUMMARY OF PROVISIONS:
The purpose of this chapter is to identify various types of developments that
normally pose special concerns to the elected officials when reviewing and
acting upon subdivision requests. This chapter outlines the plan submittal
requirements and design standards that shall be taken into consideration when
acting on special developments. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-5-2: SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter are in addition to the plan requirements, design
standards and improvement standards that are required by chapters 2, 3, and 4
of this title. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-5-3: PRESERVATION OF NATURAL FEATURES:
In order to preserve, retain, enhance and promote the existing and future
appearance, natural topographic features, qualities and resources of hillsides,
special consideration shall be given to the following:
   A.   Skyline and ridge tops;
   B.   Rolling grassy landforms, including knolls, ridges and meadows;
   C.   Tree and shrub masses, grass, wildflowers and topsoil;
   D.   Rock outcroppings;
   E.   Streambeds, draws and drainage swales, especially where tree and plant
formations occur; and
   F.   Characteristic vistas and scenic panoramas. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-5-4: DEVELOPMENT EVALUATION:
   A.   Development Proposals: All development proposals shall take into
account and shall be judged by the way in which land use planning, soil
mechanics, engineering geology, hydrology, civil engineering, environmental and
civil design, and architectural and landscape design are applied in hillside
areas, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Planning and development to fit the topography, soils, geology,
hydrology and other conditions existing on the proposed site;
      2.   Orientation of development on the site so that grading and other
site preparation is kept to an absolute minimum;
      3.   Shaping of essential grading to blend with natural landforms and to
minimize the necessity of padding and/or terracing of building sites;
      4.   Division of large tracts into smaller workable units on which
construction can be completed within one construction season so that large
areas are not left bare and exposed during the winter-spring runoff period;
      5.   Completion of paving as rapidly as possible after grading;
      6.   Allocation of areas not well suited for development because of soil
geology or hydrology limitations for open space and recreation uses;
      7.   Minimizing disruption of existing plant and animal life; and
      8.   Consideration of the view from and of the hills.
   B.   Criteria For Development: Areas having soil, geology or hydrology
hazards shall not be developed unless it is shown that:
      1.   Their limitations can be overcome;
      2.   Hazard to life or property will not exist;
      3.   The safety, use or stability of a public way or drainage channel is
not jeopardized; and
      4.   The natural environment is not subjected to undue impact. (Ord. 193,
12-13-2001)
10-5-5: ENGINEERING PLANS:
The developer shall retain a professional engineer(s) to obtain the following
information:
   A.   Soils Report: For any proposed hillside development, a soils
engineering report shall be submitted with the preliminary plat. This report
shall include data regarding the nature, distribution and strength of existing
soils, conclusions and recommendations for grading procedures, design criteria
for corrective measures and opinions and recommendations covering the adequacy
of sites to be developed.
   B.   Geology Report: For any proposed hillside development, a geology report
shall be submitted with the preliminary plat. This report shall include an
adequate description of site geology and an evaluation of the relationship
between the proposed development and the underlying geology and recommendations
for remedial remedies. The investigation and subsequent report shall be
completed by a professional geologist registered in the state of Idaho.
   C.   Hydrology Report: For any proposed hillside development, a hydrology
report shall be submitted with the preliminary plat. This report shall include
an adequate description of the hydrology, conclusions and recommendations
regarding the effect of hydrologic conditions on the proposed development, and
opinions and recommendations covering the adequacy of sites to be developed.
(Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-5-6: GRADING PLANS:
   A.   Preliminary Grading Plan: A preliminary grading plan shall be submitted
with each hillside preliminary plat proposal and shall include the following
information:
      1.   Approximate limiting dimensions, elevations or finish contours to be
achieved by the grading, including all cut and fill slopes, proposed drainage
channels and related construction;
      2.   Preliminary plans and approximate locations of all surface and
subsurface drainage devices, walls, dams, sediment basins, storage reservoirs
and other protective devices to be constructed; and
      3.   A description of methods to be employed in disposing of soil and
other material that is removed from the grading site, including the location of
the disposal site.
   B.   Final Grading Plan: A final grading plan shall be submitted with each
final plat and shall include the following information:
      1.   Limiting dimensions, elevations or finish contours to be achieved by
the grading, including all proposed cut and fill slopes and proposed drainage
channels and related construction;
      2.   Detailed plans and locations of all surface and subsurface drainage
devices, walls, dams, sediment basins, storage reservoirs and other protective
devices to be constructed; and
      3.   A schedule showing when each stage of the project will be completed,
including the total area of soil surface which is to be disturbed during each
stage together with estimated starting and completion dates. In no event shall
the existing natural vegetative ground cover be destroyed, removed or disturbed
more than fifteen (15) days prior to grading. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-5-7: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Soils:
      1.   Fill areas shall be prepared by removing organic material such as
vegetation and rubbish, and any other material which is determined by the soils
engineer to be detrimental to proper compaction or otherwise not conducive to
stability. No rock or similar irreducible material with a maximum dimension
greater than eight inches (8") shall be used as fill material in fills that are
intended to provide structural strength.
      2.   Fills shall be compacted to at least ninety five percent (95%) of
maximum density, as determined by ASHTO 99 and ASTM D698.
      3.   Cut slopes shall be no steeper than two horizontal to one vertical
(2:1). Subsurface drainage shall be provided as necessary for stability.
      4.   Fill slopes shall be no steeper than two horizontal to one vertical
(2:1) and shall not be located on natural slopes two to one (2:1) or steeper,
or where fill slopes toe out within twelve feet (12') horizontally of the top
of an existing or planned cut slope.
      5.   Tops and toes of cut and fill slopes shall be set back from property
boundaries a distance of three feet (3') plus one-fifth (1/5) of the height of
the cut or fill, but need not exceed a horizontal distance of ten feet (10').
Tops and toes of cut and fill slopes shall be set back from structures a
distance of six feet (6') plus one-fifth (1/5) the height of the cut or fill,
but need not exceed ten feet (10').
      6.   The maximum horizontal distance of disturbed soil surfaces shall not
exceed seventy five feet (75').
   B.   Streets:
      1.   Street alignments should follow natural terrain and no unnecessary
cuts or fills shall be allowed in order to create additional lots or building
sites.
      2.   One-way streets shall be permitted and encouraged where appropriate
for the terrain and where public safety would not be jeopardized. Maximum width
shall be seventeen feet (17') between the backs and curbs.
      3.   The width of the graded section shall extend three feet (3') beyond
the curb back or edge of pavement on both the cut and fill sides of the
roadway. If a sidewalk is to be installed parallel to the roadway, the graded
section shall be increased by the width of the sidewalk plus one foot (1')
beyond the curb back.
   C.   Driveways And Parking: Combinations of collective private driveways,
cluster parking areas and on street parallel parking bays shall be used to
attempt to optimize the objectives of minimum soil disturbance, minimum
impervious cover, excellence of design and aesthetic sensitivity. (Ord. 193,
12-13-2001)
10-5-8: VEGETATION AND REVEGETATION:
   A.   Slope Stabilization And Revegetation Plan: The developer shall submit a
slope stabilization and revegetation plan which shall include a complete
description of the existing vegetation, the vegetation to be removed and the
method of disposal, the vegetation to be planted and slope stabilization
measures to be installed. The plan shall include an analysis of the
environmental effects of such operations, including the effects on slope
stability, soil erosion, water quality and fish and wildlife.
   B.   Vegetation: Vegetation sufficient to stabilize the soil shall be
established on all disturbed areas as each stage of grading is completed. Areas
not contained within lot boundaries shall be protected with perennial
vegetative cover after all construction is completed. Efforts shall be made to
plant those species that tend to recover from fire damage and do not contribute
to a rapid rate of fire spread.
   C.   Responsibility For Destruction Of Native Vegetation: The developer
shall be fully responsible for any destruction of native vegetation proposed
for retention. He shall carry the responsibility both for his own employees and
for all subcontractors from the first day of construction until the notice of
completion is filed. The developer shall be responsible for replacing such
destroyed vegetation. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-5-9: MAINTENANCE REQUIRED:
The owner of any private property on which grading or other work has been
performed pursuant to a grading plan approved or a building permit granted
under the provisions of this title shall continuously maintain and repair all
graded surfaces and erosion prevention devices, retaining walls, drainage
structures or means, and other protective devices, plantings and ground cover
installed or completed. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-5-10: UNDERGROUND UTILITIES:
All new service utilities shall be placed underground. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-5-11: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
In addition to the requirements of this chapter, other city ordinances
regulating development may be applicable. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-5-12: SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
The developer of any planned unit or condominium subdivision shall provide a
colored rendering to adequate scale to show the completed development that will
include at least the following:
   A.   Architectural style and building design;
   B.   Building materials and color;
   C.   Landscaping;
   D.   Screening;
   E.   Garbage areas;
   F.   Parking; and
   G.   Open space. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-5-13: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
The following provisions shall apply to all planned unit or condominium
subdivisions:
   A.   Minimum Area: A planned unit development shall contain an area as
specified in title 9 of this code.
   B.   Private Streets: Private streets shall be prohibited in any planned
unit or condominium subdivision subject to the provisions of this title.
   C.   Storage Areas: Storage areas shall be provided for the anticipated
needs of boats, campers and trailers. For typical residential development, one
adequate space shall be provided for every two (2) living units. This may be
reduced by the city council if there is a showing that the needs of a
particular development are less.
   D.   Parking Spaces: One additional parking space beyond that which is
required by title 9, chapter 12, of this code may be required for every three
(3) dwelling units to accommodate visitor parking.
   E.   Maintenance Building: A maintenance building shall be provided of such
size and in such location as is suitable for the service needs that are
necessary for the repair and maintenance of all common areas.
   F.   Open Space: The location of open space shall be appropriate to the
development and shall be of such shape and area to be usable and convenient to
the residents of the development. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-5-14: CONTROL DURING DEVELOPMENT; TIME LIMIT:
Single ownership or control during development of a planned unit or condominium
subdivision shall be required, and a time limit may be imposed to guarantee the
development is built and constructed as planned. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-5-15: LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT SUBDIVISIONS:
Due to the impact that a large scale development would have on public utilities
and services, the developer shall submit the following information along with
the preliminary plat:
   A.   Identification Of Public Services: Identification of all public
services that would be provided to the development including, but not limited
to, fire protection, police protection, central water, central sewer, street
construction, parks and open space, recreation, maintenance, schools and solid
waste collection;
   B.   Estimate Of Public Service Costs: Estimate of the public service costs
to provide adequate service to the development;
   C.   Estimate Of Tax Revenue: Estimate of the tax revenue that will be
generated from the development; and
   D.   Suggested Financing: Suggested public means of financing the services
for the development if the cost for the public services would not be offset by
tax revenue received from the development. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-5-16: CEMETERY SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Submission Of Proposed Function: The developer of any cemetery
subdivision shall provide the council with written documentation that will
sufficiently explain the functions of the proposed cemetery for either human or
animal remains.
   B.   Compliance With State Law: The developer of any cemetery subdivision
shall submit a written statement that has been prepared by an attorney that
adequately assures the compliance of the proposed cemetery with the procedural
management requirements that are outlined in Idaho Code title 27. (Ord. 193,
12-13-2001)
10-5-17: SUBDIVISION WITHIN FLOODPLAIN:
In addition to the provisions of this title, any subdivision of the city shall
comply with all applicable provisions of the floodplain regulations of the city
as now in effect or as may hereafter be amended 1 . (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 11 of this code.
10-5-18: SUBDIVISION WITHIN AREA OF CRITICAL CONCERN:
   A.   Designation Of Areas Of Critical Concern: Hazardous or unique areas may
be designated as an area of critical concern by the city council or by the
state of Idaho. Special consideration shall be given to any proposed
development within an area of critical concern to assure that the development
is necessary and desirable and in the public interest in view of the existing
unique conditions. Hazardous or unique areas that may be designated as areas of
critical concern are as follows:
      1.   Earthquake locations;
      2.   Unstable soils;
      3.   Unique animal life;
      4.   Unique plant life;
      5.   Scenic areas;
      6.   Historical significance;
      7.   Floodplain;
      8.   Center city;
      9.   Areas within the area of city impact but outside city boundaries;
and
      10.   Other areas of critical concern.
   B.   Environmental Assessment Plan:
      1.   Required: The developer shall prepare and submit an environmental
assessment along with the preliminary plat application for any development that
is proposed within an area of critical concern.
      2.   Content: The content of the environmental assessment shall be
prepared by an interdisciplinary team of professionals that shall provide
answers to the following questions:
         a.   What changes will occur to the area of environmental concern as a
result of the proposed development?
         b.   What corrective action or alternative development plans could
occur so as not to significantly change the area of environmental concern?
         c.   What changes in the area of environmental concern are
unavoidable?
         d.   What beneficial or detrimental effect would the development have
on the environment including, but not limited to, animal life, plant life,
social and economic concerns, noise and visual impacts, available farmland and
other? (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
CHAPTER 6
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-6-1: Administration
10-6-2: Vacations And Dedications
10-6-3: Modifications, Waivers And Appeals
10-6-4: Amendments
10-6-5: Filing Fees And Costs
10-6-6: Violations And Penalties
10-6-1: ADMINISTRATION:
The council shall appoint an administrator to carry out the provisions as
herein specified and to serve at the pleasure of the council. The administrator
shall receive and process all subdivision applications. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-6-2: VACATIONS AND DEDICATIONS:
   A.   Application For Vacation Or Dedication: Any property owner desiring to
vacate an existing subdivision, public right of way or easement shall complete
and file an application with the administrator. These provisions shall not
apply to the widening of any street which is shown in the comprehensive plan,
or the dedication of streets, rights of way or easements to be shown on a
recorded subdivision.
   B.   Action By Council:
      1.   Vacations: When considering an application for vacation procedures,
the city council shall establish a date for a public hearing and give such
public notice as required by law. The city council may approve, deny or modify
the application. Whenever public rights of way or lands are vacated, the city
council shall provide adjacent property owners with a quitclaim deed for the
vacated rights of way in such proportions as are prescribed by law.
      2.   Dedications: When considering an application for dedication
procedures, the city council may approve, deny or modify the application.
Within a proposed subdivision, arterial and collector streets, as shown on the
comprehensive plan, shall be dedicated to the public in all cases. In general,
all other streets also shall be dedicated to public use. When a dedication is
approved, the required street improvements shall be constructed or a bond
furnished assuring the construction prior to acceptance of the dedication. To
complete the acceptance of any dedication of land, the owner shall furnish to
the city council a deed describing and conveying such lands to be recorded with
the county recorder.
      3.   Decision: The council shall review the request and all agency
responses and commission recommendations, and, within thirty (30) days of the
meeting at which the issue was on the agenda, either approve, conditionally
approve or deny the request. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-6-3: MODIFICATIONS, WAIVERS AND APPEALS:
   A.   Power To Waive Or Modify Requirements: Whenever a tract to be
subdivided is of such unusual size or shape or is surrounded by such
developments or unusual conditions that the strict application of these
regulations would result in substantial hardship or inequity, the council may
waive or modify such requirements so the subdivider may develop the property in
a reasonable manner, but assuring that the public welfare and the interests of
the city are protected, the general intent and spirit of these regulations are
preserved and conformity to the comprehensive plan is assured.
      1.   In requesting any such modifications or waiver, the subdivider or
his/her representative shall make written request to the administrator.
      2.   Such request, together with such related data and maps as necessary
to fully illustrate the relief sought, shall be referred by the administrator,
in writing, to the city council within thirty (30) days of receipt of the
administrator, but allowing a minimum of ten (10) working days' review period
prior to the council meeting.
      3.   The council shall act upon such request at its next regular meeting.
      4.   Approval of such modifications shall require a majority vote of the
regular membership of the council. The council shall approve, conditionally
approve, or disapprove the modification, waiver or appeal.
   B.   Conditions: In granting waivers and/or modifications from these
regulations, the council may require such conditions as will, in its judgment,
substantially secure the objectives of the standards or requirements so waived
or modified.
   C.   Appeal: Any person, firm, or corporation may appeal the decision of the
council to the district court in the same manner and within the same time as
other appeals may be taken from orders of the council. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-6-4: AMENDMENTS:
The city council, prior to adopting an amendment, supplement, or repeal of this
title, shall conduct at least one public hearing in which interested persons
shall have an opportunity to be heard. At least fifteen (15) days prior to the
hearing, notice of the time and place and a summary of the proposed plan to be
discussed shall be published in the official newspaper or paper of general
circulation within the jurisdiction. The city council shall also make available
a notice to other papers, radio and television stations serving the
jurisdiction for use as a public service announcement. Notice of intent to
amend, supplement or repeal the ordinance shall be sent to all political
subdivisions providing services within the planning jurisdiction, including
school districts, at least fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing
scheduled by the council. Following the city council hearing, if the city
council makes a material change in this title other than that published for the
present hearing, further notice and hearing shall be provided before the city
council takes action. A record of the hearings, findings made and actions taken
shall be maintained. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001; amd. 2008 Code)
10-6-5: FILING FEES AND COSTS:
At the time of submission of an application for a preliminary plat and
application for a final plat, a fee, as established in the official fee
schedule of the city, shall be paid. There shall be no additional fee for the
combining of the preliminary and final plats and there shall be no fee for a
preapplication. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
10-6-6: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Council Final Approval Required: No subdivision plat required by this
title or the Idaho Code shall be admitted to the public land records of Boise
County or recorded by the county recorder until such subdivision plat has
received final approval of the city council.
   B.   Construction: No public board, agency, commission, official or other
authority shall proceed with the construction of or authorize the construction
of any of the public improvements required by this title until the final plat
has received the approval of the city council.
   C.   Permits For Construction: No permits for construction of any structure
shall be issued on any parcel or lot until it has been determined such parcel
or lot meets the requirements of this title. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001)
   D.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation dividing or conveying property
in violation of this title shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and each
such person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day
or portion thereof during which any violation of any of the provisions of this
title is committed, continued or permitted and, upon conviction of any such
violation, such person shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 193, 12-13-2001; amd. 2008 Code)
TITLE 11
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
11-1-1: Statutory Authorization, Findings Of Fact, Purpose, And Objectives
11-1-1-1: Statutory Authority
11-1-1-2: Findings Of Fact
11-1-1-3: Statement Of Purpose
11-1-1-4: Objectives And Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
11-1-2: Definitions
11-1-3: General Provisions
11-1-3-1: Lands To Which This Chapter Applies
11-1-3-2: Basis For Special Flood Hazard Areas
11-1-3-3: Establishment Of Floodplain Development Permit
11-1-3-4: Compliance
11-1-3-5: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
11-1-3-6: Interpretation
11-1-3-7: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
11-1-3-8: Penalties For Violation
11-1-4: Administration
11-1-4-1: Designation Of Floodplain Ordinance Administrator
11-1-4-2: Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator
11-1-4-3: Floodplain Development Application, Permit, And Certification
Requirements
11-1-4-4: Corrective Procedures
11-1-4-5: Variance Procedures
11-1-5: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
11-1-5-1: General Standards
11-1-5-2: Specific Standards
11-1-5-3: Standards For Floodplains Without Established Base Flood Elevations
11-1-5-4: Standards For Riverine Floodplains With Base Flood Elevations But
Without Established Floodways Or Flood Fringe Areas
11-1-5-5: Standards For Floodways And Flood Fringe Areas
11-1-5-6: Standards For Areas Of Shallow Flooding (Zone AO, AH, AR/AO, Or AR/
AH)
11-1-6: Legal Status Provisions
11-1-6-1: Effect On Rights And Liabilities Under The Existing Flood Damage
Prevention Ordinance
11-1-6-2: Effect Upon Outstanding Floodplain Development Permits
11-1-6-3: Severability
11-1-6-4: Effective Date
11-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE, AND OBJECTIVES:
11-1-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORITY:
The Legislature of the State of Idaho, pursuant to Idaho Code sections 46-1020
through 46-1024, authorizes local governments to adopt floodplain management
ordinances that identify floodplains and minimum floodplain development
standards to minimize flood hazards and protect human life, health, and
property. Therefore, the Council of the City of Horseshoe Bend, Idaho does
hereby ordain as follows. (Ord. 249, 8-17-2016)
11-1-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the City of Horseshoe Bend, Idaho subject to
periodic inundation that results in:
      1.   Loss of life and property;
      2.   Health and safety hazards;
      3.   Disruption of commerce and governmental services;
      4.   Extraordinary public expenditures for flood relief and protection;
and
      5.   Impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public
health, safety, and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are caused by structures in flood hazard areas,
which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise unprotected from
flood damages, and by the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains
causing increases in flood heights and velocities.
   C.   Local government units have the primary responsibility for planning,
adopting, and enforcing land use regulations to accomplish proper floodplain
management. (Ord. 249, 8-17-2016)
11-1-1-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote public health, safety, and general
welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in
specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life, health, and property;
   B.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
purification and sewage treatment plants, water and gas mains, electric,
telephone and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located in floodplains;
   C.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas;
   D.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   E.   Minimize the need for rescue and emergency services associated with
flooding, generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   F.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   G.   Ensure potential buyers are notified the property is in an area of
special flood hazard; and
   H.   Ensure those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions. (Ord. 249, 8-17-2016)
11-1-1-4: OBJECTIVES AND METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purpose, this chapter includes methods and
provisions to:
   A.   Require that development which is vulnerable to floods, including
structures and facilities necessary for the general health, safety, and welfare
of citizens, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   B.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or which increase flood heights,
velocities, or erosion;
   C.   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage or erosion;
   D.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert flood waters or that may increase flood hazards to other
lands;
   E.   Preserve and restore natural floodplains, stream channels, and natural
protective barriers which carry and store flood waters. (Ord. 249, 8-17-2016)
11-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted according to the meaning they have in common usage and to give
this chapter its most reasonable application.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE  A structure on the same lot or parcel as a principal structure, the use of which is
(APPURTENANT         incidental and subordinate to the principal structure.
STRUCTURE):
ADDITION (TO AN      An extension or increase in the floor area or height of a building or structure.
EXISTING BUILDING):
APPEAL:              A request for review of the Floodplain Administrator's interpretation of provisions
                     of this chapter or request for a variance.
                     A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, or AR/AH zone on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map
AREA OF SHALLOW      (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) or greater annual chance of flooding to an average
FLOODING:            depth of one (1) to three (3) feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist,
                     where the path of flooding is unpredictable, and where velocity flow may be evident.
                     Such flooding is characterized by pending or sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL      See Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA).
FLOOD HAZARD:
BASE FLOOD:          The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given
                     year.
                     A determination by the Federal Insurance Administrator of the water surface
                     elevations of the base flood, that is, the flood level that has a one percent (1%)
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION or greater chance of occurrence in any given year. When the BFE has not been
(BFE):               provided in a Special Flood Hazard Area, it may be obtained from engineering studies
                     available from a Federal, State, or other source using FEMA.approved engineering
                     methodologies. This elevation, when combined with the Freeboard, establishes the
                     Flood Protection Elevation.
BASEMENT:            Any area of the building having its floor sub grade (below ground level) on all
                     sides.
BUILDING:            See Structure.
                     Facilities that are vital to flood response activities or critical to the health and
                     safety of the public before, during, and after a flood, such as a hospital,
                     emergency operations center, electric substation, police station, fire station,
CRITICAL FACILITIES: nursing home, school, vehicle and equipment storage facility, or shelter; and
                     facilities that, if flooded, would make the flood problem and its impacts much
                     worse, such as a hazardous materials facility, power generation facility, water
                     utility, or wastewater treatment plant.
                     The vertical datum is a base measurement point (or set of points) from which all
                     elevations are determined. Historically, that common set of points was the National
DATUM:               Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929 (NGVD29). The vertical datum currently adopted by
                     the federal government as a basis for measuring heights is the North American
                     Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD88).
                     Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including but not limited
DEVELOPMENT:         to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving,
                     excavation or drilling operations, or storage of equipment or materials.
                     Any activity defined as Development which will necessitate a Floodplain Development
DEVELOPMENT          Permit; such as: the construction of buildings, structures, or accessory structures;
ACTIVITY:            additions or substantial improvements to existing structures; bulkheads, retaining
                     walls, piers, and pools; the placement of mobile homes; or the deposition or
                     extraction of materials; the construction or elevation of dikes, berms and levees.
DIGITAL FLOOD        The digital official map of a community, issued by the Federal Emergency Management
INSURANCE RATE MAP   Agency, on which both the Special Flood Hazard Areas and the risk premium zones
(DFIRM):             applicable to the community are delineated.
                     For insurance purposes, a non-basement building which has its lowest elevated floor
ELEVATED BUILDING:   raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers, pilings,
                     or columns.
                     The Elevation Certificate is an important administrative tool of the NFIP. It is
ELEVATION            used to determine the proper flood insurance premium rate; it is used to document
CERTIFICATE:         elevation information necessary to ensure compliance with community floodplain
                     management regulations; and it may be used to support a request for a Letter of Map
                     Amendment (LOMA) or Letter of Map Revision based on fill (LOMR-F).
                     An area enclosed by solid walls below the BFE/FPE or an area formed when any space
ENCLOSURE:           below the BFE/FPE is enclosed on all sides by walls or partitions. Insect screening
                     or open wood lattice used to surround space below the BFE/RFPE is not considered an
                     enclosure.
                     The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation, buildings, structures, or
ENCROACHMENT:        development into a floodplain, which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a
                     floodplain.
                     For the purposes of determining rates, structures for which the "start of
EXISTING             construction" commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1,
CONSTRUCTION:        1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. "Existing construction" may also be
                     referred to as "existing structures."
EXISTING             A manufactured home park or subdivision where the construction of facilities for
MANUFACTURED HOME    servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at
PARK OR MANUFACTURED a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and final
HOME SUBDIVISION:    site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
                     of the original floodplain management regulations adopted by the community.
EXISTING STRUCTURES: See Existing Construction.
EXPANSION TO AN      The preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
EXISTING             the lots on which the manufacturing homes are to be affixed (including the
MANUFACTURED HOME    installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
PARK OR SUBDIVISION: grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
                     A.   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally
                     dry land areas from:
                        1.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
                        2.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
                     source.
                        3.   Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by flooding as
                     defined in paragraph A2 of this definition and are akin to a river of liquid and
FLOOD OR FLOODING:   flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when earth is carried by
                     a current of water and deposited along the path of the current.
                     B.   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other body of
                     water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents of water
                     exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an unusually high water
                     level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe storm, or by an
                     unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an abnormal tidal surge, or by
                     some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event which results in flooding as defined
                     in paragraph A1 of this definition.
FLOOD ELEVATION      See Base Flood Elevation (BFE).
DETERMINATION:
FLOOD ELEVATION      See Flood Insurance Study (FIS).
STUDY:
FLOOD FRINGE:        Flood fringe is that portion of the floodplain outside of the floodway covered by
                     floodwaters during the regulatory flood.
FLOOD HAZARD         An official map of a community, issued by the Federal Insurance Administrator, where
BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM): the boundaries of the flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow) related erosion areas having
                     special hazards have been designated as Zones A, M, and/or E.
                     An official map of a community, on which the Federal Insurance Administrator has
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE delineated both the special hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to
MAP (FIRM):          the community. A FIRM that has been made available digitally is called a Digital
                     Flood Insurance Rate Map (DFIRM).
FLOOD INSURANCE      An examination, evaluation, and determination of flood hazards and, if appropriate,
STUDY (FIS):         corresponding water surface elevations; or an examination, evaluation and
                     determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or flood-related erosion hazards.
FLOOD ZONE:          A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or Flood Insurance
                     Rate Map (FIRM) that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD- Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any source (see
PRONE AREA:          definition of "flooding").
FLOODPLAIN           The individual appointed to administer and enforce the floodplain management
ADMINISTRATOR:       regulations.
FLOODPLAIN           Any type of permit that is required in conformance with the provisions of this
DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:  chapter, prior to the commencement of any development activity.
FLOODPLAIN           The operation of an overall program of corrective and preventive measures for
MANAGEMENT:          reducing flood damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans,
                     flood control works, and flood plain management regulations.
                     Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
FLOODPLAIN           special purpose ordinances (such as a flood plain ordinance, grading ordinance, and
MANAGEMENT           erosion control ordinance), and other applications of police power. The term
REGULATIONS:         describes such state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide
                     standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
                     Any combination of structural and non-structural additions, changes, or adjustments
FLOODPROOFING:       to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or improved real
                     property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their contents.
                     The Base Flood Elevation plus the Freeboard.
FLOOD PROTECTION     A.   In "Special Flood Hazard Areas" where Base Flood Elevations (BFEs) have been
ELEVATION (FPE):     determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus one foot (1') of freeboard; and
                     B.   In "Special Flood Hazard Areas" where no BFE has been established, this
                     elevation shall be at least one foot (1') above the highest adjacent grade.
                     Those physical structural works for which funds have been authorized, appropriated,
                     and expended and which have been constructed specifically to modify flooding in
FLOOD PROTECTION     order to reduce the extent of the area within a community subject to a "special
SYSTEM:              flood hazard" and the extent of the depths of associated flooding. Such a system
                     typically includes dams, reservoirs, levees, or dikes. These specialized flood
                     modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering
                     standards.
                     The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must be
FLOODWAY:            reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the
                     water surface elevation.
                     A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for the purposes of
                     floodplain management. Freeboard tends to compensate for the many unknown factors
                     that could contribute to flood heights greater than the height calculated for a
FREEBOARD:           selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as wave action, obstructed bridge
                     openings, debris and ice jams, and the hydrologic effects of urbanization in a
                     watershed. The Base Flood Elevation (BFE) plus the freeboard establishes the Flood
                     Protection Elevation (FPE). Freeboard shall be one foot of feet.
                     A facility that cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located or
FUNCTIONALLY         carried out in close proximity to water, such as a docking or port facility
DEPENDENT USE:       necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, or
                     ship repair facilities. The term does not include long-term storage, manufacture,
                     sales, or service facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT     The highest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to construction, adjacent
GRADE (HAG):         to the proposed walls of a structure. Refer to the FEMA Elevation Certificate for
                     HAG related to building elevation information.
                     A structure that is:
                     A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing
                     maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the
                     Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on the
                     National Register;
                     B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as
                     contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or to
                     a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered
                     historic district;
HISTORIC STRUCTURE:  C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places and determined as
                     eligible by states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by
                     the Secretary of the Interior; or
                     D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places and determined as
                     eligible by communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
                     either:
                        1.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior;
                     or
                        2.   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved
                     programs.
                     A general term used to refer to the several types of revisions and amendments to
LETTER OF MAP CHANGE FEMA maps that can be accomplished by letter. They include Letter of Map Amendment
(LOMC):              (LOMA), Letter of Map Revision (LOMR), and Letter of Map Revision based on Fill
                     (LOMR-F).
   LETTER OF      An official amendment, by letter, to an effective National Flood Insurance Program
   MAP            (NFIP) map. A LOMA establishes a property's location in relation to the Special
   AMENDMENT      Flood Hazard Area (SFHA). LOMAs are usually issued because a property has been
   (LOMA):        inadvertently mapped as being in the floodplain but is actually on natural high
                     ground above the base flood elevation.
                     FEMA's modification to an effective Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or a Flood
                     Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM) or both. LOMRs are generally based on the
                     implementation of physical measures that affect the hydrologic or hydraulic
                     characteristics of a flooding source and thus result in the modification of the
   LETTER OF MAP  existing regulatory floodway, the effective Base Flood Elevations (BFEs), or the
   REVISION (LOMR)Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA). The LOMR officially revises the Flood Insurance
                     Rate Map (FIRM) or Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM), and sometimes the Flood
                     Insurance Study (FIS) report, and when appropriate, includes a description of the
                     modifications. The LOMR is generally accompanied by an annotated copy of the
                     affected portions of the FIRM, FBFM, or FIS report.
   LETTER OF MAP  FEMA's modification of the Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA) shown on the Flood
   REVISION BASED Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) based on the placement of fill outside the existing
   ON FILL (LOMR-Fregulatory floodway. The LOMR-F does not change the FIRM, FBFM, or FIS report.
                     A formal review and comment as to whether a proposed flood protection project or
                     other project complies with the minimum NFIP requirements for such projects with
   CONDITIONAL    respect to delineation of special flood hazard areas. A CLOMR does not revise the
   LETTER OF MAP  effective Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or Flood Insurance Study (FIS). Upon
   REVISION       submission and approval of certified as.built documentation, a Letter of Map
   (CLOMR):       Revision (LOMR) may be issued by FEMA to revise the effective FIRM. Building Permits
                     and/or Flood Development Permits cannot be issued based on a CLOMR, because a CLOMR
                     does not change the NFIP map.
                     A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and constructed
LEVEE:               according to sound engineering practices, to contain, control, or divert the flow of
                     water so as to provide protection from temporary flooding.
                     A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees, and associated
LEVEE SYSTEM:        structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are constructed and operated
                     in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT:    In the context of this chapter, means any county or city having planning and zoning
                     authority to regulate land use within its jurisdiction.
LOWEST ADJACENT      The lowest point of the ground level next to the structure. Refer to the FEMA
GRADE (LAG):         Elevation Certificate for LAG related to building elevation information.
                     The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement). An unfinished or
                     flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or
LOWEST FLOOR:        storage in an area other than a basement area is not considered a building's lowest
                     floor; provided, that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in
                     violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of 44 CFR § 60.3 and
                     this chapter.
                     A structure, transportable in one or more sections, built on a permanent chassis and
MANUFACTURED HOME:   designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the
                     required utilities. The term "Manufactured Home" does not include a "Recreational
                     Vehicle."
MANUFACTURED HOME    A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into two (2) or more manufactured
PARK OR SUBDIVISION: home lots for rent or sale.
                     The building value, not including the land value and that of any accessory
MARKET VALUE:        structures or other improvements on the lot. Market value may be established by
                     independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated for age of building
                     and quality of construction (Actual Cash Value); or adjusted tax assessed values.
                     For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). the National Geodetic
MEAN SEA LEVEL:      Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum (such as North America Vertical Datum
                     of 1988 - NAVD88) to which Base Flood Elevations (BFEs) shown on a community's FIRM
                     are referenced.
MITIGATION:          Any action taken which will reduce the impact, damage, or cost of the next flood
                     that occurs.
                     Describes a condition where there is a river, flow, or inundation of liquid mud down
                     a hillside usually as a result of a dual condition of loss of brush cover and the
MUDSLIDE (i.e.,      subsequent accumulation of water on the ground preceded by a period of unusually
MUDFLOW):            heavy or sustained rain. A mudslide (i.e., mudflow) may occur as a distinct
                     phenomenon while a landslide is in progress, and will be recognized as such by the
                     Administrator only if the mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of
                     damage that occurs.
MUDSLIDE (i.e.,      The operation of an overall program of corrective and preventive measures for
MUDFLOW) AREA        reducing mudslide (i.e., mudflow) damage, including but not limited to emergency
MANAGEMENT:          preparedness plans, mudslide control works, and flood plain management regulations.
MUDSLIDE (i.e.,      An area with land surfaces and slopes of unconsolidated material where the history,
MUDFLOW) PRONE AREA: geology, and climate indicate a potential for mudflow.
NATIONAL FLOOD       The NFIP is a Federal program created by Congress to mitigate future flood losses
INSURANCE PROGRAM    nationwide through sound, community-enforced building and zoning ordinances and to
(NFIP):              provide access to affordable, federally backed flood insurance protection for
                     property owners.
                     For floodplain management purposes, a structure for which the start of construction
                     commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation
                     adopted by a community and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
NEW CONSTRUCTION:    Any construction started after May 13,1987 and before the effective start date of
                     this floodplain management ordinance is subject to the ordinance in effect at the
                     time the permit was issued, provided the start of construction was within one
                     hundred eighty (180) days of permit issuance.
                     A place where the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the
NEW MANUFACTURED     manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum the installation of
HOME PARK OR         utilities, the construction of streets, and final site grading or the pouring of
SUBDIVISION:         concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective date of floodplain management
                     regulations adopted by a community May 13, 1987.
PERSON:              Any individual, group of individuals, corporation, partnership, association,
                     political subdivision, public or private agency, or entity.
POST-FIRM:           Construction or other development for which the "start of construction" occurred on
                     or after the effective date of the initial Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).
                     Construction or other development for which the "start of construction" occurred
PRE-FIRM:            before May 13,1987, the effective date of the initial Flood Insurance Rate Map
                     (FIRM).
                     A vehicle that is:
                     A.   Built on a single chassis; and
RECREATIONAL         B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
VEHICLE:             projection; and
                     C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towed by a light duty truck; and
                     D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
                     quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
                     Regulatory flood is a flood determined to be representative of large floods known to
                     have occurred in Idaho and which may be expected to occur on a particular stream
                     because of like physical characteristics. The regulatory flood is based upon a
REGULATORY FLOOD:    statistical analysis of stream flow records available for the watershed or an
                     analysis of rainfall and runoff characteristics in the watershed. In inland areas,
                     the flood frequency of the regulatory flood is once in every one hundred (100)
                     years. This means that in any given year there is a one percent (1%) chance that a
                     regulatory flood may occur or be exceeded.
REGULATORY FLOODWAY: See Floodway.
                     To bring the structure or other development into compliance with State or local
                     flood plain management regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the
                     impacts of its non-compliance. Ways that impacts may be reduced include protecting
REMEDY A VIOLATION:  the structure or other affected development from flood damages, implementing the
                     enforcement provisions of this chapter or otherwise deterring future similar
                     violations, or reducing Federal financial exposure with regard to the structure or
                     other development.
REPETITIVE LOSS      An NFIP-insured structure that has had at least two (2) paid flood losses of more
STRUCTURE:           than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) each in any ten (10) year period since 1978.
RIVERINE:            Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including tributaries{'}'}, stream,
                     brook, etc.
                     The land in the flood plain within a community subject to a one percent (1%) or
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD greater chance of flooding in any given year. For purposes of these regulations, the
AREA (SFHA):         term "special flood hazard area" is synonymous in meaning with the phrase "area of
                     special flood hazard".
                     Includes substantial improvement, and means the date the building permit was issued,
                     provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
                     addition placement, or other improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days of
                     the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent
                     construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the
                     installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of
                     excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent
START OF             construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and
CONSTRUCTION:        filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does
                     it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the
                     erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
                     accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not
                     part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of
                     construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other
                     structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
                     dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE:           A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank that is
                     principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
                     Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the
                     structure to its before-damaged condition would equal or exceed fifty percent (50%)
                     of its market value before the damage occurred. See definition of "substantial
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE:  improvement".
                     Substantial damage also means flood-related damage sustained by a structure on two
                     (2) separate occasions during a ten (10) year period for which the cost of repairs
                     at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds twenty five
                     percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
                     Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure,
                     the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
                     structure before the "start of construction" of the improvement. This term includes
                     structures which have incurred "substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair
                     work performed. The term does not, however, include either:
SUBSTANTIAL          A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of
IMPROVEMENT:         state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
                     identified by the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum
                     necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
                     B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the alteration will not
                     preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic structure" and the
                     alteration is approved by variance issued pursuant to this chapter.
                     FEMA publications that provide guidance concerning the building performance
                     standards of the NFIP, which are contained in 44 CFR § 60.3. The bulletins and fact
                     sheets are intended for use primarily by State and local officials responsible for
                     interpreting and enforcing NFIP regulations and by members of the development
                     community, such as design professionals and builders. New bulletins, as well as
                     updates of existing bulletins, are issued periodically as needed. The bulletins do
TECHNICAL BULLETINS  not create regulations. Rather they provide specific guidance for complying with the
AND TECHNICAL FACT   minimum requirements of existing NFIP regulations.
SHEETS:              It should be noted that Technical Bulletins and Technical Fact Sheets provide
                     guidance on the minimum requirements of the NFIP regulations. State or community
                     requirements that exceed those of the NFIP take precedence. Design professionals
                     should contact the community officials to determine whether more restrictive State
                     or local regulations apply to the building or site in question. All applicable
                     standards of the State or local building code must also be met for any building in a
                     flood hazard area.
TEMPERATURE          Having the temperature regulated by a heating and/or cooling system, built-in or
CONTROLLED:          appliance.
VARIANCE:            A grant of relief by the governing body from a requirement of this chapter.
                     The failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the
                     community's flood plain management regulations. A structure or other development
VIOLATION:           without the Finished Construction Elevation Certificate, other certifications, or
                     other evidence of compliance required in § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)
                     (2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
                     documentation is provided.
                     The height, in relation to the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or
WATER SURFACE        the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other specified datum) of
ELEVATION:           floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or
                     riverine areas.
                     A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other topographic feature on or over
WATERCOURSE:         which waters flow at least periodically. Watercourse includes specifically
                     designated areas in which substantial flood damage may occur. (Ord. 249, 8-17-2016)
 
11-1-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
11-1-3-1: LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES:
This chapter shall apply to all Special Flood Hazard Areas within the
jurisdiction of the City of Horseshoe Bend, Idaho. Nothing in this chapter is
intended to allow uses or structures that are otherwise prohibited by the
zoning ordinance. (Ord. 249, 8-17-2016)
11-1-3-2: BASIS FOR SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS:
The Special Flood Hazard Areas identified by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency in its Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Horseshoe Bend, dated April 5,
1988 with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) or Digital Flood
Insurance Rate Maps (DFIRM), and other supporting data, are adopted by
reference and declared a part of this chapter. The FIS and the FIRM are on file
at the office of the Horseshoe Bend, Idaho clerk. (Ord. 249, 8-17-2016)
11-1-3-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A Floodplain Development Permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities within Special Flood Hazard Areas determined in accordance with the
provisions of section
11-1-4-2. (Ord. 249, 8-17-2016)
11-1-3-4: COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted, altered,
or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. (Ord. 249, 8-17-2016)
11-1-3-5: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter shall not in any way repeal, abrogate, impair, or remove the
necessity of compliance with any other laws, ordinances, regulations,
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions, etcetera. However, where this
chapter and another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes more stringent or
greater restrictions shall control. (Ord. 249, 8-17-2016)
11-1-3-6: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes. (Ord. 249, 8-17-2016)
11-1-3-7: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. larger floods can and will occur. Flood heights may be
increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land
outside the Special Flood Hazard Areas or uses permitted within such areas will
be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability
on the part of City of Horseshoe Bend, Idaho or by any officer or employee
thereof for flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or an
administrative decision lawfully made hereunder. (Ord. 249, 8-17-2016)
11-1-3-8: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION:
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted, or
altered unless in full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure
to comply with any of its requirements, including violation of conditions and
safeguards established in connection with grants of variance or special
exceptions, shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this
chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) or imprisoned for
not more than one hundred eighty (180) days, or both. Each day the violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the City of Horseshoe Bend, Idaho from taking such other lawful
actions as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. (Ord. 249, 8-17-
2016)
11-1-4: ADMINISTRATION:
11-1-4-1: DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ORDINANCE ADMINISTRATOR:
The City Engineer, hereinafter referred to as the "Floodplain Administrator",
is hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 249, 8-17-2016)
11-1-4-2: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
   A.   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within Special Flood Hazard Areas to assure that the
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
   B.   Review all proposed development within Special Flood Hazard Areas to
assure that all necessary local, State, and Federal permits have been received,
including Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of
1972, 33 USC § 1334.
   C.   Notify adjacent communities and the Idaho Department of Water Resources
State Coordinator for the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit evidence of such
notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
   D.   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is maintained.
   E.   Prevent encroachments into floodways and flood fringe areas unless the
certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of section
11-1-5-5 are met.
   F.   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
reference level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new and
substantially improved structures, in accordance with the provisions of
subsection
11-1-4-3C.
   G.   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which all
new and substantially improved structures and utilities have been floodproofed,
in accordance with the provisions of subsection
11-1-4-3C.
   H.   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all public
utilities in accordance with the provisions of subsection
11-1-4-3C.
   I.   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of subsections
11-1-4-3C and
11-1-5-2B.
   J.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries
of the Special Flood Hazard Areas, floodways, or flood fringe areas (for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation as provided in this article.
   K.   When Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with the provisions of section
11-1-3-2, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any BFE data, along with
floodway data or flood fringe area data available from a Federal, State, or
other source, including data developed pursuant to subsection
11-1-5-3B2, in order to administer the provisions of this chapter.
   L.   When Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway or
flood fringe area data has been provided in accordance with the provisions of
section
11-1-3-2, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any floodway data or flood
fringe area data available from a Federal, State, or other source in order to
administer the provisions of this chapter.
   M.   When the lowest floor and the lowest adjacent grade of a structure or
the lowest ground elevation of a parcel in a Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA)
is above the Base Flood Elevation (BFE), advise the property owner of the
option to apply for a Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) from FEMA. Maintain a copy
of the LOMA issued by FEMA in the floodplain development permit file.
   N.   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration of
this chapter and make these records available for public inspection,
recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, as
amended.
   O.   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to a
floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall
make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the
work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and the
terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator has
a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   P.   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part thereof
is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation of this
chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be immediately
stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to the person
doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order shall state the specific
work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the condition
(s) under which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work order
constitutes a misdemeanor.
   Q.   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of State or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable State or local law may
also be revoked.
   R.   Make periodic inspections throughout the Special Flood Hazard Areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator and each
member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   S.   Follow through with corrective procedures of section
11-1-4-4.
   T.   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance requests.
   U.   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to, the
FIS Report, FIRM and other official flood maps, and studies adopted in
accordance with the provisions of section
11-1-3-2 of this chapter, including any revisions thereto including Letters of
Map Change, issued by FEMA. Notify the NFIP State Coordinator and FEMA of your
community's mapping needs.
   V.   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including Letters of Map
Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-Fs) and Letters of Map Revision (LOMRs). (Ord.
249, 8-17-2016)
11-1-4-3: FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION, PERMIT, AND CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Application Requirements: Application for a Floodplain Development
Permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within Special Flood Hazard Areas. The following items shall
be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
      1.   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
         a.   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities, and
other development;
         b.   The boundary of the Special Flood Hazard Area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map as determined in section
11-1-3-2, or a statement that the entire lot is within the Special Flood Hazard
Area;
         c.   The flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in section
11-1-3-2;
         d.   The boundary of the floodway(s) or flood fringe area(s) as
determined in section
11-1-3-2;
         e.   The Base Flood Elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in
sections
11-1-3-2,
11-1-3-3, or
11-1-5-3;
         f.   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
         g.   The certification of the plot plan by a registered land surveyor
or professional engineer.
      2.   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within a
Special Flood Hazard Area including but not limited to:
         a.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed reference
level (including basement) of all structures;
         b.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure in Zone A, AE, AH, AO, or A1-30 will be floodproofed; and
         c.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or floodproofed.
      3.   If floodproofing, a Floodproofing Certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-33)
with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and maintenance
plan that include, but are not limited to installation, exercise, and
maintenance of floodproofing measures.
      4.   A Foundation Plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are
met. These details include but are not limited to:
         a.   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation,
or on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and
         b.   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance with subsections
11-1-5-1H2a through H2d when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones
A, AE, AH, AO, and A1-30.
      5.   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor.
      6.   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
      7.   Certification that all other Local, State, and Federal permits
required prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received.
      8.   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of
subsections
11-1-5-2F and G of this chapter are met.
      9.   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation, when
applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and
      10.   A map (if not shown on plot plan) showing the location of the
proposed watercourse alteration or relocation.
   B.   Permit Requirements: The Floodplain Development Permit shall include,
but not be limited to:
      1.   A complete description of all the development to be permitted under
the floodplain development permit (i.e. house, garage, pool, septic, bulkhead,
cabana, pole barn, chicken coop, pier, bridge, mining, dredging, filling,
grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of equipment or
materials, etc.).
      2.   The Special Flood Hazard Area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with available data specified in section
11-1-3-2.
      3.   The Flood Protection Elevation required for the reference level and
all attendant utilities.
      4.   The Flood Protection Elevation required for the protection of all
public utilities.
      5.   All certification submittal requirements with timelines.
      6.   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway or flood fringe area of any watercourse, as
applicable.
      7.   The flood openings requirements, if in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, or A1-
30.
      8.   A statement of the limitations of below BFE enclosure uses, if
applicable. (i.e., parking, building access and limited storage only).
      9.   A statement that all materials below BFE/FPE must be flood resistant
materials.
   C.   Certification Requirements:
      1.   Elevation Certificates:
         a.   An Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form 86-0-33) is required prior to
the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit
holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the
elevation of the reference level, in relation to mean sea level. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder prior to the
beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit.
         b.   An Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form 86-0-33) is required after
the reference level is established. Within seven (7) calendar days of
establishment of the reference level elevation, it shall be the duty of the
permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the
elevation of the reference level, in relation to mean sea level. Any work done
within the seven (7) day calendar period and prior to submission of the
certification shall be at the permit holder's risk. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and
prior to further work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the
certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause to issue a
stop-work order for the project.
         c.   A final as. built Finished Construction Elevation Certificate
(FEMA Form 86-0-33) is required after construction is completed and prior to
Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the
permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of
final as-built construction of the elevation of the reference level and all
attendant utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate
data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy. (The Finished Construction Elevation
Certificate certifier shall provide at least two (2) photographs showing the
front and rear of the building taken within ninety (90) days from the date of
certification. The photographs must be taken with views confirming the building
description and diagram number provided in Section A. To the extent possible,
these photographs should show the entire building including foundation of the
building has split-level or multi-level areas, provide at least two (2)
additional photographs showing side views of the building. In addition, when
applicable, provide a photograph of the foundation showing a representative
example of the flood openings or vents. All photographs must be in color and
measure at least three inches by three inches (3" x 3"). Digital photographs
are acceptable. The FEMA elevation certificate is optional for floodplain
management elevation data, but is state recommended. The use of the FEMA
elevation certificate is required for the purchase of flood insurance, and is
mandatory for crs participation.
      2.   Floodproofing Certificate: If non-residential floodproofing is used
to meet the Flood Protection Elevation requirements, a Floodproofing
Certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-34), with supporting data, an operational plan,
and an inspection and maintenance plan are required prior to the actual start
of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to
the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the flood proofed design
elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to
mean sea level. Floodproofing certification shall be prepared by or under the
direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by
same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the
operational plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to permit
approval. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required
corrections shall be cause to deny a Floodplain Development Permit. Failure to
construct in accordance with the certified design shall be cause to withhold
the issuance of a Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy.
      3.   If a manufactured home is placed within Zone A, AE, AH, AO, or A1-30
and the elevation of the chassis is more than thirty six inches (36") in height
above grade, an engineered foundation certification is required in accordance
with the provisions of subsection
11-1-5-2C2.
      4.   If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, the following shall
all be submitted by the permit applicant prior to issuance of a floodplain
development permit:
         a.   A description of the extent of watercourse alteration or
relocation; and
         b.   A professional engineer's certified report on the effects of the
proposed project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the
effects to properties located both upstream and downstream; and
         c.   A map showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration
or relocation; and
         d.   An Idaho Stream Channel Alteration Permit approval shall be
provided by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator.
      5.   Certification Exemptions: The following structures, if located
within Zone A, AE, AH, AO, or A1-30, are exempt from the elevation/
floodproofing certification requirements specified in items C1 and C2 of this
subsection:
         a.   Recreational Vehicles meeting requirements of subsection
11-1-5-2E1;
         b.   Temporary Structures meeting requirements of subsection
11-1-5-2F; and
         c.   Accessory Structures less than 200 square feet meeting
requirements of subsection
11-1-5-2G.
   D.   Determinations For Existing Buildings And Structures: For applications
for building permits to improve buildings and structures, including
alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of occupancy,
additions, rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements, repairs of
substantial damage, and any other improvement of or work on such buildings and
structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with the Building
Official, shall:
      1.   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work. In the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
      2.   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
      3.   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; and
      4.   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that compliance
with the flood resistant construction requirements of the adopted Idaho
Building Code and this chapter is required. (Ord. 249, 8-17-2016)
11-1-4-4: CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES:
   A.   Violations To Be Corrected: When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable State and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
   B.   Actions In Event Of Failure To Take Corrective Action: If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner's last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      1.   That the building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
      2.   That a hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at a
designated place and time, not later than ten (10) days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
that following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue an order to
alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as applicable.
   C.   Order To Take Corrective Action: If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of the Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance, he or she shall issue an order in writing to the owner, requiring
the owner to remedy the violation within a specified time period, not less than
sixty (60) calendar days, nor more than one hundred eighty (180) calendar days.
Where the Floodplain Administrator finds that there is imminent danger to life
or other property, he or she may order that corrective action be taken in such
lesser period as may be feasible.
   D.   Appeal: Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the clerk within ten (10)
days following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the
order of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local governing body
shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and
affirm, or revoke the order.
   E.   Failure To Comply With Order: If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished at the
discretion of the court. (Ord. 249, 8-17-2016)
11-1-4-5: VARIANCE PROCEDURES:
   A.   The Mayor and City Council as established by City of Horseshoe Bend,
Idaho hereinafter referred to as the "appeal board", shall hear and decide
requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Variances may be issued for:
      1.   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
      2.   Functionally dependent facilities, if determined to meet the
definition as stated in section
11-1-2 of this chapter, provided provisions of subsections H2, H3, and H5 have
been satisfied, and such facilities are protected by methods that minimize
flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats to public
safety; or
      3.   Any other type of development, provided it meets the requirements of
this section.
   C.   In passing upon variances, the appeal board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      1.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      2.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      3.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      4.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      5.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under section
11-1-2 of this chapter as a functionally dependent facility, where applicable;
      6.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      7.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      8.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      9.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      10.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      11.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and bridges.
   D.   The applicant shall include a written report addressing each of the
above factors in subsections C1 through C11 with their application for a
variance.
   E.   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of this
chapter, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
chapter.
   F.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the Base Flood Elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and that such construction
below the BFE increases risks to life and property, and that the issuance of a
variance to construct a structure below the BFE will result in increased
premium rates for flood insurance up to twenty five dollars ($25.00) per one
hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage. Such notification shall be
maintained with a record of all variance actions, including justification for
their issuance.
   G.   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
the State of Idaho upon request.
   H.   Conditions For Variances:
      1.   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other Federal, State, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
      2.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
flood fringe area if the variance would result in any increase in flood levels
during the base flood discharge.
      3.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      4.   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit approval.
      5.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   I.   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or sites,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage
facilities that are located in Special Flood Hazard Areas provided that all of
the following conditions are met.
      1.   The use serves a critical need in the community.
      2.   No feasible location exists for the use outside the Special Flood
Hazard Area.
      3.   The reference level of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to
at least the Flood Protection Elevation.
      4.   The use complies with all other applicable Federal, State and local
laws.
   J.   The City of Horseshoe Bend, Idaho will notify the State NFIP
Coordinator of the Idaho Department of Water Resources of its intention to
grant a variance at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to granting the
variance.
   K.   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board may appeal
such decision to the Court, as provided in Idaho Code 67-6535. (Ord. 249, 8-17-
2016)
11-1-5: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
11-1-5-1: GENERAL STANDARDS:
In all Special Flood Hazard Areas the following provisions are required:
   A.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and lateral
movement of the structure.
   B.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage in accordance
with the Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials Requirements,
and available from the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   C.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
   D.   All new and replacement electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air
conditioning equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding to the Flood Protection Elevation.
These include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units,
bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable
boxes, hot water heaters, and electric outlets/switches.
   E.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   F.   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   G.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   H.   A fully enclosed area, of new construction and substantially improved
structures, which is below the lowest floor shall:
      1.   Be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials at least to the
Flood Protection Elevation; and
      2.   Include, in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, and A1-30, flood openings to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum design criteria:
         a.   A minimum of two (2) flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         b.   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one (1)
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
         c.   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed area
must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and exit;
         d.   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher than
one foot (1') above the interior or exterior adjacent grade;
         e.   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
         f.   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
   I.   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a structure,
which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall meet the
requirements of "new construction" as contained in this chapter.
   J.   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction, or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
chapter and located totally or partially within the floodway, flood fringe
area, or stream setback, provided there is no additional encroachment below the
Flood Protection Elevation in the floodway, flood fringe area, or stream
setback, and provided that such repair, reconstruction, or replacement meets
all of the other requirements of this chapter.
   K.   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in subsection
11-1-4-4I. A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a Special Flood Hazard Area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least the Flood
Protection Elevation and certified in accordance with the provisions of
subsection
11-1-4-3C.
   L.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage and determined to be
reasonably safe from flooding.
   M.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   N.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   O.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by Federal or State law, including Section 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 USC § 1334.
   P.   When a structure is partially located in a Special Flood Hazard Area,
the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
   Q.   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest Base Flood
Elevation (BFE) shall apply.
   R.   Fill is prohibited in the SFHA, including construction of buildings on
fill. This includes not approving Conditional Letters or Letters of Map
Revision (CLOMR-F or LOMR-F). (Ord. 249, 8-17-2016)
11-1-5-2: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
In all Special Flood Hazard Areas where Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data has
been provided, as set forth in sections
11-1-3-2 or
11-1-5-4, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of section
11-1-5-1, are required:
   A.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the Flood
Protection Elevation, as defined in section
11-1-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Non-Residential Construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other non-residential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
Flood Protection Elevation, as defined in section
11-1-2 of this chapter. Structures located in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, and A1-30
may be floodproofed to the Flood Protection Elevation in lieu of elevation
provided that all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, below the Flood Protection Elevation are watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and the effect of buoyancy. For AH and AO Zones, the floodproofing
elevation shall be in accordance with subsection
11-1-5-6B1. A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the floodproofing standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such
certification shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in
subsection
11-1-4-3C, along with the operational plan and the inspection and maintenance
plan.
   C.   Manufactured Homes:
      1.   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that the
reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the Flood Protection
Elevation, as defined in section
11-1-2 of this chapter.
      2.   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the Idaho Division of Building Safety's "Idaho Manufactured
Home Installation Standard" in accordance with Idaho Code section 44-2201(2).
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis
thirty-six inches (36") or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall
be supported by reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation
of the chassis is above thirty-six inches (36") in height, an engineering
certification is required.
      3.   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of subsection 11-1-5-2D.
      4.   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all residents
of all new, substantially improved, or substantially damaged manufactured home
parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This plan shall be
filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the local Emergency
Management Coordinator.
   D.   Additions/Improvements:
      1.   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         a.   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any more
nonconforming than the existing structure; or
         b.   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      2.   Additions to post-FIRM structures that are a substantial improvement
with no modifications to the existing structure other than a standard door in
the common wall shall require only the addition to comply with the standards
for new construction.
      3.   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         a.   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
only must comply with the standards for new construction; or
         b.   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      4.   Any combination of repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
or improvement of a building or structure taking place during a 2 year period,
the cumulative cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure before the improvement or repair is started, must
comply with the standards for new construction. For each building or structure,
the two (2) year period begins on the date of the first improvement or repair
of that building or structure subsequent to the effective date of this chapter.
If the structure has sustained substantial damage, any repairs are considered
substantial improvement regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
requirement does not, however, include either:
         a.   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary, or safety code violations identified by the building
official and that are the minimum necessary to assume safe living conditions;
or
         b.   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
   E.   Recreational Vehicles: Recreational vehicles shall be either:
      1.   Temporary Placement:
         a.   Be on site for fewer than one hundred eight (180) consecutive
days and be fully licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is
ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to
the site only by quick disconnect type utilities, and has no permanently
attached additions); or
      2.   Permanent Placement:
         a.   Recreational vehicles that do not meet the limitations of
temporary placement shall meet all the requirements for new construction, as
set forth in section
11-1-5-1.
   F.   Temporary Non-Residential Structures: Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a flash flood or other type of flood warning notification.
The following information shall be submitted in writing to the Floodplain
Administrator for review and written approval:
      1.   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed six (6) months, renewable up to one
(1) year;
      2.   The name, address, and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
      3.   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., immediately upon flood warning notification);
      4.   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the entity
responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
      5.   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside the
Special Flood Hazard Area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   G.   Accessory Structures: When accessory structures (sheds, detached
garages, etc.) are to be placed within a Special Flood Hazard Area, elevation
or flood proofing certifications are required for all accessory structures in
accordance with subsection
11-1-4-3C, and the following criteria shall be met:
      1.   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking, or restroom areas);
      2.   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
      3.   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
      4.   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the building
site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      5.   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with the
provisions of subsection
11-1-5-1A;
      6.   All service facilities, such as electrical, shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of subsection
11-1-5-1D; and
      7.   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces shall be provided below Flood Protection Elevation in conformance
with the provisions of subsection
11-1-5-1Hb.
An accessory structure with a footprint less than two hundred (200) square feet
and is a minimal investment of two thousand five hundred ($2,500.00) or less
and satisfies the criteria outlined in G1 through G7 above is not required to
meet the elevation or flood proofing standards of subsection B.
   H.   Tanks: When gas and liquid storage tanks are to be placed within a
Special Flood Hazard Area, the following criteria shall be met:
      1.   Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads during conditions of the base flood, including the effects of
buoyancy (assuming the tank is empty);
      2.   Elevated above-ground tanks, in flood hazard areas shall be attached
to and elevated to or above the design flood elevation on a supporting
structure that is designed to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement
during conditions of the base flood. Tank-supporting structures shall meet the
foundation requirements of the applicable flood hazard area;
      3.   Not elevated above-ground tanks, that do not meet the elevation
requirements of subsection B of this section shall be permitted in flood hazard
areas provided the tanks are anchored or otherwise designed and constructed to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood, including the effects
of buoyancy assuming the tank is empty and the effects of flood-borne debris.
      4.   Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and vents shall be:
         a.   At or above the flood protection elevation or fitted with covers
designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of the contents of the
tanks during conditions of the base flood; and
         b.   Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic
and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during conditions of
the base flood.
   I.   Construction Of Below-Grade Crawlspace:
      1.   The interior grade of a crawlspace must not be below the BFE and
must not be more than two feet (2') below the exterior lowest adjacent grade
(LAG).
      2.   The height of the below-grade crawlspace, measured from the interior
grade of the crawlspace to the top of the crawlspace foundation wall, must not
exceed four feet (4') at any point.
   3.   There must be an adequate drainage system that removes floodwaters from
the interior area of the crawlspace. The enclosed area should be drained within
a reasonable time after a flood event.
   4.   The velocity of floodwaters at the site should not exceed five feet
(5') per second for any crawlspace.
See Technical Bulletin 11 for further information.
Caution: Buildings that have below-grade crawlspaces will have higher flood
insurance premiums than buildings that have the preferred crawlspace
construction, with the interior elevation of the crawlspace soil at or above
the Base Flood Elevation (BFE).
   J.   Other Development In Regulated Floodways And Flood Fringe:
      1.   Fences that have the potential to block the passage of floodwaters,
such as stockade fences and wire mesh fences, in regulated floodways and flood
fringe shall meet the limitations of section
11-1-5-5 of this chapter.
      2.   Retaining walls, bulkheads, sidewalks, and driveways that involve
the placement of fill in regulated floodways and flood fringe shall meet the
limitations of section
11-1-5-5 of this chapter.
      3.   Roads and watercourse crossings, including roads, bridges, culverts,
low-water crossings, and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to travel
from one side of a watercourse to the other side, which encroach into regulated
floodways and flood fringe, shall meet the limitations of section
11-1-5-5 of this chapter.
      4.   Drilling water, oil, and/or gas wells including fuel storage tanks,
apparatus, and any equipment at the site that encroach into regulated floodways
and flood fringe shall meet the limitations of section
11-1-5-5 of this chapter.
      5.   Docks, piers, boat ramps, marinas, moorings, decks, docking
facilities, port facilities, shipbuilding, and ship repair facilities that
encroach into regulated floodways and flood fringe shall meet the limitations
of section
11-1-5-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 249, 8-17-2016)
11-1-5-3: STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS:
Within the Special Flood Hazard Areas designated as Zone A (also known as
Unnumbered A Zones) and established in section
11-1-3-2, where no Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data has been provided by FEMA,
the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of section
11-1-5-1, shall apply:
   A.   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, or new development shall be permitted, unless a determination of
the Base Flood Elevation (BFE) is provided.
   B.   The BFE used in determining the Flood Protection Elevation (FPE) shall
be determined based on the following criteria:
      1.   When Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data is available from other
sources, all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas
shall also comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be
elevated or floodproofed in accordance with standards in sections
11-1-5-1 and
11-1-5-2.
      2.   When floodway or flood fringe data is available from a Federal,
State, or other source, all new construction and substantial improvements
within floodway and flood fringe areas shall also comply with the requirements
of sections
11-1-5-2 and
11-1-5-5.
      3.   All subdivision, manufactured home park, and other development
proposals shall provide Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data if development is
greater than five (5) acres or has more than fifty (50) lots/manufactured home
sites. Such Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data shall be adopted by reference in
accordance with section
11-1-3-2 and utilized in implementing this chapter. The applicant/developer
shall submit an application for a Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR)
prior to Preliminary Plat approval and have obtained a Letter of Map Revision
(LOMR) prior to any building permits for structures being issued. See FEMA 480
and/or FEMA 265 for further information.
      4.   When Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data is not available from a
Federal, State, or other source as outlined above, the reference level shall be
elevated or floodproofed (non-residential) to or above the Flood Protection
Elevation, as defined in section 11-1-2. All other applicable provisions of
section 11-1-5-2 shall also apply. (Ord. 249, 8-17-2016)
11-1-5-4: STANDARDS FOR RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS WITH BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS BUT
WITHOUT ESTABLISHED FLOODWAYS OR FLOOD FRINGE AREAS:
Along rivers and streams where Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data is provided by
FEMA or is available from another source but neither floodway nor flood fringe
areas are identified for a Special Flood Hazard Area on the FIRM or in the FIS
report, the following requirements shall apply to all development within such
areas:
   A.   Standards of sections
11-1-5-1 and
11-1-5-2; and
   B.   Until a regulatory floodway or flood fringe area is designated, no
encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, or
other development shall be permitted unless certification with supporting
technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood at any point within the community. (Ord. 249, 8-17-
2016)
11-1-5-5: STANDARDS FOR FLOODWAYS AND FLOOD FRINGE AREAS:
Areas designated as floodways or flood fringe areas are located within the
Special Flood Hazard Areas established in section
11-1-3-2. The floodways and flood fringe areas are extremely hazardous areas
due to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris
and potential projectiles. The following provisions, in addition to standards
outlined in sections
11-1-5-1 and
11-1-5-2, shall apply to all development within such areas:
   A.   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other developments shall be permitted unless:
      1.   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not result
in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood,
based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with
standard engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain Administrator
prior to issuance of floodplain development permit; or
      2.   A Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) has been approved by
FEMA. A Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) must also be obtained within six (6)
months of completion of the proposed encroachment.
   B.   If subsection A is satisfied, all development shall comply with all
applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Manufactured homes may be permitted provided the following provisions
are met:
      1.   The anchoring and the elevation standards of subsection
11-1-5-2C; and
      2.   The encroachment standards of subsection A. (Ord. 249, 8-17-2016)
11-1-5-6: STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (ZONE AO, AH, AR/AO, OR AR/
AH):
Located within the Special Flood Hazard Areas established in section
11-1-3-2, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one (1) to three (3)
feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of
flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate. In addition to sections
11-1-5-1 and
11-1-5-2, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the
following requirements:
   A.   The reference level shall be elevated at least as high as the depth
number specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), in feet, plus a
freeboard of one foot, above the highest adjacent grade; or at least one foot
above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified. A minimum of
one foot (1') is required and four feet (4') is recommended where a depth is
not provided.
   B.   Non-residential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be floodproofed
to the same level as required in subsection A so that the structure, together
with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, below that level shall be
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Certification is required in
accordance with subsections
11-1-4-3C, and
11-1-5-2B.
   C.   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on slopes
to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures. (Ord. 249, 8-17-
2016)
11-1-6: LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS:
11-1-6-1: EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE
PREVENTION ORDINANCE:
This chapter, in part, comes forward by re-enactment of some of the provisions
of the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance enacted May 13,1987 as amended, and it
is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and continue to enforce
without interruption of such existing provisions, so that all rights and
liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be enforced. The
enactment of this chapter shall not affect any action, suit, or proceeding
instituted or pending. All provisions of the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance
of the City of Horseshoe Bend, Idaho enacted on May 13,1987, as amended, which
are not re-enacted herein are repealed. (Ord. 249, 8-17-2016)
11-1-6-2: EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS:
Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans, construction,
size, or designated use of any development or any part thereof for which a
Floodplain Development Permit has been granted by the Floodplain Administrator
or his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of this chapter.
Provided, however, that when construction is not begun under such outstanding
permit within a period of one hundred eighty (180) days subsequent to the date
of issuance of the outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 249, 8-17-2016)
11-1-6-3: SEVERABILITY:
This chapter is hereby declared to be severable. Should any portion of this
chapter be declared invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining
provisions shall continue in full force and effect and shall be read to carry
out the purpose(s) of this chapter before the declaration of partial
invalidity. (Ord. 249, 8-17-2016)
11-1-6-4: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall become effective September 1, 2016. (Ord. 249, 8-17-2016)
