CITY CODE
of
IDAHO CITY, IDAHO
2000
Code current through:
Ord. 389, passed October 23, 2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Company
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Idaho City, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance 389, passed October 23, 2024. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
      American Legal Publishing
      Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 281
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CITY OF IDAHO CITY, IDAHO MUNICIPAL CODE
BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and City Council of the City of Idaho City, Idaho,
as follows:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the City
Code of the City of Idaho City, Idaho prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc.
containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with
the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body
of the City, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official
code and law of the City as enacted by the Mayor and City Council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official City Code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which shall be
maintained in the office of the City Clerk, certified as to correctness and
available for inspection at any and all times that said office is regularly
open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official City
Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official City Code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the City Code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official City Code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the Code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication in pamphlet form as provided by law.
PASSED this 28th day of March, 2000.
APPROVED this 28th day of March, 2000.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c35190cb773ac9e278991b39239e48d0494747b4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-775.png]
 
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the City Council, this City Code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official City Code of Idaho City. This City
Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the CITY CODE OF IDAHO CITY and
is hereby published by authority of the City Council and shall be supplemented
to incorporate the most recent legislation of the City as provided in Section
1-1-3  of this Chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this City Code by title in any legal documents. (2000 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The City Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the City of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Title. (2000 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the City Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this City Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this City Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the City Code. (2000 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this City Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
City Council. The City Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the Clerk. Any
person having custody of a copy of the City Code shall make every effort to
maintain said Code current as to the most recent ordinances passed. Such person
shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered or made available to such person through the office of the City
Clerk. Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the City and shall be
returned to the office of the City Clerk when directed so to do by order of the
City Council. (2000 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the City passed prior to the adoption of this City
Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this City Code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
City; and all special ordinances. (2000 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this City Code or by virtue of the
preceding Section, excepting as the City Code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this City Code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2000 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This Section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Currently Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the City herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this Chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the City under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this City Code. (2000 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this City Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The City Council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (2000 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this City Code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this City Code by words importing the singular number
only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the
opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
City Code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the City has been
changed in the content of this City Code to "Title", "Chapter", "Section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the City's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2000 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
   AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
   CITY: The City of Idaho City, County of Boise, State of Idaho.
   CODE: The City Code of the City of Idaho City.
   COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the City Council of the City of Idaho
City.
   COUNTY: The County of Boise, State of Idaho.
   EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the
City of Idaho City".
   GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
   LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or
any act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the City, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
   OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this Code.
   OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the City of
Idaho City".
   OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
   PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods,
chattels, effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by
which any pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created,
acknowledged, transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and
every right or interest therein.
   RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the
consumer.
   RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
   STATE: The State of Idaho.
   STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
   TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this
Code, unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to
the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for
the purpose of resale.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (2000 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the City Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2000 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   Misdemeanor: Unless specifically provided elsewhere, any person
convicted of a violation of any section or provision of this Code deemed a
misdemeanor may be fined in a sum not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00)
for any offense and may be confined in the County Jail for a period of not more
than six (6) months. Either or both such fine and imprisonment may be imposed;
and in addition thereto, any person so convicted shall pay such costs as the
court may assess. (2000 Code)
   B.   Infraction: When the offense is designated as an infraction by any
section or provision of this Code or by State law, it is punishable only by a
penalty not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00) and no incarceration may
be imposed.
      1.   Fixed penalties for infractions:
 
Idaho City Code Violation                                   Infraction Amount
                Failure to purchase or attach dog license,  $ 50.00
5-3-4           first offense
                Failure to purchase or attach dog license,  100.00
                second offense
6-4-2A6         Operation of snowmobile or OHV in excess of 90.00
                15 miles per hour
                Any other infraction not previously listed  100.00
 
(Ord. 339, 6-25-2014)
   C.   Federally Mandated Programs: Any city which is participating in a
Federally mandated program, wherein penalties or enforcement remedies are
required by the terms of participation in the program, may enforce such
requirements by ordinance, to include a criminal or civil monetary penalty not
to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or imprisonment for criminal
offenses not to exceed six (6) months or to include both a fine and
imprisonment for criminal offenses. (2000 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-302.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty Provisions:
      1.   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this Code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this
Code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed or where any action
which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor unless otherwise provided. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains
unperformed or such act continues unless otherwise specifically provided in
this Code.
      2.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this Code, and there shall
be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of
this chapter shall apply.
   B.   One Recovery For Same Offense: In all cases where the same offense is
made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this Code,
the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced. (2000 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty unless the intention of
the City Council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (2000
Code)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Meetings
1-5-2: Compensation
1-5-1: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The Mayor and City Council shall meet in regular
session at the City Hall on the second and fourth Wednesday of each month, such
meetings to commence at the hour of six o’clock (6:00) P.M. During such regular
sessions, the Mayor and Council may consider any and all business of the City
properly brought before the Council. When a holiday recognized by the City
falls on the second or fourth Wednesday, the regular meeting may be moved or
canceled at the direction of the City Council.
   B.   Special Meetings: The Mayor and Council may meet from time to time in
special session, as provided by law. The time and place for such meetings shall
be designated in the notice for such meetings, and all notices shall be as
provided by law.
   C.   Executive Session: The Mayor and Council may meet in executive session,
only for the purposes expressly allowed by law and only at the times and in the
manner and after notice required by law.
   D.   Meetings With Legal Counsel: The Mayor and Council may meet separately
or as a group with legal counsel to discuss issues, request legal advice or
receive legal opinions, without prior public notice, and such conferences shall
not constitute a meeting of the Council. The contents of such meetings shall
enjoy the normal privileges of an attorney/client relationship. (Ord. 222, 3-9-
1993; amd. Ord. 320, 6-24-2008; Ord. 378, 7-26-2023, Ord. 389, 10-23-2024)
1-5-2: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Mayor: Effective January 1, 2018 the compensation of the Mayor shall be
four hundred dollars ($400.00) per month.
   B.   Council Members: Effective January 1, 2018 the compensation of each
Council member shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00) per month. (Ord. 346, 6-
14-2017)
CHAPTER 6
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
SECTION:
1-6-1: Creation Of Right
1-6-2: Number Of Petitioners Required
1-6-3: Signature Requirements; Verification; Printing; Time Limits
1-6-1: CREATION OF RIGHT:
The people of the City shall have the right to enact ordinances through the
initiative process, and to repeal ordinances through the referendum process,
according to the procedures set forth herein. (Ord. 157, 4-10-1979)
1-6-2: NUMBER OF PETITIONERS REQUIRED:
To enact an ordinance by initiative or to repeal an ordinance by referendum,
there shall be attached or appended to the petition the signatures of the legal
voters of the City equal to at least twenty percent (20%) of the total number
of voters registered to vote at the last general election in the City. (Ord.
157, 4-10-1979)
1-6-3: SIGNATURE REQUIREMENTS; VERIFICATION; PRINTING; TIME LIMITS:
Referendum and initiative petitions shall conform with the requirements for
signature, verification of valid petitions, printing of petitions, and time
limits, except as expressly modified to meet the purposes of initiative and
referendum to be as nearly as practicable as provided in section 34-1801 et
seq., of the Idaho Code. (Ord. 157, 4-10-1979; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 7
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
SECTION:
1-7-1: Adoption Of Plan
1-7-1: ADOPTION OF PLAN:
The Idaho City Comprehensive Plan as presented at the public hearing held on
January 20, 1998, is hereby adopted by reference by the City Council pursuant
to the provisions of Idaho Code section 67-6509(c). (Ord. 266, 1-27-1998)
CHAPTER 8
AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
1-8-1: Applicable County Plans And Ordinances
1-8-2: County Enforcement
1-8-3: City Limitation On Annexation Authority (Rep. by Ord. 319, 6-24-2008)
1-8-4: Impact Area Map
1-8-1: APPLICABLE COUNTY PLANS AND ORDINANCES:
   A.   Enumerated: Within the area of city impact identified by ordinance 279,
the following plans, codes and ordinances shall apply whenever development
within the area of city impact is being considered by the city or the county:
      1.   Boise County comprehensive plan.
      2.   Boise County subdivision ordinance.
      3.   Boise County zoning and development ordinance.
      4.   Boise County code ordinance.
      5.   Boise County building permit ordinance.
      6.   Boise County road standards ordinance.
      7.   All other standards of and applicable Boise County codes and
ordinances.
   B.   Notice From County: Boise County agrees to notify Idaho City of any
land development proposals, considerations, applications, new ordinances or
changes to existing ordinances, or any other considerations or proposals that
will affect land use within the agreed upon area of city impact. The county
will take into consideration any comments offered by the city concerning these
issues. (Ord. 280, 12-14-1999)
1-8-2: COUNTY ENFORCEMENT:
Boise County shall be responsible for the administration and enforcement of all
ordinances applicable within the area of city impact. (Ord. 280, 12-14-1999)
1-8-3: CITY LIMITATION ON ANNEXATION AUTHORITY:
(Rep. by Ord. 319, 6-24-2008)
1-8-4: IMPACT AREA MAP:
The Idaho City area of impact shall be the area defined by the map attached to
ordinance 279 as exhibit A, on file in the office of the city clerk, and
incorporated herein by reference. (Ord. 279, 12-14-1999)
CHAPTER 9
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-9-1: City Clerk/Treasurer
1-9-2: City Attorney
1-9-3: City Marshal
1-9-1: CITY CLERK/TREASURER:
   A.   Appointment: The city clerk/treasurer shall be appointed by the mayor,
subject to the confirmation of the council. She shall hold office for the
duration of her appointment unless sooner removed by the mayor with the
concurrence of the council.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The city clerk/treasurer shall have and perform all
the duties provided by state law, Idaho Code sections 50-207 and 50-208.
   C.   Deputy City Clerk/Treasurer: In the event of an emergency, the mayor
may, by and with the consent of the city council, appoint a deputy city clerk/
treasurer, whose duties and compensation shall be such as the mayor and city
council may prescribe. (Ord. 292, 1-22-2002)
1-9-2: CITY ATTORNEY:
   A.   Appointment: The city attorney shall be appointed by the mayor, subject
to the confirmation of the council. He shall hold office for the duration of
his appointment unless sooner removed by the mayor with the concurrence of the
council.
   B.   Suits And Actions: The city attorney shall prosecute or defend any and
all suits or actions at law or equity to which the city may be a party, or in
which it may be interested, or which may be brought against or by any officer
of the city on behalf of the city, or in the capacity of such person as an
officer of the city.
   C.   General Duties: The city attorney shall perform such duties as are
prescribed by ordinance of the council and/or by state law, together with the
following:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the attorney to see to the full enforcement
of all judgments or decrees rendered or entered in favor of the city, and of
all similar interlocutory orders.
      2.   He shall draft or supervise the phraseology of any contract, lease
or other document or instrument to which the city may be a party and, upon
request of the council, shall draft ordinances covering any subjects within the
power of the city.
      3.   He shall attend meetings of the council when requested so to do by
the mayor and/or council.
      4.   He shall submit legal opinions when requested so to do by the mayor
and council to any city official or employee.
      5.   He shall perform any further service, civil or criminal, required by
statute or ordinance of the city. (Ord. 292, 1-22-2002)
1-9-3: CITY MARSHAL:
   A.   Appointment: The city marshal shall be appointed by the mayor, subject
to the confirmation of the council. He shall hold office for the duration of
his appointment unless sooner removed by the mayor with the concurrence of the
council.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The city marshal shall have and perform all the
duties provided by state law, Idaho Code section 50-209.
   C.   Reports Required: The city marshal shall make a written report monthly,
giving a true account of the number of arrests made, persons arrested and the
nature of the offense charged, and such further reports as may be requested by
the mayor, city council or city attorney. (Ord. 292, 1-22-2002)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Purpose
2-1-2: Definitions
2-1-3: Creation; Qualifications; Term; Vacancies
2-1-4: Organization; Officers; Rules; Meetings
2-1-5: Powers, Duties And Responsibilities
2-1-6: Special Restrictions
2-1-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to promote the educational, cultural, economic
and general welfare of the public of the City through the identification,
evaluation, designation, and protection of those buildings, sites, areas,
structures, and objects which reflect significant elements of the City's, the
State's, and the Nation's historic, architectural, archaeological, and cultural
heritage. (Ord. 195, 3-24-1987)
2-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases when used in this Chapter shall have, unless
the context clearly indicates otherwise, the following meanings:
   CITY: The City of Idaho City.
   COMMISSION: The Historic Preservation Commission of the City of Idaho City.
   HISTORIC PROPERTY: Any building, structure, area or site that is significant
in the history, architecture, archaeology or culture of this community, the
State, or the Nation.
   HISTORIC PRESERVATION: The research, documentation, protection, restoration
and rehabilitation of buildings, structures, objects, districts, areas, and
sites significant in the history, architecture, archaeology or culture of this
State, its communities or the Nation. (Ord. 195, 3-24-1987)
2-1-3: CREATION; QUALIFICATIONS; TERM; VACANCIES:
   A.   Creation; Appointment: There is hereby created an Historic Preservation
Commission which shall consist of five (5) members who shall be appointed by
the Mayor with the advice and consent of the Council.
   B.   Qualifications: All members of the Commission shall have a demonstrated
interest, competence, or knowledge in history or historic preservation. The
Mayor and Council shall endeavor, in good faith, to appoint at least two (2)
members with professional training or experience in the disciplines of
architecture, history, architectural history, urban planning, archaeology,
engineering, law, or other historic preservation related disciplines.
   C.   Term: Initial appointments to the Commission shall be made as follows:
one 1-year term; two (2) 2-year terms; two (2) 3-year terms. All subsequent
appointments shall be made for three (3) year terms. Commission members may be
reappointed to serve additional terms.
   D.   Vacancies: Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as original
appointments and the appointee shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired
term. (Ord. 195, 3-24-1987)
2-1-4: ORGANIZATION; OFFICERS; RULES; MEETINGS:
   A.   Rules: The Commission shall have the power to make whatever rules are
necessary for the execution of its duties as set forth in this Chapter. Rules
of procedure and bylaws adopted by the Commission shall be available for public
inspection.
   B.   Officers: The Commission shall elect officers from among the Commission
members.
      1.   Chairman: The chairman shall preside at meetings of the Commission.
      2.   Vice Chairman: The vice chairman shall, in the absence of the
chairman, perform the duties of the chairman.
   C.   Meetings: All meetings of the Commission shall be open to the public,
and follow the requirements of Idaho's open meeting laws.
   D.   Minutes; Records: The Commission shall keep minutes and other
appropriate written records of its resolutions, proceedings, and actions.
   E.   Technical Experts; Employees: The Commission may recommend to the
Council, within the limits of its funding, the employment of or the contracting
with other parties for the services of technical experts or other persons as it
deems necessary to carry on the functions of the Commission. (Ord. 195, 3-24-
1987)
2-1-5: POWERS, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The Commission shall be advisory to the Council and shall be authorized to:
   A.   Conduct Surveys: Conduct a survey of local historic properties.
   B.   Recommend Acquisitions: Recommend the acquisition of fee and lesser
interests in historic properties, including adjacent or associated lands, by
purchase, bequests, or donation.
   C.   Recommend Preservation Methods And Procedures: Recommend methods and
procedures necessary to preserve, restore, maintain and operate historic
properties under the ownership or control of the City.
   D.   Recommend Dispositions: Recommend the lease, sale, other transfer or
disposition of historic properties subject to rights of public access and other
covenants and in a manner that will preserve the property.
   E.   Enter Contracts: Contract, with the approval of the Council, with the
State or Federal government, or any agency of either, or with any other
organization.
   F.   Cooperate With Governments: Cooperate with the Federal, State, and
local governments in the pursuance of the objectives of historic preservation.
   G.   Recommendations In Planning Processes: Make recommendations in the
planning processes undertaken by the County, the City, the State, or the
Federal Government and the agencies of these entities.
   H.   Recommend Ordinances; Provide Information: Recommend ordinances and
otherwise provide information for the purposes of historic preservation in the
City.
   I.   Educational And Interpretive Programs: Promote and conduct an
educational and interpretive program on historic preservation and historic
properties in the City.
   J.   Right Of Entry: Commission members, employees or agents of the
Commission may enter private property, buildings, or structures in the
performance of its official duties only with the express consent of the owner
or occupant thereof.
   K.   Review Nominations To National Registry: Review nominations of
properties to the National Register of Historic Places for properties within
the City's jurisdiction. (Ord. 195, 3-24-1987)
2-1-6: SPECIAL RESTRICTIONS:
Under the provisions of Idaho Code section 67-4612, the City may provide by
ordinances, special conditions or restrictions for the protection, enhancement
and preservation of historic properties. (Ord. 195, 3-24-1987)
CHAPTER 2
PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-2-1: Purpose
2-2-2: Definitions
2-2-3: Creation; Qualifications; Terms; Vacancies
2-2-4: Organization; Officers; Rules; Meetings
2-2-5: Powers, Duties And Responsibilities
2-2-6: Special Restrictions
2-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the educational, cultural, economic,
recreation, safety, and general welfare of the public of the City through the
identification, evaluation, designation, development, design and operation of
those buildings, sites, areas, structures, and objects which reflect
significant elements of the City's parks and recreational facilities. (Ord.
276, 10-26-1999)
2-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases when used in this chapter shall have, unless
the context clearly indicates otherwise, the following meanings:
   CITY: The City of Idaho City.
   COMMISSION: The Parks and Recreation Commission of the City of Idaho City.
   PARKS AND RECREATION FACILITY: Any building, structure, area or site that is
designated as a City park or recreational facility. (Ord. 276, 10-26-1999)
2-2-3: CREATION; QUALIFICATIONS; TERMS; VACANCIES:
   A.   Creation; Appointment: There is hereby created a Parks and Recreation
Commission which shall consist of five (5) members who shall be appointed by
the Mayor with the advice and consent of the Council. (Ord. 335, 9-14-2011)
   B.   Qualifications: It is desirable for all members of the commission to
have a demonstrated interest, competence, or knowledge of parks and recreation
management, development, operation, design, usage or maintenance. The Mayor and
Council shall endeavor in good faith to appoint at least two (2) members with
professional training or experience in the disciplines of architecture, urban
planning, landscape, engineering, law, management, or other related
disciplines.
   C.   Terms; Vacancies: Initial appointments to the commission shall be made
as follows: two (2) 1-year terms; two (2) 2-year terms; three (3) 3-year terms.
All subsequent appointments shall be made for three (3) year terms. Commission
members may be reappointed to serve additional terms. Vacancies shall be filled
in the same manner as original appointments and the appointee shall serve for
the remainder of the unexpired term.
   D.   Ad Hoc Commissioners: The Mayor with the advice and consent of the
Council may appoint up to two (2) "youth" members from the community as "ad
hoc" Commissioners. "Ad hoc" Youth Commissioners will serve for a maximum of
six (6) month terms and may be reappointed for additional terms. "Ad hoc" Youth
Commissioners shall enjoy the same rights and privileges as the other
Commissioners, including the right to vote on motions and resolutions. (Ord.
276, 10-26-1999)
2-2-4: ORGANIZATION; OFFICERS; RULES; MEETINGS:
   A.   Rules And Bylaws: The commission shall have the power to make whatever
rules are necessary for the execution of its duties as set forth in this
chapter. Rules of procedure and bylaws adopted by the commission shall be
available for public inspection.
   B.   Officers: The commission shall elect officers from among the commission
members.
      1.   Chairman: The chairman shall preside at meetings of the Commission.
      2.   Vice Chairman: The vice chairman shall, in the absence of the
chairman, perform the duties of the chairman.
   C.   Meetings: All meetings of the Commission shall be open to the public,
and follow the requirements of Idaho's open meeting laws. All meeting agendas
shall be posted in accordance with Idaho's open meetings laws.
   D.   Minutes; Records: The Commission shall keep minutes and other
appropriate written records of its resolutions, proceedings, and actions. The
Commission shall file all minutes and written records with the City Clerk.
   E.   Technical Experts; Employees: The Commission may recommend to the
Council, within the limits of its funding, the employment of or the contracting
with other parties for the services of technical experts or other persons as it
deems necessary to carry on the functions of the Commission.
   F.   Report To Council: The Commission will report periodically to the
Council on the status of parks and recreation.
   G.   Bureau Of Land Management: The Commission will coordinate all actions,
changes to the Master Park Plan, agreements, easement issues and contractual
issues with the Bureau of Land Management (BLM). The Commission will notify the
BLM of any issues involving contractual agreements or easement issues and will
comply with all items contained in the contract with BLM. (Ord. 276, 10-26-
1999)
2-2-5: POWERS, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The Commission shall be advisory to the Council and shall be authorized to:
   A.   Conduct Surveys: Conduct surveys of parks and recreational facilities.
   B.   Recommend Acquisitions: Recommend the acquisition of fee and lesser
interests in properties and equipment, including adjacent or associated lands,
by purchase, bequests, or donation.
   C.   Recommend Preservation Methods And Procedures: Recommend methods and
procedures necessary to design, develop, maintain, operate, and preserve parks
and recreational facilities and properties under the ownership or control of
the City.
   D.   Recommend Dispositions: Recommend the lease, sale, other transfer or
disposition of parks and recreation properties or facilities subject to rights
of public access and other covenants and in a manner that will preserve the
property.
   E.   Enter Contracts: Contract, with the approval of the Council, with the
State or Federal government, or any agency of either, or with any other
organization.
   F.   Cooperate With Governments: Cooperate with the Federal, State, and
local governments in the pursuance of the objectives of parks and recreation.
   G.   Recommendations In Planning Processes: Make recommendations in the
planning processes undertaken by the County, the City, the State, or the
Federal Government and the agencies of these entities.
   H.   Recommend Ordinances; Provide Information: Recommend ordinances,
policies, and procedures, and otherwise provide information for the purposes of
parks and recreation in the City.
   I.   Educational And Interpretive Programs: Promote and conduct public
awareness, educational, interpretive programs and publicize information
concerning the parks and recreation programs in the City.
   J.   Right Of Entry: Commission members, employees or agents of the
Commission may enter private property, buildings, or structures in the
performance of its official duties only with the express consent of the owner
or occupant thereof. (Ord. 276, 10-26-1999)
2-2-6: SPECIAL RESTRICTIONS:
Under the provisions of Idaho Code section 67-4612, the City may provide by
ordinances, special conditions or restrictions for the protection, enhancement
and preservation of parks and recreation properties. (Ord. 276, 10-26-1999)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL BUSINESS LICENSES AND PERMITS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: Business License Required
3-1-3: Vendor License Required
3-1-4: Application
3-1-5: License Fees
3-1-6: Qualifications
3-1-7: Posting Business And Vendor Licenses
3-1-8: Financial Responsibility And Liability
3-1-9: Renewal
3-1-10: Reconveyance
3-1-11: Disapproval Of Application; Revocation Or Cancellation
3-1-12: Penalty
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms as used in this Chapter are hereby defined as follows:
   BUSINESS: Means, but not limited to, the retail or wholesale provision of
goods or merchandise, e.g., retail grocery store, vending machines, second hand
stores, craft stores, souvenir shops, restaurants.
   BUSINESS LICENSE: License, as provided by section 50-307, Idaho Code and
this Chapter, to carry on a business or occupation within the City.
   CARNIVALS AND PUBLIC ENTERTAINMENT: Any carnival shows, carnival companies,
merry-go-rounds, riding galleries, shooting galleries, and all entertainments
commonly called "rides" including devices, apparatus, attractions and
amusements for the transportation of persons at a fixed location and operated
by motive power other than that of the person riding, thereon or therein, and
for which there is a fee fixed or a fare charged are declared public
entertainment.
   NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION: An organization which is exempt from Federal income
tax as a charitable or nonprofit organization or has an established 501C status
with the office of the Idaho Secretary of State. To establish such exempt
nonprofit status, when the permittee and the recipient are not both known by
the Clerk to be on the face of the matter exempt from Federal income tax, such
as national youth organizations, churches, or recognized service clubs such as
Rotary, or the Lions, the organizer shall file with its application for the
permit one of the following:
   A.   A copy of its tax-exempt status determination letter from the IRS; or
   B.   A certification from a certified public accountant licensed in Idaho
that such organizer files an information return with the IRS as a tax- exempt
organization; or
   C.   A certification from a certified public accountant licensed in Idaho
that such organizer is not required to file an income tax information return
because it is a tax-exempt organization with less than the threshold amount of
income necessary to trigger a filing requirement.
   OCCUPATION: The provision of service for profit, e.g., including, but not
limited to, practicing law, practicing medicine, barber, beautician, taxidermy,
printing, newspaper, motel, hotel, RV park, animal boarding kennel, childcare
facility, construction company, engineering firm, accountant, taxi cab or other
conveyance used to haul passengers for hire, etc. Governmental organizations,
Federal, State, County or local shall be exempt for purposes of this Chapter.
   PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, or any
group or combination acting as a unit, and includes the plural as well as the
singular unless the intent to give a more limited meaning is disclosed by the
context in which it is used.
   PLACE OF BUSINESS: Any building, office, store, home, or other structure
wherein a business or occupation is conducted.
   SPONSORED EVENTS: A festival, street show, event, celebration, parade,
community event, or combination of these sponsored by a profit or nonprofit
organization involving two (2) or more profit or nonprofit vendors; e.g., Arts
and Crafts Festival sponsored by Idaho City Arts Council, Gold Rush Days
sponsored by the Chamber of Commerce, Fourth of July parade sponsored by the
Chamber of Commerce.
   VENDOR: Each and every person, vendor, hawker, peddler, solicitor, or
temporary merchant who shall offer any article or service for sale from a stand
or upon any street, public, private, or open ground within the limits of the
City. (Ord. 273, 12-22-1998)
3-1-2: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any business, occupation, or
carnival and public entertainment from any place or business located within the
City without first obtaining a business license from the City. (Ord. 273, 12-
22-1998)
3-1-3: VENDOR LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to conduct any sponsored event or for any vendor to offer
any article or service for sale within the City without first obtaining a
vendor license from the City. It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct
door-to-door selling without securing a vendor license. Each person within each
organization or corporation conducting door-to-door selling is required a
separate vendor license. (Ord. 273, 12-22-1998)
3-1-4: APPLICATION:
   A.   Form: Application for a business or vendor license shall be in writing
on a form approved by the City Clerk, signed and sworn by the applicant.
   B.   Issuance: The City Clerk shall issue a business or vendor license upon
receipt of an application in such form and manner as required and payment of a
fee.
   C.   Term: The initial business license issued to licensee pursuant to this
chapter shall be for the period from date of issuance to December 31 of that
same calendar year. (Ord. 355, 12-12-2018)
3-1-5: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Established By Resolution: The Mayor and Council will establish
business and vendor license fees by resolution.
   B.   Refund/Proration: Business and vendor license fees are nonrefundable
and not prorated for portions of time not used.
   C.   General Fund: All funds paid in the form of license fees for the
purpose of doing business or as a vendor within the boundaries of the corporate
limits of the City shall be placed in the General Fund of the City. (Ord. 273,
12-22-1998)
   D.   Term: The business license issued by the City Clerk shall be for the
remainder of the calendar year in which the business license is first issued,
subject to revocation as provided below. (Ord. 355, 12-12-2018)
   E.   Waiver Of Fees; Lower Rate: Vendor license fees for sponsored events
and nonprofit organizations may be established at a lower rate than other
vendor license fees and may be waived by the City as deemed necessary by the
Mayor and Council. (Ord. 273, 12-22-1998)
3-1-6: QUALIFICATIONS:
All applicants for business or vendor licenses must first have received all
licenses and permits required by Federal, State, or local law for the conduct
of the business or occupation to be conducted and must present proof of same to
the City Clerk, e.g., an attorney applicant must show proof of active
membership in the Idaho State Bar. (Ord. 273, 12-22-1998)
3-1-7: POSTING BUSINESS AND VENDOR LICENSES:
All business and vendor licenses will be posted in a prominent and visible
location. Vendor licenses must be posted on the front of the booth, tent,
table, or pertinent structure so as to be visible from a distance. Each
individual vendor included in carnivals, public entertainment, and sponsored
events will post their vendor license in the same manner described. (Ord. 273,
12-22-1998)
3-1-8: FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND LIABILITY:
Minimum liability insurance amounts for all carnivals, public entertainment
devices, sponsored events, rides, shooting galleries, and other such vendors
and events will be established by the Mayor and Council by resolution. (Ord.
273, 12-22-1998)
3-1-9: RENEWAL:
During December of each year, each business licensee shall submit a renewal
application to the City Clerk upon a form provided by the Clerk, for licenses
for the next calendar year. The Mayor and Council will establish business
license renewal fees by resolution. The City Clerk shall approve a business
license renewal upon payment of the fee. (Ord. 355, 12-12-2018)
3-1-10: RECONVEYANCE:
Business and vendor licenses are only valid for the persons originally issued
to. It shall be unlawful to sell or convey to another person any business or
vendor license. When a business changes ownership a new application must be
made with the City Clerk. (Ord. 273, 12-22-1998)
3-1-11: DISAPPROVAL OF APPLICATION; REVOCATION OR CANCELLATION:
The right shall be and remain at all times vested in the Mayor and Council, and
the Mayor and Council may, as hereinafter provided, disapprove the application
for license, or revoke or cancel any license for fraud or misrepresentation in
its procurement, or for a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or
any other ordinance of the City, or for any conduct or act of the licensee or
his employees or any conduct or act permitted by him or them on the premises
where such business is conducted, or in connection therewith or adjacent
thereto, tending to render such business or such premises where same is a
public nuisance or a menace to the health, peace, safety or general welfare of
the City; provided, that revocation or suspension of any State license shall be
deemed prima facie evidence for revocation or suspension of the license issued
herein. (Ord. 273, 12-22-1998)
3-1-12: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter or fails to
comply with any of the terms and conditions of this chapter shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor. (Ord. 273, 12-22-1998)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-2-1: Short Title
3-2-2: Definitions
3-2-3: License Required
3-2-4: Application
3-2-5: Premises
3-2-6: Submission To Council
3-2-7: Term And Expiration
3-2-8: Renewal
3-2-9: Catering Permit
3-2-10: Report Of Change To Information
3-2-11: Transfer And Temporary License
3-2-12: Posting Of License
3-2-13: Hours Of Sale
3-2-14: Access To Premises
3-2-15: Grounds For Denial, Revocation, Suspension Or Restriction Of License
3-2-16: Responsibility Of Licensee
3-2-17:    Procedure For Denial, Revocation, Suspension, Or Restriction
3-2-18:    Penalty
3-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be referred to as the "Alcoholic Beverage Ordinance."
(Ord. 385, 10-11-2023)
3-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
The terms used in this chapter shall have the meanings prescribed by Chapters
9, 10 and 13 of Title 23 of the Idaho Code, unless indicated otherwise
specifically or by context. Liquor by the drink, wine, or beer may be
collectively referred to as "alcoholic beverage."
(Ord. 385, 10-11-2023)
3-2-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to offer for sale, sell, or in any manner dispose
of an alcoholic beverage without a license as provided in this chapter and the
laws of the state of Idaho.
(Ord. 385, 10-11-2023)
3-2-4: APPLICATION:
An applicant for a license must submit a complete and signed application on a
city-approved form. A complete application includes submission of the required
fee(s) established by resolution of the city council, proof of any
qualifications in the form required by the application, and the following:
   A.   The name and address of the applicant and all persons who otherwise
will have a financial interest in any business to be carried on, in or upon the
premises.
      1.   If the applicant is a partnership, the applicant must include
whether it is a general or limited partnership and the name and address of each
partner, and
      2.   If a corporation or association, the name and address of the
officers and the board of directors, trustees, or other governing board.
      3.   A financial interest will be construed broadly and includes an
interest resulting from open loans, mortgages, conditional sales contracts,
silent partnerships, trusts, or any other basis than upon trade account
incurred in the ordinary course of business.
   B.   The address and description of the premises for which a license is
sought.
   C.   If the premises to be licensed is not owned by the applicant, a
certified copy of documentation showing the applicant's lawful occupation and
possession of the property and that the owner or lessor has consented to the
sale of liquor, beer, or wine on the premises.
   D.   A copy of the germane licenses issued by the director of the Idaho
State Police and the board of county commissioners for the purpose, premises,
and time for which the application is made to the city.
(Ord. 385, 10-11-2023)
3-2-5: PREMISES:
The premises for the sale of any alcoholic beverages must meet the following:
   A.   Conform to the laws and regulations of the state and to the ordinances
of the county and the city, which are applicable thereto and which relate to
public health, safety, and planning and zoning.
   B.   Is not within three hundred feet (300') of any public school, church or
other place of worship, or college, measured in a straight line from the
nearest corner of said building, to the nearest entrance of the licensed
premises. This provision does not apply to licensed premises which preexisted
the public school, church or other places of worship or college or applications
pending, or licenses issued prior to September 27, 2023.
   C.   Meets the current uniform building code as adopted by the city, except
for the renewal of license that was originally issued prior to June 24, 1997,
and is in the same location.
   D.   Has adequate lighting.
   E.   Has a full and unobstructed view of the premises.
(Ord. 385, 10-11-2023)
3-2-6: SUBMISSION TO COUNCIL:
Within thirty (30) days of submission of an initial application, the city clerk
will determine whether the application is complete and verify whether the state
and county licensing requirements have been met, and thereafter submit it for
consideration by the city council at its next regular meeting occurring more
than two (2) business days after the clerk's determination.
(Ord. 385, 10-11-2023)
3-2-7: TERM AND EXPIRATION:
All licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall expire at twelve o'clock
(12:00) midnight on August 31. If the license is issued for less than a full
calendar year, the license fee shall be prorated on a daily basis, as of the
day of actual issuance.
(Ord. 385, 10-11-2023)
3-2-8: RENEWAL:
A complete application for renewal of a license shall be submitted no later
than August 1 to the city clerk on a city-approved form and including
submission of the required fee(s) established by resolution of the city
council, and proof of any qualifications. An untimely application or incomplete
application may result in a delay of processing or consideration and may result
in the expiration of the license.
(Ord. 385, 10-11-2023)
3-2-9: CATERING PERMIT:
   A.   Eligibility: For benevolent, charitable, or public purposes, any person
who has been issued a permit to dispense or sell beer, wine, or both by the
director of the Idaho State Police pursuant to the provisions of Sections 23-
1007A or 23-1336 of the Idaho Code may submit an application for a beer or wine
catering permit to the city clerk. All such permits shall be subject to the
provisions and restrictions of Sections 23-1007A and 23-1336 of the Idaho Code.
   B.   Required Information: The application shall contain the following
information:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant and the names of the
organizations, groups, or persons sponsoring the event;
      2.   A copy of the permit issued by the Idaho State Police pursuant to
the provisions of Sections 23-1007A or 23-1336 of the Idaho Code;
      3.   The dates and hours during which the permit is to be effective, not
to exceed three (3) consecutive days; and
      4.   The address at which the beer, wine, or both is to be served.
   C.   Verification: The application shall be verified by the applicant and
filed with the City.
   D.   Fee: A non-refundable filing fee in the amount of twenty dollars
($20.00) for each day the permit is to be effective shall be paid to the City.
(Ord. 385, 10-11-2023)
3-2-10: REPORT OF CHANGE TO INFORMATION:
A licensee must report any changes in the information submitted on an
application or regarding the premises within thirty (30) days of the change.
(Ord. 385, 10-11-2023)
3-2-11: TRANSFER AND TEMPORARY LICENSE:
In the event that an application for license is filed pursuant to the transfer
of ownership of an existing licensed establishment, and contingent upon
compliance with all of the terms of this chapter by the applicant, the mayor or
the city clerk shall be empowered to issue a temporary license to the applicant
valid for a period of up to thirty (30) days. At such time as the application
is addressed by the city council, the temporary license shall terminate.
(Ord. 385, 10-11-2023)
3-2-12: POSTING OF LICENSE:
Alcoholic beverage licenses or catering permit shall be posted in a conspicuous
place on the premises and kept and posted at all times during which the license
is valid.
(Ord. 385, 10-11-2023)
3-2-13: HOURS OF SALE:
   A.   Prohibited Hours: Two thirty o'clock (2:30) A.M. shall be the required
closing time. No alcoholic beverages shall be dispensed, sold, offered for
sale, or given away on any day between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
   B.   Consumption After Hours:
      1.   Allowed: Any patron present on the licensed premises after the sale
of alcoholic beverages has stopped as required in subsection A of this Section
shall have a reasonable time, not to exceed thirty (30) minutes, to consume any
beverages already served.
      2.   Penalty: Any person who consumes or intentionally permits the
consumption of any alcoholic beverage upon a licensed premises after the time
provided for in subsection A of this Section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 385, 10-11-2023)
3-2-14: ACCESS TO PREMISES:
It shall be unlawful to deny or obstruct access to licensed premises to any law
enforcement personnel, fire department personnel, or state or public health
inspectors acting in official capacity.
(Ord. 385, 10-11-2023)
3-2-15: GROUNDS FOR DENIAL, REVOCATION, SUSPENSION OR RESTRICTION OF LICENSE:
The city council may deny, refuse to renew, revoke, suspend, restrict,
condition, or otherwise take action against a license for the following:
   A.   Fraud, misrepresentation, or concealment in application or procurement
of a license or permit under this chapter;
   B.   Failure to maintain qualifications for a license;
   C.   Violation of any federal, state, or local law or regulation relating to
the sale, disposition, or other regulation of alcoholic beverages;
   D.   Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter;
   E.   Suspension, revocation, or other action taken against the germane state
or county license, which shall be prima facie evidence of grounds for
reciprocal action.
   F.   Conduct or act of the licensee or their employees or any conduct or act
permitted by the licensee or them on the premises where such business is
conducted, or in connection therewith or adjacent thereto, tending to render
such business or such licensed premises as a "moral nuisance", nuisance, or
chronic nuisance as defined by state law or city code.
   G.   Failure to comply with conditions or restrictions on a license.
(Ord. 385, 10-11-2023)
3-2-16: RESPONSIBILITY OF LICENSEE:
Violations of this chapter or grounds for denial, revocation, suspension, or
other action as set forth in this chapter which occur due to the conduct of an
employee or agent or failure of the licensee or its employees or agents to
exercise proper control over the licensed premises shall be imputed to the
licensee.
(Ord. 385, 10-11-2023)
3-2-17: PROCEDURE FOR DENIAL, REVOCATION, SUSPENSION OR RESTRICTION:
   A.   Request For Hearing on Denied Application: An applicant who application
has been denied may request in writing a hearing before the city council within
fifteen (15) days of the date of mailing or hand delivery of the decision by
the city council.
   B.   Notice of Potential Violation: When a report or complaint is filed with
the city clerk that a licensee has committed grounds for discipline, the chief
of police or his designee will conduct a reasonable investigation into the
matter and make a report to the city attorney. The city attorney will make a
preliminary assessment of whether a violation probably has been committed, and
if so, will notify the clerk to schedule a hearing before the city council.
   C.   Hearing: Within fifteen (15) days of receipt by the city clerk of
written request for hearing, a hearing before the city council will be
scheduled, and the clerk will notify the applicant or licensee of the
allegations and the hearing date and time of the hearing. The notice of the
hearing date and time shall be served upon the licensee by leaving a copy at
the licensed premises or by the city clerk mailing the notice by certified mail
to the licensee at the licensed premises.
   D.   Written Decision: In the event the city council denies an application
or renewal, or takes other action against a license the city must specify the
following in writing:
      1.   The statutes, ordinances and standards used to evaluate.
      2.   Specify the reasons for the denial, suspension, revocation, or other
action.
      3.   The actions, if any, the applicant could take to obtain, renew, or
reinstate the license or come into compliance.
   E.   Emergency Suspension. The Chief of Police shall have the authority to
close a licensed premises, immediately suspend a license issued pursuant to
this chapter, or both any time a situation occurs that endangers the health,
safety, or welfare of the public at large. This suspension will continue
through the remainder of the business day, but for no more than seventy-two
(72) hours. During such time, and as soon as practicable, the authority taking
said action will file a complete report with the City Clerk who will notify the
Mayor and City Council.
(Ord. 385, 10-11-2023)
3-2-18: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor for each violation, and upon conviction thereof in a court of
competent jurisdiction, shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code, together with the costs of prosecution.
(Ord. 385, 10-11-2023)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Nuisance Defined
4-1-2: Nuisances Prohibited
4-1-3: Notice To Abate
4-1-4: Abatement By City
4-1-5: Collection Of Costs
4-1-6: Penalty
4-1-7: Chronic Nuisance Property
4-1-1: NUISANCE DEFINED:
Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any act or
activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the City, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community. For purpose of this chapter nuisances include but
are not limited to:
   A.   Diseased Animals: All diseased animals running at large.
   B.   Carcasses: Carcasses of animals not disposed of within twenty four (24)
hours after death as provided by law.
   C.   Noxious Weeds: All noxious weeds and other rank growth upon public or
private property.
   D.   Smoke, Fumes: Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders, in
unreasonable quantities.
   E.   Noise, Vibrations: All unnecessary noises and annoying vibrations.
   F.   Obstructions, Excavations: Obstructions and excavations affecting the
ordinary use by the public of streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds
except under conditions as are provided by ordinance.
   G.   Places In Disrepair: All places in such a state of disrepair as to
constitute a fire hazard, an attractive nuisance or a hazard of any sort.
   H.   Premises Kept In Unsightly Condition: It shall be unlawful for any
person to keep or store any unsightly collection of building materials, trash,
rubbish, garbage, brush or weeds or new or used appliances of furniture or
wrecked, partially dismantled autos, or parts thereof, within the view of the
general public anywhere within the corporate limits of the City. (Ord. 350, 12-
13-2017)
4-1-2: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
The creation or maintenance of a nuisance is prohibited. (Ord. 350, 12-13-2017)
4-1-3: NOTICE TO ABATE:
   A.   Definition: "Person" and "person in charge" have the same meaning as in
Section 7 of this Chapter.
   B.   Notice Required: Upon being notified of an existing violation of this
section, the Chief of Police or his designee shall advise the person in charge
and/or owner of the property of such violation and request that immediate
action be taken to abate the nuisance. In the event that the nuisance is not
abated within ten (10) days after notice provided for herein, the Chief of
Police, or their designees, are hereby authorized to issue a citation.
   C.   Contents Of Notice To Abate: The notice to abate shall contain:
      1.   An order to abate the nuisance and the date the ten (10) days have
expired.
      2.   Location of the nuisance if stationary.
      3.   Description of what constitutes the nuisance.
      4.   Statement of act or acts necessary to abate the nuisance.
      5.   Statement that if the nuisance is not abated as directed within the
time prescribed, a citation will be issued and the City may abate it and assess
the cost against such person.
   D.   Method Of Service: The notice to abate shall be served personally,
where practical, by United States mail, by verifiable electronic means, or by
posting such notice to abate on the premises. Return service shall be made as
provided by law for returns of personal service. (Ord. 350, 12-13-2017; Ord.
376, 5-10-2023)
4-1-4: ABATEMENT BY CITY:
If the person so notified neglects or fails to abate the nuisance as directed,
the Chief of Police, or other City officers initiating the notice, may cause
the nuisance to be abated, keeping an accurate account of the expense incurred.
The expense shall be fully itemized and filed with the City Clerk. Such
expenses shall be paid by the City. (Ord. 350, 12-13-2017)
4-1-5: COLLECTION OF COSTS:
The Clerk shall mail a statement of the total cost to the person failing to
abide by the notice to abate and if the amount shown by the statement has not
been paid within one month, the City may pursue the levy of an assessment as
provided by Idaho Code 50-334 and 50-1008. (Ord. 350, 12-13-2017)
4-1-6: PENALTY:
Any violation of this chapter shall be deemed as a misdemeanor, and each twenty
four (24) hour period that such activity continues shall be deemed as a
separate offense. (Ord. 350, 12-13-2017)
4-1-7:   CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTY:
   A.   Purpose:
   Chronic nuisance properties present grave health, safety, and welfare
concerns, and occur when the property owners or persons in charge of such
properties have failed to take corrective action to abate the nuisance
conditions. Chronic nuisance properties have a tremendous negative impact upon
the quality of life, safety, and health of the neighborhoods where they are
located. Additionally, chronic nuisance properties are a financial burden to
the city due to the repeated calls for service to the properties because of the
nuisance activities that repeatedly occur or exist on such properties.
   This section of the Idaho City Code is a means to ameliorate those
conditions by providing a process for abatement and hold responsible the owners
or persons in charge of such properties. This remedy is not an exclusive remedy
available under any state or local laws and may be used in conjunction with
such other laws.
   B.   Chronic Nuisance Property Violation
      1.   Any property within the City of Idaho City which becomes chronic
nuisance property is in violation of this section and subject to its remedies,
      2.   Any person who permits property under his or her ownership or
control to be a chronic nuisance property shall be in violation of this section
and subject to its remedies.
   C.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following words or
phrases shall have the meanings prescribed below:
           Tp repair, replace, remove, destroy, or otherwise remedy a condition which
           constitutes a violation of this section by such means and in such a manner and to
ABATE:     such an extent as the applicable city department director or designee determines
           is necessary in the interest of the general health, safety, and welfare of the
           community.
CHRONIC    Any property upon which three or more of the below listed behaviors occur during
NUISANCE   any sixty (60)-day period as a result of three separate factual incidents that
PROPERTY:  have been independently investigated by the Idaho City Police Department.
CONTROL:   The ability to regulate, restrain, dominate, counteract, or govern property, or
           conduct that occurs on a property.
           Means and includes:
           A.   Any nuisance as defined by Idaho Code or Idaho City Code occurring around or
           near the property, or;
NUISANCE   B.   Any of the following activities, behaviors, or criminal conduct:
ACTIVITY:     1.   Any felony;
              2.   Domestic battery, I.C. § 18-918;
              3.   Stalking, I.C. § 18-7905;
              4.   Battery, I.C. § 18-903;
              5.   Assault, I.C. § 18-901;
              6.   Violation of a protection order, I.C. § 39-6312;
              7.   Violation of a no contact order, I.C. § 18-920;
              8.   Disturbing the peace, I.C. § 18-6409;
              9.   Refusal to disperse, I.C. § 18-6410;
             10.   Indecent exposure, I.C. § 18-4116;
              11.   Any firearms violation listed in I.C. §§ 18-3301 through 3324;
              12.   Any drug-related activity listed in I.C. §§ 37-2701 through 2751;
              13.   False alarms, I.C. § 18-6711A;
              14.   Resisting and obstructing officers, I.C. § 18-705; and
              15.   Any attempt to commit and/or conspiracy to commit any of the above
           activities, behaviors, or conduct.
           Any person having any interest in the real estate in question, as indicated in the
OWNER:     records of the office of the Boise County Assessor. "Owner" further means any
           tenant, renter or lessee, or any person, agent, firm, or corporation having a
           legal or equitable interest in a property.
           Natural person, joint venture, partnership, association, club, company,
PERSON:    corporation, business trust, organization, or the manager, lessee, agent, officer,
           or employee of any of them.
PERSON     Any person who, on the occasion of a nuisance activity, has entered, patronized,
ASSOCIATED visited, or attempted to enter, patronize, or visit, or waited to enter,
WITH A     patronize, or visit a property or a person present on property, including without
PROPERTY:  limitation, any officer, director, customer, agent, employee, or any independent
           contractor of a property, or a person in charge of or owner of a property.
PERSON IN  Any person in actual or constructive possession of a property, including but not
CHARGE OF  limited to an owner, occupant, agent, or property manager of a property under his
A          or her control.
PROPERTY:
PREMISES   May be used by this section interchangeably and means any building, lot, parcel,
AND        dwelling, rental unit or units, real estate or land, or portion thereof, including
PROPERTY:  property used as residential or commercial property.
           Any structure or that part of a structure, including but not limited to single
RENTAL     family home, trailer, mobile home, room, or apartment, which is rented to another
UNIT:      and used as a home, residence, or sleeping place by one or more persons, or for
           commercial purposes.
 
   D.   Procedure:
      1.   When the Chief of Police, or his designee, receives police
documentation confirming the occurrence of three or more nuisance activities
within a sixty-day period on the property, the Chief of Police, or his
designee, may review such reports to determine whether they describe the
nuisance activities enumerated above. For the purposes of this section, an
arrest or conviction of an individual for the above-described nuisance
activities shall not be necessary to qualify said activity as a nuisance. Upon
a finding of the occurrence of three or more nuisance activities within a
sixty-day period on the property, the Chief of Police, or his designee, shall
notify a property owner at the address shown on the Boise County Assessor
records and shall notify the person in charge of the property in writing that
the property is in danger of being declared a chronic nuisance property.
      2.   The notice shall contain:
         a.   The street address or a legal description sufficient for
identification of the property;
         b.   A concise description of the nuisance activities that exist, or
that have occurred on the property;
         c.   A demand that the owner or person in charge respond to the Chief
of Police, or his designee, within fifteen days of service of the notice to
discuss the nuisance activities and create a plan to abate the chronic
nuisance;
         d.   Offer the person in charge an opportunity to abate the nuisance
activities giving rise to the violation, and;
         e.   A statement describing that if legal action is sought, the
property could be subject to closure, civil penalties and costs assessed up to
one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day after the notice of the chronic nuisance
property is received.
      3.   Such notice shall be either: (a) personally served, or; (b)
delivered by first class mail to the person in charge of the property, with a
copy mailed to the owner at the address indicated by the Boise County Assessor,
if different than the person in charge of the property.
      4.   If the person in charge fails to respond to the notice within the
time prescribed, the Chief of Police, or his designee, shall post such notice
at the property. If the person in charge fails to respond to the notice of
chronic nuisance, the matter shall be referred to the City Attorney for further
action.
      5.   If the person in charge responds as required by the notice and
agrees to abate the nuisance activity, the Chief of Police, or his designee,
and the person in charge and/or property owner, may work out an agreed upon
course of action which would abate the nuisance activity. If an agreed course
of action does not result in the abatement of the nuisance activities or if no
agreement concerning abatement is reached, the matter shall be forwarded to the
City Attorney for enforcement action.
      6.   It is a defense to an action for chronic nuisance property that the
person in charge at all material times could not, in the exercise of reasonable
care or diligence, determine that the property had become chronic nuisance
property, or could not in spite of the exercise of reasonable care and
diligence, control the conduct leading to the determination that the property
is chronic nuisance property.
   E.   Commencement of Action - Enforcement:
      1.   Once the matter is referred to the City Attorney, the City Attorney
will review and make a determination whether to initiate legal action
authorized under this section or state statute or may seek alternative forms of
abatement of the nuisance activity. The City Attorney may initiate legal action
on the chronic nuisance property and seek civil penalties and costs in district
court for the abatement of the nuisance.
      2.   In determining whether a property shall be deemed a chronic nuisance
property and subject to the court's jurisdiction, the City shall have the
initial burden of proof to show by a preponderance of the evidence that the
property is a chronic nuisance property. The City may submit official police
reports and other affidavits outlining the information that led to the
investigation of nuisance activities occurring or existing at the property. The
failure to prosecute an individual, or the fact no one has been convicted of a
crime is not a defense to a chronic nuisance action.
      3.   Once a district court determines the property to be a chronic
nuisance under this section the court may impose a civil penalty against any or
all of the persons in charge of the property and/or the owner of the property
and may order any other relief deemed appropriate. A civil penalty may be
assessed for up to one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day for each day the
nuisance activity continues to occur following the date of the original notice
by the Chief of Police, or his designee, as described above. In assessing the
civil penalty, the court may consider the following factors, citing to those
found applicable:
         a.   The actions taken by the person in charge and/or owner to
mitigate or correct the nuisance activity;
         b.   The financial condition of the persons in charge;
         c.   The repeated or continuous nature of the nuisance activity;
         d.   The cost to the City of investigating and correcting or
attempting to correct the condition;
         e.   The statements of the neighbors or those affected by the nuisance
activity; and
         f.   Any other factor deemed relevant by the court.
      4.   The district court which determines the property to be a chronic
nuisance property shall also assess costs against the person in charge and/or
owner in the amount it costs the City to abate, or attempt to abate, the
nuisance activity.
      5.   If the district court determines the property to be a chronic
nuisance property, the district court may order the property closed and secured
against all unauthorized access, use and occupancy for a period up to six
months, and may impose a civil penalty and costs.
      6.   Once a determination has been made by the district court that the
chronic nuisance property shall be subject to closure, the court may authorize
the City to physically secure the premises and initiate such closure. Costs for
such closure shall be submitted to the Court for review, Any civil penalty and/
or costs awarded to the City may be filed with the City Treasurer, who shall
cause the same to be filed as a lien on the property with the Boise County
Assessor,
      7.   The district court shall retain jurisdiction during any period of
closure or abatement of the property.
   F.   Severability: If any portion of this ordinance, or its application to
any person or circumstances, is held invalid, the validity of the ordinance as
a whole, or any other portion thereof, or the application of the provision to
other persons or circumstances is not affected. (Ord. 376, 5-10-2023)
CHAPTER 2
UNTREATED HUMAN WASTE
SECTION:
4-2-1: Purpose
4-2-2: Definitions
4-2-3: Prohibited Acts
4-2-4: Penalty
4-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to promote and protect the public health of the
citizens of the City. (Ord. 149, 5-9-1978)
4-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words and phrases used in this Chapter are defined for the purpose of
this Chapter as follows. All other words or phrases used are meant to be used
in their ordinary and common usage.
   CAUSING TO BE PLACED: Allowing any guest or customer to do any of the acts
prohibited in subsections
 4-2-3A and B of this Chapter. When facilities required by
Title 9, Chapter 2 of this Code are not available to said guest or customer
upon the host's or proprietor's property, or by aiding, abetting, encouraging,
soliciting, requesting or hiring another to do an act prohibited by Section
 4-2-3 of this Chapter.
   EXCRETION: The discharge of any form of human waste from the body, including
the acts of defecation, ejaculation, or urination.
   GROUND: The surface of the earth and anything attached to or setting upon
said surface such as, but not limited to, sidewalks, benches, fences,
buildings, trees, or the like.
   HUMAN VOMIT: The matter from the digestive tract of a human being excreted
through the mouth.
   HUMAN WASTE: Means and is limited to human ejaculate, human feces or human
urine.
   RAW OR UNTREATED SEWAGE: The liquid and/or solid matter consisting of human
waste, human vomit and/or other effluence normally found within the sewage
system of the City and which has not been treated at all or to the standard
used and required by the Idaho Department Of Health and Welfare sewage system
or its successors in function.
   VOMITING: The act of discharging human vomit from the body. (Ord. 149, 5-9-
1978; amd. 2000 Code)
4-2-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
The following acts are hereby prohibited and the doing of same declared
illegal:
   A.   The excretion of human waste upon the ground within the corporate
limits of the City.
   B.   The placing or causing to be placed upon the ground of human waste or
raw or untreated sewage, within the corporate limits of the City.
   C.   The failure to remove raw or untreated sewage, human waste or human
vomit from the ground, within one hour of having excreted, placed, having
caused said matter to be placed, or vomiting upon the ground within the
corporate limits of the City any raw or untreated sewage, human waste or human
vomit. (Ord. 149, 5-9-1978)
4-2-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of Section
4-2-3 of this Chapter shall be punished, upon conviction, by a penalty as
provided in Section
 1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 149, 5-9-1978; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 3
FIRE PROTECTION AND OTHER EMERGENCY SERVICES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Schedule Of Service Charges Adopted
4-3-2: Unpaid Service Charges; Civil Action
4-3-1: SCHEDULE OF SERVICE CHARGES ADOPTED:
The city, having published the adoption of a service charge for each service
provided by the Idaho City fire department in a newspaper of general
circulation on two (2) separate occasions prior to initiation of the service
charges pursuant to Idaho Code section 6-2402; and having held a public hearing
per Idaho Code section 63-1311A for new fees, hereby adopts a schedule of
service charges for fire protection services, to be set by resolution. (Ord.
333, 1-12-2011)
4-3-2: UNPAID SERVICE CHARGES; CIVIL ACTION:
The city is authorized to maintain a civil action to recover an unpaid service
charge provided for herein. (Ord. 333, 1-12-2011)
CHAPTER 4
SHORT-TERM RECREATIONAL VEHICLE USE
SECTION:
4-4-1: Short Title
4-4-2: Definitions
4-4-3: General Provision Regarding Recreational Vehicles
4-4-4: Exceptions
4-4-5: Penalty
4-4-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be referred to as the "Short-Term Recreational Vehicle Use
Ordinance." (Ord. 367, 3-29-2022)
4-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the terms Recreational Vehicle or RV include,
but are not limited to, the following specific vehicles:
 
                 A separate vehicle designed for human habitation and which can
                 be attached or detached from a pickup truck. When removed from
CAMPER:          the truck, campers are called "unmounted campers". These
                 campers are sometimes referred to as "truck campers" and
                 "overhead campers". Camper shells on pickup trucks are
                 excluded from this definition.
                 A type of trailer or trailer coach, the walls of which are so
                 constructed as to be collapsible and made out of either canvas
                 or similar cloth, or some form of rigid material such as
CAMPING TRAILER: fiberglass, plastic or metal. The walls are collapsed while
                 the recreational vehicle is being towed or stored and are
                 raised or unfolded when the vehicle becomes temporary living
                 quarters and is not being moved.
                 A motorized vehicle that has a truck or motor van chassis
MOTOR HOME:      primarily designed to provide temporary living quarters for
                 travel, camping, recreation and vacation use.
                 A trailer without its own motive power, designed as a
TRAVEL TRAILER:  temporary dwelling for travel, camping, recreation and
                 vacation use. This definition includes fifth wheelers. (Ord.
                 367, 3-29-2022)
 
4-4-3: GENERAL PROVISION REGARDING RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
Except as otherwise provided herein or in other sections the City Code of Idaho
City or unless otherwise prohibited, no person shall park or place within the
city limits any recreational vehicle actively in use as sleeping or living
accommodations for more than fourteen (14) consecutive days in any six (6)
month period, unless the recreational vehicle is located in a mobile home or
recreational vehicle park. (Ord. 367, 3-29-2022)
4-4-4: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   A recreational vehicle may be used as temporary housing when a building
permit has been issued and a permanent dwelling structure is being constructed
or substantially remodeled such that the permanent dwelling structure is not
habitable.
   B.   A recreational vehicle may be used for a longer period of time than
otherwise allowed in this Chapter when it is connected through an approved and
exclusive connection to city water and sewer services, provided that
appropriate steps must be taken between the months of October through May to
ensure adequate snow removal from or prevent the accumulation of snow on the
roof of the recreational vehicle and to protect water and sewer connections
from freezing. The recreational vehicle must be placed to comply with the
setback requirements of the Zoning Regulations of the City Code of Idaho City
and may not be placed in the public right-of-way or other easement used for
vehicular ingress and egress to the public highway or public right-of-way. The
recreational vehicle shall have a current registration and shall be in
operational condition so it can be operated in a safe and lawful manner upon
the roads and highways in the State of Idaho as set forth in the Motor Vehicle
Laws of the State of Idaho, title 49, Idaho Code. A recreational vehicle shall
not be set on blocks with the tires or running gear removed.
   C.   A recreational vehicle may continue to be used and maintained as
permanent housing in the same manner and under the same conditions when it was
being used as permanent housing before this Chapter was enacted and until a
change of use occurs, relocation to another property occurs, or an occupancy
permit issued is issued for a permanent dwelling structure on the property. A
recreational vehicle may be repaired or replaced. The exception in this
paragraph does not supersede, excuse, or waive compliance with any other
provision of the City Code of Idaho City, or any other applicable federal,
state, or local law, regulation, rule, or ordinance. (Ord. 367, 3-29-2022)
4-4-5: PENALTY:
   A.   A first violation of this chapter shall be an infraction punishable by
a penalty not to exceed fifty dollars ($50).
   B.   A second violation of this chapter within three (3) years of the
commission of the first offense for which the person was convicted shall be an
infraction punishable by a penalty not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100).
   C.   A third violation of this chapter within three (3) years of the
commission of the first offense for which the person was convicted shall be a
misdemeanor and be punishable by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars
($1,000), by imprisonment not to exceed six (6) months, or both.
   D.   Each twenty-four (24) hour period that a violation continues shall be a
separate violation. (Ord. 367, 3-29-2022)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Peace Officer Training
5-1-1: PEACE OFFICER TRAINING:
The City will adhere to the standards for employment and training established
by the Idaho Peace Officers Standards and Training Advisory Council. (Ord. 144,
6-18-1977; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-2-1: State Law Adopted
5-2-2: Open Containers Of Alcohol
5-2-1: STATE LAW ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption: There is hereby adopted by the city, Idaho Code title 18,
crimes and punishments, as presently in effect or as may hereafter be amended,
three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the city clerk for
public inspection.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this chapter, or the
statutes adopted herein, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
 1-4-1 of this code. (2000 Code)
5-2-2: OPEN CONTAINERS OF ALCOHOL:
   A.   Prohibited: No person shall have or carry an open container or drink of
beer, wine, liquor or other alcoholic beverage upon the streets, sidewalks, or
alleys of the city of Idaho City except as set forth below.
   B.   Exceptions; Permits: The governing body may, at any time, upon receipt
of proper application, grant permits for the serving, carrying and consumption
of alcoholic beverages on city streets and sidewalks for specific events under
specified rules. Any permit including the right to serve any such beverages
shall comply with the provisions of section
3-2-13 of this code requiring a catering permit. Such permits shall be in
writing attested by the city clerk conforming to such requirements as the
governing body shall demand, and the permit thus issued shall be subject to
revocation at any time by action of the mayor, the chief of police, or designee
thereof. (Ord. 309, 4-25-2006)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: Animal Control Officers
5-3-3: City Pound
5-3-4: Dog Licenses
5-3-5: Kennel License
5-3-6: Livestock
5-3-7: Wild Or Predatory Animals
5-3-8: Animals To Be Positively Controlled
5-3-9: Proper Care
5-3-10: Abandoned Animals
5-3-11: Disease Control
5-3-12: Nuisance
5-3-13: Slaughter
5-3-14: Impoundment
5-3-15: Violation; Penalty
5-3-16: Civil Remedies
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this Section:
   ANIMAL: Applies to "dogs" and "livestock" as defined in this Section.
   ATTENDED ANIMAL: One accompanied by the owner or his agent, where the animal
is:
   A.   Under leash or similar device; or
   B.   Being ridden, e.g., horseback.
   CONTROLLED UNATTENDED ANIMAL: One which is:
   A.   Chained or tied within the owner's property in such a way that the
animal cannot leave the physical confines of the owner's property. The
sidewalks, streets, alleys, and the like, open to the public, shall not be
deemed a part of the owner's property for the purposes of this Chapter;
   B.   Fenced within the owner's property in such a way as to comply with
subsection A of this definition; or
   C.   Confined within a dwelling, barn or other building not open to the
public.
   DOG: An animal of the species canis familiaris regardless of breed or
gender, or other members of the canidae family which have been trained or
domesticated; including canis latrans or wolf, canis lupus or coyote, or any
animal which wholly or partially is a member of the genus canis.
   HOUSEHOLD AND PREMISES OF A HOUSEHOLD: A dwelling place designed and
normally used for and by a traditional single-family unit such as a husband,
wife and children, or the like, and includes, but is not limited to, separate
single-family structures, individual apartments, mobile homes, duplex halves,
motel rooms or suites and the like. The fact that a unit may be occupied by
multiple, adult, unrelated persons shall not affect the definition or
limitations of use and numbers of animals allowed by this Chapter.
   LIVESTOCK: Any cattle, horses, mules, asses, swine, sheep or goats.
   POSITIVE CONTROL: Either an attended animal or a controlled unattended
animal. (Ord. 268, 6-9-1998)
5-3-2: ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICERS:
The Mayor may designate and employ, with the approval of the City Council, such
person or persons to act as animal control officers as may be required. (Ord.
268, 6-9-1998; amd. 2000 Code)
5-3-3: CITY POUND:
The City Council is hereby authorized to establish a City pound within or
without the City or to arrange for pound services with the Idaho Humane Society
or a governmental entity within the State for the impounding and care of stray
animals. The purpose of such pound being to keep and dispose of any animals
impounded according to the provisions of this Chapter or State law. (Ord. 268,
6-9-1998)
5-3-4: DOG LICENSES:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to own, harbor,
keep or possess a dog more than six (6) months old, within the City without
first procuring a license therefor as provided by subsection B of this Section
and attaching the metal tag provided by the City to the dog's collar.
   B.   Application; Fee: The owner or person having in charge any dog within
the City shall make application to the City Clerk and pay a license fee in an
amount as determined by resolution of the City Council for each and every dog;
an animal is licensed from the date said dog is subject to licensing. It shall
be unlawful for anyone to make a false statement in the application for a
license.
   C.   Veterinarian Certificates Required:
      1.   Spayed Or Neutered: The owner shall present to and file with the
Clerk at the time of securing said license, a certificate of a licensed
veterinarian that the dog has been spayed or neutered.
      2.   Rabies Vaccination: A certificate of licensed veterinarian shall set
forth that any dog being licensed under this Section shall have had a rabies
shot or booster within the last thirty six (36) months.
   D.   Receipt; Metal Tag: Upon receipt of such application, and payment of
fees, the person issuing the license shall issue a receipt designating the
owner's name and number of the license, the sex of the dog, the amount paid for
said license together with a metal tag bearing the number corresponding to that
upon the receipt.
   E.   Term: All dog licenses shall be by calendar year beginning January 1
and expiring as of December 31 of the year in which issued. (Ord. 268, 6-9-
1998)
   F.   Duplicate Tag: Upon satisfactory proof that a license tag has been
lost, a new tag of a different number may be issued upon the payment of a fee
of one dollar seventy five cents ($1.75) and the transaction shall be noted
upon the City office file for the number originally issued. (Ord. 268, 6-9-
1998; amd. 2000 Code)
   G.   Renewal; Late Fee: All licenses shall be applied for prior to the
expiration of the previous year's license. In the event application is not made
and payment for the license is not submitted prior to February 1 for the year
for which the license is applied for, the City shall be entitled to collect,
and the applicant shall be required to pay a late fee, as established by the
City Council by resolution, in addition to the license fee.
   H.   Exception: The provisions of this Section shall not apply to any person
visiting the City for a period of not exceeding thirty (30) days, and owning
and possessing a dog currently licensed, and bearing the license issued by
another municipality, or other licensing authority. (Ord. 268, 6-9-1998)
5-3-5: KENNEL LICENSE:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful to keep, maintain, harbor or
possess upon the premises of any one household more than three (3) dogs, unless
the owner or person having custody or harboring three (3) dogs more than three
(3) months old, shall have obtained a kennel license.
   B.   Application:
      1.   Consent Of Property Owners: Application of any person owning,
harboring or maintaining more than three (3) dogs must be accompanied by the
written consent of at least seventy five percent (75%) of all the persons in
possession of the premises within a radius of three hundred feet (300') of the
premises upon which said kennel is to be maintained.
      2.   Required Information: The application shall state the name and
address of the owner where the kennel is to be kept and the number of dogs.
   C.   Individual Dog Licenses: The issuance of a kennel license shall not
obviate the necessity of obtaining an individual dog license, nor shall any of
the provisions thereof be deemed to vary or alter any of the zoning regulations
of the City.
   D.   License Fee: All applications for a kennel license shall be accompanied
by a fee in an amount as determined by resolution of the City Council.
   E.   Renewal: Kennel licenses must be renewed annually and such application
must meet all of the requirements of this Section each year. (Ord. 268, 6-9-
1998)
5-3-6: LIVESTOCK:
   A.   Property Requirement: No person shall keep, harbor or maintain any
livestock within the City unless such person provides a minimum of one-half (1/
2) acre per head of livestock, dedicated to such keeping, harboring or
maintaining.
   B.   Applicability: Any livestock which physically remains within the City
for a period in excess of twenty four (24) hours shall be deemed to be kept,
harbored or maintained.
   C.   Exception: This Section shall not apply to the Chief of Police, the
Sheriff of Boise County, any brand inspector of the State, or any veterinarian
performing any duties required by title 25, Idaho Code, or this Chapter. (Ord.
268, 6-9-1998)
5-3-7: WILD OR PREDATORY ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for anyone owning or harboring a wild or predatory animal
to permit such animal to run at large within the confines of the City. (Ord.
38-A, 3-16-1965; amd. 2000 Code)
5-3-8: ANIMALS TO BE POSITIVELY CONTROLLED:
   A.   Control Required: All dogs and livestock within the corporate limits of
the City shall be under positive control at all times.
   B.   Prima Facie Evidence: In any case, civil or criminal, prosecuted
pursuant to this Chapter, a showing that an animal has: snapped at, bitten,
attacked, cornered, or chased any person, animal or vehicle within the City,
except upon the specific order of its master, and in the defense of said
master; or which has gone uninvited upon the property of another and done
actual damage, trampled upon or eaten any vegetation, or urinated or defecated
upon said property, without prior permission of the property owner, shall be
prima facie evidence that the animal was unattended and/or uncontrolled at the
time of such act. (Ord. 268, 6-9-1998)
5-3-9: PROPER CARE:
It shall be unlawful for any owner to fail to provide an animal with
sufficient, good and wholesome food and water, proper shelter and protection,
veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering, and humane care and
treatment. (Ord. 268, 6-9-1998)
5-3-10: ABANDONED ANIMALS:
No owner, person having custody, or person harboring any animal shall abandon
such animal within the City limits. Any animal which is in the City limits and
is not under positive control and which has a resident household outside the
City limits is deemed abandoned for purposes of this Chapter. (Ord. 268, 6-9-
1998)
5-3-11: DISEASE CONTROL:
   A.   Rabies: It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any
dog afflicted with rabies.
   B.   Diseased Livestock: Any person who owns, keeps or harbors any livestock
shall comply with the provisions of title 25, Idaho Code. (Ord. 268, 6-9-1998)
5-3-12: NUISANCE:
It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to fail to exercise proper
care and control of such animal and failing to prevent such animal from
becoming a public nuisance. Excessive or continuous barking, molesting
passersby, chasing vehicles, habitually attacking other domestic animals,
trespassing upon public or private property, causing damage to the property of
another, or by trampling or eating the bushes, gardens or vegetation of
another, are acts which are deemed to be a nuisance per se. (Ord. 268, 6-9-
1998)
5-3-13: SLAUGHTER:
It shall be unlawful for any person to slaughter any animals within the
incorporated limits of the City. (Ord. 12, 10-4-1909, eff. 11-10-1909; amd.
2000 Code)
5-3-14: IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Authority To Impound: The City police officers or animal control
officers, as designated by the City Council, are hereby authorized to seize and
impound any animal within the City limits which is not under positive control
or is abandoned or a dog which is not displaying a metal tag indicating
licensing.
   B.   Livestock: When livestock has been impounded, the City police officers,
animal control officer or other designated person shall comply with the
requirements of chapter 23, title 25, Idaho Code.
   C.   Interference Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder or
molest any designated person who may be engaged in seizing, keeping or removing
any animal in conformity with the provisions of this Chapter.
   D.   Records: The Police Department shall keep a record of all animals
impounded, which record shall contain a description of the animal, the place
where and the date when taken into custody, or when delivered to the City
pound. The Police Department shall provide a monthly statement to the City
Council describing the animals impounded, the place where such animals were
impounded, the date when the animals were taken into custody, and the
disposition of any such animal.
   E.   Notice Of Impoundment; Sale:
      1.   Dogs: Within twenty four (24) hours, excluding Saturday, Sunday and
holidays, after any dog shall have been impounded, the Chief of Police or
animal control officer shall give notice of impounding and of the impending
sale by posting a notice at the police headquarters, at the pound, and to the
owner, if known, describing the animal impounded, and notifying the owner to
pay the charges thereon, and remove same prior to the time fixed for the sale
thereof; and that, otherwise, the animal will be sold at a public sale at a
time and place named in said notice, which time shall be not less than five (5)
days from the date of posting such notices, excluding Saturday, Sunday and
holidays.
      2.   Livestock: All notices regarding the sale of stray or impounded
livestock shall be in accordance with the provisions of chapter 23, title 25,
Idaho Code.
   F.   Redemption: Any animal impounded because it was found running at large,
or without a license, may be redeemed by the owner prior to the sale or
destruction of such animal, by paying all charges against the same as provided
by subsection G of this Section.
   G.   Impoundment Fees:
      1.   Power To Impose: The animal control officer or Chief of Police shall
be entitled to charge a fee for seizing or removing, keeping, boarding and
selling of any animal which fee for keeping and selling shall be retained by
the City as payment towards the cost and expense incurred by the City in the
seizing, removing, keeping, boarding and selling of such animal.
      2.   Fees Set By Resolution: The fees which may be charged by the City
for impounding, keeping and selling any animal to be paid upon redemption or
sale of such animal shall be as set by the City Council by resolution. Said
resolution shall take effect upon passage by the City Council.
      3.   Fractional Days: A fraction of a day shall be deemed a full day and
any portion of a day in excess of any multiple of twenty four (24) hours, shall
be deemed a day.
      4.   Monthly Accounting: The Chief of Police or any designated animal
control officer who receives money pursuant to this subsection shall provide a
monthly accounting of all receipts and expenditures to the City Council.
      5.   Purchase Of License: In addition to the foregoing, any person
redeeming any dog, shall, prior to or at the time of the redemption, take out a
license for the same, unless such dog shall already have a license for the
calendar year; and any person purchasing a dog at any sale herein provided for
shall promptly take out a license for same.
      6.   Penalty For Unlicensed Dogs: The owner of any unlicensed dog which
is impounded and subsequently redeemed by that owner shall be required to pay,
in addition to the license fee, a civil penalty in an amount as established by
resolution of the City Council.
   H.   Disposition Of Diseased Animals:
      1.   Diseased Dog; Destruction: Any dog impounded hereunder and suffering
from serious injury or disease may be humanely destroyed at the discretion of
the Chief of Police or animal control officer.
      2.   Livestock Disposition: Any livestock impounded hereunder and
suffering from serious injury or disease shall be disposed of in accordance
with the provisions of Idaho Code title 25.
      3.   Disease Control Reporting: The animal control officer, Chief of
Police or other designated person shall comply with all of the disease control
reporting requirements of such title.
   I.   Sales; Bids; Title: The sales herein provided for shall be for cash to
the person making the highest bid, at or above the charges incurred by the City
against said animal. In the event there be no bid at or above said charges, the
Chief of Police or animal control officer may destroy any such animal offered
for sale. The purchaser at such sale, had after notices herein provided for,
shall acquire absolute title to the animal purchased. (Ord. 268, 6-9-1998)
5-3-15: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of either section
5-3-4 of this chapter requiring a dog license or section
 5-3-8 of this chapter requiring animals to be positively controlled shall be
deemed guilty of an infraction, and upon conviction thereof, shall be subject
to fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Any other violation of the provisions of this chapter shall
be deemed a misdemeanor. (Ord. 340, 6-25-2014)
5-3-16: CIVIL REMEDIES:
The City Council shall be entitled to enforce any of the provisions of this
chapter through any civil remedies available at law or equity. These remedies
shall include, but not be limited to, injunctions, restraining orders, writs of
mandate, and damage awards. These remedies shall be in addition to, and not
exclusive of, any criminal remedies available under section
 5-3-15 of this chapter. (Ord. 268, 6-9-1998)
CHAPTER 4
CURFEW
SECTION:
5-4-1: Curfew Imposed
5-4-2: Exceptions
5-4-3: Penalty
5-4-1: CURFEW IMPOSED:
It shall be unlawful for any child under the age of eighteen (18) years to be
present upon the streets or public places of the city between the hours of ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. on Sunday through Thursday
and twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. on Friday and
Saturday when said child is not accompanied by a parent, guardian, or other
responsible adult. (Ord. 326, 7-22-2009)
5-4-2: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply in the following circumstances:
   A.   When accompanied by a parent of such child.
   B.   When accompanied by an adult, at least twenty one (21) years of age,
who is not the parent and who is authorized by a parent of such child to take
said parent's place in accompanying said child for a designated period of time
and purpose within a specified area.
   C.   When exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution, such as the free exercise of religion or freedom of speech.
   D.   In case of reasonable necessity for a child remaining on the streets
and when returning home from and within one hour after the termination of a
church, school or city sponsored activity of a religious or other voluntary
association.
   E.   When engaging in the duties of bona fide employment or traveling
directly, without undue delay or detour from home to the place of employment,
or from the place of employment to the home.
   F.   When the child is in a motor vehicle for the purpose of interstate
travel, either through, or ending in the city of Idaho City.
   G.   When the child is seeking or providing emergency assistance to a family
member or others. (Ord. 326, 7-22-2009)
5-4-3: PENALTY:
   A.   First Violation: When a child is detected in violation of section
 5-4-1 of this chapter by a law enforcement officer, said law enforcement
officer shall detain the child and contact the parents or guardians of the
child and turn over the child to the parents or guardians. The law enforcement
officer will document that the child has been in violation of this chapter and
cause a copy of such documentation to be given to the parent or guardian.
   B.   Second And Subsequent Violations: If the child is found in violation of
the provisions of this chapter on a second or subsequent occasion within one
year of the first violation, such subsequent violations shall subject the child
to the provisions of the youth rehabilitation act. (Ord. 326, 7-22-2009)
CHAPTER 5
FIREARMS; FIREWORKS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Firearms
5-5-2: Fireworks
5-5-3: Penalty
5-5-1: FIREARMS:
   A.   Definitions: Wherever the term "firearms" is used in this section, the
term shall mean any instrument used in the propulsion of shot, shell or bullets
or other harmful objects by the action of gunpowder within it, or by the action
of compressed air within it, or by the power of springs and including what are
commonly known as air rifles and BB guns.
   B.   Discharge Of Firearms Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person
to discharge firearms of any kind within the limits of the municipality;
provided, however, that this shall not apply to police officers in the
discharge of their duties.
   C.   Exceptions; Permits: The governing body may, at any time, upon receipt
of proper application, grant permits to shooting galleries, gun clubs and
others for shooting in fixed localities and under specified rules. Such permits
shall be in writing attested by the city clerk conforming to such requirements
as the governing body shall demand, and the permit thus issued shall be subject
to revocation at any time by action of the governing body and/or the chief of
police. (Ord. 307, 4-12-2005)
5-5-2: FIREWORKS:
   A.   Sale Prohibited: There shall be no fireworks sold within the corporate
limits of the city. (Ord. 1-A, 7-12-1948)
   B.   Discharge Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge
or set off any fireworks within the city limits except under special permit
from the city council. (Ord. 1-10, 7-18-1949; amd. 2000 Code)
5-5-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 1-10, 7-18-1949; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 6
LOUD AMPLIFICATION DEVICES
SECTION:
5-6-1: Purpose
5-6-2: Definitions
5-6-3: Noise Prohibitions
5-6-4: Exceptions
5-6-5: Enforcement
5-6-6: Ordinance Additional To Other Law
5-6-7: Penalty
5-6-8: Temporary Waivers/Fees
5-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the health, safety, and welfare of
the citizens of Idaho City. It is determined that sound can and does constitute
a hazard to the health, safety, welfare, and quality of life of city residents.
The Mayor and Council, by way of Idaho Code Section 50-308, are empowered to
impose reasonable limitations and regulations upon the production of sound to
reduce the harmful effects thereof. Now, therefore, it is hereafter the policy
of this city to prevent and regulate sound generated by loud amplification
devices wherever it is deemed to be harmful to the health, safety, welfare, or
quality of life of the citizens of the city, and this Ordinance shall be
liberally construed to effectuate that purpose.
(Ord. 316, 10-23-2007; amd. Ord. 384, 9-13-2023)
5-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
CITY: Idaho City, Idaho, or the area within the city limits of Idaho City,
Idaho.
COMMON AREA(S): The area(s) of a facility, complex, apartment unit, hotel,
motel or the like that are open either to the general public or persons with
the permission of the owner or agent of the owner of the area. This definition
would include but not be limited to the following: swimming pools, restaurants,
patios, hot tubs, saunas, laundry rooms, meeting rooms, lobbies, lounges, bars,
and other areas within the facility that are either constructed or designed for
use in this manner.
EMERGENCY: Any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or imminent
physical trauma or property damage demanding immediate attention.
EMERGENCY VEHICLE: A motor vehicle belonging to a fire department, fire-
fighting association, or fire district, an ambulance, or a motor vehicle
belonging to a federal, state, county, or municipal law enforcement agency.
LOUD AMPLIFICATION DEVICE: Any equipment designed or used for sound production,
reproduction, or amplification, including, but not limited to any radio,
television, phonograph, musical instrument, stereo, tape player, compact disc
player, loudspeaker, public address (P.A.) system, sound amplifier, or
comparable sound broadcasting device.
PERSON: Any individual, association, organization, or entity having a legally
recognized existence, whether public or private.
PLACE OF RESIDENCE: Any building or portion thereof adapted or used and
intended for the overnight accommodation of persons. In the event the building
is used for multiple individual units (i.e., apartment, condominium, hotel,
motel, duplex, triplex, etc.) each individual unit shall be considered a
separate residence for the purposes of this ordinance.
PLAINLY AUDIBLE: Sound for which the information content is clearly
communicated to the listener, including, but not limited to understandable
spoken speech, comprehension of whether a voice is raised or normal,
comprehensible musical rhythms, melody, or instrumentation, and the source of
which is identifiable to the listener.
(Ord. 316, 10-23-2007; amd. Ord. 384, 9-13-2023)
5-6-3: NOISE PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or permit the operation
of any loud amplification device in such a manner that the sound therefrom:
      1.   Exhausts. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any
steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motorboat, or motor
vehicle except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent
loud or explosive noises therefrom.
      2.   Noisy animals. The keeping of any animal or bird which by causing
frequent or long continued noise shall disturb the comfort or repose of any
persons in the vicinity.
      3.   Plainly audible loud or offensive noise that exceeds eighty (80)
decibels at the closest property line, or,
      4.   Plainly audible upon a public right-of-way or street at a distance
of one hundred fifty (150) feet or more from the source of such sound, or,
      5.   Plainly audible within any place of residence not the source of the
sound.
      6.   Use of drums or other instruments to attract attention. The use of
any drum or other instrument or device for the purpose of attracting attention
by the creation of noise to any performance, show, or sale.
      7.   Use of loudspeakers or amplifiers for advertising. The use,
operating, or permitting to be played, used, or operated of any radio receiving
set, musical instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier, or other
machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound.
      8.   Yelling, shouting, etc. Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling, or
singing on the public streets, or at any time or place so as to annoy or
disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of persons in any office or in any
dwelling, hotel, or other type of residence, or of any persons in the vicinity.
   B.   Loud Amplification Devices Upon Or Within Motor Vehicles: It shall be
unlawful for any person to operate or permit the operation of any loud
amplification device upon or within a motor vehicle in such a manner that the
sound therefrom is plainly audible upon a public right of way or street at a
distance of fifty feet (50') or more from the source of the sound.
   C.   Between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. one day and seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. the next day, it shall be unlawful for any person or
business to make or cause loud or offensive noise by means of voice, musical
instrument, horn, radio, loudspeaker, automobile, machinery, vibrating
compaction equipment, vehicles with backup beepers engaged in reverse or moving
in a reverse direction except for any vehicle being used for emergency
purposes. other sound amplifying equipment, or any other means which disturbs
the peace, quiet, and comfort of any reasonable person of normal sensitiveness
residing in the area.
(Ord. 316, 10-23-2007; amd. Ord. 384, 9-13-2023)
5-6-4: EXCEPTIONS:
The following sounds are exempted from the provisions of this chapter:
   A.    Airplanes and other FAA-regulated aircraft.
   B.   City-hosted events.
   C.   Sounds caused by any emergency vehicle or personnel when responding to
an emergency call or acting in time of emergency.
   D.   Sounds caused by burglar alarms that are not in violation of the City
Code of Idaho City.
   E.   Sounds caused by parades, fireworks display, or any other event for
which a permit for that type of activity is required and has been obtained from
the authorized governmental entity within such hours as may be imposed as a
condition for the issuance of said permit.
   F.   Sounds caused by safety warning devices required by law.
(Ord. 316, 10-23-2007; amd. Ord. 384, 9-13-2023)
5-6-5: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Peace officer citation: Any Idaho City peace officer or person
empowered to enforce this provision of the Idaho City Code is authorized to
issue a uniform citation upon his own observation of a violation without the
necessity of a citizen complainant's signature on said citation. By signing the
citation, the officer or person is certifying that he has reasonable grounds to
believe that the person cited committed the offense contrary to law.
   B.   Citizen citation: A uniform citation may also be signed by any citizen
or person in whose presence an alleged violation of this chapter occurred and
be witnessed by an Idaho City peace officer or person empowered to enforce this
provision of the Idaho City Code whose name shall be endorsed on the citation.
(Ord. 384, 9-13-2023)
5-6-6: ORDINANCE ADDITIONAL TO OTHER LAW:
The provisions of this chapter shall be cumulative and nonexclusive and shall
not affect any other claim, cause of action, or remedy; nor, unless
specifically provided, shall it be deemed to repeal, amend, or modify any law,
ordinance, or regulation relating to noise or sound, but shall be deemed
additional to existing legislation and common law on such subject.
(Ord. 384, 9-13-2023)
5-6-7: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the terms or provisions of this Ordinance
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and each such violation is punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
(Ord. 316, 10-23-2007; amd. Ord. 384, 9-13-2023)
5-6-8: TEMPORARY WAIVERS/FEES:
   A.   A person or entity may apply to the City Council for a temporary waiver
from the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   A waiver from the time limitations in Paragraph 3 of Section
5-6-3 may be extended no later than midnight with the exception of New Year's
Eve, which may be extend to one o'clock (1:00) A.M. New Year's Day. Such
applications shall be submitted to the City Clerk's Office at least thirty (30)
days in advance of the date of the activity or event seeking the waiver.
   C.   Application fees for temporary waivers (variance request) shall be
established by resolution adopted by the Council of the City of Idaho City.
(Ord. 384, 9-13-2023)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Parking Restrictions
6-1-2: Notice Of Violation
6-1-3: Prima Facie Evidence
6-1-4: Filing With City
6-1-5: Fines
6-1-6: Notice Of Violation Contested
6-1-7: Failure To Pay Fine; Misdemeanor Complaint
6-1-8: Authority To Remove Vehicles
6-1-9: Signs
6-1-10: Official Parking Map
6-1-1: PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Regulated Streets: Parking on public streets within the city shall be
regulated as described below and in the official parking map found in section
6-1-10 of this chapter:
      1.   Montgomery Street:
         a.   No parking between Highway 21 and Walulla Street.
         b.   Between Walulla and Commercial Streets, no parking on east side
and parallel parking on west side. (Ord. 248, 2-27-1996, eff. 4-1-1996)
         c.   Between Commercial and Wall Streets, no parking on west side and
parallel parking on the east side. (Ord. 285, 2-27-2001)
         d.   Between Wall and School Streets, no parking on either side.
         e.   No parking on either side north of School Street.
      2.   Walulla Street:
         a.   Between Main and Montgomery Streets, parallel parking on the
north side.
         b.   Between Main and Montgomery Streets, no parking allowed on the
south side.
      3.   Commercial Street: Between Main and Montgomery Streets, no parking
on either side.
      4.   Wall Street: Between Main and Montgomery Streets, no parking on
either side.
      5.   Main Street:
         a.   Between Highway 21 and Walulla Street, diagonal parking, with the
flow of traffic, on the west side.
         b.   Between Walulla and Commercial Streets, diagonal parking, with
the flow of traffic, on the west side, and parallel parking on the east side.
         c.   Between Commercial and Wall Streets, diagonal parking, with the
flow of traffic, on the west side and parallel parking on the east side. (Ord.
248, 2-27-1996, eff. 4-1-1996)
         d.   Between Wall and School Streets, parallel parking on the west
side.
         e.   North of School Street, parallel parking on the west side except
for a no-parking zone within thirty feet (30') of the intersection with
Placerville Road. (Ord. 285, 2-27-2001)
         f.   Between Wall Street and Bear Run Road, no parking on the east
side. (Ord. 248, 2-27-1996, eff. 4-1-1996)
         g.   North of Bear Run Road, no parking on east side.
      6.   Placerville Road: No parking on Placerville Road between Montgomery
and Main Streets.
      7.   Bear Run Road: No parking on Bear Run Road from Main Street to the
city limits. (Ord. 285, 2-27-2001)
   B.   Unregulated Streets: (Rep. by Ord. 285, 2-27-2001)
   C.   Fire Hydrants: No parking in front of or within twenty feet (20') of
any fire hydrants.
   D.   RV Dump: No parking in front of or within twenty feet (20') of any RV
dump. (Ord. 248, 2-27-1996, eff. 4-1-1996)
   E.   Snow Removal:
      1.   Hours And Dates Restricted: It shall be unlawful for any person to
park any vehicle upon any city street, alley or in any city parking lot between
the hours of two thirty o'clock (2:30) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. from
November 15 to March 15. (Ord. 285, 2-27-2001)
      2.   Power To Impound: The council hereby authorizes snowplow operators
to impound vehicles of violators of this section regardless of whether a
citation has been issued. The violator and/or owner of the vehicle shall be
responsible for impoundment fees.
      3.   Power To Issue Citations: The chief of police is authorized to issue
citations for violations of this section. (Ord. 220, 1-12-1993; amd. 2000 Code)
      4.   Liability For Damages: The city is not liable for any suit for
damage done to any motor vehicles left parked on the streets during the removal
of snow by snow equipment. (Ord. 1-27, 11-17-1955; amd. 2000 Code)
      5.   Penalty: Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall
be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 220, 1-12-1993; amd. 2000 Code)
6-1-2: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
If a city law enforcement officer, or other parking patrol officer designated
by the mayor, observes a vehicle parked in violation of this chapter, he or she
shall place a notice upon the vehicle indicating the time and date of the
violation, the make, model, and license number of the vehicle, and the number
of the code section violated as well as a description of the violation, upon
the vehicle. The notice shall also indicate the fine for the violation and that
such fine must be paid to the city clerk and the time limits for the payment of
such fine. (Ord. 248, 2-27-1996, eff. 4-1-1996; amd. 2000 Code)
6-1-3: PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE:
Proof of who the registered owner of a vehicle upon which a notice of violation
is placed shall be prima facie evidence that such registered owner was the
driver of the vehicle at the time of the violation. It shall be the
responsibility of the registered owner to prove that he or she was not driving
the vehicle at the time of the violation. (Ord. 248, 2-27-1996, eff. 4-1-1996)
6-1-4: FILING WITH CITY:
Upon placing a notice of violation upon any vehicle, the law enforcement
officer, or other parking control officer as designated by the mayor, shall
file a copy of the notice of violation with the city clerk not later than the
next business day and shall retain a copy for his or her records. (Ord. 248, 2-
27-1996, eff. 4-1-1996)
6-1-5: FINES:
   A.   Payment: Fines for violation of this chapter shall be paid to the city
clerk.
   B.   Fine Schedule: The city council shall establish a fine schedule which
shall be adopted or amended by resolution of the city council. The city council
shall be authorized to adopt a schedule which increases the parking fine if it
is not paid within seven (7) days of the violation and to increase the fine
further for each seven (7) day period after the violation, up to twenty one
(21) days if the fine is not paid. If the fine is paid, there will be no
further prosecution of the matter. The fine schedule described above may be
amended at any time by resolution of the city council.
   C.   Monies Collected: All monies received as fines pursuant to this chapter
shall be collected by the city clerk and shall be deposited in the general
fund.
   D.   Record; Monthly Report: The city clerk shall maintain a record of the
receipt of such fines and shall prepare a monthly report of such receipts.
(Ord. 248, 2-27-1996, eff. 4-1-1996)
6-1-6: NOTICE OF VIOLATION CONTESTED:
If any person wishes to contest the notice of violation, he or she must notify
the city clerk of his or her intentions within fourteen (14) days of the date
of violation. At that time, the matter will be submitted to the city attorney
for a determination of whether a misdemeanor complaint should be filed and, if
so, the matter will be processed in magistrate court. (Ord. 248, 2-27-1996,
eff. 4-1-1996)
6-1-7: FAILURE TO PAY FINE; MISDEMEANOR COMPLAINT:
   A.   Misdemeanor Complaint: If the fine is not paid as described above
within twenty one (21) days of the violation, or the registered owner of the
vehicle upon which a notice of violation was placed does not notify the city
clerk, in writing, of his or her intention to contest the notice of violation,
a misdemeanor complaint may be filed by the city attorney against the
registered owner of the vehicle.
   B.   Penalty: Failure to pay the fine as set out in the fine schedule shall
be considered a misdemeanor and shall carry the penalties as described in the
Idaho Code for general misdemeanors.
   C.   Nonprevailing Contest: If a person contests the notice of violation in
a timely manner and does not prevail, the fine shall be that amount as set out
in the fine schedule which the person would have been required to pay had he or
she paid the fine on the date the notice of intent to contest the violation was
filed. (Ord. 248, 2-27-1996, eff. 4-1-1996)
6-1-8: AUTHORITY TO REMOVE VEHICLES:
Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a street in violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter, such officer is hereby authorized to
move such vehicle or require the driver or other person in charge of the
vehicle to move the same, to a position off the paved or main-traveled part.
(Ord. 141, 11-10-1976)
6-1-9: SIGNS:
   A.   Authority Of Chief Of Police: The chief of police is hereby authorized
to erect signs indicating no parking upon either or both sides of any street
when such parking would, in his opinion, interfere with traffic or create a
hazardous situation. (Ord. 141, 11-10-1976)
   B.   Placement; Penalty For Removal Or Destruction: Signs shall be placed in
all areas regulated by this chapter indicating the requirements of the chapter.
Removal or destruction of any parking control signs shall constitute a
misdemeanor and shall subject a violator to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 248, 2-27-1996, eff. 4-1-1996; amd. 2000 Code)
6-1-10: OFFICIAL PARKING MAP:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c35190cb773ac9e278991b39239e48d0494747b4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-777.png]
 
(Ord. 285, 2-27-2001)
CHAPTER 2
TRAFFIC CONTROL
SECTION:
6-2-1: Title
6-2-2: Purpose
6-2-3: Idaho Motor Vehicle Laws Adopted
6-2-4: Speed Limit
6-2-5: Signs
6-2-6: Violation; Penalty
6-2-7: Air Compression Brakes
6-2-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the IDAHO CITY TRAFFIC CONTROL ORDINANCE, and
all other ordinances and parts of ordinances and resolutions in place at the
effective date hereof or in conflict herewith are hereby repealed. (Ord. 303,
2-10-2004, eff. 2-10-2004)
6-2-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish safe speed limits on the public
streets and alleys of Idaho City, to provide for proper notice of such speed
limits and to provide for proper placement of stop and yield signs. (Ord. 303,
2-10-2004, eff. 2-10-2004)
6-2-3: IDAHO MOTOR VEHICLE LAWS ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted, for the purpose of establishing rules and regulations
for the use of all streets and public thoroughfares of Idaho City, the Idaho
Motor Vehicle Laws, more particularly title 49, Idaho Code and as the same may
hereafter be revised by the Idaho Legislature or amended by the Governing Body,
and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated as an ordinance of the City as
though fully set forth at length herein. (Ord. 303, 2-10-2004, eff. 2-10-2004)
6-2-4: SPEED LIMIT:
   A.   Reasonable And Prudent: From the effective date hereof, no person shall
drive a vehicle at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the
conditions and having regard to the actual and potential hazards then existing.
Consistent with the foregoing, every person shall drive a safe and appropriate
speed approaching and crossing an intersection or railroad grade crossing, when
approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when
traveling upon a narrow or winding roadway, and when special hazards exist with
respect to pedestrians or other traffic, or by reason of weather or highway
conditions.
   B.   Subdivisions: No person shall drive a vehicle at a speed greater than
twenty (20) miles per hour on any street, road, or other public way in platted
subdivision unless otherwise designated herein.
   C.   Establishment Of Specific Speed Limits: The Idaho City Council, after
conducting a traffic investigation and consulting with representative(s) from
the Idaho City Road Department and Idaho City Police Department, are hereby
authorized to establish and alter specific speed limits throughout Idaho City.
The established speed limits for Idaho City will be in accordance with the
speed limit schedule adopted by resolution of the Idaho City Council. A copy of
current speed limits will be on file in the Idaho City Clerk's Office. (Ord.
303, 2-10-2004, eff. 2-10-2004)
6-2-5: SIGNS:
The Idaho City Road Department is hereby authorized and directed to erect and
maintain speed limit signs consistent with the speed limits passed by
resolution by the Idaho City Council, and to erect and maintain stop signs,
yield signs, or other official traffic control devices to designate through
highways or to designate intersections or other roadway junctions at which
vehicular traffic on one or more of the roadways should yield, or stop and
yield, before entering the intersection or junction. (Ord. 303, 2-10-2004, eff.
2-10-2004)
6-2-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
It shall be an infraction as defined by Idaho Code 49-110(4) for any person to
violate this chapter and the penalty for violation of this chapter shall be by
fine consistent with rule 9 of the Idaho Infraction Rules. (Ord. 303, 2-10-
2004, eff. 2-10-2004)
6-2-7: AIR COMPRESSION BRAKES:
   A.   Prohibited: The use of air compression brakes by any vehicle, defined
in section 49-123(2), Idaho Code, or truck, defined in section 49-121(10),
Idaho Code, within the City limits is prohibited, except in circumstances of
emergency where the use of air compression brakes is reasonably necessary to
prevent an accident involving injury to persons or property.
   B.   Penalty: A violation of this section is herein declared to be an
infraction and punishable as provided by the laws of the State of Idaho. (Ord.
351, 12-27-2017)
CHAPTER 3
WEIGHT LIMITS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Restriction Of Truck Traffic
6-3-2: Posted Notice
6-3-3: Temporary Special Use Permit
6-3-4: Violation
6-3-1: RESTRICTION OF TRUCK TRAFFIC:
It is unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, weighing twenty thousand (20,000)
pounds or more to operate said vehicle on Main Street between Highway 21 and
Centerville Road, or on Elk Creek Road between Centerville Road and Placer
Street, within the city of Idaho City. The provisions of this section shall not
apply to emergency vehicles, rubbish pick up vehicles, street and utility
service vehicles, vehicles delivering goods and supplies to businesses on Main
Street, moving vans delivering materials to, or used in connection with, a
construction project on or near Main Street or Elk Creek Road in the city.
(Ord. 324, 11-12-2008; amd. Ord. 381, 7-27-2023)
6-3-2: POSTED NOTICE:
The department of public works for the city is authorized and instructed to
post notice of this weight restriction where appropriate on Main Street and Elk
Creek Road. (Ord. 324, 11-12-2008)
6-3-3: TEMPORARY SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
   A.   Application; Issuance Of Permit: A party may apply for a temporary
special use permit allowing use of Main Street and Elk Creek Road by vehicles,
including any trailer pulled by said vehicle, exceeding the twenty thousand
(20,000) pound maximum provided for in this chapter. After consideration of
such an application and hearing by the city council, the city council may, upon
such terms and conditions as are deemed by the council to be adequate to
protect the public welfare, authorize the city clerk to issue such a temporary
special use permit. (Ord. 324, 11-12-2008)
   B.   Conditions And Restrictions: The conditions and restrictions included
in any such special use permit may include, without limitation, restrictions as
to the length of the permit; days and/or hours of operation; speed limits more
restrictive than those posted or those generally applicable to the street;
limits as to the weight of the vehicles, including any trailers, to be used;
prohibition of use of "jake" brakes within the city; prohibition of operation
in wet weather; a requirement that the applicant indemnify and hold the city
harmless with regard to liability for any claims or damages from the
applicant's operation; proof of liability insurance in an amount acceptable to
the city council, and/or a requirement that security in the form of a bond,
escrow account, or joint account in an amount and form acceptable to the
council be posted to secure payment by the applicant of any and all expenses to
repair damage to the street or streets used by the applicant resulting from
said use. (Ord. 264, 10-14-1997)
6-3-4: VIOLATION:
Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 264, 10-14-1997)
CHAPTER 4
SNOWMOBILES; OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definitions
6-4-2: Regulations
6-4-3: Equipment Required
6-4-4: Unattended Vehicle
6-4-5: Right-Of-Way
6-4-6: Law Enforcement Officers
6-4-7: Further Restrictions
6-4-8: Traffic Regulations
6-4-9: Penalty
6-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meaning
ascribed to them in this section:
   OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE (OHV): An all-terrain vehicle, motorbike, specialty off-
highway vehicle, utility type vehicle and as further defined by Idaho Code
section 67-7101.
   OPERATOR: A person who operates or who is in actual control of a snowmobile
or OHV.
   PUBLIC STREET: Street, road, alleyway or other public thoroughfare within
the City limits of the City of Idaho City, Idaho.
   SNOWMOBILE: Any self-propelled vehicle under one thousand (1,000) pounds
unladened gross weight, designed primarily for travel on snow or ice or over
natural terrain, which may be steered by tracks, skis, or runners, and which is
not otherwise registered or licensed under the laws of the State. (Ord. 339, 6-
25-2014)
6-4-2: REGULATIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or have actual control
of a snowmobile or OHV under the following circumstances:
      1.   Property Of Another: On private property of another without the
express permission to do so by the owner or occupant of said property.
      2.   Public Property: On public school grounds, park property, public
playgrounds, cemeteries, airport runways, and the posted area in the vicinity
of the City water systems and pump house, without express provisions or
permission to do so by the proper public authority.
      3.   Main Street: Main Street may be used for ingress and egress to
businesses or residences and crossing on arterial streets, all other traffic on
said street by snowmobiles or OHVs is prohibited. Operation of snowmobiles or
OHVs on the streets of the City shall be limited to ingress and egress to the
City; the City streets are not to be used as a place of recreation for
snowmobiles or OHVs.
      4.   Registration With State: Without having such snowmobile or OHV
registered as provided for by the Statutes of this State.
      5.   Driver's Licenses: Within the right-of-way of any public street
unless the operator shall have a valid driver's license, in force and issued by
a state of the United States, and shall have said driver's license in his
possession at the time of operating said snowmobile or OHV.
      6.   Speed: At a rate of speed in excess of fifteen (15) miles per hour.
      7.   Public Streets: Within or upon any public street except the extreme
right hand side thereof and out of the normal traveled area of the street where
possible and shall travel in single file.
      8.   Lights: Without having the headlight and taillight illuminated
regardless of the time of day or night and regardless of the prevailing weather
conditions.
      9.   Hours Of Use: Between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight
and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., except for the purpose of going to or from the
place of residence of the operator of said snowmobile or OHV or to its place of
storage.
      10.   Sidewalk Or Walkway: Upon any public sidewalk or walkway.
      11.   Pushing, Pulling Or Towing: Pushing, pulling, or towing any other
type of conveyance or item of equipment upon the public streets, unless the
same has a rigid tongue and swivel-type hitching device connecting the
snowmobile or OHV directly to the other conveyance or equipment. (Ord. 339, 6-
25-2014)
6-4-3: EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:
   A.   All snowmobiles and OHVs operated within the City shall have the
following equipment:
      1.   Mufflers: Manufacturer's stock grade mufflers or equivalent which
are properly attached and which reduce the noise of operation of the vehicle
within noise live requirements of the laws of the State; and no person shall
use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device on said vehicle.
      2.   Brakes: Adequate brakes in good working condition.
      3.   Lights: At least one headlight and one taillight, said headlight
sufficient to render clearly discernible persons and vehicles at a distance of
two hundred fifty feet (250') ahead. Said taillight when lighted shall emit a
red light plainly visible at a distance of two hundred fifty feet (250') to the
rear.
      4.   Fluorescent Flag: It is suggested that all snowmobiles and OHVs
operated in the City be equipped with a mast or antenna displaying a red or red
orange fluorescent flag or pennant a minimum of five feet (5') above the
ground; such flag or pennant should be either rectangular or triangular in
shape with the leading edge being of a minimum of six inches (6") and length a
minimum of twelve inches (12"). (Ord. 339, 6-25-2014)
6-4-4: UNATTENDED VEHICLE:
It is unlawful for the owner or operator to leave or allow a snowmobile or OHV
to be or remain unattended on public property while the motor is running or
with the keys for starting the vehicle left in the ignition. (Ord. 339, 6-25-
2014)
6-4-5: RIGHT-OF-WAY:
Snowmobiles and OHVs must yield right-of-way to all motor vehicles licensed for
operation upon public highways. (Ord. 339, 6-25-2014)
6-4-6: LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS:
Law enforcement officers in the performance of their duties of enforcing this
chapter or other laws of the State and the City may operate snowmobiles or OHVs
in violation of the terms of this chapter as their duties may require. (Ord.
339, 6-25-2014)
6-4-7: FURTHER RESTRICTIONS:
The City Council may, by resolution, further restrict or prohibit the operation
of snowmobiles or OHVs upon the public streets or other public property within
the City and may restrict, extend or change the public streets upon which
snowmobile or OHV operations may take place when, in their opinion, the public
safety and welfare so requires subject to the provisions of Idaho Code section
49-426. (Ord. 339, 6-25-2014)
6-4-8: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
Each person operating a snowmobile or OHV within the City shall strictly
observe all traffic signs and signals and all other traffic rules and
regulations of the State and City in addition to those rules and regulations
herein set forth and shall obey the orders and directions of any peace officer
authorized to direct and regulate traffic. (Ord. 339, 6-25-2014)
6-4-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of subsection
6-4-2A6, "Speed", of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an infraction, and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to the penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Any other violation of the provisions of this chapter shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to the penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 339, 6-25-2014)
CHAPTER 5
JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-5-1: Junk Vehicles
6-5-1-1: Definition
6-5-1-2: Nuisance Declared
6-5-1-3: Junk Vehicles Restricted
6-5-1-4: Removal And Disposition
6-5-1-5: Interference With City Officers Prohibited
6-5-1-6: Exemptions From Provisions
6-5-2: Abandoned, Wrecked Vehicles
6-5-2-1: Definitions
6-5-2-2: Abandonment Of Vehicles
6-5-2-3: Impoundment And Disposition
6-5-3: Unlawful Standing Of Vehicles; Removal
6-5-4: Unattended Vehicles; Removal
6-5-5: Time Limit
6-5-6: Impoundment; Procedure
6-5-7: Lien; Sale Of Vehicle
6-5-8: Unlawful Parking, Stopping Of Vehicles
6-5-9: Violation; Penalty
6-5-1: JUNK VEHICLES:
6-5-1-1: DEFINITION:
An abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle or part thereof,
hereinafter called a "junk motor vehicle", shall be defined as an unsightly
motor vehicle or a part or parts therefrom, and which meets the following
qualifications:
   A.   It does not carry a current, valid state registration and license
plates, and cannot be safely operated under its own power; or
   B.   It is not in a garage or other building or concealed from public view;
or
   C.   It does not have a reasonable amount of accessory equipment.
The vehicle must meet one of the above qualifications before it can be
classified as an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle. (Ord.
294, 7-23-2002)
6-5-1-2: NUISANCE DECLARED:
The accumulation and storage of abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative
vehicles or parts thereof on private or public property is hereby found to
create a condition tending to reduce the value of private property, to promote
blight and deterioration, to invite plundering, to create fire hazards, to
constitute an attractive nuisance creating a hazard to health and safety of
minors, to create a harborage for rodents, insects and cats to be injurious to
the health, safety and general welfare. Therefore, the presence of an
abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle or parts thereof on
private or public property except as expressly hereinafter permitted is hereby
declared to constitute a public nuisance which may be abated as such in
accordance with the provisions of this section
6-5-1. (Ord. 294, 7-23-2002)
6-5-1-3: JUNK VEHICLES RESTRICTED:
It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person or persons to maintain a
junk motor vehicle, junk vehicles or junk parts thereof on residential property
or business property exposed to the public view for a period of more than
thirty (30) days. (Ord. 294, 7-23-2002)
6-5-1-4: REMOVAL AND DISPOSITION:
   A.   Notice To Remove: Upon a verified complaint from a property owner
within three hundred feet (300') of any junk motor vehicle, junk vehicles or
parts thereof, any member of the marshal's office may order any junk motor
vehicle, junk vehicles, or parts thereof, removed within ten (10) days.
Notice of such order shall be placed upon said junk motor vehicle, junk vehicle
or parts thereof. Copies of said notice shall be served upon any adult
occupying the real estate upon which the junk motor vehicle, junk vehicle or
parts thereof are located, and upon the owner of the junk, if known. If no
occupant of the real estate or owner of the junk vehicle, junk motor vehicle or
parts thereof can be found, a notice affixed to any building on the real estate
shall constitute notice to the owner or occupant of the real estate and to the
owner of the junk motor vehicle, junk vehicle or parts thereof. If there is no
building on the real estate, said notice may be affixed elsewhere on the
realty.
   B.   Failure To Remove Unlawful: It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for
any person to fail and refuse to remove an abandoned, wrecked, junk motor
vehicle, junk vehicles or parts thereof, or refuse to abate such nuisance when
ordered to do so in accordance with the provisions of this section
6-5-1.
   C.   Impoundment By City; Public Sale: If said junk motor vehicle, junk
vehicles or parts thereof are not removed within the time so fixed, the
marshal's office may cause said junk motor vehicle, junk vehicles or parts
thereof to be removed at the expense of the owner for sale to the highest and
best bidder for public auction, to be held not later than ten (10) days after
one publication and notice of such sale, to be published in a local newspaper.
The proceeds from such sale shall be used to pay towing expense and rental in
impounding yard where said junk motor vehicles, junk vehicles or parts thereof
are held. In the event the sale of the impounded junk motor vehicle, junk
vehicles or parts thereof fails to produce enough revenue to pay the towing and
impounding charges, the balance will be due and payable immediately by the
owner of said junk motor vehicle, junk vehicle or junk parts.
   D.   Nonliability Of City: The marshal's office and the city shall not be
liable or responsible for any damages, theft or deterioration caused to said
junk vehicles or junk parts during any period of time that the marshal's office
has taken such personal property into custody, or during any such period of
time such junk vehicles or junk parts are held in said impounding yard. (Ord.
294, 7-23-2002)
6-5-1-5: INTERFERENCE WITH CITY OFFICERS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor to interfere with, hinder or refuse to
allow any authorized city officer or employee to enter upon private or public
property to enforce the provisions of this section
6-5-1. (Ord. 294, 7-23-2002)
6-5-1-6: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
This section
6-5-1 shall not apply to:
   A.   A vehicle or part thereof which is completely enclosed within a
building in a lawful manner where it is not visible from the street or other
public or private property; or
   B.   A vehicle or part thereof which is concealed and not visible from the
street or other public or private property by way of landscaping, including
earth berms, privacy screens, fencing, trees and/or shrubbery. If fencing is
utilized, it shall be a minimum of six feet (6') high and not more than eight
feet (8') high.
   C.   A vehicle or part thereof which is stored or parked in a lawful manner
on private property in connection with the business of a licensed dismantler,
licensed vehicle dealer, a junk dealer, or when such storage or parking is
necessary to the operation of a lawfully conducted business or commercial
enterprise; or
   D.   A bona fide antique vehicle being kept or stored because of its value
and utility as an antique vehicle. The marshal shall make a determination as to
whether any vehicle claimed to be an antique is a bona fide antique. If the
owner of the vehicle is not satisfied with the decision of the marshal, then
said owner may appeal to the city council for a final decision settling the
question. (Ord. 294, 7-23-2002)
6-5-2: ABANDONED, WRECKED VEHICLES:
6-5-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this section
6-5-2, the following words and terms shall have the meanings herein ascribed to
them:
   MARSHAL'S OFFICE: Refers to the marshal's office of the city of Idaho City,
Idaho, equivalent to the office of the chief of police.
   WRECKED VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle lacking ordinary maintenance and care to
such a degree as to render such vehicle immobile and said vehicle having
remained in an immobile condition for a minimum period of fourteen (14)
continuous days. For the purposes of this section
6-5-2, flat tires and like impediments to ordinary use of a motor vehicle shall
be deemed to place a car in an immobile condition. (Ord. 294, 7-23-2002)
6-5-2-2: ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to leave or park any
abandoned vehicle or wrecked vehicle upon any street, alley or public property
within the city. (Ord. 294, 7-23-2002)
6-5-2-3: IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSITION:
   A.   Impoundment; Costs: The marshal's office of the city shall have the
authority to take into its custody and to impound any stolen, abandoned,
unidentified or wrecked vehicle located or parked on any street, alley, public
road or public property located within the city. The impounded vehicles shall
be placed at such places as may be designated by the marshal's office. All
costs and expenses of towing, keeping and storage of such vehicle shall be
assessed by the marshal's office against the vehicle, and such costs shall
constitute a lien in favor of the city upon and against such vehicle.
   B.   Redemption Of Impounded Vehicles: Any person claiming ownership of any
vehicle impounded under the provisions of this section
6-5-2 shall make written application to, and furnish such proof of ownership as
may be required by the marshal's office. The marshal's office shall deliver
such vehicle to the owner upon the payment of all costs assessed against such
vehicle, and shall deliver all monies collected, together with the claim of
ownership and the marshal's office's disposition noted thereon, to the city
clerk.
   C.   Sale; Redemption After Sale: All vehicles impounded by the marshal's
office under the provisions of this section
6-5-2 which are unredeemed within a period of thirty (30) days from the date of
impounding, shall be subject to sale by the marshal to the highest bidder for
cash in the manner provided by this section
6-5-2. The proceeds of any such sale shall be applied first to the payment of
all costs assessed against the vehicle, and the balance of the proceeds, if
any, shall be deposited with the clerk and kept by him in an appropriate fund
for a period of one year from date of receipt. Any person claiming title to or
ownership of such proceeds by reason of ownership of the vehicle prior to sale
by the marshal, shall make written application therefor to the clerk's and
marshal's office, and shall furnish therewith such proof of ownership as may be
required by the clerk's and marshal's office. If satisfactory proof of such
title or ownership is furnished within one year of the date of the receipt of
such proceeds by the clerk, then such proceeds shall be returned to the
claimant; otherwise, the same shall be credited to the general fund of the
city, and no claim therefor shall thereafter be entertained.
   D.   Notice Of Sale: Whenever any vehicle shall be sold under the provisions
of this section
6-5-2, the marshal shall first give notice thereof by publication in at least
three (3) issues of the official newspaper, the first of such publications to
be at least ten (10) days prior to the date of the sale. The notice shall
contain a description of the property to be sold, the time and place of sale,
that all bids shall be for cash to the highest bidder, and that the city
reserves the right to reject any or all bids. Upon payment of the bid price,
the marshal shall execute and deliver a bill of sale to the purchaser of such
vehicle. (Ord. 294, 7-23-2002)
6-5-3: UNLAWFUL STANDING OF VEHICLES; REMOVAL:
Whenever any law enforcement officer finds a vehicle standing upon a street,
roadway or public place in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter,
such officer is hereby authorized to remove such vehicle, or require the driver
or other person in charge of the vehicle to move the same to a location that
would not be a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 294, 7-23-2002)
6-5-4: UNATTENDED VEHICLES; REMOVAL:
Whenever any law enforcement officer finds a vehicle unattended upon the
street, road or public place where such vehicle constitutes an obstruction to
traffic or is illegally or hazardously parked, such officer is hereby
authorized to provide for the removal of such vehicle to the nearest garage or
other place of safety. (Ord. 294, 7-23-2002)
6-5-5: TIME LIMIT:
Whenever any vehicle shall be left unattended for more than twenty four (24)
hours on any street, road or public place, any law enforcement officer may
provide for the removal of such a vehicle to the nearest available garage or
place of safety. (Ord. 294, 7-23-2002)
6-5-6: IMPOUNDMENT; PROCEDURE:
The marshal's office and any officer thereof shall have the authority to take
into its or their custody, and to impound, any stolen, abandoned, unidentified,
wrecked or illegally or hazardously parked vehicle at and upon the public
streets, roads, ways and public places within the city. Upon such removal the
marshal's office shall send a notice by certified mail to every owner and lien
holder listed on the certificate of title on file with the Idaho department of
law enforcement. If no certificate of title is on file with the department of
law enforcement, then the notice shall be sent to the apparent owners as
determined by the registration certificate or other identification found in the
vehicle; but if no identification of the owner can be found in the vehicle, no
notice needs to be given. The notice shall include:
   A.   The make, year, model and license plate number of the vehicle;
   B.   The approximate place where the vehicle was found;
   C.   The place to which the vehicle was removed; and
   D.   A statement that the vehicle can be sold for removal and storage
charges if not claimed within thirty (30) days from the date of mailing of the
notice. (Ord. 294, 7-23-2002)
6-5-7: LIEN; SALE OF VEHICLE:
Any person, partnership, firm, company, corporation or association who shall
remove, store or keep any such vehicle at the request of the marshal's office
or any officer thereof shall have a lien on such vehicle for the reasonable
value of such services. Such lien shall be superior and prior to any mortgage
or title retaining contract on such vehicle, and if such charges are not paid
within thirty (30) days after mailing of the notice required by section
6-5-6 of this chapter, the person, partnership, company, firm, corporation or
association performing said services may proceed to sell said vehicle at public
auction by giving ten (10) days' notice of the sale by advertising in the
official newspaper of Idaho City, which notice shall contain a description of
the property to be sold, the time and place of sale and the terms and
conditions of the sale. The proceeds of the sale must be applied to the
discharge of the lien and costs, and the remainder, if any, must be paid over
to the owner of the vehicle. (Ord. 294, 7-23-2002)
6-5-8: UNLAWFUL PARKING, STOPPING OF VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle in violation of this
chapter, or to park or leave a vehicle unattended upon any road, street or
public place where such vehicle may constitute an obstruction to traffic or to
leave or park any vehicle illegally or hazardously upon any street, road or
public way within the city. (Ord. 294, 7-23-2002)
6-5-9: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
accordingly. (Ord. 294, 7-23-2002)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
PIONEER CEMETERY
SECTION:
7-1-1: Short Title
7-1-2: Definitions
7-1-3: Cemeteries Under Control Of City
7-1-4: Fees And Charges
7-1-5: Title To Cemetery Land
7-1-6: Certificate Required
7-1-7: Transfer Of Space By Owner; Transfer Fee
7-1-8: Cemetery Ownership Record
7-1-9: Fees; Burial Record
7-1-10: Duties Of Sexton
7-1-11:    Decoration Of Grave Spaces
7-1-12:    Gravestones; Grave Spaces
7-1-13:    Improvement Of Cemetery Spaces; Ground Maintenance
7-1-14:    Burials
7-1-15:    Disinterment
7-1-16:    Prohibited Uses And Activities
7-1-17:    Damage To Cemetery Prohibited
7-1-18:    Penalty
7-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be referred to as the “Pioneer Cemetery Ordinance.” (Ord.
377, 7-12-2023)
7-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
 
          the placement or interment of human remains in a burial space (e.g.,
BURIAL:   full-body interment in a grave or crypt, urn of cremated remains in a
          niche, crypt, or in-ground grave).
CENOTAPH: A monument or empty tomb honoring a person buried elsewhere.
COLUMBARIUM:  A structure, similar to a mausoleum, but designed for the
              interment or remains.
DISINTERMENT: The removal of the buried remains of a deceased person.
GRAVE:        A below-ground burial space.
              Any object (such as a stone, plaque, headstone, monument, or
GRAVESTONE:   monolith) identifying or marking a grave, gravesite, or burial
              place.
MAUSOLEUM:    An aboveground structure designed for burial or entombment.
NICHE:        A shelf-like space in a columbarium structure used for burial.
SEXTON:       The City employee responsible for cemetery operations, including
              any designee.
SPACE:        An individual space within a cemetery designated for burial.
VAULT:        A container designed to enclose a casket or urn for burial. (Ord.
              377, 7-12-2023)
 
7-1-3: CEMETERIES UNDER CONTROL OF CITY:
The Pioneer Cemetery shall be under the direct supervision and control of the
City. (Ord. 377, 7-12-2023)
7-1-4: FEES AND CHARGES:
All charges and fees for issuance of certificates, interments, disinterment’s,
permits and all other cemetery services, such charges and fees having been
approved by the City Council and listed on the City’s fee schedule set by
resolution, shall be paid in full prior to issuance of the license or permit,
and prior to the services being provided. All fees and charges previously
approved and adopted by the Council that are now in effect are hereby
reaffirmed reapproved and shall remain in full force and effect until amended
or repealed. (Ord. 377, 7-12-2023)
7-1-5: TITLE TO CEMETERY LAND:
The title to all land located within Pioneer Cemetery, not heretofore
transferred, or conveyed by deed or certificate, shall vest in the City, and
shall be issued by a certificate executed by the Mayor and Clerk under the City
seal. Such certificate shall vest title to the particularly described space so
conveyed or transferred to the purchaser, their heirs, and assigns, in fee
simple, for burial purposes, subject to such conditions as may be imposed or
prescribed by the City and as pursuant to title 27, chapter 3 of the Idaho
Code. (Ord. 377, 7-12-2023)
7-1-6: CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
No person shall bury remains in Pioneer Cemetery without first purchasing a
certificate from the City. Upon receipt of a complete application and payment
of the fee(s), the City shall execute and deliver to the applicant a
certificate evidencing ownership. In the event a certificate is lost or
destroyed, the City may, upon adequate proof of ownership and loss or
destruction, re-issue a certificate upon payment of the fee listed on the fee
schedule. (Ord. 377, 7-12-2023)
7-1-7: TRANSFER OF SPACE BY OWNER; TRANSFER FEE:
No person may transfer or assign any certificate without first submitting a
complete application to the Clerk and paying the transfer fee listed on the fee
schedule. A complete application must include the surrender of the original or
certified copy of original certificate, where available, and an executed
assignment to the transferee. Upon approval of a transfer, the City shall re-
issue the certificate bearing the transferee’s name. An owner of a certificate
may assign burials for deceased other than themselves without the requirements
of the certificate being re-issued. (Ord. 377, 7-12-2023)
7-1-8: CEMETERY OWNERSHIP RECORD:
The Clerk shall keep a record of the ownership of all spaces located within
Pioneer Cemetery that includes the name and address of the owner, a specific
description of the space, the fee paid for the space(s) and the date of sale or
transfer. An owner shall notify the City in writing of any change to their
mailing address within ninety (90) days of such change. (Ord. 377, 7-12-2023)
7-1-9: FEES; BURIAL RECORD:
Any owner of a certificate desiring a burial in Pioneer Cemetery shall apply to
the City. Upon payment of the proper fees, the City shall authorize burial and
give the applicant the location of the burial space. The Clerk shall also enter
in a book to be known as “The Burial Record” the name of the deceased, the date
of burial, and age of the deceased, if known. The City shall not be responsible
for obtaining any required license, permit, or authorization, or for confirming
the identity of the person being buried. (Ord. 377, 7-12-2023)
7-1-10: DUTIES OF SEXTON:
The Sexton shall, under the direction of the Mayor and Council, take general
care of and make general improvements of all spaces in Pioneer Cemetery.
   A.   The Sexton shall, whenever requested, furnish the true lines of a space
according to the official survey and shall prevent and prohibit the marking of
the same in any manner prohibited by this Chapter.
   B.   The Sexton shall dig or allow or cause to be dug graves for burial;
provided that, if the person making application for burial desires to dig a
grave, the Sexton shall approve and supervise such excavation and the location
thereof.
   C.   The Sexton shall fill all graves following burial, trim any grass,
trees, or shrubbery thereon and keep all spaces in a safe condition.
   D.   The Sexton shall care for all grounds and foliage in the cemetery.
   E.   The Sexton may enter upon any part of the cemetery, including any
space, with equipment for the purpose of improving the appearance and condition
of the space and the general appearance of the cemetery; to remove anything
objectionable that may have been placed contrary to cemetery regulations; to
remove any dead or dangerous tree, shrub, vine, or neglected fencing, railings,
or enclosures; to remove any floral design or piece, which, in the discretion
of the Sexton, has become unsightly or does not conform with this Chapter.
   F.   Morticians, undertakers, monument companies, contractors, religious
representatives, florists, and other individuals or corporations working within
a cemetery shall comply with this Chapter and shall perform all work in
cemeteries under the direction and with the approval of the Sexton. (Ord. 377,
7-12-2023)
7-1-11: DECORATION OF GRAVE SPACES:
All decorations, including artificial wreaths and sprays, shall be removed by
November 15th of each calendar year. Space owners may improve, cultivate, and
care for their spaces and existing trees, shrubs, and plants, as approved by
the Sexton. Space owners may set out plants and flowers in sound wood,
concrete, or metal containers of such kind or size on their space(s) as do not
interfere in any way with the general landscaping of the cemetery, as
determined by the Sexton. (Ord. 377, 7-12-2023)
7-1-12: GRAVESTONES; GRAVE SPACES:
   A.   Every grave space shall be six feet (6') in width, ten feet (10') in
length, and at least six feet (6') in depth measured from the surface of the
ground to the bottom surface of the grave space opening.
   B.   The owner of any space in which a deceased person is buried may install
a gravestone at the head of such space with the name of the deceased plainly
inscribed thereon, as approved by the Sexton. Gravestones must meet the
following requirements:
      1.   Have a foundation.
      2.   Be flush with the surface of the ground
      3.    Be no more than forty inches in height or twenty-four inches in
width (40"x24"), including foundation; and
      4.   Approval by the Sexton of the location and placement of all
gravestones and construction of foundations.
   C.   Gravestones shall not be altered or moved without permission of the
Sexton. (Ord. 377, 7-12-2023)
7-1-13: IMPROVEMENT OF CEMETERY SPACES; GROUND MAINTENANCE:
The Sexton has exclusive control and direction over the improvement and
maintenance of the cemetery. No person may erect or install any kind of
structure or boundary, or maintain, or improve any space or other property
within the cemetery except as for provided in this section or as expressly
allowed in this chapter. The Sexton may in his discretion grant permission to:
   A.   Grade the ground or land above any grave space or build any tomb,
mausoleum, or cenotaph upon the same, provided such activity is done under the
supervision of the Sexton;
   B.   Plant or remove trees, shrubs, or other foliage, and tree removal shall
be at the space owner’s expense; and
   C.   Erection or installment of steps, structures, or landscapes. Any such
approved installment must be at-grade concrete or similar durable material
fencing located within the space boundaries. Concrete or similar durable
material benches attached to an at-grade concrete or similar durable material
foundation that extends at least four (4") inches beyond the bench in all
directions and located within the space boundary. (Ord. 377, 7-12-2023)
7-1-14: BURIALS:
No burials shall occur without application to the City and notice to and the
permission of the Sexton.
   A.   The Sexton shall be given no less than four (4) business days advanced
notice of any burial.
   B.   All burial spaces shall be opened and closed under the direction and
control of the Sexton, except removals and reinterments supervised directly by
the local health department.
   C.   Burials will not occur during the winter or at any other time where the
ground is frozen.
   D.   Burials may occur only Monday through Saturday, excluding City-
recognized holidays, unless specifically authorized by the Sexton and the City
is reimbursed for all expenses related to such special burial.
   E.   No animal remains may be buried in the cemetery.
   F.   The maximum following burials are allowed per burial space:
      1.   Coffin burial with vault;
      2.   Coffin burial and one (1) cremation burial with vault;
      3.   Two (2) cremation burials with vaults;
   G.   All burials shall be within a standard durable vault installed or
constructed in each burial space before burial.
   H.   All cremation burials shall be in a permanently sealed container
approved by the Sexton. (Ord. 377, 7-12-2023)
7-1-15: DISINTERMENT:
No disinterment of an occupied grave space shall occur without a disinterment
permit by the City. An application for disinterment must be accompanied by
proof of all necessary permits, licenses, or written authorization required by
law for such disinterment. The City refuses to issue a permit for disinterment
of an occupied grave without a court order issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction. (Ord. 377, 7-12-2023)
7-1-16: PROHIBITED USES AND ACTIVITIES:
The following uses and activities are prohibited:
   A.   Snow mobiles, off-highway vehicles, and all-terrain vehicles are
prohibited in Pioneer Cemetery, unless in use by or at the direction of the
Sexton.
   B.   There shall be no gathering of more than seventy-five (75) people in
the cemetery without prior City approval, except during or incidental to a
funeral occurring concurrent with a burial. (Ord. 377, 7-12-2023)
7-1-17: DAMAGE TO CEMETERY PROHIBITED:
No person shall remove, relocate, break, deface, destroy or otherwise injure
any gravestone, as that term is defined herein, or any tree, shrub, plant,
vase, railing, gate or other object, property, structure, article or thing
belonging to, placed or erected on or in a cemetery, columbarium, crypt, grave,
lot, mausoleum, niche, space and vault, unless otherwise permitted in this
chapter. (Ord. 377, 7-12-2023)
7-1-18: PENALTY:
Any person or persons violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, and each such violation is punishable as provided in section
1-4-1  of this Code. (Ord. 377, 7-12-2023)
CHAPTER 2
OPEN FIRES
SECTION:
7-2-1: Compliance Required
7-2-2: Types Of Fires Allowed
7-2-3: Permit Required; Contents
7-2-4: Emission Of Toxic Contaminants
7-2-5: Nuisance, Air Pollution Prohibited
7-2-6: Enforcement; Penalty
7-2-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
No person shall build, ignite or maintain any outdoor fire of any kind, except
as provided in this Chapter. (Ord. 274, 9-14-1999)
7-2-2: TYPES OF FIRES ALLOWED:
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section
7-2-1 of this Chapter, the following types of fires will be allowed:
   A.   With Permit: The following types of fires shall be allowed by permit
only:
      1.   Fires used for control or alleviation of a fire hazard or for weed
control when no alternative control method exists.
      2.   Fires used in the training of firefighting personnel.
      3.   Open burning of piled lawn, yard or tree debris.
      4.   Other burning specifically authorized by the City Fire Department.
   B.   Without Permit: Fires used for the preparation of food and campfires
under control of a responsible person shall not require a permit. (Ord. 274, 9-
14-1999)
7-2-3: PERMIT REQUIRED; CONTENTS:
Permits are to be obtained from the City Fire Department through the City
Clerk. Permits must contain the following information:
   A.   Name, address and telephone number of the permittee.
   B.   The location of the proposed burning.
   C.   Conditions under which burning is to be allowed.
   D.   Signature of issuing officer.
   E.   Signature of permittee. (Ord. 274, 9-14-1999)
7-2-4: EMISSION OF TOXIC CONTAMINANTS:
Notwithstanding any provision of this Chapter, no person shall allow, cause or
permit the burning of materials which emit toxic contaminants or large volumes
of smoke, particulates or odors. These materials include garbage, rubber,
plastics, heavy petroleum products, dead animals, lumber, tree stumps, trash,
etc. (Ord. 274, 9-14-1999)
7-2-5: NUISANCE, AIR POLLUTION PROHIBITED:
Any open burning that would otherwise be allowed under this Chapter, but is
determined by the City Fire Department to be a nuisance, hazard, or source of
air pollution, shall be prohibited. (Ord. 274, 9-14-1999)
7-2-6: ENFORCEMENT; PENALTY:
   A.   Authority: the City Fire Chief, his or her duly authorized
representative, or any law enforcement officer of the City shall have the
authority to enforce the provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   Penalty: Each violation of any provisions of this Chapter shall be a
misdemeanor, and for each day such violation shall continue shall constitute a
separate offense. Each such offense is punishable as provided in Section
 1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 274, 9-14-1999; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEBRIS ON PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Debris Prohibited
7-3-2: Penalty
7-3-1: DEBRIS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, or cause to be deposited, into
the public lane of travel of any public street, sidewalk, public right of way,
thoroughfare, or other public property, any snow, ice, dirt, rocks or debris
which has accumulated on private property. This provision is not intended to
prohibit the removal of snow or ice from private property through reasonable
and normal customary removal activities that do not interfere with the regular
travel or other use of any such street, sidewalk, or other public property or
right of way by the public. (Ord. 306, 2-22-2005)
7-3-2: PENALTY:
A first violation of this chapter shall be deemed an infraction, punishable by
a fine of twenty five dollars ($25.00). Any second or subsequent violation
within one hundred eighty (180) days of a prior violation shall be a
misdemeanor. Each such offense is punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 306, 2-22-2005)
CHAPTER 4
IDAHO CITY PARKS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Idaho City Parks Rules And Regulations
7-4-2: Enforcement; Penalty
7-4-1: IDAHO CITY PARKS RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The city council is hereby authorized from time to time to make such rules and
regulations for the government of Idaho City parks and the care thereof as it
may deem proper or expedient. Such rules shall be adopted by resolution of the
city council, and shall be available to the public for review at city hall.
(Ord. 325, 6-10-2009)
7-4-2: ENFORCEMENT; PENALTY:
Any person or persons violating any of the rules and regulations of Idaho City
parks adopted by the city council shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and each
such violation is punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 325, 6-10-2009)
TITLE 8
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
8-1-1: Title
8-1-2: Codes Adopted
8-1-3: Mobile Home, Trailer Or Manufactured Home
8-1-4: Building Permit Required
8-1-5: Application For Permit
8-1-6: Building Permit Fee
8-1-7: Council Action On Application
8-1-8: Expiration Of Permit
8-1-9: Certificate Of Occupancy
8-1-10: Failure To Obtain Permit; Work Contrary To Permit
8-1-11: Projection Over Public Way
8-1-12: Violation; Penalty
8-1-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and entitled as the IDAHO CITY BUILDING CODE
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 250, extended by Ord. 265, 12-2-1997; amd. Ord. 360, 8-12-
2020)
8-1-2: CODES ADOPTED:
Pursuant to Idaho Code section 39-4116(1), the following codes are adopted as
published by the International Code Council together with any amendments or
revisions set forth in section 39-4109, Idaho Code, including subsequent
versions of the International Building Code as adopted and amended by the Idaho
Building Code Board:
   A.   2015 International Building Code, including all rules promulgated by
the board to provide equivalency with the provisions of the Americans With
Disabilities Act accessibility guidelines and the Federal Fair Housing Act
accessibility guidelines;
   B.   2017 Idaho Residential Code, parts I-IV and IX; and
   C.   2017 Idaho Energy Conservation Code.
The adopted versions of the foregoing codes shall be deemed superseded by
successive versions of such codes as they are adopted or approved by the Idaho
Building Code Board effective on the date such codes are made effective by the
Idaho Building Code Board. (Ord. 353, 6-13-2018; amd. Ord. 360, 8-12-2020)
8-1-3: MOBILE HOME, TRAILER OR MANUFACTURED HOME:
Any mobile home, trailer or manufactured home which is proposed to be placed
upon property inside the corporate limits of the City shall meet the standards
set forth by the Idaho Division of Building Safety. This requirement shall also
apply to moving an existing mobile home, trailer or manufactured home from one
lot inside the City limits to another lot inside the City limits. Any such
mobile home or trailer shall not be older than the year 1976. (Ord. 250,
extended by Ord. 265, 12-2-1997; amd. Ord. 360, 8-12-2020; Ord. 367, 3-29-2022)
8-1-4: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
No building or other structure shall be erected, moved, added to or
structurally altered, nor shall any building, structure or land be established
or changed in use without a permit therefor issued by the City. Building
permits shall be issued by the City Zoning Administrator appointed pursuant to
Idaho City Code 10-3-1. (Ord. 250, extended by Ord. 265, 12-2-1997; amd. 2000
Code; Ord. 360, 8-12-2020)
8-1-5: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
The application for a building permit shall be signed by the owner or applicant
attesting to the truth and exactness of all information supplied on the
application. Each application shall clearly state that the permit shall expire
and be considered revoked if work has not begun within one hundred twenty (120)
days from the date the permit was issued. At a minimum, applications shall
contain the following information:
   A.   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
   B.   Legal description of the property;
   C.   Existing use;
   D.   Proposed use;
   E.   Plan, drawn to scale, showing the exact dimensions and the shape of the
lot to be built upon; the exact size and location of existing buildings on the
lot, if any; and the location and dimensions of the proposed buildings or
alteration;
   F.   Building heights;
   G.   Number of off-street parking spaces;
   H.   Number of dwelling units;
   I.   Proposed sewer and water facilities;
   J.   Such other matters as may be necessary to determine conformance with,
and provide for, the enforcement of this chapter, and other applicable City and
County ordinances;
   K.   Floodplain permit if applicable;
   L.   Estimated value of new construction, remodel, addition or placement.
(Ord. 250, extended by Ord. 265, 12-2-1997; amd. Ord. 360, 8-12-2020)
8-1-6: BUILDING PERMIT FEE:
A fee shall be charged for the building permit as well as for the inspections
required under this chapter. The City Council shall set the fees for the permit
and inspections by resolution. The permit fee must be submitted with the
application in order for the application to be considered by the City. Payment
of all fees is required prior to a certificate of occupancy being issued. (Ord.
250, extended by Ord. 265, 12-2-1997; amd. Ord. 360, 8-12-2020)
8-1-7: COUNCIL ACTION ON APPLICATION:
   A.   Approval/Disapproval: Within thirty (30) days after the receipt of an
application, the City shall either approve or disapprove the application in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Commencement Of Work: All building permits shall, however, be
conditional upon the commencement of work within one hundred twenty (120) days.
   C.   Copies Of Plan:
      1.   Applicant: One copy of the plan shall be returned to the applicant
by the City after the City shall have marked such copy either as approved or
disapproved and attested to same by the signature of the Zoning Administrator
or his/her designee on said copy.
      2.   City: One copy of plans similarly marked shall be retained by the
City.
   D.   Placard: The City shall issue a placard, to be posted in a conspicuous
place on the property in question attesting to the fact that the use or
alteration is in conformance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 250,
extended by Ord. 265, 12-2-1997; amd. Ord. 360, 8-12-2020)
8-1-8: EXPIRATION OF PERMIT:
If the work described in any building permit has not begun within one hundred
twenty (120) days from the date of issuance thereof, such permit shall expire
and be considered revoked. No written notice of expiration or revocation need
be given to the persons affected. (Ord. 250, extended by Ord. 265, 12-2-1997;
amd. Ord. 360, 8-12-2020)
8-1-9: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
It shall be unlawful to use or occupy or permit the use or occupancy of any
building or premises, or both, or part thereof thereafter created, erected,
changed, converted or wholly or partly altered or enlarged in its use or
structure until a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued therefor by
the City stating that the proposed use of the building or land conforms to the
requirements of this chapter and with all conditional provisions that may have
been imposed. This provision shall not apply to structures already occupied or
used prior to the commencement of addition or remodel work. (Ord. 250, extended
by Ord. 265, 12-2-1997; amd. Ord. 360, 8-12-2020)
8-1-10: FAILURE TO OBTAIN PERMIT; WORK CONTRARY TO PERMIT:
Failure to obtain a building permit or a certificate of occupancy shall be a
violation of this chapter. Use, arrangement or construction contrary to that
authorized through the building permit shall also be deemed a violation of this
chapter. (Ord. 250, extended by Ord. 265, 12-2-1997; amd. Ord. 360, 8-12-2020)
8-1-11: PROJECTION OVER PUBLIC WAY:
It shall be unlawful for any person owning any dwelling, storeroom, warehouse,
or other building or any shed or porch attached to such building within the
incorporated limits of the City to suffer or permit such building or any part
thereof or any porch or shed attached thereto to lean or project over or upon
any part of any sidewalk, street, highway, or alley within the incorporated
limits of the City; provided, that such building or the projection or leaning
of such building or the porch or shed attached to such building shall appear to
be unsafe or dangerous to the public or to any person passing by such building.
(Ord. 14, 10-4-1909, eff. 11-10-1909; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 360, 8-12-2020)
8-1-12: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
The City shall have the authority to take whatever steps are necessary to
civilly enjoin any violation of this chapter. Further, violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor, punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. The landowner, tenant, subdivider, builder, public official
or any other person who commits, participates in, assists in or maintains any
such violation may be found guilty of a separate offense. (Ord. 250, extended
by Ord. 265, 12-2-1997; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 360, 8-12-2020)
CHAPTER 2
HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-2-1: Title
8-2-2: Authority
8-2-3: Purpose
8-2-4: Definitions
8-2-5: Regulations And Approval Required
8-2-6: Maintenance And Repair
8-2-7: Continuance Of Existing External Features, Occupancy And Uses
8-2-8: Certificate Of Appropriateness
8-2-9: Complaints Regarding Violations
8-2-10: Appeals
8-2-11: Variances
8-2-12: Penalty
8-2-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known as the HISTORICAL PRESERVATION ORDINANCE OF IDAHO
CITY, IDAHO. (Ord. 270, 9-8-1998)
8-2-2: AUTHORITY:
This Chapter is adopted pursuant to authority granted by title 67, chapter 46,
Idaho Code, and
Title 2, Chapter 1 of this Code. (Ord. 270, 9-8-1998; amd. 2000 Code)
8-2-3: PURPOSE:
For the purpose of promoting the historic, educational, cultural, economic and
general welfare of the people of the City and all of Idaho through the
preservation, restoration and protection of buildings, structures and
appurtenances, sites, places and elements of historic interest within the area
of the City an Historic District is hereby established by the City Council and
Mayor. The boundaries of the Historic District shall be as described in Exhibit
A attached to Ordinance 270 on file in the office of the City Clerk. (Ord. 270,
9-8-1998; amd. 2000 Code)
8-2-4: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Interpretation Of Terms Or Words: Certain terms or words used herein
shall be interpreted as follows:
      1.   The word "person" includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company or corporation, as well as an individual;
      2.   The present tense includes the future tense, the singular number
includes the plural and the plural number includes the singular;
      3.   The word "shall" is a mandatory requirement, the word "may" is a
permissive requirement and the word "should" is a preferred requirement;
      4.   The words "used" or "occupied" include the words "intended, designed
or arranged to be used or occupied"; and
      5.   The word "lot" includes the words "plot", "parcel" and "tract".
   B.   General Definitions: As used in this Chapter, the following words and
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
   BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, and
designed or intended for shelter, support, enclosure or protection of persons,
animals or chattels.
   COMMISSION: Idaho City Historic Preservation Commission.
   EXTERIOR FEATURES: The architectural style, general design and general
arrangement of the exterior of a building or structure, including the roof
color, the kind and texture of the building material and the type and style of
all windows, doors, light fixtures, signs, and other appurtenant fixtures.
   EXTERIOR FEATURES (OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGNS): The style, material, size and
location of all such signs.
   HISTORIC PRESERVATION: The research, protection, restoration and
rehabilitation of buildings, structures, landmarks, signs, appurtenances,
objects, districts, areas and sites significant in the history, architecture,
archeology, education or culture of the City, State or Nation.
   MOBILE HOME: A vehicle designed to be used for human habitation, including a
motor home, a travel trailer or a trailer house.
   PERSON IN CHARGE: The person or persons owning, or a mortgagee or vendee in
possession, assignee of rents, receiver, executor, trustee, lessee, agent or
any person directly or indirectly in control of a lot located in the Historic
District.
   STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, which requires location on the
ground or attached to something having location on the ground.
   THE HISTORIC DISTRICT: The Historic District established in Section
8-2-3 of this Chapter.
   USE: The purpose for which land or a building therein is designed, arranged,
or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained, let or leased. (Ord.
270, 9-8-1998)
8-2-5: REGULATIONS AND APPROVAL REQUIRED:
   A.   Certificate Of Appropriateness Required:
      1.   Required: Certificates of appropriateness shall be required as
provided in Idaho Code sections 67-4608 and 67-4609.
      2.   Required Information: All plans, elevations, roof colors, materials,
textures and such other information deemed necessary by the Commission to
determine the appropriateness of the exterior features, buildings, or
structures, placed on property within the Historic District, shall be made
available to it by the applicant for a certificate of appropriateness.
      3.   Review By Commission: The Commission shall review all plans
submitted to it and shall approve those for exterior features which are in
conformity with the design guidelines adopted by the City Council by
resolution.
   B.   Road And Street Signs And Lighting: Sign lettering should be consistent
with the design guidelines adopted by the City Council.
   C.   Conservation Of Existing Trees, Shrubs And Other Landscaping: Retention
of the trees, shrubs and other landscaping presently within the Historic
District is encouraged.
   D.   Mobile Homes: No mobile home may be moved into the Historic District
after the effective date hereof. Any mobile home existing within the Historic
District on the effective date hereof may not be moved to another location
within the Historic District and may not be altered unless it is brought into
compliance with the design guidelines adopted by the City Council.
   E.   Dry Grass, Weeds, Dead Brush And Rubbish Abatement: The person in
charge of each lot within the Historic District shall comply with all
applicable regulations pertaining to removal of dry grass, weeds, dead brush
and rubbish. (Ord. 270, 9-8-1998)
8-2-6: MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR:
The person in charge of a building, structure, area or site within the Historic
District shall not permit the building structure, area or site to fall into a
state of disrepair which may result in the deterioration of any exterior
feature so as to produce or tend to produce, in the judgment of the Commission,
a detrimental effect upon the character of the Historic District as a whole or
the life and character of a building or structure in the Historic District.
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to prevent the ordinary maintenance
or repair of any exterior feature of a building, or properties that does not
involve a change in design, building material, or outer appearance thereof,
which is not inconsistent with the historic atmosphere of the Historic
District, nor to prevent the construction, reconstruction, alteration,
demolition or removal of any feature when the demolition or removal is required
for public safety because of unsafe or dangerous conditions, or for structural
preservation. (Ord. 270, 9-8-1998)
8-2-7: CONTINUANCE OF EXISTING EXTERNAL FEATURES, OCCUPANCY AND USES:
Nothing in this Chapter shall affect the external features or prevent the
continuance of the existing occupancy or existing lawful use of any structure
as it existed on the effective date hereof. (Ord. 270, 9-8-1998)
8-2-8: CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS:
   A.   Contents Of Application: An application for a certificate of
appropriateness shall be signed by the person in charge of the property
involved attesting to the truth and exactness of all information supplied on
the application. In addition to any other information required by the City in
applying for a building permit, the application for a certificate of
appropriateness shall contain the following information:
      1.   Name, address, and phone number of the applicant.
      2.   Location of the lot involved.
      3.   Existing use and proposed use of the lot involved.
      4.   A plan of the project proposed in the application. The plan shall be
drawn to scale showing actual dimensions and the shape of the lot involved.
      5.   Proposed architectural design, including elevations.
      6.   Proposed landscaping.
      7.   Proposed construction materials for exterior features.
   B.   Council Action On Application:
      1.   Approval/Disapproval: Within thirty (30) days after the receipt of
an application, the Commission shall either approve or disapprove the
application in conformance with the provisions of this Chapter.
      2.   Commencement Of Work: All certificates shall, however, be
conditional upon the commencement of work within one year.
      3.   Copies Of Plan:
         a.   Applicant: One copy of the plans shall be returned to the
applicant by the Commission after the Commission has marked the copy either as
approved or disapproved and attested to by the signature of the chairman of the
Commission on the copy.
         b.   City: One copy of the plans, similarly marked, shall be retained
by the Commission.
         c.   Placard: The Commission shall issue a placard, to be posted in a
conspicuous place on the lot involved, attesting to the fact that the use or
alteration is in conformance with these provisions.
   C.   Expiration Of Certificate: If the work described in any certificate of
appropriateness has not begun within one year from the date of issuance
thereof, the certificate shall expire, and it shall be rescinded by the
Commission, and written notice thereof shall be given to the persons affected.
   D.   Record Of Certificates Of Appropriateness: The Commission shall
maintain a record of all certificates of appropriateness it approves and shall
furnish copies upon request to any person.
   E.   Failure To Obtain A Certificate: Failure to obtain a certificate of
appropriateness as required in this Chapter shall be in violation of this
Chapter.
   F.   Construction And Use To Be As Provided In Applications, Plans And
Certificates: Certificates of appropriateness issued on the basis of plans and
applications approved by the Commission authorize only the construction and
uses set forth in the approved plans and applications or amendments thereto,
and no other. (Ord. 270, 9-8-1998)
8-2-9: COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS:
Whenever a violation of this Chapter occurs, or is alleged to have occurred,
any person living in the Historic District or who is the person in charge of a
lot in the Historic District may file a written complaint with the Commission.
A complaint shall state fully the causes and basis upon which it is based. The
Commission shall place the complaint in its records and shall immediately
investigate and recommend that the City Council take action on the complaint as
provided in this Chapter. (Ord. 270, 9-8-1998)
8-2-10: APPEALS:
   A.   General: The City Council shall consider administrative appeals where
it is alleged that an error has been made by the Commission in considering any
application for a certificate of appropriateness or variance from the terms of
this Chapter.
   B.   Administrative Appeals: Appeals to the City Council concerning
interpretation or administration of these provisions may be taken by any person
aggrieved by any decision of the Commission. Any appeal from a decision or
action of the Commission shall be taken within twenty (20) days after the
decision of action by filing with the Commission and with the City Council a
notice of appeal specifying the grounds upon which the appeal is being taken.
The Commission shall transmit to the City Council all the papers constituting
the record upon which the appeal is based.
   C.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of
the action taken unless the Commission certifies to the City Council, after the
notice of appeal is filed with it, that by reason of facts stated in the
application, a stay would, in its opinion, cause imminent peril to life and
property within the Historic District. In this case, proceedings shall not be
stayed other than by a restraining order which may be granted by the City
Council or by a court based upon an application, with notice to the Commission
showing due cause.
   D.   Procedure On Appeal: Upon receipt of an appeal from the action of the
Commission, the City Council shall set a hearing date to consider all
information, testimony and Commission's minutes to reach a decision to uphold,
conditionally uphold or overrule the action of the Commission. The City Council
may overrule the Commission only by a favorable vote of one-half (1/2) plus one
of the full Council. (Ord. 270, 9-8-1998)
8-2-11: VARIANCES:
   A.   Authorized: The Commission may authorize in specific cases such
variance from the terms of this Chapter as will not be contrary to the historic
preservation of the Historic District, where, owing to special conditions, a
literal enforcement of the provisions of this Chapter would result in
unnecessary hardship. No nonconforming condition of neighboring lands,
structures or buildings in the Historic District shall be considered grounds
for issuance of a variance. Variances shall not be granted on the grounds of
convenience or profit, but only where strict application of the provisions of
this Chapter would result in unnecessary hardship.
   B.   Application And Standards For Variances: A variance from the terms of
these provisions shall not be granted by the Commission unless and until a
written application for a variance is submitted to the Commission containing:
      1.   Name, address, and phone number of applicant.
      2.   Location of the lot involved.
      3.   Description of nature of variance requested.
      4.   A narrative statement demonstrating that the requested variance
conforms to the following standards:
         a.   Special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar to
the lot structure or building involved and which are not applicable to other
lots, structures or buildings in the Historic District;
         b.   A literal interpretation of these provisions would deprive the
applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the Historic
District under the terms of this Chapter;
         c.   Special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant;
         d.   Granting the variance requested will not confer on the applicant
any special privilege that is denied by these provisions to other lots,
structures or buildings in the Historic District.
A variance shall not be granted unless the Commission makes specific findings
of fact based directly on the particular evidence presented to it which support
conclusions that the above mentioned standards and conditions have been met by
the applicant.
   C.   Public Hearing: Upon receipt of the application for a variance, the
Commission shall hold a public hearing, publish notice in a newspaper and give
written notice to all adjacent property owners and to the applicant. The
applicant shall pay all direct costs for publication incurred by the City.
   D.   Action By Commission:
      1.   Time Limitation For Action: Within thirty (30) days after the public
hearing the Commission shall approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the
request for a variance.
      2.   Required Specifications: Upon granting or denying an application the
Commission shall specify:
         a.   The standards used in evaluating the application;
         b.   The reasons for approval or denial;
         c.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
variance.
      3.   Appeal: The applicant or any affected person who appeared in person
or in writing before the Commission may appeal the decision of the Commission
to the City Council, provided the appeal is submitted to the Council within
fifteen (15) days from the Commission's action. The procedure on such appeal
shall be as provided in subsection
 8-2-10D of this Chapter.
   E.   Notification To Applicant: Within ten (10) days after a decision has
been rendered, the Commission shall provide the applicant with written notice
of the action on the request. (Ord. 270, 9-8-1998)
8-2-12: PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor: Allowing deterioration by wilful neglect of any lot,
building, or structure within the Historic District, failing to comply with
this Chapter, or violating this Chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor.
   B.   Continuing Violation: Each day a violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense.
   C.   Separate Offense: The landowner, tenant, subdivider, builder, public
official or any other person who commits, participates in, assists in or
maintains any such violation may be found guilty of a separate offense.
   D.   Additional Remedies: Nothing in this Chapter shall prevent the City
Council or any other public official or private citizen from taking any lawful
action as is necessary to restrain or prevent any deterioration within the
Historic District by willful neglect or any violation of this Chapter. (Ord.
270, 9-8-1998)
CHAPTER 3
STREET NAME AND ADDRESS SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-3-1: Title
8-3-2: Purpose
8-3-3: Applicability
8-3-4: Maps And Lists Of City Streets And Numbered Properties
8-3-5: Approvals Required
8-3-6: Size Of Numbers
8-3-7: Notification And Compliance
8-3-8: Variances
8-3-9: Fees
8-3-10: Violations
8-3-11: Penalty
8-3-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known as the IDAHO CITY STREET NAME AND ADDRESS SYSTEM
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 257, 9-10-1996)
8-3-2: PURPOSE:
This Chapter is adopted for the purpose of providing a uniform street name and
addressing system to aid local emergency vehicles and utility companies and for
proper administration and enforcement of these services. (Ord. 257, 9-10-1996)
8-3-3: APPLICABILITY:
This Chapter shall apply to all lands within the incorporated boundaries of the
City. (Ord. 257, 9-10-1996)
8-3-4: MAPS AND LISTS OF CITY STREETS AND NUMBERED PROPERTIES:
The City Clerk shall cause to be prepared, from time to time, maps of the
several streets of the City showing the names of all streets and the numbers of
all properties. The City Clerk shall assign to each property its proper number.
(Ord. 257, 9-10-1996)
8-3-5: APPROVALS REQUIRED:
Before any new road is named or properties thereon numbered, approval shall be
obtained from the City Council. (Ord. 257, 9-10-1996)
8-3-6: SIZE OF NUMBERS:
   A.   Specifications: Approved street address numbers shall be mounted or
painted on all new and existing buildings in such a position to be plainly
visible and legible from the road fronting the property. The numbers shall
contrast with their backgrounds, being visible in the daytime and nighttime
from the road, and be at least three inches (3") in height. Where the building
is not visible from the road, an additional address number shall be placed in a
location near the driveway that is plainly visible and legible from the road.
   B.   Nonconforming Address Numbers: Existing address numbers not in
conformance with the requirements of this Chapter may be changed by order of
the City Council, giving official written notice at least ninety (90) days in
advance of the effective date of such change, to property owners affected by
such changes. (Ord. 257, 9-10-1996)
8-3-7: NOTIFICATION AND COMPLIANCE:
The City Clerk shall notify all owners of existing buildings in the City of the
passage hereof and of the necessity of mounting or painting street address
numbers on all existing buildings. Owners of existing buildings shall have
thirty (30) days from the date of such notification to mount or paint the
assigned numbers on existing buildings prior to being in violation of this
Chapter. (Ord. 257, 9-10-1996)
8-3-8: VARIANCES:
The standards and requirements of this Chapter may be modified or varied by the
Board where the enforcement of the rules would result in extraordinary
individual hardship; provided, that the public interest is served and
consistency is maintained. The applicant must specifically state the
extraordinary hardship caused by the regulations and prove that the variance
will not adversely affect the consistency of addressing throughout the City. In
granting any such variance or modification, the City Council may impose any
condition necessary in order to secure substantial compliance with the general
principles of this Chapter. (Ord. 257, 9-10-1996)
8-3-9: FEES:
Fees shall be required by the applicant as approved by resolution of the City
Council. (Ord. 257, 9-10-1996)
8-3-10: VIOLATIONS:
No person shall erect or install a road name sign not authorized by this
Chapter, or remove, alter, change or otherwise deface a road name sign
authorized by this Chapter. Failure to continuously display the approved number
or address on a building within the City shall be a violation of this Chapter.
(Ord. 257, 9-10-1996)
8-3-11: PENALTY:
Each violation of this Chapter shall be a misdemeanor, and for each day that it
continues, each violation shall constitute a separate offense. Each violation
shall be punishable as provided in section 18-113, Idaho Code. (Ord. 257, 9-10-
1996)
CHAPTER 4
TRAILERS
(Rep. by Ord. 367, 3-29-2022)
TITLE 9
WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 1
WATER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Purpose
9-1-2: Applicability
9-1-3: Definitions
9-1-4: Customers Liable For Violation
9-1-5: Maintenance And Repair Of Lines
9-1-6: Point Of Liability For Maintenance
9-1-7: City Not Liable For Damage Or Shortage
9-1-8: City Monies
9-1-9: Authority To Amend Regulations
9-1-10: Injury To Water System Unlawful
9-1-11: Building Water Systems And Service Connections; Permits
9-1-12: Powers And Authority Of City Authorized Representative
9-1-13: Inspection
9-1-14: Rejections Or Disapprovals
9-1-15: Backfilling
9-1-16: Water Line Extensions
9-1-17: Water Line Reimbursement
9-1-18: Basis For Water Charges
9-1-19: Water User Consumption Rates
9-1-20: Termination Of Service (Rep. by Ord. 310, 7-11-2006)
9-1-21: Emergency Shutoff
9-1-22: Renewal Of Service
9-1-23: Water Connection, Permit And Inspection
9-1-24: Water Connection Charge
9-1-25: Industrial Customer Charge
9-1-26: Customers Outside City Boundary
9-1-27: Monthly Customer Charges
9-1-28: Interruption Of Water Service
9-1-29: Delinquency Notice
9-1-30: Deposit Or Guarantee
9-1-31: Water System Fund
9-1-32: Lawn And Garden Watering
9-1-33: Penalty
9-1-34: Water Usage Daily Limit For Unlicensed Recreational Vehicles
9-1-35: Private Wells
9-1-1: PURPOSE:
It is hereby determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to and for
the protection of the health, safety and welfare of the public inhabitants of
the city, and for the purpose of controlling the use and connection to and for
providing an equitable distribution of the costs and expenses of maintenance,
operation, upkeep and repair of the entire water system which includes the
water collection system and water pumping facilities of the city, to charge and
collect service charges or fees upon all lots, lands, property and premises
served or benefited by the water system of the city, which system and
facilities consist generally of all pipelines, conduits, water mains, pumps,
structures, mechanical equipment and facilities for the treatment and
distribution of water; to provide for industrial cost recovery from all
industrial customers. (Ord. 213, 9-11-1990, eff. 10-1-1990)
9-1-2: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all property within the
boundaries of the city, including all property owned or occupied by the United
States, the state, county, and the city. (Ord. 213, 9-11-1990, eff. 10-1-1990)
9-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
   APPLICANT: Any potential customer who applies for service from a utility and
either has no previous service from that utility or has not had service with
that utility within the most recent sixty (60) days.
   BUILDING WATER SYSTEM: All pipelines, conduits, fixtures and other
facilities within a building and extending to such point as the city service
line connects to the customer's water service connection.
   CITY: The city of Idaho City, Idaho.
   CUSTOMER: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation
or group owning real property who has applied for, been accepted and is
currently connected to the water system for the benefit of that real property.
   DEPOSIT: Any payment held as security for future payment or performance that
is reimbursable after the customer establishes good credit.
   FLOW: The volume of water being recorded through a water meter.
   GOOD CREDIT: Payment by a customer for the most recent twelve (12)
consecutive month period of all undisputed bills due the City before the City's
dispatch of personnel to the customer's premises as allowed by the rules to
leave a twenty four (24) hour notice or to terminate service.
   HISTORIC PROPERTY: Any building, structure, area or site that has been
identified and recognized by resolution of the Idaho City Council as qualifying
for a reduced water and sewer rate due to the significance of such property in
the history, archeology, or culture of Idaho City, the State of Idaho, or the
United States of America.
   MULTIPLE BUILDING DEVELOPMENT: Includes the various types of development
that would have common or joint ownership areas such as condominiums,
townhouses, mobile home parks or courts, shopping centers, etc.
   OWNER: A person owning real estate which is, or proposes to be, connected to
the water system.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   SERVICE CONNECTION: The point at which the building connects to the public
water system.
   WATER SYSTEM: All pipes, conduits, water mains, pumps, structures,
mechanical equipment and facilities for the treatment and distribution of
water.
   WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently. (Ord. 213, 9-11-1990, eff. 10-1-1990; amd. Ord. 330, 2-24-
2010; Ord. 345, 12-28-2016)
9-1-4: CUSTOMERS LIABLE FOR VIOLATION:
No customer of the City water service shall permit or allow any person from any
other premises or any unauthorized person to connect into said system, and the
permit to connect with the water system shall be limited to the person and the
premises designated in the permit. Any violation of this section by either the
customer or an unauthorized person shall be deemed a misdemeanor. Any such
violation shall be grounds for the City to withhold water service until a
separate service connection is put in for each customer. (Ord. 213, 9-11-1990,
eff. 10-1-1990)
9-1-5: MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF LINES:
   A.   Responsibility to Maintain and Repair. All customers shall keep their
pipe connections and other apparatus in good repair and protected from freezing
at their own expense, but no person, except under the direction of the City,
shall be allowed to dig into the street, alley, sidewalk, or easement beneath
which the lateral and trunk water lines run, or to tap into any such lateral or
trunk line in any manner.
   B.   Demand for Repair. If the City or its designated agent determines,
based on excessive use or other evidence, that a building water system is
leaking, the City may demand that the customer repair such building water
system and customer shall make such repairs or establish that such water system
is not in need of repair.
   C.   Failure to Repair. If the customer fails to make necessary repairs or
demonstrate that repair is not necessary after demand for repair has been made,
then the City, in its discretion and upon notice to the customer of at least
seventy-two (72) hours, may make all corrections and repairs necessary to
correct the situation, or terminate running water service to the customer, or
both. All costs incurred, including the cost of repairs, shall be the
responsibility of the customer and if it is necessary that the city correct the
situation or make repairs, the associated cost and charges may be assessed and
added to the customer's water bill. Such assessment is in addition to any other
penalties provided for a violation of this Chapter. (Ord. 213, 9-11-1990, eff.
10-1-1990; amd. Ord. 371, 8-3-2022)
9-1-6: POINT OF LIABILITY FOR MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Customer's Responsibility: All customers shall have the responsibility
of, and be liable for, and shall pay for, all costs and expenses of maintaining
their own water lines extending from their property until such water lines pass
the vertical plane of the customer's property line or until they reach City
water lines, whichever point is reached last. This liability of the customer
shall include the entire water service connection apparatus and plumbing
equipment and materials.
   B.   City's Responsibility: The City's end point of liability for
maintenance shall be at such point as the City service line connects to the
customer's water service connection, and not thereafter, with the customer
having complete responsibility for the water service connection to the City
water lines.
   C.   Construction Of Section: This section shall not be construed to be in
conflict with section
9-1-5 of this chapter, which states that no person shall be allowed to dig into
the street, alley, sidewalk or easement beneath which the lateral trunk water
lines run, or to tap into any such lateral or trunk line in any manner without
the City's direction and authorization, in that such person shall still have to
contact the City to obtain its permission to perform work within the street,
alley, sidewalk or easement for which the customer is liable. (Ord. 213, 9-11-
1990, eff. 10-1-1990)
9-1-7: CITY NOT LIABLE FOR DAMAGE OR SHORTAGE:
The City shall not be held liable for damages to any customer by reason of
stoppage, blockage, backup or other interruption of water service caused by
accidents to the works, alterations, additions or repairs to the water system
or from other causes that are beyond the reasonable and prudent control of the
City. (Ord. 213, 9-11-1990, eff. 10-1-1990)
9-1-8: CITY MONIES:
All monies collected by the City Clerk under the provisions of this Chapter
shall be paid, received, disbursed and accounted for as directed by the City.
(Ord. 213, 9-11-1990, eff. 10-1-1990)
9-1-9: AUTHORITY TO AMEND REGULATIONS:
Nothing herein contained shall prohibit the City from amending, altering or
adding to the provisions of this Chapter in relation to rates, charges,
expansion, alteration, repair or any other matter related to the water system,
as changed conditions may require from time to time. (Ord. 213, 9-11-1990, eff.
10-1-1990)
9-1-10: INJURY TO WATER SYSTEM UNLAWFUL:
It shall be a misdemeanor for any unauthorized person to maliciously, wilfully
or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any
structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the water system. (Ord.
213, 9-11-1990, eff. 10-1-1990)
9-1-11: BUILDING WATER SYSTEMS AND SERVICE CONNECTIONS; PERMITS:
All materials and workmanship in the installation of building water systems and
service connections shall conform to the following regulations, and shall meet
the certification requirements as set forth in Section
9-1-16 of this Chapter.
   A.   Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connection with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public water system
or appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the City.
The permit is not to be issued until all water connection charges and fees have
been paid in full.
   B.   Classes Of Permit: There shall be two (2) classes of building water
permits: 1) a general permit for residential and commercial water service; and
2) an industrial use permit.
      1.   Application For General Permit:
         a.   Form: An application for a general permit shall be completed by
the owner or his agent on a form provided by the City Clerk.
         b.   Additional Information: The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the City at the time the application is filed.
         c.   Fee: Also, the owner or his agent shall pay to the City, at the
time the application is filed, a hookup fee, as set by Section
9-1-24 of this Chapter.
      2.   Application For Industrial Permit:
         a.   Submission: Industrial customer permits shall be applied for by
the owner or his agent by letter to the City accompanied by an executed copy of
the industrial customer agreement together with any plans, specifications or
other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the City.
         b.   Approval: Industrial customer permits shall be approved by the
City based on recommendations by the engineer for the City. Approval shall be
contingent upon the availability of excess capacity in the water system, the
provisions of this Chapter and any other considerations the City deems
appropriate.
         c.   Fees: The amount of the permit, inspection fee and hookup fee for
an industrial water service will vary with each permit and shall be established
by the City at the time of application.
         d.   Standards In Excess Of Minimum Standards: Any industrial customer
who requires standards of water quality that are in excess of the Federal and
State minimum quality standards shall assume the responsibility for attaining
those standards, and shall bear any and all costs involved in increasing the
water quality to those standards.
   C.   Costs And Expenses; Indemnification:
      1.   Installation: All costs and expenses incident to the installation
and connection of the building water system and service connection shall be
borne by the owner, including the costs of the vault, meter, and other fixtures
within the vault.
      2.   Indemnification: The owner shall indemnify and hold harmless the
City from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building water system and the making of the service
connection for same to the public water system.
   D.   Compliance To Codes: The service connection to the water system shall
conform to the requirement of the Uniform Building and Plumbing Codes, latest
editions, as adopted by the State. (Ord. 213, 9-11-1990, eff. 10-1-1990)
   E.   Meter And/Or Vault: Any meter and/or vault which is to be installed by
the owner shall be approved by the City prior to installation. Any such vault
shall be a minimum of twenty four inches (24") in diameter. (Ord. 213, 9-11-
1990, eff. 10-1-1990; amd. Ord. 232, 1-25-1994)
   F.   Notification For Inspection And Connection: The applicant for the
building water permit shall notify the City when the building water system is
ready for inspection and connection to the water system.
   G.   Excavations: All excavations for building water system installation
shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the
public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property
disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory
to the City. (Ord. 213, 9-11-1990, eff. 10-1-1990)
9-1-12: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF CITY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE:
   A.   Right Of Entry: The City, through its authorized representative bearing
proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   Safety Rules; Indemnification: While performing the necessary work on
private properties referred to in the preceding subsection, the authorized
representative of the City shall observe all safety rules applicable to the
premises established by the customer and the customer shall be held harmless
for injury or death to any City authorized representative and the City shall
indemnify the customer against loss or damage to its property by any authorized
City representative and against liability claims and demands for personal
injury and property damage asserted against the customer and growing out of the
work, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the customer to
maintain safe conditions as required in this Chapter or as reasonably required
by a prudent man's standard.
   C.   Access To Easements: The City, through its authorized representative
bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the waterworks lying within
said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said premises shall be
done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved. (Ord. 213, 9-11-1990, eff. 10-1-
1990)
9-1-13: INSPECTION:
No connection of any kind to a public water line shall be made and no water
shall be permitted to flow through such connection except pursuant to
inspection of and approval issued by the City. See Section
9-1-11 of this Chapter for water permits, inspection fees, inspection notices,
etc. (Ord. 213, 9-11-1990, eff. 10-1-1990)
9-1-14: REJECTIONS OR DISAPPROVALS:
The City may reject any material or workmanship for cause and, upon such order,
rejected material shall be removed and replaced with approved material.
Disapproved workmanship shall cause the removal and replacement of all
materials involved, including appurtenances, excavation, backfilling and other
work items. (Ord. 213, 9-11-1990, eff. 10-1-1990)
9-1-15: BACKFILLING:
Backfilling of building water systems and service connections within the limits
of public rights of way or easements shall conform to special specifications
promulgated by the City for water system installation, and shall be subject to
inspection by and approval of the City. (Ord. 213, 9-11-1990, eff. 10-1-1990)
9-1-16: WATER LINE EXTENSIONS:
   A.   Undeveloped Areas Within City: All proposed extensions of the City
water system to serve undeveloped areas within the existing City boundaries
shall comply with this Chapter.
   B.   Property Outside City Limits:
      1.   Contract: Owners or agents of property outside the City limits
requesting service shall execute a contract incorporating, by reference, this
Chapter.
      2.   Costs: Costs for all extensions which lie outside the boundary
limits of the property for which the extension is requested shall be the
responsibility of that property owner or his agent. Cost for water system
extensions within the property for which the extension is requested shall also
be the responsibility of the owner or his agent. The City may, if it has
uncommitted funds in its water construction account, participate in a portion
of the costs of any oversized water lines. When it is necessary to install
oversized lines as part of an extension, the costs of all oversized lines will
normally be the responsibility of the owner or his agent.
   C.   Installation Prior To Construction Of New Streets: Unless a special
permit is granted by the City, all City water system extensions into newly
developing areas shall be installed prior to the construction of any new
streets.
   D.   Design And Construction Specifications: All design and construction of
any extensions to the City water System shall comply with the official
specifications for water system extension as adopted by the City.
   E.   Plans:
      1.   Preparation: The plans for all extensions to the water system shall
be prepared and signed by a registered professional engineer as per the
licensing requirements of the Idaho Code.
      2.   Number Of Copies: Two (2) copies of the said plans shall be filed
with the City. Two (2) copies of the plans shall be filed with the Idaho
Department of Health and Welfare for their review and approval as required by
the Idaho Code.
      3.   Additional Requirements: In approving a plan for extension to the
City water system, the City reserves the right to stipulate other requirements
such as a special permit fee, rights of way limits, sequence of construction,
time limits for having existing service disrupted, the filing of a performance
bond and other similar measures as may be required to protect the public.
      4.   Approval Required: No work shall commence on any such extension of
the City water system until the extension project has been approved by the
City.
   F.   Certification Of Engineer:
      1.   Obligation Of Owner: After the construction of any City water system
extensions, it shall be the obligation of the owner, or his agent, to have a
registered professional engineer certify to the City and to the Idaho
Department of Health and Welfare that the system extensions were installed in
accordance with the approved plans and specifications on file with the
respective agencies.
      2.   Contents Of Certification: Said certification shall include, but not
be limited to, the date and time the registered professional engineer observed
the water line testing and the method that was used during the tests.
      3.   Collected Data: Data collected through the tests shall be submitted
with the certification.
   G.   Property Of City: Following certification by the registered
professional engineer and acceptance by the City, the entire extension of the
City water system, including the City water service lines, shall become the
property of the City and it shall be the City's responsibility to maintain and
operate the system thereafter.
   H.   Connection After Acceptance By City: If it is necessary for the City to
permit a water service connection and/or water service line at any time after
the extension has been originally accepted by the City, the owner or his agent
shall be required to pay the water hookup fee as well as the standard permit
and inspection fees as may be established by the City for such purposes. (Ord.
213, 9-11-1990, eff. 10-1-1990)
9-1-17: WATER LINE REIMBURSEMENT:
   A.   In the event a water line is extended pursuant to section
9-1-16 of this chapter so that the water system is available to an owner or
agent of property who has not paid for such extension, the city shall either:
      1.   Require such owner or agent to participate in his pro rata costs of
extension; or
      2.   Require such owner or agent to reimburse the party paying for the
extension a prorated share of the extension cost, if connection to the extended
line is made within ten (10) years of extension.
   B.   Prorated contributions under this section shall be decided by the
city's engineer based upon: 1) the total costs of the water line extension; and
2) the size and location of the property. (Ord. 213, 9-11-1990, eff. 10-1-1990)
9-1-18: BASIS FOR WATER CHARGES:
   A.   System Of Charges Established: There is hereby established a system of
connection charges, permit and inspection fees, industrial customer charges,
metered service charges and other fees for the use of, and for service rendered
by the waterworks of the city, and which charges, rates and fees shall be, as
near as possible, uniform as to the different classes of property served by
said water system.
   B.   Levy And Assessment Of Charges: The rates, charges and fees provided by
this chapter are hereby levied and assessed against each lot, parcel of land,
building or property having any connection with the water system of the city.
The rates, charges and fees shall be billed to and paid by the owner of each
lot, parcel of land, building or property served by the water system.
   C.   All Property Subject To Assessment: It is specifically enacted that all
property in the city to which the city water system is available, but is not
used by the owner or occupier of said parcel of land, is still subject to
customer charges under the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 213, 9-11-1990)
   D.   Modification Of Charges; Review: All charges and fees under this
chapter may be modified by the city and shall be reviewed annually. (Ord. 213,
9-11-1990; amd. Ord. 286, 2-27-2001)
9-1-19: WATER USER CONSUMPTION RATES:
   A.   Monthly Water User Rates: The monthly water user rates for water
service in the city, as hereafter developed in accordance with this section and
section
9-1-18 of this chapter are based on a flat rate as determined by present
expenses plus additional capital improvement, depreciation or replacement
charges, and operating costs of the water system facilities.
      1.   Residential: Residential homeowners' water user charges will be
based on a flat rate charge per dwelling.
      2.   Multiple Living Units: Multiple living units user charges shall be
based on a flat rate per living unit.
      3.   Other Users: All other users such as commercial and industrial shall
be based on the number of equivalent connections associated with that business.
      4.   Change In Use: Any change in use shall be subject to application of
appropriate fees under this section. The property owner or agent shall notify
the city of any change in use. (Ord. 214, 9-11-1990)
   B.   Basis For User Charge System:
      1.   Rates Established: The rates for water by users of the water system
for the city of Idaho City shall be in accordance with the rate schedule
adopted by resolution of the city council. A copy of current user rates will be
on file in the city clerk's office. (Ord. 286, 2-27-2001)
         a.   Designated Special Users:
            (1)   Designated special users shall be determined by the city
council and adopted by resolution of the city council. A copy of designated
special users will be on file in the city clerk's office. (Ord. 293, 3-26-2002)
            (2)   The city council is hereby authorized to enter into an
individual user contract with any user whose water usage is measured by a two
inch (2") meter. In the absence of such agreement, whereby such individual user
will be listed as a "special" user, the figure set in this section shall apply.
(Ord. 215A, 5-2-1992; amd. Ord. 286, 2-27-2001; Ord. 293, 3-26-2002)
      2.   Set Charge: The water user charge for a portion of a month shall be
the same as for a full month, and shall not be prorated.
      3.   Equivalent Connections: Equivalent connections for the purpose of
determining water user rates are based on the following schedule. All other
users will require special appraisal to determine number of equivalent
connections; charges will be set by separate agreement between the user and the
City Council. (Ord. 214, 9-11-1990)
 Equivalent Connections
                                                       Equivalent Connections
Churches and lodges                                    1.0
Historic properties                                    0.167
Laundromat, per washer                                 0.2
Mobile homes and mobile home parks, per space          1.0
Motel, hotel, rooming house, etc., per unit            0.25
Overnight camper or trailer spaces (less than 30 days' 0.15
occupancy), per space
Restaurants, bars, or combination thereof              1.5
Single family residence                                1.0
 
(Ord. 348, 8-23-2017)
   C.   Vacancy Rate: When a water service hookup is purchased but not actually
connected to the City water system, a vacancy charge shall be assessed against
the owner of the property until such time as the owner actually connects to the
water system and commences use of the City water system. At that time, the
charge for water service shall be as stated in this section. The vacancy charge
assessed shall be in accordance with the rate schedule adopted by resolution of
the City Council. A copy of current user rates will be on file in the City
Clerk's Office. (Ord. 286, 2-27-2001)
9-1-20: TERMINATION OF SERVICE:
(Rep. by Ord. 310, 7-11-2006)
9-1-21: EMERGENCY SHUTOFF:
Whenever the owner or occupant shall request emergency shutoff of the building
water system at other than normal working hours (between the hours of 8:00 A.M.
and 4:30 P.M., Monday through Friday), a charge of twenty five dollars ($25.00)
shall be levied against the property, and said charge or charges shall be paid
in addition to the normal billing for the month in which the water was shut
off. (Ord. 213, 9-11-1990, eff. 10-1-1990)
9-1-22: RENEWAL OF SERVICE:
Applications for renewal of service must be in writing to the City Clerk and
shall be accompanied by a fee of thirty five dollars ($35.00). Renewal of
service after an emergency shutoff as noted in section
9-1-21 of this chapter shall be done at no charge, providing that said renewal
is scheduled at the convenience of the City. (Ord. 213, 9-11-1990, eff. 10-1-
1990)
9-1-23: WATER CONNECTION, PERMIT AND INSPECTION:
   A.   Application: To obtain City water service, the owner or his agent shall
make application on a special form furnished by the City.
   B.   Additional Information: The permit application shall be supplemented by
any plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent in the
judgment of the City.
   C.   Permit And Inspection Fee; Connection Charge: A permit and inspection
fee shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed. Also, the
owner or his agent shall pay to the city, at the time the application is filed,
a connection charge in the amount as provided for in section
9-1-24 of this chapter. The amount of the permit and inspection fee shall be
determined by the city.
   D.   Materials Of Construction: The materials of construction of the water
service line and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe,
jointing, testing and backfilling of the trench and surface replacement shall
all conform to the requirements of specifications and codes as have been or may
be adopted by the city.
   E.   Notice Of Inspection: The applicant for the city water service
connection shall notify the city when the connection of the water service
connection and line to the public water main is ready for inspection. (Ord.
213, 9-11-1990, eff. 10-1-1990)
9-1-24: WATER CONNECTION CHARGE:
Water connection charges shall be established by resolution adopted by the
Council of the City of Idaho City. (Ord. 386, 8-14-2024)
9-1-25: INDUSTRIAL CUSTOMER CHARGE:
All industrial customer charges shall be established by separate agreement
between each separate industry and the city. (Ord. 213, 9-11-1990, eff. 10-1-
1990)
9-1-26: CUSTOMERS OUTSIDE CITY BOUNDARY:
   A.   Power To Permit: The city may permit the use of the water system by
individual properties that are partially or entirely outside the city limits.
   B.   Request For Service: Each request for such service must be approved by
the city and all regulations of this chapter must be complied with by such
special customer. The customer will be considered a special customer as long as
the property being served remains outside the city.
   C.   Fees And Charges: In addition to all other charges and fees as are
required to be paid by any customer, including industrial customers, the
special customer may be charged a supplemental monthly customer charge that
will be to reimburse the city for any other costs to the city that are
attributable to administering, operating and/or maintaining the said special
customer service. Such charges shall be twenty percent (20%) higher than for
city customers.
   D.   Request For Annexation: Any request for service outside the city limits
shall also be accompanied by a written request for annexation to the city.
(Ord. 213, 9-11-1990, eff. 10-1-1990)
   E.   Location Restriction: No water service shall be provided by the city to
any new structures built outside the current city limits within twenty five
feet (25') of stream banks or associated with developed motor vehicle parking
areas within the twenty five foot (25') buffer zone. (Ord. 218, 1-2-1993)
9-1-27: MONTHLY CUSTOMER CHARGES:
   A.   Due Date: All monthly water charges shall be due and payable from the
customer to the city clerk within fifteen (15) days of the issuance of the bill
for services.
   B.   New Construction: In the case of new construction, a monthly charge
will begin when the service connection has been inspected and approved or when
the building being served is substantially completed, whichever is the earlier
date.
   C.   Failure To Pay: Upon the customer's failure to pay the monthly charges
within fifteen (15) days as prescribed, the water bill will be considered
delinquent.
   D.   Extension: A customer may obtain an extension of the specified time for
payment from fifteen (15) days to thirty (30) days upon certification, in
writing, to the city clerk that payment within the time specified creates a
hardship due to the particular date on which he or she receives funds.
   E.   Application Of Payments: A customer's payment will be applied first to
the oldest balance of that customer's account. (Ord. 213, 9-11-1990, eff. 10-1-
1990)
   F.   Property Owner Responsible For City Water Service Charges: All real
property owners who derive benefit from the city's water system shall, in
return for said benefit, pay user charges. Only the property owner, or his duly
authorized agent, may initiate water service. All such service accounts shall
be in the name of the owner. From the effective date hereof, each such water
service account shall be the responsibility of the owner of the property served
by the city water system. Each property owner shall execute such documentation
as may be required by the city as a condition of receiving continuing water
service. The city may allow the party responsible for payment of such charges
on the date of enactment hereof to remain responsible for city water services
until an unremedied delinquency occurs or until a new primary payer is
proposed. If, after an account is in the name of the owner, the account becomes
delinquent such that service is discontinued by the city, no subsequent city
water service shall be given at the location that received services until all
delinquent city water charges and assessments have been paid in full. (Ord.
213, 9-11-1990, eff. 10-1-1990; amd. Ord. 330, 2-24-2010; Ord. 382, 7-26-2023)
9-1-28: INTERRUPTION OF WATER SERVICE:
Whenever water service to a building water system is interrupted due to leaks,
weather hazards (i.e., freeze-ups) or other causes, the customer shall notify
the city clerk of said condition within forty eight (48) hours of its
discovery.
   A.   Responsibility To Rectify: Upon such notification, the city shall
determine the location of the cause of interruption in relation to the meter.
It shall be the customer's responsibility to rectify any problems occurring or
resulting past the city's end point of liability as defined in section
9-1-6 of this chapter.
   B.   Pro Rata Reduction: Should repairs be impossible due to weather
conditions, lack of parts or other causes, and should the city or customer be
unable to provide any type of running water service within forty eight (48)
hours of notification of the interruption, then the city may, at its
discretion, provide a pro rata reduction in the charge for water service during
any such month in which the running water service is not available; provided
that total usage does not exceed the base usage. (Ord. 213, 9-11-1990, eff. 10-
1-1990)
9-1-29: DELINQUENCY NOTICE:
If a customer has not paid his monthly charges within fifteen (15) days of
issuance of the bill for service as required by section
9-1-27 of this chapter, it shall be deemed delinquent and a penalty charge of
one dollar ($1.00) or ten percent (10%) of charges due, whichever is greater,
shall be added to the customer's charges. Interest shall thereafter accrue on
the past due balance at a rate of ten percent (10%) per annum. In the event of
a delinquent account, the city may then proceed with any or all of the
following courses of action which the city in its discretion determines to be
appropriate:
   A.   Termination Of Service: If the amount of the customer's delinquent
account is equal to or greater than the lesser of twenty five dollars ($25.00)
or two (2) monthly service charges, then the city may provide the customer with
written notice that the city intends to terminate running water service to the
customer, which notice must be mailed at least seven (7) calendar days prior to
termination and which notice shall include the following information: that the
grounds for termination are nonpayment of delinquent bills; the date for
termination; actions the customer may take to avoid or delay termination,
including filing a physician's certificate as to the existence of a medical
emergency or the filing of an informal or formal complaint concerning the
termination with the city council; and a statement of the city's willingness to
make payment arrangements to assist customers having difficulty paying their
utility bill. Upon such notice and an additional diligent attempt by the city
to provide oral notice of termination to the customer at least twenty four (24)
hours prior to actual termination, the city may terminate running water service
to the customer. Water service will be restored upon payment in full of the
customer's delinquent account or when agreement is reached as to a payment
arrangement.
   B.   Collection Action: The city may commence a legal action against the
customer to collect all amounts due and owing, plus penalties and interest
assessed. The city shall be entitled to recover its attorney fees incurred, if
any, in the event it prevails in such action.
   C.   Lien: The city shall notify the customer of the delinquency. In the
event the city elects to terminate service under subsection A of this section,
such written notice of intent to terminate shall also serve as a delinquency
notice under this provision. All delinquent charges or fees, as provided by
this chapter, not paid after the final determination of the customer's account
may be imposed as a lien against and upon the property or premises against
which such charge or fee is levied or assessed, and the clerk shall certify
such delinquencies together with all penalties to the tax collector of the
county and when so certified, the same shall be a lien upon the property and
will be collectible as other taxes.
   D.   Restrictions On Future Service: Any customer leaving a delinquency in
water fees at any location shall not be entitled to the use of the water system
at any new location until all fee delinquencies are paid. (Ord. 213, 9-11-1990,
eff. 10-1-1990)
9-1-30: DEPOSIT OR GUARANTEE:
   A.   Power To Require Deposit: The city may require a deposit from any
current customer or applicant for service or a written guarantee from the owner
if a tenant is the customer or applicant, with evidence that the customer or
applicant is likely to be a credit risk or to damage the water system of the
city.
   B.   Amount Of Deposit: A deposit required as a condition of service shall
not exceed one-sixth (1/6) the amount of reasonably estimated billing for one
year at rates then in effect. This estimate is to be based upon the use of
service at the premises during the prior year or upon the type and size of
customer's equipment using the city's service. The city shall provide the
applicant an opportunity to pay the deposit in two (2) installments. The
applicant shall be allowed to pay one-half (1/2) of the deposit amount at the
time of application, with the remaining installment payable in one month.
   C.   Interest: Interest will be payable on all deposited amounts at the rate
of six percent (6%). Interest will accrue from the date the deposit or deposit
installment is made until the deposit is refunded or applied to the customer's
utility bill. Interest will not accrue on a deposit or deposit installment if:
      1.   Service is terminated temporarily at the request of a customer who
leaves the deposit with the utility for future use as a deposit; or
      2.   Service has been permanently terminated and the utility has been
unsuccessful in its attempt to refund a deposit.
   D.   Return Of Deposit: The deposit, with accrued interest, will be refunded
promptly by the city or applied to the customer's bill when the customer
establishes and maintains good credit. Upon termination of service, the
deposit, if any remains, with accrued interest, shall be credited to the final
bill. The balance of the deposit remaining, if any, shall be returned promptly
to the customer. (Ord. 213, 9-11-1990, eff. 10-1-1990)
9-1-31: WATER SYSTEM FUND:
   A.   All fees and charges received and collected under authority of this
chapter shall be deposited and credited to the water system fund. The accounts
of said fund shall show all receipts and expenditures for the maintenance,
operation, upkeep and repair of the water system and any payments into sinking
funds as may be established for the purpose of:
      1.   Paying principal and interest on the water bonds of the city which
shall from time to time be outstanding.
      2.   Water system capital improvement fund for future expansion,
upgrading or reconstruction on the water system.
      3.   Administrative expenses that are incurred in the operation and
administration of the water system.
      4.   Other special funds as may be established by the city.
   B.   As provided by law, when budgeted and appropriated, the funds and
credits to the account of the water system fund shall be available for the
payment of the requirements for the maintenance, operation, repairs and upkeep
of the water system of the city, and for payment into the sinking fund
established for the payment of the principal of and interest of the water bonds
of the city which shall from time to time be outstanding. (Ord. 213, 9-11-1990,
eff. 10-1-1990)
9-1-32: LAWN AND GARDEN WATERING:
   A.   Posting Of Order: Upon order by the mayor to be posted at four (4)
public locations in the city, customers shall water their lawns and gardens on
alternate dates only, as follows:
      1.   Even days: Even numbered addresses.
      2.   Odd days: Odd numbered addresses.
   B.   Violation: Violation of this section after one verbal or written notice
shall constitute a misdemeanor. (Ord. 213, 9-11-1990, eff. 10-1-1990; amd. 2000
Code)
9-1-33: PENALTY:
   A.   Violation: Any person found to be violating any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   B.   Liability For Expense, Loss Or Damage: Any person violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall become liable to the city for any expense,
loss or damage occasioned by the city by reason of such violation. (Ord. 213,
9-11-1990, eff. 10-1-1990)
9-1-34: WATER USAGE DAILY LIMIT FOR UNLICENSED RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
   A.   Limit Established: It shall be unlawful for anyone without having first
obtained a valid recreational vehicle sticker issued by any jurisdiction or
authority to take more than ten (10) gallons of potable water per day from the
RV dump station located at 206 West Commercial Street or from the visitor
center located at 100 Main or from any water source located on property owned
or maintained by the city of Idaho City.
   B.   Violation: Violation of this section after one verbal or written notice
shall constitute a misdemeanor. (Ord. 299, 5-27-2003)
9-1-35: PRIVATE WELLS:
   A.   For the purpose of this section a "private well" is a well that upon
its completion is not owned and operated by the city of Idaho City, Idaho.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct a private well in the
city without first obtaining approval from the city council.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct a private well in the
city that is deeper than thirty feet (30').
   D.   If property in the city is within two hundred fifty feet (250') of city
water service, it shall be unlawful to use any private well on such property to
provide water for any purpose except irrigation water. The measurement of the
distance from the property to the water service shall be a straight line from
the water service to the part of the property closest to the service.
   E.   The owner of any house, building or property used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the city shall at the
owner's expense connect such improvements to city water in accordance with
existing application procedures if city water service is available within two
hundred fifty feet (250') of the owner's property. The measurement shall be the
same as set forth in subsection D of this section.
   F.   After property in the city has at any time been connected to city
water, it shall be unlawful to use any private well on such property to provide
water for any purpose except irrigation water. (Ord. 313, 3-29-2007)
CHAPTER 2
SEWER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Purpose
9-2-2: Applicability
9-2-3: Definitions
9-2-4: Users Liable For Violation
9-2-5: Maintenance Of Lines
9-2-6: Point Of Liability For Maintenance
9-2-7: City Not Liable For Damage Or Shortage
9-2-8: City Monies
9-2-9: Authority To Amend Regulations
9-2-10: Injury To Sewage System Unlawful
9-2-11: Use Of Sewers Required
9-2-12: Use Restrictions
9-2-13: Permission To Discharge Objectionable Waste Or Water
9-2-14: Building Sewers And Service Connections
9-2-15: Industrial Users
9-2-16: Powers And Authority Of City Authorized Representative
9-2-17: Inspection
9-2-18: Rejections Or Disapprovals
9-2-19: Backfilling
9-2-20: Sewer Line Extensions
9-2-21: Sewer Line Reimbursement
9-2-22: Basis For Sewer Charges
9-2-23: Sewer User Charges And Connection Fees
9-2-24: Sewer Connection, Permit And Inspection
9-2-25: Sewer Connection Charge
9-2-26: Industrial User Charge
9-2-27: Operation And Maintenance Charges
9-2-28: Industrial Cost Recovery
9-2-29: Special Sewer User Charge For Outside City Boundary
9-2-30: Monthly User Charges
9-2-31: Delinquency Notice
9-2-32: Sewerage System Fund
9-2-33: Unavailability Of Public Sewer
9-2-34: Penalty
9-2-1: PURPOSE:
It is hereby determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to and for
the protection of the health, safety and welfare of the public and inhabitants
of the City, and for the purpose of controlling the use and connection to and
for providing an equitable distribution of the costs and expenses of
maintenance, operation, upkeep and repair of the entire sewerage system which
includes the sewer collection system and sewage disposal facilities of the
City, to charge and collect service charges or fees upon all lots, lands,
property and premises served or benefited by the sewerage system of the City,
which system and facilities consist generally of all pipe lines, conduits,
catch basins, manholes, cleanouts, sewer mains, intercepting sewers, lift
stations, pumps, structures, mechanical equipment and facilities for the
treatment and disposal of sewage or sewage byproducts; to provide for
industrial cost recovery from all industrial users. (Ord. 183, 10-24-1984)
9-2-2: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to all property within the
boundaries of the City, and any special users outside of the boundaries of the
City, including all property owned or occupied by the United States, the City,
County and the State. (Ord. 183, 10-24-1984)
9-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used
in this Chapter shall be as follows:
   ACT: The Federal Water Pollution Control Act entitled Public Law 92-500, and
its amendments as administered by the United States Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA).
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter (mg/l).
   BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (5') outside the inner face of the building wall.
   CITY: Refers to the City of Idaho City, Idaho.
   FLOW: The volume of sewage being discharged into the sewage system.
   GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY: Financial recovery by the City, from the
industrial users of the sewerage system, of that portion of the present worth
value of the treatment facilities allocable to the treatment of wastes from
such users.
   INDUSTRIAL USERS: A. An "industrial user" is defined as follows:
      1.   A nongovernmental, nonresidential user which discharges more than
the equivalent of twenty five thousand (25,000) gallons per day of sanitary
waste and which is identified in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual
under divisions A, B, D, E and I;
      2.   A user which discharges any wastewater containing toxic pollutants
or which has any other adverse effect on the treatment works; or
      3.   A commercial user of an individual system.
   B.   A user in the divisions listed may be excluded if it is determined that
it will introduce primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   MULTIPLE BUILDING DEVELOPMENT: Includes the various types of developments
that would have common or joint ownership areas such as condominiums,
townhouses, mobile home parks or courts, shopping centers, etc.
   NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   OWNER: A person owning real estate which is, or proposes to be, connected to
the sewage system.
pH: The negative logarithm of the hydrogen-ion concentration measured in grams
per liter of solution.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not admitted.
   SERVICE CONNECTION: The point at which the building sewer connects to the
public sewer.
   SEWAGE OR WASTE MATTER: A combination of the water-carried wastes from
residences, business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments,
together with such ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT OR WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY: Any device and
system used in the storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of Municipal
sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature.
   SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SEWER USER: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation
or group owning real property who has applied for, been accepted and is
currently connected to the sewerage system for the benefit of that real
property.
   SEWERAGE SYSTEM: All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and
disposing of sewage.
   SHALL: "Shall" is mandatory. "May" is permissive.
   SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes for more than five (5)
times the average twenty four (24) hour concentration of flows during normal
operation.
   STORM DRAIN (Sometimes Termed Storm Sewer): A sewer which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted water such as cooling water.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids, organic or inorganic, that either float on the
surface of, or are in suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which
are removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in "Standard Methods For
The Examination Of Water And Wastewater" and referred to as nonfilterable
residue.
   WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently. (Ord. 183, 10-24-1984; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 330, 2-24-2010)
9-2-4: USERS LIABLE FOR VIOLATION:
No user of the city sewer service shall permit or allow any person from any
other premises or any unauthorized person to discharge sewage into said system,
and the permit to connect with the sewer system shall be limited to the person
and the premises designated in the permit. Any violation of this section by
either the permit holder or an unauthorized person shall be deemed a
misdemeanor. Any such violation shall be grounds for the city to withhold sewer
service until a separate service connection is put in for each user. (Ord. 183,
10-24-1984)
9-2-5: MAINTENANCE OF LINES:
All users of the sewer system shall keep their pipe connections and other
apparatus in good repair and protected from freezing at their own expense, but
no person, except under the direction of the city, shall be allowed to dig into
the street, alley, sidewalk or easement beneath which the lateral and trunk
line sewers run, or to tap into any such lateral or trunk line in any manner.
(Ord. 183, 10-24-1984)
9-2-6: POINT OF LIABILITY FOR MAINTENANCE:
   A.   User's Responsibility: All users shall have the responsibility of, and
be liable for, and shall pay for, all costs and expenses of maintaining their
own sewer lines extending from their property until such sewer lines pass the
vertical plane of the user's property line or until they reach city sewer
lines, whichever point is reached last. This liability of the user shall
include the entire sewer service connection apparatus and plumbing equipment
and materials.
   B.   City's Responsibility: The city's end point of liability for
maintenance shall be at such point as the city service line connects to the
user's sewer service connection, and not thereafter, with the user having
complete responsibility for the sewer service connection to the city sewer
lines.
   C.   Construction Of Section: This section shall not be construed to be in
conflict with section
 9-2-5 of this chapter which states that no person shall be allowed to dig into
the street, alley, sidewalk or easement beneath which the lateral and trunk
line sewers run or tap into any such lateral or trunk line in any manner
without the city's direction and authorization, in that such person shall still
have to contact the city to obtain its permission to perform work within the
street, alley, sidewalk or easement for which the user is liable. (Ord. 183,
10-24-1984)
9-2-7: CITY NOT LIABLE FOR DAMAGE OR SHORTAGE:
The city shall not be held liable for damages to any sewer user by reason of a
stoppage, blockage, backup or other interruption of his sewer disposal service
caused by accidents to the works, alterations, additions or repairs to the
sewer system or from other unavoidable causes beyond the control of the City.
(Ord. 183, 10-24-1984)
9-2-8: CITY MONIES:
All monies collected by the City Clerk under the provisions of this Chapter
shall be paid, received, disbursed and accounted for as directed by the City.
(Ord. 183, 10-24-1984)
9-2-9: AUTHORITY TO AMEND REGULATIONS:
Nothing herein contained shall prohibit the City from amending, altering or
adding to the provisions of this Chapter in relation to the sewer service
supplied by the City in regard to rates, charges, expansion, alteration, repair
or any other matter related to the sewer system, as changed conditions may
require from time to time. (Ord. 183, 10-24-1984)
9-2-10: INJURY TO SEWERAGE SYSTEM UNLAWFUL:
   A.   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the sewerage works.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit any garbage, rubbish,
dead animal or any substance having a tendency to obstruct the flow of the
sewer in any manhole, cleanout or sewer opening. (Ord. 183, 10-24-1984)
9-2-11: USE OF SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Connection Required: The owner or occupant of any house, building or
property used for residential, commercial, industrial, governmental or
recreational use, or other purpose, situated within the City which is abutting
on or having a permanent right of access to any street, alley or right of way
in which there is located a public sewer of the City is hereby required to
cease using any other method of disposing of sewage, waste or polluted water,
and at his expense to connect such building directly with the public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this Chapter, within fifteen (15) days after
date of official notice from the City to do so. (Ord. 183, 10-24-1984; amd.
Ord. 242, 2-14-1995)
   B.   New Subdivisions: The developer of a new subdivision shall, at his
expense, construct the necessary extensions of the public sewer system to
provide public sewer facilities for each lot in his subdivision.
   C.   Prohibited Deposits: It shall be unlawful for any person to place or
deposit in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the City,
or in any area under the jurisdiction of the City, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   D.   Discharge Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural
outlet within the City, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the City, any
sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this Chapter.
   E.   Construction Of Privy, Septic Tank, Cesspool: Except as hereinafter
provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
sewage. (Ord. 183, 10-24-1984)
9-2-12: USE RESTRICTIONS:
The use of the public sewers of the City shall be in accordance with the
following regulations:
   A.   Discharge Prohibited: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged from any connection any storm water, surface water, ground water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted
industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   B.   Unpolluted Drainage: Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage
shall be discharged to such sewers as are specifically designated as storm
sewers, or to a natural outlet approved by the City. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, complying with the requirements
of section 308 of the Act and on approval of the City, to a storm sewer or
natural outlet.
   C.   Prohibited Discharges: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public
sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including, but not limited
to, cyanides in excess of two-tenths milligrams per liter (0.2 mg/l) as CN in
the wastes as discharged to the public sewer;
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works; and
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, tampons, hair and
fleshings, condoms, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc.,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   D.   Harmful Materials/Substances: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged the following described substances, materials, waters or wastes if
it appears likely in the opinion of the City that such wastes can harm either
the sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on
the receiving drainage or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or
constitute a nuisance. In forming its opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the City will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials or
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
      2.   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/l) or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between thirty two and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (32° and 150°F) (0°
and 65°C).
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the
City.
      4.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting any excessive
chlorine requirement to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the City for such materials.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the City as necessary, after treatment of the composite sewage,
to meet the requirement of the State, Federal or other public agencies of
jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the City in compliance with
applicable State or Federal regulations.
      8.   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
      9.   Materials which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids such as, but not
limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries and lime residues or of dissolved
solids such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate.
         b.   Excessive discoloration such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions.
         c.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
         d.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined herein.
      10.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge of the receiving waters. (Ord. 183, 10-24-1984)
   E.   Authority To Reject, Require Pretreatment Or Control Quantity: If any
waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be discharged to the public
sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the characteristics
enumerated in subsection D of this Section, and which in the judgment of the
City, may have a detrimental effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment
or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a
public nuisance, the City may: (Ord. 183, 10-24-1984; amd. 2000 Code)
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      4.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of
Section
9-2-28 of this Chapter.
If the City permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the design
and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the review and
approval of the City and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes,
ordinances and laws.
   F.   Interceptors Required: Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
provided when, in the opinion of the City, they are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients; except that such
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the City
and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. These interceptors shall be adequately maintained and are subject
to periodic inspection by the City.
   G.   Maintenance Of Preliminary Treatment Or Flow-Equalizing Facilities:
Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any
waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his expense.
   H.   Control Manhole Required: When required by the City, the owner of any
property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial waste shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessible and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the City. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense, and shall
be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   I.   Measurements, Tests And Analyses: All measurements, tests and analyses
of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made in this
Chapter shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of "Standard
Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater", published by the American
Public Health Association, and shall be determined at the control manhole
provided or upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event
that no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be
considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the
point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out
by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the
sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and
property.
   J.   Special Agreement Or Arrangement: No statement contained in this
Chapter shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement
between the City and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of
unusual strength or character may be accepted by the City for treatment,
subject to payment therefor, by the industrial concern; and
   K.   Violation: Any property owner or sewer user violating the provisions of
this Section shall, upon notice by the City, immediately install such
preliminary treatment through separators, traps and/or chemical, physical or
biochemical processes as will make and assure that the sewage contributed from
such property or premises will meet the requirements of this Chapter. (Ord.
183, 10-24-1984)
9-2-13: PERMISSION TO DISCHARGE OBJECTIONABLE WASTE OR WATER:
   A.   Admission Subject To Review: The admission into the public sewers of
any water or wastes having:
      1.   Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) greater than three hundred
milligrams per liter (300 mg/l);
      2.   Chemical oxygen demand (COD) greater than nine hundred milligrams
per liter (900 mg/l); or
      3.   Suspended solids in excess of three hundred milligrams per liter
(300 mg/l), shall be subject to the review and approval of the City.
   B.   Pretreatment: Where necessary, in the opinion of the City, the owner
shall provide, at his expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary
to reduce the BOD to three hundred milligrams per liter (300 mg/l), the COD to
nine hundred milligrams per liter (900 mg/l) and the suspended solids to three
hundred milligrams per liter (300 mg/l). Plans, specifications and any other
pertinent information relating to proposed preliminary treatment facilities
shall be submitted for the approval of the City and of the Idaho Department of
Health and Welfare, and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced
until said approvals are obtained in writing. (Ord. 183, 10-24-1984)
9-2-14: BUILDING SEWERS AND SERVICE CONNECTIONS:
All materials and workmanship in the installation of building sewers and
service connections shall conform to the following regulations, and shall meet
the certification requirements as set forth in Section
9-2-20 of this Chapter:
   A.   Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connection with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the City.
The permit is not to be issued until all sewer connection charges and fees have
been paid in full.
   B.   Classes Of Permits: There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer
permits: 1) a general permit for residential and commercial sewer service; and
2) industrial user permits for sewer service to establishments producing
industrial wastes.
      1.   General Permits:
         a.   Form: General permits shall be applied for by the owner or his
agent on a form provided by the City Clerk.
         b.   Additional Information: The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the City at the time the application is filed.
         c.   Fee: Also, the owner or his agent shall pay to the City, at the
time the application is filed, a hookup fee, as set by Section
9-2-25 of this Chapter.
      2.   Industrial User Permits:
         a.   Submission: Industrial user permits shall be applied for by the
owner or his agent by letter to the City accompanied by an executed copy of the
industrial user agreement together with any plans, specifications or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the City.
         b.   Approval: Industrial user permits shall be approved by the City
based on recommendations by the engineer for the City. Approval shall be
contingent upon the availability of excess capacity in the sewage treatment
plant, the provisions of this Chapter and any other considerations the City
deems appropriate.
         c.   Fees: The amount of the permit, inspection fee and hookup fee for
an industrial wastes sewer service will vary with each permit and shall be
established by the City at the time of application.
   C.   Costs And Expenses; Indemnification: All costs and expenses incident to
the installation and connection of the building sewer and service connection
shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify and hold harmless the
City from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer and the marking of the service
connection for same to the public sewer. (Ord. 183, 10-24-1984)
   D.   Separate Sewer Required: A separate and independent building sewer and
service connection shall be provided for every building; except under such
circumstances where, in the opinion of and at the discretion of the authorized
representative of the City, the configuration of two (2) buildings is such as
to make a separate building sewer for each service connection impractical or
unnecessary. In such case, up to two (2) service connections may be made to one
building sewer line, in conformance with the requirements of the Uniform
Building and Plumbing Codes, latest editions, as adopted by the State of Idaho;
provided, that both connections are on the same building lot. A separate permit
shall be obtained for each connection, with separate charges and fees in
accordance with this Chapter. (Ord. 183, 10-24-1984; amd. Ord. 254, 8-13-1996)
   E.   Old Building Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in connection with
new buildings only when they are found, on examination and being tested as
required by the City, to meet all requirements of this Chapter.
   F.   Materials Of Construction: The materials of construction of the
building sewer and service connections, and the methods to be used in
excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing and backfilling the trench,
shall all conform to the requirements of the Uniform Building and Plumbing
Codes, latest editions, as adopted by the State of Idaho.
   G.   Building Sewer:
      1.   Size: The building sewer from the building drain to the public sewer
and the service connection thereto shall not be smaller than four inch (4")
diameter sewer pipe. The minimum grade or slope of the building sewer shall be
as follows:
         a.   Four inch (4") diameter sewer pipe shall be laid on a grade of
not less than one-quarter inch per foot (1/4"/1');
         b.   Six inch (6") diameter sewer pipe shall be laid on a grade of not
less than one-eighth inch per foot (1/8"/1'); and
         c.   Eight inch (8") diameter sewer pipe shall be laid on a grade of
not less than four feet per one thousand feet (4'/1,000'). (Ord. 183, 10-24-
1984)
      2.   Placement: Sewer lines shall not be placed in the same trenches as
water lines which are connected to the City water system. Sewer lines shall be
a minimum of five feet (5') from such water lines. (Ord. 231, 1-25-1994)
      3.   Alignment: The alignment of the building sewer from the outlet of
the building drain to the public sewer connection shall be straight with no
bends, warps or sags permitted except with the permission of the City. The
trench bottom shall be cut to proper grade so that when the pipe is laid the
body or barrel of the pipe shall be on solid material. Bell holes are to be
excavated in the trench bottom at all pipe joints.
   H.   Surface Runoff Or Ground Water: No person shall make connection of reef
downspouts, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of
surface runoff or ground water to a building sewer or building drain which in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   I.   Service Connection Requirements: The service connection to the public
sewer shall conform to the requirements of the Uniform Building and Plumbing
Codes, latest editions, as adopted by the State of Idaho. In addition, the
materials and workmanship of the service connection shall meet the following
requirements:
      1.   Precast Service Connection Fitting:
         a.   Required: A precast service connection fitting shall be installed
as an increment of the sewer pipe line or installed as an external fabrication
to the sewer pipe line;
         b.   Location: Such fabrication to be installed within the center one-
third (1/3) of an individual laying length of the public sewer pipe, as a
precaution in preventing the breaking of the bell or the spigot end of the
sewer pipe.
         c.   Watertight Connection: The service connection fitting shall be
installed as a watertight connection to the public sewer, care being taken not
to extend the building sewer line into the public sewer line therefore creating
a possible restriction.
         d.   Elevation: The invert of the building sewer line at the service
connection fitting shall be at an elevation above the invert of the public
sewer at least equal to two-thirds (2/3) of the diameter of the public sewer.
         e.   Foreign Material; Permanent Connection: All foreign material
shall be removed from the sewer pipe and there shall be a permanent connection
which is airtight and watertight between the public sewer line and the building
sewer line; and
      2.   Installation Of Service Connection Tee: The building sewer service
connection fitting to reinforced sewer pipe lines shall be made as specified
under subsection I1 of this Section, except that in cutting a hole in
reinforced pipe for installation of the service connection tee, extreme care
shall be exercised to avoid damage to the pipe. The hole for the tee shall be
carefully chipped first to expose the reinforcing steel and the steel cut by
torch or saw. No chisel cutting of the reinforcing steel of any character will
be permitted.
      3.   Riser Service Connection: In lieu of a standard service connection
fitting, a riser service connection may be made to sewer lines that are deep
below ground surface. The branch or riser shall be connected the same as a tee,
except that it shall be set vertically over the public sewer pipe, and extended
vertically upward such that the top of the riser is not to be less than five
feet (5') below the surface of the ground.
   J.   Notice For Inspection And Connection: The applicant for the building
sewer permit shall notify the City when the building sewer is ready for
inspection and connection to the public sewer.
   K.   Excavations: All excavations for building sewer installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the
course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the City.
(Ord. 183, 10-24-1984)
9-2-15: INDUSTRIAL USERS:
All industrial users of the sewerage system shall comply with any applicable
requirements of sections 204(b), 307 and 308 of the Act. There shall be two (2)
classes of industrial users: major contributing industry, and minor
contributing industry. They are defined as follows:
   A.   Major Contributing Industry: A major contributing industry is one that:
      1.   Will contribute greater than ten percent (10%) of the design
hydraulic flow of the treatment works.
      2.   Will contribute greater than ten percent (10%) of the design
pollutant loading of the treatment works.
      3.   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under section 307(a) of the Act.
      4.   Has significant impact, either singly or in combination with other
contributing industries, on the sewerage system or the quality of its effluent.
   B.   Minor Contributing Industry: A minor contributing industry shall be all
industries not included in the "major contributing industry" classification as
defined in subsection A of this Section:
   C.   Monitoring: All major contributing industries' wastes shall be
monitored by the City or industry on a regular basis at intervals not less than
monthly, and more frequently as the characteristics of the specific industrial
discharge may dictate. Wastes of minor contributing industries shall be
monitored by the City or industry as the characteristics of the specific
industrial discharge may dictate as determined by the City.
   D.   Semiannual Statement: All major contributing industries shall submit to
the City on the first day of the months of June and December, a statement, in
writing, regarding specific actions taken to achieve full compliance with the
requirements of section 307 of the Act.
   E.   Report Substantial Change In Flow Or Characteristics: Each contributing
industry shall report any substantial (exceeding 10 percent plus or minus)
change in flow or characteristics of wastewater being discharged into the
sewerage system. The report shall include quantity and quality of effluent and
duration and frequency of discharge. (Ord. 183, 10-24-1984)
9-2-16: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF CITY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE:
   A.   Right Of Entry: The City, through its authorized representative bearing
proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   Right To Inquire Into Processes: The City shall have no authority to
inquire into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining,
ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on
the kind and source of discharge to the public sewers or natural waterways.
   C.   Safety Rules; Indemnification: While performing the necessary work on
private properties referred to in subsections A and B of this Section, the
authorized representative of the City shall observe all safety rules applicable
to the premises established by the sewer user and the sewer user shall be held
harmless for injury or death to any City authorized representative and the City
shall indemnify the sewer user against loss or damage to its property by any
authorized City representative and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury and property damage asserted against the sewer user and growing
out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the sewer user to maintain safe conditions as required
in this Chapter or as reasonably required by a prudent man's standard.
   D.   Access To Easements: The City, through its authorized representative
bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewerage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved. (Ord. 183, 10-24-1984)
9-2-17: INSPECTION:
No connection of any kind to a public sewer line shall be made and no sewage
permitted to flow through such connection except pursuant to inspection of and
approval issued by the City. See Section
 9-2-14 of this Chapter for sewer permits, inspection fees, inspection notices,
etc. (Ord. 183, 10-24-1984)
9-2-18: REJECTIONS OR DISAPPROVALS:
The City may reject any material or workmanship for cause and, upon such order,
rejected material shall be removed and replaced with approved material.
Disapproved workmanship shall cause the removal and replacement of all
materials involved, including appurtenances, excavation, backfilling and other
work items. (Ord. 183, 10-24-1984)
9-2-19: BACKFILLING:
Backfilling of building sewers and service connections within the limits of
public rights of ways or easements shall conform to special specifications
promulgated by the City for sewer installation, and shall be subject to
inspection by and approval of the City. (Ord. 183, 10-24-1984)
9-2-20: SEWER LINE EXTENSIONS:
   A.   Compliance Required: All proposed extensions of the City sewerage
system to serve undeveloped areas within the existing City boundaries shall
comply with this Chapter.
   B.   Contract: Owners or agents of property outside the City limits
requesting service shall execute a contract incorporating, by reference, this
Chapter.
   C.   Costs:
      1.   Outside Boundary Limits: Costs for all extensions which lie outside
the boundary limits of the property for which the extension is requested shall
be the responsibility of that property owner or his agent.
      2.   Within Property Limits: Costs for sewer extensions within the
property for which the extension is requested shall also be the responsibility
of the owner or his agent.
      3.   City Participation: The City may, if it has uncommitted funds in its
sewer construction account, participate in a portion of the costs of any
oversized sewer lines.
      4.   Oversized Lines: When it is necessary to install oversized lines as
part of an extension, the costs of all oversized lines will normally be the
responsibility of the owner or his agent.
   D.   Installation Prior To Street Construction: Unless a special permit is
granted by the City, all City sewerage system extensions into newly developing
areas shall be installed prior to the construction of any new streets.
   E.   Design And Construction: All design and construction of any extensions
to the City sewerage system shall comply with the official specifications for
sewerage system extensions as adopted by the City.
   F.   Plans:
      1.   Preparation: The plans for all extensions to the sewerage system
shall be prepared and signed by a registered professional engineer as per the
licensing requirements of the Idaho Code.
      2.   Copies: Two (2) copies of the said plans shall be filed with the
City. Two (2) copies of the plans shall be filed with the Idaho Department of
Health and Welfare for its review and approval as required by the Idaho Code.
      3.   Additional Requirements: In approving a plan for extension to the
City sewerage system, the City reserves the right to stipulate other
requirements such as a special permit fee, rights of way limits, sequence of
construction, time limits for having existing service disrupted, the filing of
a performance bond and other similar measures as may be required to protect the
public.
      4.   Approval Required Prior To Commencement: No work shall commence on
any such extension of the City sewerage system until the extension project has
been approved by the City.
   G.   Certification By Engineer:
      1.   Required: After the construction of any City sewer system
extensions, it shall be the obligation of the owner, or his agent, to have a
registered professional engineer certify to the City and to the Idaho
Department of Health and Welfare that the said system extensions were installed
in accordance with the approved plans and specifications on file, with the
respective agencies.
      2.   Required Information: Said certification shall include, but not be
limited to, the date and time the registered professional engineer observed the
sewer line testing and the method that was used during the tests. Data
collected through the tests shall be submitted with the certification.
   H.   Property Of City: Following certification by the registered
professional engineer and acceptance by the City, the entire extension of the
City sewerage system, including the City sewer service lines, shall become the
property of the City and it shall be the City's responsibility to maintain and
operate the system thereafter.
   I.   Connection After Acceptance By City: If it is necessary for the City to
permit a sewer service connection and/or sewer service line at any time after
the extension has been originally accepted by the City, the owner or his agent
shall be required to pay the sewer hookup fee as well as the standard permit
and inspection fees as may be established by the City for such purposes. (Ord.
183, 10-24-1984)
9-2-21: SEWER LINE REIMBURSEMENT:
In the event a sewer line is extended pursuant to Section
9-2-20 of this Chapter so that the sewer system is available to an owner or
agent of property who has not paid for such extension, the City shall either:
   A.   Require said owner or agent to participate in his pro rata costs of
extension; or
   B.   Require said owner or agent to reimburse the party paying for the
extension a prorated share of the extension cost, if connection to the extended
line is made within ten (10) years of extension.
Prorated contributions under this Section shall be decided by the City's
engineer based upon: 1) the total costs of the sewer extension; 2) the size and
location of the property; and 3) the volume of flow to be generated by the
property. (Ord. 183, 10-24-1984)
9-2-22: BASIS FOR SEWER CHARGES:
   A.   System Of Charges Established: There is hereby established a system of
connector charges, permit and inspection fees, industrial cost recovery
charges, periodic service charges and other fees for the use of, and for
service rendered by the sewerage works of the City, and which charges, rates
and fees shall be, as near as possible, uniform as to the different classes of
property served by said sewerage works.
   B.   Levy And Assessment: The rates, charges and fees provided by this
Chapter are hereby levied and assessed against each lot, parcel of land,
building or property having any connection with the sanitary sewerage works of
the City or otherwise discharging sanitary sewage, industrial wastewater or
other liquids directly into the sanitary sewerage works of the City. The rates,
charges and fees shall be billed to and paid by the owner of each lot, parcel
of land, building or property served by the sewerage system.
   C.   Unused Property: It is specifically enacted that all property in the
city to which a public sewer is available and is required to connect to the
sewer, as required in section
9-2-11 of this chapter, but is not used by the owner or occupier of said parcel
of land, is still subject to user charges under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 183, 10-24-1984)
   D.   Modification Of Fees And Charges: All charges and fees under this
chapter may be modified by the city and shall be reviewed annually. (Ord. 183,
10-24-1984; amd. Ord. 286, 2-27-2001)
9-2-23: SEWER USER CHARGES AND CONNECTION FEES:
   A.   Basis: The monthly sewer user rates for sanitary sewer service in the
city, as hereafter developed in accordance with section
9-2-22 of this chapter, are based on a flat rate as determined by present
expenses plus additional capital improvement, depreciation or replacement
charges, and operating costs of the upgraded sewer and treatment facilities.
      1.   Residential: Residential homeowners' sanitary sewer user charges
will be based on a flat rate charge per dwelling.
      2.   Multiple Living Units: Multiple living units' user charges shall be
based on a flat rate per living unit.
      3.   Other Users: All other users such as commercial and industrial shall
be based on the number of equivalent connections associated with that business,
or the industrial costs recovery system, whichever is applicable pursuant to
this chapter.
      4.   Change In Use: Any change in use shall be subject to application of
appropriate fees under this chapter. The property owner or agent shall notify
the city of any change in use.
   B.   User Charge System: The user charge system is based on the following:
(Ord. 199, 10-22-1987)
      1.   The sanitary sewer user charge shall be in accordance with the rate
schedule adopted by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 286, 2-27-2001)
      2.   An "equivalent connection" shall be defined as one single- dwelling
residential unit with approximately twenty one (21) "fixture units" as defined
in the uniform building code. (Ord. 199, 10-22-1987)
   C.   Connection Charges:
      1.   Single Residential Users: The sewer connection fee for single
residential users shall be as set out in section
9-2-25 of this chapter.
      2.   Industrial Users: Industrial users shall be charged according to
separate agreement with the city pursuant to sections
9-2-26 through
 9-2-28 of this chapter.
      3.   All Nonresidential Users: All nonresidential users which have more
than one "equivalent connection" as defined by subsection B2 of this section
shall be assessed a connection fee pursuant to an appraisal and separate
agreement with the city. Such fee shall be based on the impact the user is
projected to have on the system and may include a capital costs recovery
component.
      4.   Multi-Unit Residential Users: Multi-unit residential users shall be
assessed one connection fee for each unit. This category includes, but is not
limited to, apartments, condominiums, hotels, motels, mobile home courts or
parks, duplexes, triplexes, fourplexes, recreational vehicle parks and
residential care facilities. (Ord. 239, 8-23-1994)
   D.   Vacancy Rate: A vacancy rate shall be charged upon any sewer hookup
that is purchased but is not actually connected to the city sewer system in
accordance with the rate schedule adopted by resolution of the city council
until such time as the property is connected to the city sewer system. A copy
of the current vacancy rate will be on file in the city clerk's office. (Ord.
310, 7-11-2006)
9-2-24: SEWER CONNECTION, PERMIT AND INSPECTION:
   A.   Application:
      1.   Form: To obtain city sewer service, the owner or his agent shall
make application on a special form furnished by the city.
      2.   Additional Information: The permit application shall be supplemented
by any plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent in the
judgment of the city.
   B.   Permit And Inspection Fee: A permit and inspection fee shall be paid to
the city at the time the application is filed. The amount of the permit and
inspection fee shall be determined by the city.
   C.   Sewer Connection Charge: Sewer connection charges shall be set by
resolution adopted by the Council of the City of Idaho City.
   D.   Materials Of Construction: The materials of construction of the sewer
service line and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe,
jointing, testing and backfilling of the trench and surface replacement shall
all conform to the requirements of specifications and codes as have been or may
be adopted by the city.
   E.   Separate Connection Required: Separate and independent city sewer
service connection shall be provided for each building.
   F.   Notice For Inspection: The applicant for the city sewer service
connection shall notify the city when the connection of the sewer service
connection and line to the public sewer main is ready for inspection. (Ord.
183, 10-24-1984; amd. Ord. 386, 8-14-2024)
9-2-25: SEWER CONNECTION CHARGE:
The owner, or his agent, of all properties connecting to the public sewer
system of the city under the terms of this chapter shall pay a sewer connection
charge of three thousand five hundred dollars ($3,500.00) for each equivalent
connection or fraction thereof as may be assigned to the property by the city.
(Ord. 313, 3-29-2007)
9-2-26: INDUSTRIAL USER CHARGE:
All industrial user charges shall be established by separate agreement between
each separate contributing industry and the city. All charges so established
shall be in proportion to the benefits derived by the user from the sewerage
system. The charges so established shall generate sufficient revenue to pay the
operation and maintenance of the sewerage system, and the industrial cost
recovery charges. The charges shall be based on the amount of flow (Q), the
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), the suspended solids (SS) and any other
pertinent components of the wastes that the industrial user is contributing to
the sewerage system.
   A.   Biannual Review: All contributing industrial user charges shall be
reviewed biannually and revised as necessary to ensure that each contributing
industrial user pays its allocable share. If the discharge of a contributing
industrial user changes significantly, greater than plus or minus ten percent
(±10%) (by strength, volume, delivery flow rate or other pertinent component
characteristics) such industrial user's charge shall be adjusted accordingly to
assure that the user continues to pay its allocable share.
   B.   Basis Of Charge: Contributing industrial users discharging pretreated
process wastes into the sewerage system shall pay industrial user charges based
on the characteristics of the waste effluent from the pretreatment facilities.
   C.   Amount Of Payment: The amount of payment required from an industry for
industrial user charges is to be the sum of the operation and maintenance
charges and the industrial cost recovery charges.
   D.   Actions For Nonpayment: Actions for nonpayment will be in accordance
with section
9-2-31 of this chapter. (Ord. 183, 10-24-1984)
9-2-27: OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE CHARGES:
The amount of payment required from an industry for operation and maintenance
charges is to be determined by the following procedure:
   A.   Operation And Maintenance Charges: The operation and maintenance
charges shall be allocated in proportion to the benefit of the proposed
facility to each wastewater characteristic as follows:
Q = 70 percent of operation and maintenance costs
   BOD = 16 percent of operation and maintenance costs
SS = 14 percent of operation and maintenance costs
The operation and maintenance costs of any future expansion, upgrading or
reconstruction of the waste treatment facility shall be allocated in proportion
to the benefit of the said improvement to any wastewater characteristic so
benefited at that time.
   B.   Total Cost Per Unit: The total cost per unit of each characteristic
shall be calculated as follows:
Q Unit Cost =                       
(Operation and Maintenance Cost)   Percent of Operation and
                                   (Maintenance Cost Allocated Q)
(Total Design Flow of Facility in Gallons per Day)
                                  
BOD Unit Cost =                     
(Operation and Maintenance Cost)   Percent of Operation and
                                    (Maintenance Cost Allocated BOD)
(Total Design BOD Capacity of Facility in Pounds per Day)
                                  
SS Unit Cost =                      
(Operation and Maintenance Cost)   Percent of Operation and
                                   (Maintenance Cost Allocated SS)
(Total Design SS Capability of Facility in Pounds per Day)
 
   C.   Cost To Industry: The cost to an industry for the operation and
maintenance portion of the user charge is calculated as follows:
Annual O&M Cost =
(Annual Q contributed by Industry) (Q Unit Cost)
+
(Annual BOD contributed by Industry) (BOD Unit Cost)
+
(Annual SS contributed by Industry) (SS Unit Cost)
 
Monthly O&M Cost = Annual O&M Cost
                   12
 
   D.   Small Contributing Industrial Concerns: For small contributing
industrial concerns where it is impractical to develop a monitoring program to
measure wasteload discharges, operation and maintenance charges may be made on
the basis of estimated flows alone; provided, that the industry does not
discharge an excessive strength waste that may disrupt the treatment process as
determined by the City. The operation and maintenance payments will be
calculated on a similar basis as described herein, except that one hundred
percent (100%) of the operation and maintenance cost will be allocated to flow.
   E.   Payments: Payments for operation and maintenance charges shall begin
within a month of the date of initiation of service by the industry of the
treatment facility. Operation and maintenance charges shall be reviewed
annually and adjustments based upon the actual O&M costs attributable to the
industry and the actual O&M payments received from the industry for the
previous year shall be made. The O&M charge rate for industrial users shall be
adjusted at that time to reflect the actual O&M costs of the previous year.
(Ord. 183, 10-24-1984)
9-2-28: INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY:
All contributing industrial users of the sewerage system shall make industrial
cost recovery payments according to the following:
   A.   Reserve Extra Or Additional Capacity: The City may permit contributing
industrial users to reserve extra or additional capacity in the sewerage system
for future use by the industry. Such capacity shall be reserved through formal,
written agreement and shall be subject to pertinent industrial cost recovery
regulations. The industrial user shall be required to apply the full industrial
cost recovery allocable to the capacity reserved. In the event that the City
has unused capacity in its sewerage system available for use and the said
industrial user is permitted by the City to exceed its agreed upon reserved
capacity, the industry shall be required to pay industrial cost recovery
calculated on the full reserved capacity plus the additional industrial costs
recovery for the use above the limits of the original agreed upon reserve
capacity or any element thereof.
   B.   Future Upgrading: All contributing industrial users shall be required
to pay any additional cost recovery charges associated with the cost of future
upgrading the treatment works as may be required of the City to comply with
waste discharge requirements.
   C.   Expansion Of Treatment Works: Industrial cost recovery for expansion of
the treatment works shall be required from those industries which have exceeded
their reserved capacity and have been a contributing factor to the need for
expansion. Industrial cost recovery payments will be required for that portion
of the expanded capacity which is allocable to the industrial users discharge.
   D.   Amount Of Payment: The amount of payment required from an industry for
industrial cost recovery is to be determined by the following procedure:
      1.   Value Of Treatment Facility: The value of the treatment facility
shall be allocated in proportion to the benefit of the facility to each
wastewater characteristic as follows:
   Q = 70% of present worth value of treatment facilities
   BOD = 16% of present worth value of treatment facilities
   SS = 14% of present worth value of treatment facilities
The value of any future expansion, upgrading or reconstruction of the waste
treatment facility shall be allocated in proportion to the benefit of the said
improvement to any wastewater characteristic so benefited at that time.
      2.   Present Worth Value: The present worth value of the facilities at
any time shall be based on the following formula:
 
Present Worth Value of Facilities =
(Construction Cost)  Present Engineering
                     (News-Record Construction Cost Index)
(Engineering News-Record Construction Cost Index at Time of Construction)
 
      3.   Total Cost Per Unit: The total cost per unit of each characteristic
shall be calculated as follows:
Q Unit Cost =
                                      Percent of Present
(Present Worth Value of Facilities)  Worth Value of
                                      (Facilities Allocated to Q)
(Total Design Flow of Facility in Gallons per Day)
                                     
BOD Unit Cost =                       
                                      Percent of Present
(Present Worth Value of Facilities)  Worth Value of
                                      (Facilities Allocated to BOD)
(Total Design BOD Capability of Facility in Pounds per Day)
SS Unit Cost =
                                      Percent of Present
(Present Worth Value of Facilities)   Worth Value of
                                      (Facilities Allocated to SS)
(Total Design SS Capability of Facility in Pounds per Day)
 
      4.   Industrial Cost Recovery: The cost to an industry for industrial
cost recovery (ICR) is calculated as follows:
   Total ICR Cost =
   (Industry's Final Reserved Amount of Q) (Q Unit Cost)
   +
   (Industry's Final Reserved Amount of BOD) (BOD Unit Cost)
   +
   (Industry's Final Reserved Amount of SS) (SS Unit Cost)
The total ICR cost shall be paid back according to the following payment
schedule:
         a.   An industry shall pay, within one month of initiation of sewage
treatment service, a lump sum payment equal to the present worth value of the
portion of the treatment facility that the industry is utilizing for waste
treatment at the time of the agreement, according to the formulas for said
payment stated hereafter.
   ICR Payment (Initial Contribution) =
(Industry's Initial Amount of Q) (Q Unit Cost)
+
(Industry's Initial Amount of BOD) (BOD Unit Cost)
+
(Industry's Initial Amount of SS) (SS Unit Cost)
         b.   An industry may reserve a portion of the treatment facility
exceeding the portion utilized for waste treatment at the time of the
agreement. The ICR payments for the reserve portion of the treatment facilities
shall be paid back over the period of time estimated to be necessary to utilize
the full amount of the reserved portion according to the following formula:
ICR Payment (Reserve Portion) =
                             
(Industry's Final Reserved - Industry's Initial) (Q Unit-Cost) Amount of Q
Amount of Q
+                             
(Industry's Final Reserved - Industry's Initial) (BOD Unit Cost)
Amount of BOD                Amount of BOD
+                             
(Industry's Final Reserved - Industry's Initial) (SS Unit Cost)
Amount of SS                 Amount of SS
                             
                             Total ICR Payment (Reserve Portion)
Monthly ICR Payment =        (Estimated Number of Months to Reach
                             Reserve Capacity of Sewerage System)
 
The time period to reach the reserve capacity of the system is subject to
negotiation and the City reserves the right to limit the time period for
utilizing the reserve capacity. ICR payments for the reserve portion of the
treatment facilities shall begin within a month of the date of initiation of
service by the industry of the treatment facility.
         c.   For small contributing industrial concerns where it is
impractical to develop a monitoring program to measure waste load discharges,
industrial cost recovery payments may be made on the basis of estimated flows
alone; provided, that the industry does not discharge an excessive strength
waste that may disrupt the treatment process as determined by the city. The
industrial cost recovery payments will be calculated on a similar basis as
described herein, except that one hundred percent (100%) of the present worth
value of the facilities shall be allocated to flow.
         d.   All industrial cost recovery payments collected from industry and
paid to the city shall be allocated according to the following:
            (1)   All ICR payments based on the original construction cost
shall be used to pay off the bonded indebtedness.
            (2)   For any ICR payments based on a present worth value of the
treatment facilities which is higher than the original construction cost, the
amount of the payment corresponding to the original construction cost shall be
used to pay off the bonded indebtedness, and any amount exceeding the portion
assigned to the original construction cost shall be deposited in a capital
improvement fund to provide for future capital improvements to the sewerage
treatment plant.
         e.   Action for nonpayment will be in accordance with section
9-2-31 of this chapter. (Ord. 183, 10-24-1984)
9-2-29: SPECIAL SEWER USER CHARGE FOR OUTSIDE CITY BOUNDARY:
   A.   Power To Permit: The city may permit the use of the sewerage system by
individual properties that are partially or entirely outside the city limits.
   B.   Request For Service: Each request for such service must be approved by
the city and all regulations of this chapter must be complied with by such
special sewer user. The sewer user will be considered a special user as long as
the property being served remains outside the city.
   C.   Fees And Charges: In addition to all other charges and fees as are
required to be paid by any sewer user, including industrial users, the special
sewer user may be charged a supplemental monthly user charge that will be used
to reimburse the city for any other costs to the city that are attributable to
administering, operating and/or maintaining the said special sewer user
service. Such charges shall not be arbitrarily higher than for city users, but
shall be based upon additional costs hereinbefore mentioned attributable to
noncity use.
   D.   Request For Annexation: Any request for service outside the city limits
shall also be accompanied by a written request for annexation to the city.
(Ord. 183, 10-24-1984)
9-2-30: MONTHLY USER CHARGES:
   A.   Due Date: All monthly sewer charges shall be due and payable from the
user to the city clerk within fifteen (15) days of the issuance of the bill for
services.
   B.   New Construction: For new construction, this would be when the service
connection has been inspected and approved or when the building being served is
substantially completed, whichever is the earlier date.
   C.   Failure To Pay; Penalty: Upon failure to pay the same, as prescribed,
each user shall pay, in addition to the amount due, a penalty charge of one
dollar ($1.00) or ten percent (10%) of charges due, whichever is greater.
   D.   Property Owner Responsible For City Sewer Service Charges: All real
property owners who derive benefit from the city’s sewer system shall, in
return for said benefit, pay user charges. Only the property owner, or his duly
authorized agent, may initiate sewer service. All such service accounts shall
be in the name of the owner. From the effective date hereof, each such sewer
service account shall be the responsibility of the owner of the property served
by the city sewer system. Each property owner shall execute such documentation
as may be required by the city as a condition of receiving continuing sewer
service. The city may allow the party responsible for payment of such charges
on the date of enactment hereof to remain responsible for city sewer services
until an unremedied delinquency occurs or until a new primary payer is
proposed. If, after an account is in the name of the owner, the account becomes
delinquent such that service is discontinued by the city, no subsequent city
sewer service shall be given at the location that received services until all
delinquent sewer charges and assessments have been paid in full. (Ord. 183, 10-
24-1984; amd. Ord. 330, 2-24-2010; Ord. 382, 7-26-2023)
9-2-31: DELINQUENCY NOTICE:
   A.   Deemed Delinquent: Upon the user's failure to pay the monthly charges
within fifteen (15) days as prescribed, the sewer bill will be considered
delinquent. (Ord. 330, 2-24-2010)
   B.   Notice Of Delinquency; Penalty: The city shall notify the sewer user of
the delinquency, and if the charges are not paid within fifteen (15) days after
the delinquency notice, an additional penalty of one dollar fifty cents ($1.50)
or fifteen percent (15%) of charges due, whichever is greater, will be added to
the account. (Ord. 183, 10-24-1984; amd. Ord. 286, 2-27-2001)
   C.   Lien: All delinquent charges or fees, as provided by this chapter, not
paid after the final determination of the sewer user's account shall be imposed
as a lien against and upon the property or premises against which such charge
or fee is levied or assessed, and the clerk shall certify such delinquencies
together with all penalties to the tax collector of the county and when so
certified the same shall be a lien upon the property and will be collectable as
other taxes.
   D.   Restriction On Future Service: The owner of any property leaving a
delinquency in sewer fees at any location shall not be entitled to the use of
the sewerage system at any new location until all fee delinquencies are paid.
(Ord. 183, 10-24-1984)
9-2-32: SEWERAGE SYSTEM FUND:
   A.   Receipts: All fees and charges received and collected under authority
of this chapter shall be deposited and credited to the sewerage system fund.
   B.   Accounts: The accounts of said fund shall show all receipts and
expenditures for the maintenance, operation, upkeep and repair of the sewerage
works and any payments into sinking funds as may be established for the purpose
of:
      1.   Paying principal and interest on the sewer bonds of the city which
shall from time to time be outstanding.
      2.   Sewerage capital improvement fund for industrial cost recovery
payments that are to be used exclusively for future expansion, upgrading or
reconstruction on the sewage system.
      3.   Administrative expenses that are incurred in the operation and
administration of the sewer system.
      4.   Other special funds as may be established by the city.
   C.   Use Of Funds: As provided by law, when budgeted and appropriated, the
funds and credits to the account of the sewerage system fund shall be available
for the payment of the requirements for the maintenance, operation, repairs and
upkeep of the sewerage works of the city and, for payment into the sinking fund
established for the payment of the principal of and interest of the sewer bonds
of the city which shall from time to time be outstanding.
   D.   Summary: A summary of the sewerage system fund revenue and expenditures
shall be provided at the close of each fiscal year to all sewer rate payors.
Additionally, any rate payor is entitled to inspect at the city clerk's office
the records or documentation indicating how his or her rate has been
calculated. (Ord. 183, 10-24-1984; amd. 2000 Code)
9-2-33: UNAVAILABILITY OF PUBLIC SEWER:
   A.   Public System Unavailable: Where a public sanitary sewer is not
available under the provisions of this chapter, the building sewer shall be
connected to a private sewer disposal system complying with all rules,
regulations, standards and recommendations of any local, state or federal
authority having jurisdiction over such matters. The city exercises no rights
or responsibilities pertaining to the private disposal of sewage.
   B.   Public System Becomes Available: At such time as a public sewer becomes
available to property served by a private sewage disposal system, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this chapter
and any septic tank, cesspool or similar private sewage disposal facilities
shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   C.   Septic Tank Pumpings: Septic tank pumpings shall not be deposited in
any manhole, cleanout or sewer opening. (Ord. 183, 10-24-1984)
9-2-34: PENALTY:
   A.   Violation: Any person found to be violating any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   B.   Liability For Expense, Loss Or Damage: Any person violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall become liable to the city for any expense,
loss or damage occasioned the city by reason of such violation. (Ord. 183, 10-
24-1984)
CHAPTER 3
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
9-3-1: Purpose
9-3-2: Definitions
9-3-3: Cross-Connections
9-3-4: Backflow Prevention Devices
9-3-5: Installation Permit
9-3-6: Additional Remedies
9-3-7: Violation; Penalty
9-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to protect the public health of water consumers
by the control of actual and/or potential cross- connections. (Ord. 163, 11-12-
1980)
9-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, unless the context otherwise indicates, the following
words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
   BACKFLOW: The flow of nonpotable water, liquids, gases, or other foreign
substances into the pipes of a potable water system from any source or sources.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device to counteract back pressure or prevent
back siphonage.
   CITY: The City of Idaho City, Idaho, or its authorized agent.
   CONTAMINANT: Any physical, chemical, biological, radiological substance or
matter in water.
   CONTAMINATION: The entry into or presence in a public water supply of any
substance which may be deleterious to health and/or quality of the water.
   CONSUMER: Any person served by a public water system.
   CROSS-CONNECTION: Any actual or potential connection or structural
arrangement between a public or a consumer's potable water system and any other
source or system through which it is possible to introduce into any part of the
potable system used water, industrial fluid, gas or substances other than the
intended potable water with which the system is supplied. Bypass arrangements,
jumper connections, removable sections, swivel or changeover devices and other
temporary or permanent devices through which or because of which backflow can
or may occur are cross-connections.
   DEPARTMENT: The Idaho Department of Health and Welfare or an authorized
representative of the Department of Health and Welfare.
   DIRECTOR: The Director of the Department of Health and Welfare or his
designee.
   HEALTH OFFICER: The Idaho Department of Health and Welfare's regional health
officer, or other authorized agent of the Department.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY: Any system or water supply including all mains, pipes,
and structures through which water is obtained and distributed, including wells
and well structures, intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants,
reservoirs, storage tanks and appurtenances, collectively or severally,
actually used or intended for use for the purpose of furnishing water to the
general public for human consumption or general domestic use.
   WATER AND SEWER SUPERINTENDENT: A duly appointed person as designated by the
City, or his designated agent. (Ord. 163, 11-12-1980)
9-3-3: CROSS-CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Backflow Prevention Device Required: No water service connection to any
premises shall be installed or continued in use by the City unless the water
supply is protected by backflow prevention devices as may be required by this
Chapter and section 1-8306 of the Idaho Regulations for Public Drinking Water.
   B.   Installation And Maintenance Of Cross-Connection Prohibited: The
installation or maintenance of a cross-connection which will endanger the water
quality of the potable water supply of the City shall be unlawful and is
prohibited.
   C.   Declared Public Nuisance: Any such cross-connection now existing or
hereafter installed is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and the same
shall be abated.
   D.   Compliance Required: The control or elimination of cross- connections
shall be in accordance with this Chapter and section 1-8306 of the Idaho
Regulations for Public Drinking Water, together with the latest edition of
appropriate manuals of standard practice pertaining to cross-connection control
approved by the Department.
   E.   Authority To Establish Regulations: The City shall have the authority
to establish requirements more stringent than State regulations if they deem
that the conditions so dictate. The City shall adopt rules and regulations as
necessary to carry out the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 163, 11-12-1980)
9-3-4: BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
   A.   Installation Required: Backflow prevention devices shall be installed
on any premises at the point on the premises where the consumer connects to the
public water supply system or within any premises where, in the judgment of the
City, the nature and extent of the activities or the materials stored on the
premises would present an immediate and dangerous hazard to health and/or
deleterious to the quality of the water should a cross-connection occur; even
though such cross-connection does not exist at the time the backflow prevention
devices shall be installed under circumstances including, but not limited to,
the following:
      1.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless the quality of the
auxiliary supply is in compliance with title 1, chapter 8, Idaho Regulations
for Public Drinking Water and is acceptable to the City.
      2.   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross-
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to assure that cross-connections do not exist.
      3.   Premises having internal cross-connections that are not correctable,
or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impracticable to ascertain
whether or not cross-connections exist.
      4.   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or reestablished.
      5.   Premises, on which any contaminant is handled under pressure so as
to permit entry into the public water supply, or where a cross-connection could
reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of process
waters and cooling waters.
      6.   Premises where materials of a toxic or hazardous nature are handled
in such a way that if back siphonage should occur, a serious health hazard
might result.
      7.   The following types of facilities will fall into one of the above
categories where a backflow prevention device is required to protect the public
water supply. A backflow prevention device shall be installed at these
facilities unless the City and Department determine that no hazard exists:
         a.   Sewage treatment plants;
         b.   Chemical or other industrial plants;
         c.   Agricultural chemical storage, formulations and distribution
facilities;
         d.   Petroleum storage facilities;
         e.   Mortuaries;
         f.   Hospitals;
         g.   Piers and docks;
         h.   Laboratories;
         i.   Food processing plants;
         j.   Tank truck fill stations;
         k.   Car washes;
         l.   Other facilities specified by the Director or the City.
   B.   Type Of Protective Device: The type of protective device required shall
depend on the degree of hazard which exists:
      1.   In cases where testing and repair of mechanical devices is not
possible an air gap separation shall be required.
      2.   An air gap separation or reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device shall be required where the water system may be contaminated
with sewage or other hazardous or toxic substances which may have an effect on
the health of the consumer.
      3.   A double check valve assembly, an air gap separation, or a reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention device shall be installed where the
water system may be contaminated with a substance which may be aesthetically
objectionable but not hazardous to the health of the consumer.
   C.   Location: Backflow prevention devices required by this Chapter shall be
installed at the meter, at the property line of the premises when meters are
not used, or at a location designated by the City. The devices shall be located
so as to be readily accessible for maintenance and testing, and furthermore,
where no part of the device will be submerged.
   D.   Installation: Backflow prevention devices required by this Chapter
shall be installed under the supervision of, and with the approval of, the
Water and Sewer Superintendent, or his designee.
   E.   Approval Required; Cost: Any protective device required by the Chapter
shall be a model approved by the Director. A double check valve assembly or a
reduced pressure principal backflow prevention device will be approved if it
has successfully passed performance tests of the University of Southern
California Engineering Center or other testing laboratories satisfactory to the
City and the Director. These devices shall be furnished and installed by and at
the expense of the customer.
   F.   Inspection: Backflow prevention devices installed pursuant to this
Chapter shall be inspected and tested periodically. Inspection and testing
intervals shall be in conformance with time periods specified in the City
cross-connection and backflow prevention program. Inspections, tests and
maintenance of backflow prevention devices shall be at the customer's expense.
Whenever the devices are found to be defective, they shall be repaired or
replaced at the customer's expense. Inspections, tests, repairs and records
thereof shall be accomplished under the City's supervision.
   G.   Failure To Comply: Failure of a customer to cooperate in the
installation, maintenance, testing or inspection of backflow prevention devices
required by this Chapter and section 1-8306 of the Idaho Regulations for Public
Drinking Water, shall be grounds for the termination of water service to the
premises, or, in the alternative the installation of an air-gap separation or
other device at the customer's expense. (Ord. 163, 11-12-1980)
9-3-5: INSTALLATION PERMIT:
If cross-connection control devices are found to be necessary, the owner of the
property served must apply to the City for a specific installation permit.
(Ord. 163, 11-12-1980)
9-3-6: ADDITIONAL REMEDIES:
In the event an improper cross-connection is not corrected within the time
limit set by the City, or in the event the City is refused access to any
property for the purpose of determining whether or not cross-connections exist;
delivery of water to the property shall cease until the deficiency is corrected
to the City's satisfaction. In addition, the City may effect the necessary
repairs or modifications at the expense of the property owner and refuse
delivery of water to the property until the costs thereof shall have been paid.
(Ord. 163, 11-12-1980)
9-3-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, refuses to comply with, or
resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this Chapter or the rules
and regulations as adopted by the City to carry out the provision of this
Chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall for each offense be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 163, 11-12-1980; amd. 2000 Code)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Purposes
10-1-3: Legal Authority
10-1-4: Applicability
10-1-5: Minimum Requirements
10-1-6: Buildings Previously Permitted Or Under Construction At Time Of Title
Adoption
10-1-7: Certificate Of Occupancy Or Zoning Compliance Required
10-1-8: Information Required For Zoning Or Building Permits
10-1-9: Principles Of Interpretation
10-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known as the ZONING ORDINANCE OF IDAHO CITY, IDAHO. (Ord.
352, 4-25-2018)
10-1-2: PURPOSES:
The purposes of this title are, consistent with the policies of the
Comprehensive Plan, to separate, to the extent possible, land uses that might
be incompatible with one another and to endeavor to assure public services
sufficient to support land uses that are allowed. (Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
10-1-3: LEGAL AUTHORITY:
This title is enacted pursuant to authority granted by title 67, chapter 65,
Idaho Code (Local Land Use Planning Act); title 50, chapter 13, Idaho Code
(Plats and Vacations); and article 12, section 2 of the Idaho Constitution as
currently comprised or as subsequently amended. (Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
10-1-4: APPLICABILITY:
This title shall apply, to the extent permitted by law, to all land and the use
thereof, within the City of Idaho City boundaries (City limits). Lands owned by
the government of the United States of America shall be governed hereby only to
the extent provided by Federal law. Lands owned by the State of Idaho shall be
governed hereby to the extent allowed by State law. The Planning and Zoning
Commission or its Administrator shall have authority to act for the City. The
Administrator is authorized to establish administrative procedures, develop
application forms and administer the permitting process as necessary to
demonstrate compliance with this title and applicable provisions of State law.
(Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
10-1-5: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title shall be
held to be minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health,
safety and general welfare. Whenever the requirements of this title conflict
with the express requirements of any other locally adopted ordinance, the
ordinance providing the greatest measure of protection for the public health,
safety and general welfare shall prevail. (Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
10-1-6: BUILDINGS PREVIOUSLY PERMITTED OR UNDER CONSTRUCTION AT TIME OF TITLE
ADOPTION:
Any building or structure for which a building permit has been lawfully issued
or for which a completed application has been accepted prior to the effective
date of this title may be completed and used in accordance with the plans,
specifications, and permits on which said building permit was granted, if
construction is commenced and inspections are requested within one hundred
eighty (180) days after the issuance of said permit, and if construction is
diligently pursued to completion. (Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
10-1-7: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY OR ZONING COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful to occupy or use any building or premises, or part of building
or premises created, erected, changed, converted, wholly or partly altered, or
enlarged in its use or structure until a certificate of occupancy and a
certificate of zoning compliance has been issued. It is unlawful to establish
any land use on lands within Idaho City other than agricultural use that does
not constitute a confined animal feeding operation unless a certificate of
zoning compliance has been issued. The Administrator may issue a temporary
certificate of occupancy for a period of time, not exceeding nine (9) months,
to allow for completion of weather-dependent work or improvements. Certificates
of occupancy or certificates of zoning compliance issued on the basis of plans
and applications approved by the Administrator or designee authorize only the
use and/or arrangement set forth in such approved plans and applications or
amendments, and no other uses or arrangements. The Planning and Zoning
Commission shall maintain records of certificates of occupancy and certificates
of zoning compliance at City Hall. (Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
10-1-8: INFORMATION REQUIRED FOR ZONING OR BUILDING PERMITS:
An application for a permit governed by this title shall address the
information necessary to determine compliance with this title and other
applicable provisions of law. An application for a permit for any property
located within the boundaries of the Idaho City Historic Preservation District
shall include proof of compliance with the provisions of
title 8, chapter 2, "Historic Preservation District", of this Code. (Ord. 352,
4-25-2018)
10-1-9: PRINCIPLES OF INTERPRETATION:
Provided that the context does not give rise to practical difficulties,
interpretations of certain zoning title language and certain standards will
usually be applied in the following manner:
   A.   Buildings Across Parcel Description Lines:
      1.   Provided legal and contiguous parcels of record are owned by the
same property owner(s), building(s) that have been developed across property
lines shall merge the properties into one parcel for the determination of
zoning standards.
   B.   Fences And Wall Height Measurement:
      1.   Maximum fence and wall height shall be measured from the finished
grade at the property line. That portion of a wall or fence functioning as a
retaining wall shall not be counted in determining overall fence or wall
height.
   C.   Yard Orientation On Through Lots:
      1.   On through lots, where public road frontage at both ends exists,
either line may be designated by the Administrator as the front yard; however,
the predominate orientation of existing structures and the presence of street
access limitations on that block shall determine the front of the structure.
   D.   Setback Encroachments:
      1.   Setbacks shall not be less than the minimum dimension specified in
the specific section, except as follows: Cornices, canopies, eaves, or other
similar architectural features not providing additional floor space within the
building may extend into a required side, front or rear yard setback no more
than three feet (3'). Setbacks will be measured from the property line to the
foundation of the structure. A minimum of ten feet (10') separation is required
between adjacent building overhangs, canopies, etc. Paved, uncovered parking is
generally allowed in setback areas, unless other restrictions provide to the
contrary.
   E.   Interpretation Of District Boundaries:
      1.   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any
zoning district as shown on the Official Zoning Map, the following shall apply:
         a.   Where zone boundaries are indicated as approximately following
the centerline of street or highway right-of-way lines, streams, lakes or other
bodies of water, the centerline shall be construed to be such boundary.
         b.   Where zone boundaries approximately follow lot lines, such lot
lines shall be construed to be the boundaries.
         c.   Where zone boundaries are approximately parallel to the
centerlines or streetlines of streets, or the centerlines or right-of-way lines
of highways, such zone boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto
and at such distance therefrom as indicated on the Official Zoning Map.
            (1)   If no distance is given, such dimensions shall be determined
by the use of the scale shown on the Official Zoning Map. (Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
CHAPTER 2
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
10-2-1: Commission Established
10-2-2: Membership
10-2-3: Authority
10-2-4: Organization
10-2-5: Rules, Recordkeeping And Meetings
10-2-6: Expenditures And Staff
10-2-7: Conflict Of Interest
10-2-1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a Planning and Zoning Commission for Idaho City,
which shall consist of five (5) members. The Mayor shall appoint these members,
with the consent of the City Council as provided by State law. Appointed
members may be removed as provided by State law. (Ord. 352, 4-25-2018; amd.
Ord. 370, 8-3-2022)
10-2-2: MEMBERSHIP:
At least three (3) members shall be residents of the City, and up to two (2)
members may be residents of the area of the City impact established by
ordinance. Appointments to fill vacancies created by expiration of terms in
2022 will be made as follows: two (2) three-year terms and three (3) four-year
terms. Thereafter, Commission members shall be appointed for a term of four (4)
years. (Ord. 352, 4-25-2018; amd. Ord. 370, 8-3-2022)
10-2-3: AUTHORITY:
   A.   Idaho City Planning and Zoning Commission as established by this
chapter shall be responsible for performing the duties set forth in the Local
Land Use Planning Act and for fulfilling the duties of the City Council as set
forth in this title.
   B.   In addition to those activities where the Local Land Use Planning Act
or this title has assigned responsibility to make recommendations to the City
Council, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall have decision-making
authority, subject to appeal to the City Council, concerning the following
matters:
      1.   Conditional use permits.
      2.   Variances.
      3.   Appeals from decisions by the Administrator solely concerning
associated conditions, approval or denial of permits authorized or required by
this title.
      4.   Applications expressly requiring commission approval by this title
or other ordinances.
   C.   The commission shall carry out the following responsibilities
concerning matters of planning and community development:
      1.   Initiate or review proposed amendments to the Comprehensive Plan and
to conduct a periodic review of the Comprehensive Plan.
      2.   Review all proposed amendments to this title and provide
recommendations to the City Council.
      3.   Review all planned unit developments and other actions authorized by
this title and, where applicable, provide recommendations to the City Council.
      4.   Hear and decide appeals where there is an alleged error of law in
any order, requirement, decision, interpretation or determination made by the
Administrator as authorized by this title. (Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
10-2-4: ORGANIZATION:
The commission shall select a Chairman and Vice-Chairman annually at the
initial meeting in January and create and fill any other office(s) that it may
deem necessary. The commission may establish subcommittees, advisors, etc., to
assist in carrying out the responsibilities of the commission. Written
organizational by-laws and procedural rules may be adopted consistent with this
title and laws of the State. (Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
10-2-5: RULES, RECORDKEEPING AND MEETINGS:
All meetings and records of the commission shall conform to Open Meeting Act
and Public Records Act, respectively. Meeting schedules and other aspects of
commission activities shall comply with State law. (Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
10-2-6: EXPENDITURES AND STAFF:
With approval of the City Council, the commission may receive and expend funds,
goods and services from the Federal government or agencies and
instrumentalities of State or local government or from civic and private
sources and may contract with these entities and provide information and
reports as necessary to secure aid. Expenditures by the commission shall be
within the amounts appropriated by the City Council. The commission may
contractually bind Idaho City only with City Council approval. (Ord. 352, 4-25-
2018)
10-2-7: CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
A member of the City Council or commission, or an Idaho City employee, shall
not participate in any proceeding or action when the person, or his employer,
business partner, business associate, or any person related to him by affinity
or consanguinity within the second (2nd) degree, has an economic interest in
the procedure or action. Any actual or potential interest in any proceeding or
legally significant ex parte contact should be disclosed at or before any
meeting at which the action is being heard or considered. Any such disclosure
shall be noted in the minutes. (Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
10-3-1: Administrator Designated
10-3-2: Responsibility And Authority
10-3-3: Coordination With Other Departments
10-3-4: Fees
10-3-5: Appeal Of Decisions By Administrator
10-3-1: ADMINISTRATOR DESIGNATED:
This title shall be administered by an Administrator appointed by the Mayor.
(Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
10-3-2: RESPONSIBILITY AND AUTHORITY:
For the purposes of this title, the Administrator shall have the following
responsibility and authority:
   A.   Advise interested persons regarding zoning and subdivision ordinance
provisions.
   B.   Notify the public and interested media as required by law.
   C.   Advise applicants regarding required applications and ordinance
compliance.
   D.   Administer and issue land use and development permits, notifications
and similar administrative duties, including building permit applications
addressed in Title 8, Chapter 1, Idaho City Code.
   E.   Investigate possible violations of this title and take the actions
necessary and appropriate to remedy such violations.
   F.   Assist the Planning and Zoning Commission and City Council in
implementing the provisions of this title.
   G.   Any employee or agent designated by the Mayor or City Council of Idaho
City may act on behalf of Idaho City concerning any matter or proceeding
arising out of this title.
(Ord. 352, 4-25-2018; amd. Ord. 360, 8-12-2020)
10-3-3: COORDINATION WITH OTHER DEPARTMENTS:
The Administrator is directed to coordinate with other City departments and
public agencies concerning all permits which may be required by this title and
by previously or subsequently adopted laws. (Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
10-3-4: FEES:
The City Council will establish by resolution a schedule of fees, charges and
expenses and for matters pertaining to the administration and enforcement of
this title requiring investigations, advisory reports, inspections, legal
advertising, postage and other expenses. The schedule of fees will be available
at City Hall and may be altered or amended only by the City Council. Until all
applicable fees, charges and expenses have been paid in full; no application
shall be deemed complete for processing pursuant to this title. (Ord. 352, 4-
25-2018)
10-3-5: APPEAL OF DECISIONS BY ADMINISTRATOR:
Any administrative decision made by the Administrator may be appealed to the
City Council. Any such appeal shall be in writing and shall clearly set forth
the legal basis upon which the appeal is brought. The party to whom the appeal
is made shall establish procedures appropriate to the question presented. After
considering information that the appellate decision-maker deems necessary and
appropriate, they shall render a written decision setting forth the rationale
for the conclusion reached. (Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
CHAPTER 4
PUBLIC HEARINGS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Purpose
10-4-2: When Required
10-4-3: Notice
10-4-4: Alternative Notification
10-4-5: Procedures; Required
10-4-6: Appeals
10-4-7: Reconsideration
10-4-1: PURPOSE:
Public hearings are distinguished from ordinary public meetings by expressly
allowing active public participation in the planning and zoning process. The
purpose of the public hearing process is to gather information from the public
concerning issues relevant to making a decision concerning particular issues
and requests. Public hearing opportunities are governed by procedures adopted
by resolution of the City Council and are subject to management by the Chairman
of the meeting at which the public hearing occurs. Public hearing procedures
provide general guidelines and may be varied in order to allow orderly
decision-making that respects the interests of all parties concerned with a
proposal or request. Legislative hearings are conducted to obtain general
public comment about proposals to change planning and zoning law. Quasi-
judicial hearings address specific applications for permits or approvals and
must maintain due process protections for all with qualified interests. (Ord.
352, 4-25-2018)
10-4-2: WHEN REQUIRED:
The purpose of a public hearing is to give potentially affected persons an
opportunity to offer oral testimony in support of or in opposition to an
application or proposal. The resultant opinions and evidence submitted create
part of the record upon which the decision-makers must base their decisions.
Any of the following planning and zoning activities will be required to hold a
public hearing or hearings in accordance with the applicable requirements of
State law. If any provision of this title conflicts with State law, provisions
of State law shall prevail.
   A.   Zoning Title Text And Map Amendments And Zoning District Overlays:
      1.   These procedures require a mandatory public hearing before the
Planning and Zoning Commission and an optional public hearing before the City
Council. The City Council shall render decisions concerning zoning title text
and map amendments either by passing an amending ordinance or declining to do
so.
   B.   Variances:
      1.   Variances require a public hearing before the Planning and Zoning
Commission. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall render decisions
concerning variance applications, subject to appeal to the City Council.
   C.   Conditional Use Permits:
      1.   Conditional use permits require a public hearing before the Planning
and Zoning Commission. The commission shall render decisions concerning
conditional use permit applications, subject to appeal to the City Council.
   D.   Planned Unit Developments (PUD):
      1.   PUD permits require one public hearing before the Planning and
Zoning Commission and an optional public hearing before the City Council. PUD
permits are to be decided by the City Council after receiving a recommendation
from the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   E.   Zoning Designation Upon Annexation:
      1.   Zoning upon annexation requires public hearings before the Planning
and Zoning Commission and the City Council. The City Council shall decide
zoning designation(s) upon annexation after a Planning and Zoning Commission
recommendation has been received. (Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
10-4-3: NOTICE:
Prior to any required public hearing, notice shall be provided as required by
law. The City of Idaho City will administer provision of public notice. The
applicant may be required to supply an ownership report prepared by an Idaho-
licensed title company containing all current property owners in order to
provide required notice. Any such obligation shall conform to the
administrative direction provided by the Administrator. (Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
10-4-4: ALTERNATIVE NOTIFICATION:
When public hearing notification is required for two hundred (200) or more
property owners or purchasers of record, the alternative procedure for official
notice provided in sections 67-6511 and 67-6512, Idaho Code or their successor,
shall be given. The applicant shall bear the cost of alternative public hearing
notice as determined by the Administrator. (Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
10-4-5: PROCEDURES; REQUIRED:
   A.   Public hearing procedures shall be established by resolution of the
City Council consistent with State law. For public hearings associated with
changes to the Comprehensive Plan, amending the zoning map, amending the
subdivision or related ordinances, modifying the zoning map or considering
changes to other land use ordinances for which a hearing is required by State
law, there shall be at least one public hearing required, such hearing(s) to be
held by the Planning and Zoning Commission, with an additional hearing to be
conducted by the City Council upon its decision to do so.
   B.   For public hearings concerning conditional use permit applications,
variances, subdivisions, and planned unit developments, there shall be one
public hearing required, such hearing to be held by the Planning and Zoning
Commission. Either the City Council or the Mayor may schedule an additional
public hearing concerning such matters. Any additional meeting for a decision,
by appeal or otherwise, comes to the City Council. Such hearing is optional
based upon the discretion of the City Council. Whenever Idaho Code authorizes
the use of a hearing examiner, the City Council may approve a resolution or
motion authorizing use of a hearing examiner as an alternative to the Planning
and Zoning Commission whenever it deems such use to be appropriate. (Ord. 352,
4-25-2018)
10-4-6: APPEALS:
An appeal is a request challenging the propriety of a land use decision or
interpretation of this title by the Administrator, the Planning and Zoning
Commission or a hearing examiner if one should be employed. Fees governing
appeals must be paid and the specific legal basis for appeals must be stated in
writing before an appeal will be deemed accepted for consideration. Appeals
will follow the procedures specified below. An appeal that has not been
perfected by payment of fees or statement of issues may be dismissed in the
sound discretion of the City Council.
   A.   Appeals of final decisions made by the Planning and Zoning Commission
or hearing examiner shall follow procedures established by City Council
resolution. Any such appeal shall include the specific legal basis for appeal
and the result sought through the appellate process. Employing whatever
procedure(s) it deems appropriate in accordance with its procedures resolution,
the City Council will render a written, reasoned decision that will be
communicated to the appellant and/or applicant as required by law.
   B.   Appeals of decisions made by the Administrator shall use procedures
established by City Council resolution. Any such appeal shall include the
specific legal basis for appeal and the result sought through the appellate
process. Employing whatever procedure(s) it deems appropriate in accordance
with its procedures resolution, the Planning and Zoning Commission or the City
Council should render a written, reasoned decision that will be communicated to
the appellant and/or applicant as required by law. (Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
10-4-7: RECONSIDERATION:
Reconsideration is a procedure by which an applicant or other affected person
seeks to have a final decision-maker revisit the outcome or rationale of a
quasi-judicial land use decision. A request for reconsideration must be
initiated within no more than seven (7) days after a final decision is made and
must address a specific error or omission. The determination to reconsider
rests solely in the discretion of the decision-maker. If the decision- maker
agrees to reconsider it shall specify the procedures to be followed and inform
those entitled to notice. If the decision maker determines that it will not
reconsider, it should state the reasons why and notify those entitled to
notice. The decision not to reconsider shall be deemed a final decision for
purposes and timing of maintaining an appeal. A decision to reconsider shall
toll the time for appeal until a final decision has been rendered after
reconsideration. (Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
CHAPTER 5
ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Establishment Of Districts
10-5-2: Effect Of Zoning
10-5-3: Residential Zones
10-5-4: Commercial Zones
10-5-5: Industrial Zones
10-5-6: Government Use Zones
10-5-7: Mixed Use Zones
10-5-8: Official Zoning Map
10-5-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS:
In order to classify, regulate, restrict, and segregate the uses of lands and
buildings from incompatible uses, to allow uses where public infrastructure is
sufficient to support such uses, to regulate and restrict the height, bulk and
construction of buildings, to regulate the dimensions and area of yards and
other open spaces around buildings and uses, to implement the policies of the
Comprehensive Plan, and to regulate the intensity of land use and the density
of residences, the zoning districts set forth herein are established and shall
be applied as depicted upon the adopted Official Zoning Map of Idaho City.
(Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
10-5-2: EFFECT OF ZONING:
The regulations for each district set forth by this title are minimum
regulations and shall apply to each type of land use, except as otherwise
provided. No building, structure or land shall be used or occupied and no
building or structure or part thereof shall be erected, constructed,
reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in conformity with the
regulations specified in this title for the zoning district in which it is
located. No building or other structure shall be erected or altered to provide
for greater height or bulk, accommodate or house a greater number of
residential units, or to occupy a greater percentage of lot area than allowed
by this title. No yard area or lot existing at the time of passage of this
title shall be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set
forth in this title. Yards or lots created after the effective date of this
title shall meet at least the minimum requirements set forth in this title.
Uses and structures lawfully existing on the date of adoption of this title may
continue so long as they are not changed in ways that conflict with provisions
of this title. No aspect of nonconformity may be expanded contrary to the
provisions of this title, except by means of variance or special exception. The
uses allowed by zoning districts are exclusive. Only land uses authorized by
this title or by administrative application of provisions of this title may be
established in the land use zones depicted on the Official Zoning Map. The
descriptions of types of land use zones addressed by this title are intended to
explain, in general terms, how zones will be applied to implement the
Comprehensive Plan. The specific entries in the use and bulk and placement
matrices are intended to identify specific uses that fit within the general
descriptions set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
10-5-3: RESIDENTIAL ZONES:
Residential (R) zones are intended to provide a living environment that
supports a place for families and individuals to live with limited adverse
influence from commercial or industrial activity and to permit other accessory
uses that are associated and compatible with residential use. Certain
residential zones may be established that allow higher residential densities,
and hence higher activity levels, but always with the goal of enjoyment of a
residential environment. Residential zones are primarily applied in the areas
designated residential in the Comprehensive Plan. Permitted uses, conditionally
permitted uses and lot area and building bulk and placement requirements shall
comport with the standards set forth in the zoning matrix contained in this
title. A primary distinction between low density and higher density residential
neighborhoods should be the ability of community infrastructure to accommodate
higher levels of activity without creating undue congestion, without unduly
stressing utility systems that support development and without compromising the
quality of public facilities available to provide public service. (Ord. 352, 4-
25-2018)
10-5-4: COMMERCIAL ZONES:
Commercial (C) land use zones are intended to support uses that include retail
sales and services for household and traveling consumers by allowing a variety
of retail, professional, or service businesses. Businesses involving the
manufacture, processing, or fabrication of goods or providing service or repair
to commercial products or equipment are not generally permitted unless
activities can be conducted within buildings that can thrive in the midst of
commercial infrastructure. Commercial zones are to be applied in areas
identified by the text and mapping of the Comprehensive Plan as being suitable
for commercial business, primarily addressing lands located near arterial and
collector streets. Residential uses may be allowed within a commercial zone by
conditional use permit when the presence of housing will not compromise present
or future commercial uses or when the housing environment within the commercial
zone will not be unsuitable for residential occupancy by virtue of congestion,
environmental factors or activity levels. Uses permitted by right in the
Industrial Zone may be conditionally allowed in certain commercial zones by
conditional use permit so long as no industrial activities or processes are
conducted outdoors or in a manner that creates adverse environmental effects.
(Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
10-5-5: INDUSTRIAL ZONES:
The Industrial (I) Land Use Zone permits light industrial uses such as
warehousing, assembly, processing and light manufacturing as permitted uses and
conditionally allows heavy industrial uses such as fabrication, manufacturing,
refining and processes that produce external effects such as noise, emissions,
and outside activities by conditional use permit. The Industrial Zone is
primarily applied in areas designated suitable for industrial development by
the text and future land use map of the Comprehensive Plan. Residential uses
may only be established in an Industrial Zone if subordinate and accessory to a
primary industrial use and should be permitted only by conditional use permit.
(Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
10-5-6: GOVERNMENT USE ZONES:
Land uses to be established by government agencies (G) may be permitted in
accordance with the use matrix adopted as part of this title. Any such use
shall be subject to provisions of State and Federal law. (Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
10-5-7: MIXED USE ZONES:
Mixed use (MU) zones provide for a variety and mixture of uses such as limited
office, limited commercial, and residential. This zone is intended to ensure
compatibility of new development with existing and future development. It is
also intended to ensure assemblage of properties in a unified plan with
coordinated and harmonious development which shall promote outstanding design
without unsightly and unsafe strip commercial development. (Ord. 352, 4-25-
2018)
10-5-8: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
The zones established in this title shall be applied as depicted on the
Official Zoning Map which is hereby incorporated into this title by reference
as it exists today or as modified by the text of subsequent amending
ordinances. The Administrator shall maintain the Official Zoning Map to reflect
changes made by the City Council from time to time and shall depict such
changes on the Official Zoning Map. Each change shall be documented at the time
the map is modified, including reference to the ordinances authorizing changes.
A register of such changes including descriptions of the lands affected thereby
shall be maintained by the Administrator throughout the duration of the
existence of the Official Zoning Map, until it is superseded by a replacement
zoning map. (Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
CHAPTER 6
PROCEDURES
SECTION:
10-6-1: Amendment Of Zoning Map
10-6-2: Amendment Of Text
10-6-3: Land Use And Area And Height Regulations
10-6-1: AMENDMENT OF ZONING MAP:
   A.   The City Council, after receiving a recommendation from the Planning
and Zoning Commission or hearing examiner, may amend, by ordinance, the
boundaries of the zoning district classifications of lands in accordance with
applicable provisions of Idaho Code and this title. Amendments to the zoning
map should generally be in accordance with the future land use map and the text
of the City of Idaho City Comprehensive Plan.
   B.   Any application for a zoning map amendment or to apply zoning upon
annexation shall include the information required by the application forms
supplied by the Administrator, the information required by State law and
information otherwise required by this title or by the Administrator,
commission, hearing examiner or City Council. In addition to information
required by the application form, an application to change zoning district
boundaries shall provide a description of the amendment or zoning requested
along with a statement that describes the rationale for the request, how it
would better implement the Comprehensive Plan, and the public purpose that
would be achieved by amendment of the zoning map. All applications for zoning
map amendments or zoning upon annexation shall be submitted to the Planning and
Zoning Commission or to the designated hearing examiner, which shall recommend
action to the City Council that may adopt, modify, or reject the proposed
amendment.
   C.   Upon granting or denying an application to amend the zoning map, the
City Council shall explain its rationale for doing so, making reference to
title standards and Comprehensive Plan policies relied upon in evaluating the
application and stating the reasons for approval or denial. An amendment, if
approved, shall be implemented by the passage of an ordinance or as otherwise
required by law. (Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
10-6-2: AMENDMENT OF TEXT:
   A.   The City Council, after receiving a recommendation from the Planning
and Zoning Commission or hearing examiner, may amend, by ordinance, the text of
this title in accordance with applicable provisions of Idaho Code and the Idaho
City Comprehensive Plan.
   B.   Any application for a zoning title text amendment shall address the
questions posed by the application forms supplied by the Administrator, the
information required by State law and information otherwise required by this
title or by the Administrator, commission, hearing examiner or City Council. In
addition to information required by the application form, an application to
change the text of this title shall provide a description of the amendment
requested along with a statement that describes the rationale for the request,
the proposed text of the amendment, how it would better implement the
Comprehensive Plan, and the public purpose that would be achieved by amendment
of this title. All applications for zoning title text amendments shall be
submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission which shall recommend action to
the City Council, which may adopt, modify, or reject the proposed amendment. An
amendment, if approved, shall be implemented by the passage of an ordinance.
Amendment of the text of this title is a legislative act committed to the sound
discretion of the City Council. (Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
10-6-3: LAND USE AND AREA AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Adoption Of Land Use Tables - Purpose: The purpose of this section is
to identify permitted and conditionally permitted land uses within Idaho City
in order to foster compatibility with uses in the same land use designations
and to promote a measure of protection against the intrusion of the effects of
incompatible land uses. The use of land is characterized by the activity for
which the building, improvements or lot is designed, configured, conducted,
occupied, or maintained. A land use that will not operate for more than thirty
(30) days in any calendar year should be considered a temporary use, subject to
the requirements governing temporary uses. Unless a temporary use permit has
been approved pursuant to ordinances of Idaho City, establishment of any land
use will be presumed to require compliance with all applicable provisions of
this title.
   B.   Interpretation Of Land Use Tables:
      1.   Matrix-style land use tables that address allowable uses and
building bulk and placement standards are made part of this title and shall be
interpreted consistent with the principles and rules set forth in this section.
         a.   If the letter "P", for "permitted", appears in the box at the
intersection of a column and a row, the use is allowed in that classification,
subject to the development and operational requirements of this title and other
applicable ordinance provisions.
         b.   If the letter "C", for "conditionally permitted", appears in the
box at the intersection of a column and a row, the use is conditionally allowed
in that classification, subject to obtaining a conditional use permit and
subject to the development and operational requirements of this title and other
applicable ordinance provisions. The responsibility of demonstrating that a
conditional use permit request is appropriate rests with the applicant.
         c.   Uses not designated as permitted (P) or conditionally permitted
(C) are prohibited. The land use table in this section indicates whether a
specific use is allowed in a zone classification.
         d.   Any proposed use not listed in the table may be classified by the
Administrator as a permitted use (P), conditional use (C), or prohibited, based
on the listed use(s) to which the proposed use is most similar. If the
Administrator determines that the proposed use is not similar to any use in the
table, the proposed use shall not be permitted. The determination of the
Administrator may be appealed to the Planning and Zoning Commission as provided
herein.
   C.   Zoning Designation Matrix:
Land Use Zone
         R C I G/P MU
Land Use                                                           Zone
                                                                   R C I G/P MU
Commercial:                                                               
 Animal boarding facilities                                             C
 Automotive sales/service                                          P      
 Bed and breakfasts                                               C P     C
 Campground Resort                                                 C     C
 Churches                                                          C     C
 Communication transmitters, towers                                     C
 Community use centers                                               C   C
 Equine centers, including stables, riding arenas, riding schools  C     C
  and trails
 Grocery and convenience stores                                    P     C
 Home occupations/accessory uses                                   P     C
 Hotels/motels                                                     P     C
 Laundromats, dry cleaners                                         P     C
 Limited service                                                  C P     C
 Maintenance and storage facilities                                 P    C
 Medical clinics/medical buildings or facilities                   P     C
 Parking and transit service facilities                             P    C
 Parks, playgrounds, indoor/ outdoor recreation facilities,          C   C
  campgrounds, golf course facilities
 Professional offices                                              P P    C
 Public or private airports, heliport pads                           C   C
 Recreational Vehicle Park                                         C     C
 Restaurants, bars, brewpubs, nightclubs                           P     C
 Sales or marketing facilities and model homes                     P      
 Spas, salons, health clubs and fitness centers                    P     C
 Theaters, movie houses or other entertainment uses                P     C
  Uses related to on site development and construction, including
  rock quarries, rock crushing and storage, asphalt and concrete
 batch facilities and associated manufacturing, construction        C     
  yards, storage and administrative buildings and landscape
  nurseries
 Wholesale/retail                                                 C P     C
Public (Government):                                                      
 Governmental buildings and facilities                               C    
 Schools                                                             C    
Industrial:                                                               
 Light manufacturing                                               C P     
 Heavy manufacturing                                                C C    
 General agriculture                                                P     
 Timber production                                                  P     
Mixed use:                                                                
 Public and private clubs, lodges, or social halls, including all  C     C
  related buildings and facilities
 Public and private schools, daycare facilities, preschools and   C C  C   C
  other educational facilities
 Public recreation                                                  C C   C
 Public service and utility services, including all related         P     
  buildings and facilities
Residential:                                                              
 Accessory Dwelling Unit                                          C       
 Duplex                                                           P P     P
 Manufactured housing                                             P -      
 Mobile Home                                                      C       
 Multi-family                                                     C P     P
 Recreational Vehicle                                             C C      
 Single Family                                                    P P      
 Stand Alone Shop - Noncommercial                                 C       
 Tiny Home                                                        C C      
 
   D.   Schedule Of Area And Height Regulations:
  District
  R C I G MU
               District
               R         C         I             G             MU
Maximum height 35'       35'       35'           35'           35'
Minimum yard                                                
requirements:
 Front        25'       25'       0'            12'           10'
 Rear         25'       10'       0'            20'           15'
 Side         20'       5'        0'            0'            0'
Maximum lot    30%       60%       100%          40%           80%
coverage
Minimum lot    5,000 sq. 5,000 sq. 5,000 sq. ft. 5,000 sq. ft. 1,000 sq. ft.
area per DU    ft.       ft.
Density
(dwelling      8         -         -             -             10
units per
acre)
 
(Ord. 352, 4-25-2018; amd. Ord. 388, 9-25-2024)
CHAPTER 7
PERMITS AND APPROVALS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Conditional Use Permits
10-7-2: Variance
10-7-3: Decisions By The Planning And Zoning Commission And City Council
10-7-4: Temporary Use Permit
10-7-5: Home Occupation Permits
10-7-1: CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS:
   A.   Conditional Use Permits - Standards: The purpose of this section is to
establish standards and a framework of procedures for consideration of requests
for conditional use permits. Conditional uses are not permitted by right in a
particular zoning district but may be authorized following a public hearing
provided that they comply with the standards established by this title.
"Conditional use" as used in this title is the same as "special use" referenced
in section 67-6512, Idaho Code, as such code provision exists at the time of
enactment of this title. A conditional use permit is not transferable from one
parcel of land to another, nor shall it be considered as establishing a binding
precedent to grant other conditional use permits in similar locations or
circumstances. As its name implies, a conditional use permit may be issued
subject to performance or compliance with conditions as outlined in this title
and as addressed by the specific proposal or application.
   B.   Procedures: Conditional use permit requests require a public hearing
before the Planning and Zoning Commission (or hearing examiner) following
appropriate procedures. Notice shall comply with legal requirements established
by Idaho Code. Any decision by the Planning and Zoning Commission may be
appealed to the City Council by an affected person within no more than fourteen
(14) days after the final decision of the Planning and Zoning Commission has
been rendered. Any such request to appeal must be signed by the appellant and
received by the Administrator within the time constraints established by this
title. An appeal not timely filed shall be dismissed. Failure to appeal a
decision of the Planning and Zoning Commission to the City Council shall
constitute a failure to exhaust administrative remedies pursuant to this title.
   C.   Application Required: A completed conditional use permit application
shall be submitted to the Administrator which shall include, among other
matters addressed by the application form: a description of the use proposed;
the manner of implementation of the proposed use including information about
appearance, materials to be used and configuration; how it would be compatible
with infrastructure and land uses, present and future; and why the proposal
would be in the public interest.
   D.   Hearing And Standards Of Decision: As its schedule and agenda allow the
Planning and Zoning Commission shall conduct a public hearing and shall
consider testimony and other evidence and review the particular facts and
circumstances of each proposed conditional use. In considering a conditional
use request, the Planning and Zoning Commission may attach appropriate
conditions to mitigate impacts and to ensure conformance with the intent of the
Comprehensive Plan and applicable provisions of this title. An application for
a conditional use permit may be approved as presented, conditionally approved,
or denied by the Planning and Zoning Commission upon determining the following:
      1.   Whether the proposed conditional use would/would not conform with
the purposes and express terms of the applicable zoning district in which it
would be located.
      2.   Whether the proposed use constitutes an allowable conditional use as
established by this chapter for the zoning district involved, and complies with
all other applicable laws, ordinances, and regulations of Idaho City and the
State.
      3.   Whether the proposed conditional use as presented will/will not be
compatible with the health, safety, and welfare of the public in general and
with present or future land uses in the vicinity of the proposal.
      4.   Whether the proposed conditional use will/will not further positive
development of the vicinity in accordance with relevant policies set forth in
the Comprehensive Plan and land use ordinances.
   E.   Conditions: When granting a conditional use permit, the Planning and
Zoning Commission may attach conditions and requirements specific to the
proposal including, but not limited to:
      1.   Minimizing conflicts with present or future development.
      2.   Controlling the sequence and timing of development.
      3.   Controlling the duration of development.
      4.   Assuring that development is maintained properly.
      5.   Controlling the location and setbacks of development.
      6.   Requiring more restrictive standards than those generally required
in this title for uses permitted outright. Such more- restrictive standards may
include but not be limited to:
         a.   Additional setbacks,
         b.   Requiring development within time limitations,
         c.   Height restrictions,
         d.   Additional landscaping or screening,
         e.   Lighting restrictions,
         f.   Signage restrictions,
         g.   Selection of building or hardscape materials,
         h.   Location of site accesses,
         i.   Location of site features,
         j.   Prescribing site layout,
         k.   Circulation or grading,
         l.   Restricting hours of operation or activity,
         m.   Design limitations,
         n.   Circulation limits for vehicles or pedestrians,
         o.   Control of site drainage or areawide drainage patterns,
         p.   Prescribing specific use limitations and such other features of
use or site development as may be needed to enhance compatibility with use of
surrounding lands and public facilities.
   F.   Written Decision Required: Whenever granting or denying an application
for a conditional use permit, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall render
its decision in writing.
   G.   Permits And Progress Required: Unless expressly allowed to the contrary
by the terms of a conditional use permit, if permits for development of a
requested conditional use have not been issued within six (6) months of the
date of granting a conditional use permit or if development of the approved
conditional use has not commenced with sustained effort to complete development
within one year after granting approval of the conditional use permit, the
conditional use permit shall become null and void, unless the Planning and
Zoning Commission or the City Council, whichever gave final approval, has
granted an extension, such extension not to exceed twelve (12) months upon a
showing of good cause by the applicant. An extension to the permit may only be
granted if applied for in writing to the approving body prior to the date of
expiration and if the approving body finds, upon review of the record, that an
extension is warranted due to weather or other circumstances outside control of
the applicant.
   H.   Violation - Revocation Or Penalty: Any conditional use that operates in
violation of the requirements or conditions established for a conditional use
permit, pursuant to this chapter, may be revoked and the use restricted,
suspended, and/or be subject to penalties for violation of this title.
Enforcement of provisions of terms of conditional use permits issued pursuant
to provisions of this title may be by criminal penalty or by civil action
seeking to obtain compliance. (Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
10-7-2: VARIANCE:
   A.   A variance is a discretionary exception to the requirements of this
title concerning bulk and placement standards such as lot area, lot coverage,
width, depth, setbacks, parking location requirements, height, or any other
title provision affecting the size of a structure or the placement of the
structure upon the property. Variances may be permitted when, due to unusual
natural physical characteristics of the site, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of this title would result in unnecessary hardship denying an owner
all reasonable use of the owner's land. An applicant for a variance bears the
responsibility for demonstrating an undue hardship because of unique physical
characteristics of the site, and after meeting that obligation must demonstrate
that the implemented variance would not harm the public interest.
   B.   A complete application using an application form supplied by the
Administrator shall include a site plan, a written description of the variance
requested, reasons why the variance is warranted, and any supporting documents.
The application will be scheduled for public hearing whenever it can be
accommodated by the schedule of the hearing body.
   C.   At least one public hearing must be held before the Planning and Zoning
Commission using the hearing and notice procedure required by State law.
   D.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall consider the following when
deciding a variance request:
      1.   Whether unvaried application of the provisions of this title would
deprive the applicant of all reasonable use of his land and whether
circumstances exist that are peculiar to the natural conditions of the land in
ways not generally applicable to other lands in the community.
      2.   Whether the variance, if granted, would harm the public interest by
adversely affecting public safety, the environment or the legitimate interests
of neighboring owners.
   E.   When granting or denying an application, the commission shall specify
the relevant facts considered in evaluating the application, the reasons for
approval or denial, and the actions, if any, that the applicant could take to
obtain a permit. The applicant will be notified of the decision in writing. A
variance decision may be appealed to the City Council within fourteen (14) days
of final action by the Planning and Zoning Commission by an applicant or other
affected person. (Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
10-7-3: DECISIONS BY THE PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION AND CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   All decisions made by the Planning and Zoning Commission or City
Council shall be made in a manner and form consistent with the requirements of
Idaho law. Decisions that are deemed quasi- judicial shall identify relevant
facts and provisions of law that lead to the conclusion reached. In recognition
that such requirements may change from time to time by virtue of judicial
decision and legislative enactment, decision-makers are referred to relevant
provisions of State law for guidance in shaping decisions required by this
title.
   B.   All decisions that are deemed legislative decisions by requirements of
State law shall be undertaken in the same manner that legislative decisions are
typically made. (Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
10-7-4: TEMPORARY USE PERMIT:
   A.   Temporary uses may be allowed in appropriately zoned areas without full
site development as otherwise required by this title. Such uses may include,
but are not limited to, erection of temporary structures such as tents, fences,
booths or parking of trailers for activities such as carnivals, circuses,
fairs, religious meetings, temporary outdoor displays and/or sale of Christmas
trees, art objects or other items and other similar activities conducted either
outdoors or within temporary structures. A temporary use is a land use
established for a period of time not to exceed ninety (90) days in a calendar
year and does not require permanent site improvements. The actual use embodied
by a temporary use permit must be a permitted use in the zoning district in
which it is proposed to be located. The temporary use permit may be allowed
subject to conditions required by the Administrator so long as the
Administrator determines that granting the temporary use permit will not harm
the public interest if the required conditions are complied with.
   B.   An application for a temporary use shall include a written description
of the use, proposed starting date of the use, and a site plan that shows the
location of the use, access, setbacks from property lines, parking, restroom
facilities (if applicable), and any other pertinent information that the
Administrator may require to evaluate the use. An application for a temporary
use with a duration in excess of thirty (30) days shall include the names and
addresses of abutting land owners. The Administrator will prepare a notice of
the administrative permit request and mail it to abutting property owners who
will have seven (7) days from the date of mailing within which to respond with
written comments supporting or opposing the request. Notice of the proposal may
also be sent to Idaho City operating departments for comment.
   C.   A temporary use may be approved, approved with conditions or denied by
the Administrator. A temporary use permit is valid on the date of approval or
on the date requested by the applicant and will be valid for the time period
requested or no more than ninety (90) days during a calendar year, such days to
be designated at the time of issuance. The Administrator, when deciding a
temporary use permit request, should consider the following:
      1.   Whether the proposed temporary use would be consistent with the
general policies of this title and Comprehensive Plan.
      2.   Whether the use would otherwise be permitted within the zoning
district wherein located.
      3.   Whether granting the temporary use permit would be detrimental to
the nearby neighborhood or to the community in general.
      4.   Whether the proposed temporary use would create a traffic hazard.
      5.   Whether the proposed temporary use would impair the functioning of
community facilities or delivery of public services. (Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
10-7-5: HOME OCCUPATION PERMITS:
   A.   Purpose: Certain limited business or professional uses may be conducted
as a home occupation within a residential dwelling as a permitted land use
subject to specific limitations established to maintain compatibility with the
surrounding residential neighborhood. Examples of permissible use types include
home offices, home child care, handicrafts, computer activities, tailoring,
barber/hair salon or similar businesses. The purpose of this section is to
establish standards for home occupations that retain and do not disturb the
residential character of a neighborhood.
   B.   Application Requirements: Before establishing a home occupation, an
application fee must be paid, and an application must be approved by the
Administrator, in response to an application which addresses necessary
information to demonstrate compliance with this title in addition to providing
an accurate and concise description of the requested home occupation.
   C.   Decision On Application: The Administrator will review the application
materials and may grant, grant with conditions, or deny a home occupation
permit upon finding that the home occupation will not change the character of
the neighborhood or create a nuisance. A permit may be revoked or a violation
may be prosecuted for non-compliance with title standards or conditions of
approval. A decision by the Administrator may be appealed to the Planning and
Zoning Commission and thereafter to the City Council respectively, in
accordance with procedures established by this title and by the procedures
resolution of Idaho City. A home occupation permit is non-transferable and is
valid so long as there is compliance with the conditions of approval issued
with the permit and home occupation standards set forth herein are met
(alternative - can have annual permit renewal, subject to compliance review and
renewal payment).
   D.   Home Occupation Performance Standards: All home occupations shall
comply with the following standards, in addition to the site-specific
conditions required by the Administrator:
      1.   The home occupation must be clearly subordinate, both visually and
with respect to space occupied, to the primary residential use. Not more than
one-third (1/3) of the floor area of the actual dwelling unit may be used in
the conduct of the home occupation.
      2.   No outside storage of goods, equipment, materials or other
instruments of production or packaging of any kind related to the home
occupation shall be permitted.
      3.   No home occupation shall create a need for parking or traffic beyond
that required for the primary single-family residential use.
      4.   There shall be no change in appearance that would alter the
residential character of the premises.
      5.   No more than one sign, not exceeding four (4) square feet in area,
non-illuminated, and mounted flat against the wall of the principal residence,
is permitted.
      6.   A permitted home occupation shall have no more than one full- time
employee equivalent who is not a family member on the premises.
      7.   Employees (other than the resident and one employee), of a permitted
home occupation, may not work, gather, park, or meet, at the residence of a
home occupation on a regular or frequent basis.
      8.   A home occupation must be fully enclosed within the residence or
approved accessory building. Home occupation daycare shall provide care to no
more than five (5) children at any time, inclusive of residents of the
household requiring daycare. Daycare for more than five (5) children in a home
shall require a conditional use permit, if allowed by the zone where the home
is located.
      9.   Excepting activities conducted exclusively indoors with no external
consequences, operation of a permitted home occupation shall not be conducted
prior to seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. or after eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
      10.   No home occupation shall create noise, dust, vibration, odors,
smoke, glare, electrical interference, fire hazard, or any other hazard or
nuisance beyond that caused by typical single- family residential occupancy in
a residential neighborhood.
      11.   Uses of the following type or with the following characteristics
are expressly prohibited as home occupations:
         a.   Repair and/or servicing, storing or painting of automobiles,
trucks, boats, RVs, motorcycles, and OHVs.
         b.   Any use requiring sewage pre-treatment in accordance with the
Idaho City wastewater treatment ordinance.
         c.   Any business creating external noise, odors, vibrations, or other
potential nuisance factors including levels of customer traffic that could have
the effect of disrupting peaceful occupancy of neighboring dwellings. (Ord.
352, 4-25-2018)
CHAPTER 8
STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-8-1: Performance Standards For Land Uses
10-8-2: Manufactured Housing Placement Standards
10-8-3: Off-Street Parking Requirements
10-8-1: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR LAND USES:
The purpose of this section is to provide performance standards that protect
the community and environment through proper site development and thereby
achieve conformance with the regulations found in this title and other
provisions of applicable law. The following performance standards apply to
developments in all zoning districts and are supplemental to requirements
established thereby:
   A.   Vision Triangle: Visibility shall be maintained at all intersections of
Idaho City streets by maintaining an unobstructed view between three (3)
vertical feet and ten (10) vertical feet within a right triangle, whose sides
adjacent to the intersecting right-of-way lines are forty feet (40') in length
in compliance with Idaho Code.
   B.   Temporary Construction Facilities: Temporary buildings, trailers,
equipment and materials used in conjunction with construction work, may be
permitted in any district during the construction period. Any such temporary
installations shall comply with basic safety and sanitation standards and not
create a hazard or significant detriment to neighboring lands. Temporary
facilities shall be removed upon completion of the construction work or upon
expiration of the building or construction permit.
   C.   Dangerous Or Nuisance Conditions: No land or building in any district
shall be used or occupied in any manner creating dangerous, injurious, or
noxious conditions that may adversely affect the neighborhood or adjoining
premises. Non-compliance with nuisance statutes, Building, Fire or Life Safety
Codes shall not be excused merely because the land use does not violate this
title.
   D.   Glare/Exterior Lighting Shielding/Redirection Required: No interior or
exterior lighting shall create direct or reflect glare which will adversely
affect any surrounding property, nor shall such lighting adversely affect
vision on nearby public streets, public walkways or other rights-of-way. It
shall be the duty of any landowner to direct or shield lighting to avoid
impacts on neighboring lands or land uses. Failure to do so shall constitute a
violation of this title.
   E.   Street Right-Of-Way Dedication And Frontage Improvements Required:
Additional street rights-of-way as established by approved transportation plans
or by ordinance standards and construction of frontage improvements is required
at the time of establishment of any use, any development of a new land use or
expansion of an existing land use by thirty three percent (33%) or more in
floor area. Street improvements shall include widening or extension of base and
pavement, curb, gutter, sidewalk, water lines, sewer lines, street lighting and
drainage facilities. Right-of-way dedication shall conform to the
transportation element of the Comprehensive Plan or a specific transportation
plan, or as otherwise required by the Idaho City Engineer pursuant to site plan
review or other ordinance-specified procedures. All such requirements must be
reasonably related to and proportional to the impact of the development on the
infrastructure of the community. It shall be the responsibility of the
developer of any parcel of land to extend water and sewer utilities across the
full width of any frontage in order to maintain continuity of public systems.
   F.   Utility Line Placement: All wire, fiber optic or cable utility service
lines shall be placed underground. The Administrator may waive this requirement
if the use is temporary in nature or if there are practical physical
difficulties that make compliance impossible.
   G.   Surfacing - Residential And Commercial/Industrial: All required
residential access drives and parking areas shall be surfaced with portland
cement concrete or asphalt paving. All required commercial/industrial access
drives, maneuvering areas and parking areas, outdoor merchandise display areas
and motorized vehicle display lots shall be surfaced with concrete or asphalt
paving. Surfacing material shall be designed for the loading anticipated.
Actual load design for commercial/industrial uses will be determined at site
plan review. Outdoor storage areas in the Industrial Zone for storage of
production materials shall be surfaced with all-weather materials and shall be
enclosed within sight screening fence.
   H.   Water Supply And Sewage Disposal: The method of water supply and sewage
disposal for all land uses must comply with this Code and other applicable
State codes.
   I.   Dust Control: During all on-site grading and construction activities,
adequate measures shall be implemented to control dust in order to prevent a
blowing dust nuisance. Methods for dust control may be specified at site plan
review. The Administrator may issue a stop-work order on any development
project that demonstrates an inability to control dust until an acceptable dust
control program is implemented.
   J.   Architectural Projections: Open structures such as porches, canopies,
balconies, platforms, carports, covered patios and similar architectural
projections shall be considered parts of the building to which attached and
shall not project into the required minimum front, side or rear yard setbacks.
   K.   Height Regulation Exceptions: The height limitations contained in this
title do not apply to spires, belfries, cupolas, antennas, ventilators,
chimneys or other appurtenances usually required to be placed above the roof
level and not intended for human occupancy except where the height of such
structures will constitute a hazard to the safe landing and takeoff of aircraft
at an established airport. Idaho City utility and public service structures are
excepted from height restrictions.
   L.   Fences (Including Walls And Landscaping): All walls, hedges and fences
shall not exceed three feet (3') in height within the required front yard
setback nor shall they exceed six feet (6') in height in the rear and side yard
setback areas. Corner lots which abut the side yard of an adjoining lot may not
block visibility of a driveway on the adjoining lot above three feet (3') with
a rear or side yard fence. Fences shall not violate the vision triangle
requirements of Idaho Code.
   M.   Solid Waste Screening: All solid waste collection areas or facilities
shall be enclosed on at least three (3) sides by a sight-obscuring wall or
fence tall enough to shield any bulk solid waste container or shall be stored
within an enclosed building or structure. Adequate vehicular access shall be
provided to allow use of the container.
   N.   Outside Storage And Screening: Outside storage areas in Commercial or
Industrial Zones must be screened from public view by sight obscuring fences,
walls, berms, or a combination of these, as approved by the Administrator. The
Administrator may approve alternative methods of reducing the visual impact in
lieu of screening or waive the requirements if visual impact is of no
consequence.
   O.   Factory-Built Commercial Structures: All factory-built commercial
structures (commercial coaches) must be located in Commercial or Industrial
Zones. Factory-built commercial structures may also be allowed in conjunction
with a school provided that site development requirements for site-built
structures are maintained. Factory-built commercial structures may be used
temporarily in other zones in conjunction with construction and must be removed
upon completion of such construction.
   P.   Buffering Residential Interface: Buffering between commercial/
industrial land uses and residential zones shall be the responsibility of the
developer of the commercial/industrial site. If this title does not otherwise
provide specific standards, the commercial/industrial site shall otherwise
provide a setback from an adjacent residential zoning boundary or from existing
residential lands no less than twenty five feet (25') or the height of the
commercial/industrial structure, whichever is greater. Such interface shall be
screened by evergreen landscaping and berming that is continuous and serves as
an effective buffer against sound and light. Such obligation shall not apply
retroactively to an existing commercial/industrial use. (Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
10-8-2: MANUFACTURED HOUSING PLACEMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Manufactured/modular homes meeting the standards set forth in this
section may be placed at any location within Idaho City where a detached
single-family dwelling can be located in accordance with this title. In order
to be placed outside of a manufactured housing park, a manufactured home must
comply with all of the standards concerning construction and placement set
forth in this section.
   B.   A manufactured/modular home shall include any structure produced at a
factory, built on a permanent metal frame, which is designed and constructed
for transportation to a site for installation and used as a dwelling when
connected to required utilities; properly connected to sewer, water, gas and
electrical service; designed for residential use by a family, contains a
kitchen, bath, living and sleeping facilities, is multi-sectional and at least
twenty feet (20') wide with a minimum total square footage equal to nine
hundred (900) square feet, manufactured on or after June 15, 1976 and certified
as meeting the Manufactured Housing Construction Safety Standards of the United
States Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   C.   The manufactured home must be affixed to a permanent foundation that
complies with the set-up requirements of title 44, chapter 22, Idaho Code, when
placed in any permitted location excepting within a residential mobile home
park.
   D.   The home must have metallic, wood shake, shingle, asphalt shingle, or
similar shingle-type roof with a minimum pitch of 3:12 (pitch to run) and a six
inch (6") minimum overhang.
   E.   Where garages are required for site-built homes, they are required for
manufactured homes except in existing mobile home parks.
   F.   Any neighborhood design standards shall also apply to any manufactured
home placed at any location outside of a manufactured housing park where spaces
are rented or leased for less than ten (10) year terms. (Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
10-8-3: OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General Requirements: Off-street parking, loading spaces and display
lots shall be provided for facilities, or portions thereof constructed, newly
established, reconstructed, or moved onto a lot after the effective date
hereof. The required off- street parking, loading spaces and display lots shall
be developed and maintained according to the applicable provisions of this
title. The Administrator is empowered to determine the regulations and
standards to be required in each particular circumstance, considering the long-
term needs of the facility constructed. Land uses in existence prior to the
effective date of this title may be continued as a nonconforming use subject to
other provisions of this title concerning provision of off-street parking.
   B.   Change Of Use Or Increase Of Space: Except for alterations or additions
to individual dwelling units, parking spaces meeting the requirements of this
chapter shall be provided whenever the use of a facility is changed to a higher
parking category or if the facility floor area is increased by more than ten
percent (10%) in any five (5) years. Neither the number, size, location nor
maintenance of existing parking and loading spaces shall be altered nor reduced
below the requirements and standards specified for the use in this chapter.
Whenever an individual lot or parcel has a facility with more than one use or
activity requiring different spaces for parking and loading, the sum of the
required spaces for each use or activity shall be used in determining the
overall requirements.
   C.   Street Parking Excluded: No portion of any public right-of-way shall be
used in satisfying the minimum parking requirements established by this title.
   D.   Front-To-Back (Tandem) Parking Prohibited: Except for detached single-
family dwelling units, the design and development of front-to-back parking and
loading spaces shall not be allowed in meeting the minimum space requirements
of this chapter. A required space shall not be blocked by another space such
that a vehicle would be required to enter and leave a space by having to cross
another required space.
   E.   Maintenance Of Parking And Loading Areas: All paved areas intended for
use by the public and required by this chapter shall be maintained on a regular
basis. Regular maintenance shall include, but not be limited to, pavement
repair and seal coating; pavement marking and striping; removal of dust, leaves
and litter; removal of snow and ice; maintaining landscaped areas; and
maintaining signs, fences, wheel stops, curbs, walks, drainage facilities and
any other appurtenances pertinent to the requirements of this chapter and this
title.
   F.   Off-Site Or Shared Parking: Whenever any required parking or loading
areas are located on a site which is not within the property limits of the
facility being served, the permit applicant shall present an agreement
authorizing use of the off- site parking for the duration of use of the site.
Such agreement shall be subject to approval by the Administrator. The primary
considerations for such approval shall be the functionality of the parking
spaces, the safety of parking users and the effects on neighboring land uses.
Any change in use or increase in use during the term of the agreement shall
require re-evaluation of the conditions and factors upon which the agreement
was based.
   G.   Parking Spaces Must Be Available: Required off-street parking areas
shall not be used for any purpose that would at any time prevent their intended
use as parking spaces by occupants and patrons of the facility being served. No
required parking area may be used for both parking and loading.
   H.   Required Spaces Determined By Administrator: Where this title requires
the Administrator to prescribe the number of parking and loading spaces, the
Administrator shall base his/her determination on the following:
      1.   Traffic generation, giving particular attention to attendance
potential at any facility.
      2.   Location of the facility and the peak hours of operation.
      3.   Extent and frequency of loading/unloading operations.
      4.   The number of employees during peak period.
      5.   Any other factors that would affect parking and loading
requirements.
   I.   Location Of Handicapped-Accessible Spaces: The spaces for persons with
disabilities shall be located as near as practical to a primary accessible
entrance.
   J.   Off-Street Parking And Loading Area Standards: The layout and design of
off-street parking and loading areas established hereafter shall meet the
requirements of this title.
   K.   Parking Space Sizes: Off-street parking spaces shall meet the minimum
dimensions for the following types of spaces and conditions:
      1.   Standard ninety degree (90°) non-parallel parking spaces shall be
nine feet (9') wide by twenty feet (20') long.
      2.   Parallel parking spaces shall be eight feet (8') wide by twenty
three feet (23') long for all vehicles.
      3.   Where a side of a parking area abuts a building or other
obstruction, additional width shall be added to the adjacent parking spaces to
allow turning movements.
   L.   Proximity To Use: The distance between parking areas and the use being
served shall not exceed the following:
      1.   Residential: On-site.
      2.   Civic, Commercial And Service: Not farther than two hundred feet
(200') from the entrance to the facility being served with continuity to
adjoining lots.
      3.   Wholesale And Industrial: Not farther than three hundred feet (300')
from the entrance to the facility being served unless continuous parking is
provided.
      4.   Zoning: All off-site parking must be located in a zoning district
that permits the use the parking serves.
   M.   Aisles And Driveways For Maneuvering: All required off-street parking
spaces and loading berths shall be designed with adequate space to accommodate
the turning movements of the vehicles entering and leaving the facility. Space
shall be provided such that all vehicles shall enter and leave the public
right-of-way in a forward direction. This requirement shall not apply to
residential parking areas that serve two (2) or fewer dwelling units. The
location and design of approaches to parking lots shall be approved by the
Idaho City Engineer.
   N.   Parking Area Grades/Drainage: All off-street parking shall be paved
such that no surface shall exceed five percent (5%) and no longitudinal
drainage gradient shall be flatter than one-half percent (0.5%). Approach
grades shall be safe and convenient. Parking spaces for persons with
disabilities shall be as level as possible but in no case shall the parking
space, adjacent aisle, driveway or designated pathways exceed a gradient of two
percent (2%) in any direction. All parking and loading areas shall provide for
proper drainage of surface water to approved drainage areas or structures.
Surface drainage shall be retained on-site to the extent that site run-off
shall not exceed run-off from the site in its undeveloped condition.
   O.   Paving Of Parking And Loading Areas: All driveways, parking, loading
and maneuvering areas required of this chapter shall be paved with hot asphalt,
portland cement concrete, or approved paving blocks or bricks. Single-family
and duplex family uses shall be served by a paved driveway and parking spaces
as required.
   P.   Paving Of Display Lots: Display lots for vehicles shall be paved as
shall approaches, driveways, maneuvering areas and parking spaces. The actual
area used for the display of the homes, nursery stock or heavy equipment may be
surfaced with compacted crushed aggregate, provided that the unpaved area is
maintained in a neat, dustless and weedless condition.
   Q.   Lighting: The illumination of off-street parking and loading areas and
display lots shall be designed such that lighting is directed away from the
street and adjacent properties and toward the interior of the property focusing
on the ground to be illuminated.
   R.   Widths Of Driveways, Parking Aisles And Turning Radii: The City's
parking requirements shall be considered to be minimum standards. All off-
street parking areas shall be reviewed and approved by the local Fire
Department that may require wider driveways and parking aisles and larger
vehicular turning radii as prescribed by the applicable Fire Code.
   S.   Irrigation: All landscaped areas including buffer strips and drainage
infiltration facilities shall be provided with an automated irrigation system.
   T.   Dimensional Requirements: With the exception of residential parking
areas that serve two (2) or fewer dwelling units all other off-street parking
areas shall be laid out and designed to satisfy the following requirements:
      1.   Traffic Lane Widths: The minimum driveway and approach widths shall
be determined from the operating speed and the classification of the street
providing access, the volume of traffic being generated, the potential for
truck use, and fire protection requirements. Parking aisle widths shall vary
with the angle of vehicular turning required to access the required space on
one-way aisles but shall be a minimum of twenty four feet (24') wide on two-way
aisles. The maximum two-way approach and driveway width shall be forty feet
(40') where it can be demonstrated that generated traffic warrants a separate
left turn lane for vehicles exiting the parking area and entering a public
right-of-way. A forty foot (40') wide approach may also be allowed where heavy
truck use prevails.
      2.   Exit Vehicle Space: There shall be at least twenty four feet (24')
separating a parking aisle from the edge of the adjacent street to provide
space for one exiting vehicle.
      3.   Striping: Each parking space shall be delineated with clearly marked
pavement striping. Other pavement markings for spaces for persons with
disabilities, pathways, crosswalks, stop bars, delineations, turning arrows,
bicycles, etc., may be required.
   U.   Required Off-Street Parking Spaces: The following standards shall apply
to all uses constructed or established pursuant to this title, unless otherwise
allowed by the Administrator for good cause shown:
      1.   Residential Uses: The following number of paved off-street parking
spaces shall be required as specified for each residential use:
Cluster housing                         2 per dwelling unit
Condominiums and multi-family units     2 per dwelling unit
Daycare facility                        Requires conditional use
Detached housing, single-family         2 spaces
Duplex housing                          2 per dwelling unit
Group housing                           Ordinance procedure
Home occupation, as per residential use 2 per dwelling unit
Other                                   Per design capacity
 
      2.   Civic Uses: The following number of paved off-street parking spaces
shall be required as specified for each civic use:
Administrative                      1 per 300 square feet
Community assembly                  Per design capacity
Community education                 Per primary use of building
Community organization              1 per 300 square feet
Daycare or nursery                  1 per 200 square feet
Hospitals/healthcare                1.79 per bed
Library                             1 per 250 square feet
Meeting hall                        1 per 4 seats
Museum or art gallery               1 per 1,000 square feet
Nursing and convalescent facilities 1 per sleeping room
Open space area, including parks    Per design capacity
Religious assembly                  0.5 space per seat
Schools:                             
 Elementary school                 9 spaces per classroom
 Middle or junior high school      10 spaces per homeroom class
 High school                       11 spaces per homeroom class
Other                               Per ordinance process
 
      3.   Commercial/Industrial Uses: The following number of paved off-
street parking spaces shall be required as specified for each commercial/
industrial use:
Agriculture supplies and commodities    1 per 200 square feet
sales
Automotive accessory sales              1 per 200 square feet
Automotive cleaning and repair          3 spaces per bay, and 5 queuing spaces
Automotive fleet storage, attendant     1 per employee and 1 per vehicle
parking, rental vehicles
Automotive sales                        1 per 200 square feet
Banks/financial services                1 space per 200 square feet and 5
                                        queuing spaces
Beauty and barber shops                 1 space per 200 square feet
Bowling alleys                          4 spaces per alley
Business retail supply sales            1 per 200 square feet
Child or juvenile facility              Per ordinance procedure
Commercial recreation:                   
 Golf course                           4 per hole and as required per
                                        accessory uses
 Skating rink                          1 space per 100 square feet and as
                                        required per accessory uses
 Swimming facilities                   1 space per 75 square feet of water
                                        surface
 Tennis, handball and racquetball      3 spaces per court
  courts
Construction retail sales               1 per 200 square feet
Convenience store                       1 per 200 square feet
Dance halls                             11/2 spaces per 100 square feet
Department store retail sales           1 per 200 square feet
Farm equipment sales                    1 per 200 square feet and 3 per service
                                        bay
Fast food with drive in                 1 per 75 square feet and 5 unencumbered
                                        queuing spaces
Fast food without drive in              1 per 75 square feet
Gasoline sales                          1 per pump and 2 spaces per service bay
Home furnishings retail sales           1 per 200 square feet office and 1 per
                                        500 square feet warehouse
Hotel/motel                             1.35 spaces per unit and as required
                                        per accessory uses
Laundry services                        1 space per 200 square feet
Medical/health care practitioner office 1 space per 150 square feet
Mini-storage                            Minimum of 2 spaces/paved lot
Mortuary                                Per ordinance procedure
Professional and administrative office  1 per 200 square feet
Restaurant - seating                    1 per 75 square feet
Service establishments                  1 space per 200 square feet
Specialty retail sales                  1 per 200 square feet office and 1 per
                                        400 square feet warehouse
Storage/warehouse                       1 per 500 square feet
Supermarket                             3.42 per 1,000 square feet
Theaters, auditoriums, and stadiums     1 space per 3 seats
Veterinary office                       1 space per 150 square feet
Wholesale uses                          1 per 200 square feet office and 1 per
                                        500 square feet warehouse
Other                                   Per ordinance procedure
 
   V.   ADA Accessible Parking Spaces: Where off-street parking spaces are
required by this title there shall also be required parking spaces for persons
with disabilities as provided in the Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA).
(Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
CHAPTER 9
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-9-1: Mediation
10-9-2: Exhaustion Of Administrative Procedures Required
10-9-3: Administrative Exceptions
10-9-4: Legal Nonconforming Structures
10-9-5: Legal Nonconforming Uses
10-9-6: Legal Nonconforming Lots
10-9-1: MEDIATION:
   A.   Mediation is a discretionary communication process potentially
available to any affected person who owns real property that might be
materially affected by a quasi-judicial zoning related issue or whenever
determined by the City Council. The purpose of mediation is to promote
resolution of differences concerning potentially divisive land use matters. The
process for mediation, if required or proposed by the City Council, shall
follow the procedures set forth in this section, to the extent they are
compatible with Idaho law.
   B.   Mediation may be requested in writing by any applicant or affected
person, or by the Mayor, Administrator, Planning and Zoning Commission or the
City Council, during the course of any quasi-judicial matter, but in any case,
no later than fourteen (14) days after entry of a final decision and prior to
any person filing a petition for judicial review.
   C.   The parties to any mediation application shall participate in at least
one mediation session if mediation is authorized by either the Planning and
Zoning Commission or the City Council. The City of Idaho City shall designate
the mediator and will pay the expense of mediation for the first meeting among
mediating parties. Compensation of the mediator for additional sessions will be
determined by parties participating in the mediation prior to any subsequent
mediation sessions. After completion of the initial mediation session, an
applicant or otherwise affected party may decline to participate in mediation
that has been proposed by the City of Idaho City.
   D.   Upon request for mediation and until at least one mediation session has
been held, any time limitation relevant to the application made on the basis of
such mediation shall be tolled. Such tolling shall cease when the City Council
determines that the mediation should cease through their official action or
where no mediation session is scheduled for at least twenty eight (28) days
from the date of a mediation request. A subsequent public hearing must be held
before the City Council where mediated resolution results in recommended change
(s) to an application.
   E.   The mediation process shall not be part of the official record
regarding consideration of the application upon which the mediation is based.
(Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
10-9-2: EXHAUSTION OF ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES REQUIRED:
Any procedure addressed by this title that authorizes the Planning and Zoning
Commission to make a decision, as contrasted with a recommendation to the City
Council, shall not be deemed a final decision unless it has been appealed to
the City Council by the party seeking to bring a judicial appeal. Any such
appeal must be filed with the Administrator within fourteen (14) days after the
date of the decision entered by the Planning and Zoning Commission. Any such
appeal must be accompanied by the filing fee established by resolution of the
City Council and a completed appeal application as provided by the
Administrator. Any such appeal shall be decided by the City Council within one
hundred eighty (180) days of the date it is filed with the Administrator.
Failure to file such an appeal shall constitute a failure to exhaust
administrative remedies prior to seeking a court review of proceedings. (Ord.
352, 4-25-2018)
10-9-3: ADMINISTRATIVE EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   An administrative exception to express bulk or placement standards may
be approved by the Administrator upon a showing by an applicant that any such
exception is consistent with the intent of zoning title policy in general, that
the exception is essential to make productive use of the land involved, that
the exception would not conflict with requirements established by uniform
codes, that the public safety would not be compromised and that the interests
of neighboring landowners would not be impaired by approval of the exception.
The maximum extent of administrative exception shall not exceed twenty percent
(20%) reduction in required setback from external property lines, up to a ten
percent (10%) reduction in lot area requirements or up to a ten percent (10%)
increase in the allowable height of buildings, administrative discretion to
allow fences or walls in excess of existing maximums by up to an additional
foot in the designated front yard area, and allowing fences or walls up to two
feet (2') higher than the maximum in a rear or side yard.
   B.   An application for an administrative exception shall include a written
description of the requested exception and a site plan that shows information
relevant to request in order to allow the Administrator to evaluate the
proposed exception. Any application requesting an exception equal to fifty
percent (50%) or more of the maximum allowed by this section (e.g., a setback
reduction equal to 10 percent of the required setback or exceeding the maximum
height allowed by 5 percent, or more) shall include the names and addresses of
adjoining property owners. The Administrator will prepare a notice of any
administrative exception request and mail it to abutting property owners who
will have seven (7) calendar days from the date of mailing to deliver a written
responsive comment to the Administrator.
   C.   After considering the merits of any comments submitted by neighboring
landowners, an administrative exception may be approved, approved with
modifications or denied by the Administrator. The Administrator, when deciding,
shall consider the factors set forth in subsection A of this section.
   D.   Written notice of the decision shall be provided to the applicant and
mailed to any abutting property owner who submitted written comments. A
decision may be appealed within seven (7) days of such mailing by any affected
property owner who commented or by the applicant in accordance with procedures
specified by this title for decisions made by the Administrator. (Ord. 352, 4-
25-2018)
10-9-4: LEGAL NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
   A.   A legal nonconforming structure is one that was in compliance with all
Land Use and Building Code requirements at the time it was constructed, or that
was constructed or established before land use regulations were enacted but
does not conform to the structure requirements of the current Land Use Codes of
Idaho City. It is the policy of the City of Idaho City to encourage maintenance
and continued vitality of existing legal nonconforming structures until a
change of land use is undertaken by the owner in conformance with requirements
of this title.
   B.   Any legal nonconforming permanent structure may continue to be used and
maintained as otherwise allowed by this title. A nonconforming structure shall
not be enlarged in area in any way that increases its non-conformity. A
structure used to house a non-conforming nonresidential use may be enlarged by
up to ten percent (10%) of its square footage so long as any such enlargement
does not increase the non-conformity of any setbacks or building bulk
regulations.
   C.   A damaged or destroyed legal nonconforming structure may be repaired or
reconstructed provided that the extent of the previously existing
nonconformance is not increased.
   D.   Any structure legally built prior to the adoption of land use
regulations within a currently required yard setback area shall be deemed a
legal non-conforming structure and the nonconforming dimension shall not be
expanded by additional construction, unless otherwise qualifying for a
variance. (Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
10-9-5: LEGAL NONCONFORMING USES:
All existing uses of land that are not permitted uses in the zoning district in
which such use is being conducted, and all uses which, if presently initiated,
would require a conditional use permit, and which do not have a conditional use
permit, are deemed legal nonconforming uses. Legal nonconforming uses shall not
be expanded or extended in any way, except as otherwise expressly allowed by
this title. A legal nonconforming use shall not be changed except to a use that
complies with the regulations of the zoning district in which the subject
property lies or to diminish its non-conformity. (Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
10-9-6: LEGAL NONCONFORMING LOTS:
   A.   All existing platted subdivision lots that do not meet the minimum lot
area and dimension standards of the district within which they are located are
hereby deemed nonconforming lots. Any lot that was legally created prior to the
effective date of this title may be used in conformance with the uses permitted
by the zoning district within which it is located, provided that all yard and
setback requirements are met. If lot area is deficient in a residential zone by
no more than fifty percent (50%), any such non-conforming lot may be used only
for construction of a detached single-family dwelling. Undeveloped,
nonconforming lots of at least fifty percent (50%) of the minimum required lot
area may be used and have a single-family structure erected upon them.
   B.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any such lot is contiguous to one or
more lots of common ownership and any combination of such lots will meet the
area or dimension standards of this title, such lots shall be considered to be
an undivided parcel for the purposes of this title. Accordingly, the separate
lots shall be treated as a single parcel concerning the issuance of a building
permit for any residential construction on the lot, or contiguous commonly
owned lots where this condition exists. No nonconforming or conforming lot
shall be reduced in area or dimensions if such reduction would result in a
greater degree of nonconformity. In the least dense residential district in
Idaho City, any lot with an area less than the minimum required for the least
dense residential district may only be developed to the minimum residential use
allowed in the zone. Any lot in any residential district that has an area less
than the minimum square footage desired, but at least fifty percent (50%) of
the minimum area, unless it adjoins one or more substandard lots held in common
ownership, may only be developed with a single-family dwelling unit. (Ord. 352,
4-25-2018)
CHAPTER 10
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
SECTION:
10-10-1: Enforcement
10-10-2: Penalties
10-10-3: Abatement Proceedings
10-10-1: ENFORCEMENT:
The Administrator or his designee is authorized to enforce the provisions of
this title. It shall be deemed a violation of this title to construct any
building, structure or improvement for the purpose of establishing any land use
contrary to the requirements of this title, to violate any express prohibition
or exceed any express limitation contained in the text or exhibits of this
title or to use any land, building, or premises, contrary to the provisions of
this title, contrary to the terms or conditions of a permit, variance or in a
manner contrary to the terms and conditions established by the Planning and
Zoning Commission, City Council or Administrator. It shall be unlawful for any
yard, open space, building, structure or land to be used for any purpose not
permitted by this title, unless such use has been lawfully established prior to
enactment of this title. Violations of this title are hereby declared to be
unlawful and subject to the penalties established by this chapter and by other
provisions of law. (Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
10-10-2: PENALTIES:
Failure to comply with any provision or requirement of this title or terms or
conditions of permits shall be deemed a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to
exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or imprisonment for a term not
exceeding six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. In the
discretion of the Administrator, any violation of this title may be charged as
an infraction, subject to a fine alone in an amount not to exceed the limits
established by State law. The Administrator may elect to pursue enforcement by
filing criminal charges, pursuing enforcement by charging as infraction and/or
by proceeding in any form of civil legal action related to any violation of
this title deemed likely to achieve compliance. Each day a violation continues
may be considered a separate offense. Any landowner, tenant, sub-divider, or
builder who commits, participates in, assists in or maintains such violation
shall be guilty of a violation. Nothing contained in this title shall prevent
any other public official or affected person from taking such lawful action as
is necessary to restrain or prevent any violation of this title. (Ord. 352, 4-
25-2018)
10-10-3: ABATEMENT PROCEEDINGS:
Agency legal counsel or his designee may commence action or proceedings for the
abatement of any violation of this title as a nuisance in the manner provided
by law, and may apply to such court or courts as may have Idaho City to grant
relief as to abate, terminate and remove unlawful uses, buildings or
structures, and restrain and enjoin any person, firm, or corporation from
setting up, erecting, building, maintaining, or using any building, structure,
vehicle, or property contrary to the provisions of this title or to any permits
or authorizations issued pursuant to this title. (Ord. 352, 4-25-2018)
CHAPTER 11
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK AND CAMPGROUNDS
SECTION:
10-11-1: Short Title
10-11-2: Definitions
10-11-3: Rustic Campground
10-11-4: RV Campground
10-11-5: Campground Resort
10-11-6: Camp Host
10-11-7: Enforcement
10-11-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Ordinance shall be referred to as the "Recreational Vehicle Park and
Campgrounds Ordinance." (Ord. 388, 9-25-2024)
10-11-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following mean:
 
                              Campsites that do not have services for
                              individual camp sites, such as water, sewer, or
                              electrical hook-ups. These are similar to Forest
                              Service campgrounds that may have a leveled-out
RUSTIC CAMPGROUND:            pad for a tent or recreational vehicle, one
                              passenger vehicle parking space, and a picnic
                              table. Sites might also include a communal
                              pavilion, restrooms, and a centralized water
                              source.
                              Campsites with service(s) for individual camp
RV CAMPGROUND (OR "RV PARK"): sites that could include water, sewer,
                              electrical, or any combination thereof, primarily
                              designed for recreational vehicles.
                              Lodging facilities of four hundred (400) square
                              feet or less and may include tents, cabins, tiny
CAMPGROUND RESORT:            homes, recreational vehicles, and other similar
                              structures (with restroom facilities). (Ord. 388,
                              9- 2024)
 
10-11-3: RUSTIC CAMPGROUND:
A rustic campground must meet the following minimum requirements:
   A.   Maximum of five (5) sites per acre, which shall be clustered to provide
a minimum of sixty percent (60%) of the site as undeveloped open space.
   B.   Setbacks for campsites must be compliant with zoning regulations.
   C.   Parking is limited to a maximum of two (2) parking spaces per site.
   D.   Seasonal use only, allowed from April 1- November 30 (no year-round
use.)
   E.   Water or human waste facilities, including RV dumps, may be
conditionally permitted by the City and subject to the applicable fees and
assigned equivalent dwelling units.
   F.   Community restroom facilities shall be provided and shall meet public
health district regulations, Community facilities shall not be located more
than two hundred (200) feet from any site.
   G.   Trash receptacles and dumpsters must be provided. In designated Bear
Conflict areas, trash receptacles shall be bear-proof.
   H.   Interior roads must meet standards for approval by the fire protection
district.
   I.   Stays shall be limited to no more than fourteen (14) consecutive days
in a thirty (30) day period. (Ord. 388, 9- 2024)
10-11-4: RV CAMPGROUND:
An RV campground must meet the following minimum requirements:
   A.   Maximum of five (5) sites per acre, which shall be clustered to provide
a minimum of sixty percent (60%) of the site as underdeveloped open space.
   B.   Setbacks for campsites must be compliant with zoning regulations.
   C.   Trash receptacles and dumpsters must be provided. In designated Bear
Conflict areas, trash receptacles shall be bear-proof.
   D.   Hook-ups for electricity, water, and/or wastewater must be provided for
each RV site and must comply with local and state requirements, including Title
9 of the City Code.
   E.   Screened from public view by aesthetically acceptable fences, walls,
living planting areas and existing natural or manmade barriers living planting
areas and existing natural or manmade barriers, except that privacy fencing is
required when adjacent to any residential zone. The Administrator may approve
alternative methods of reducing the visual impact in lieu of screening or waive
the requirements if visual impact is of no consequence.
   F.   Minimum of two (2) parking spaces per RV site and meet the off-street
parking requirements of title 10 of this code.
   G.   Interior roads must meet standards for approval by the fire protection
district.
   H.   Stays shall be limited to twenty-nine (29) consecutive days in a ninety
(90) day period. This rule shall not apply to the Camp Host, as defined in
section
10-11-6.
   I.   Minor retail and food services may be allowed and licensed by the City
pursuant to this Code, provided those services are incidental and subordinate
to the primary use of providing lodging.
   J.   Must comply with applicable standards as provided in the Americans with
Disability Act (ADA) (Title 42 of the United States Code and its implementing
regulations). (Ord. 388, 9- 2024)
10-11-5: CAMPGROUND RESORT:
   A.   Minimum lot size of twenty (20) acres
   B.   Maximum of fifty percent (50%) of the site as undeveloped open space,
parks, or recreational amenities
   C.   Facilities including platforms, structures, and sewer and water
systems, shall be provided and comply with all City, State and Local permits
and requirements.
   D.   Setbacks for facilities and campsites must be compliant with zoning
regulations.
   E.   Screened from public view by aesthetically acceptable fences, walls,
living planting areas and existing natural or manmade barriers living planting
areas and existing natural or manmade barriers, except that privacy fencing is
required when adjacent to any residential zone. Administrators may approve
alternative methods of reducing the visual impact in lieu of screening or waive
the requirements if visual impact is of no consequence.
   F.   For sites that do not have restroom facilities in the lodging
structures, community toilets or restrooms shall be provided and shall meet the
requirements of the public health district. Community facilities shall not be
located more than two hundred (200) feet from any site.
   G.   Must comply with applicable standards as provided in the Americans with
Disability Act (ADA) (Title 42 of the United States Code and its implementing
regulations).
   H.   Minimum of two (2) parking spaces per site and meet the off-street
parking requirements of this title.
   I.   Interior roads must meet standards for approval by the fire protection
district.
   J.   Stays shall be limited to twenty-nine (29) consecutive days in a ninety
(90) day period. This rule shall not apply to the Camp Host, as defined in
section
10-11-6.
   K.   Retail and food services may be allowed and licensed by the City
pursuant to this Title and provided for campground guests. (Ord. 388, 9- 2024)
10-11-6: CAMP HOST:
The operator of an RV Campground or an RV Resort may designate one site as a
"Camp Host" site. The site must be clearly marked. The operator must
affirmatively assign the Camp Host, preferably in writing. The Camp Host
function is limited to one RV and its owner(s) and dependents. (Ord. 388, 9-
2024)
10-11-7: ENFORCEMENT:
This section is subject to the enforcement and penalties of this Title, which
may be enforced as stated therein and by law enforcement for the City. (Ord.
388, 9- 2024)
TITLE 11
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
11-1-1: Statutory Authorization
11-1-2: Findings Of Fact
11-1-3: Statement Of Purpose
11-1-4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
11-1-5: Definitions
11-1-6: Application And Interpretation Of Provisions
11-1-7: Administration
11-1-8: Development Permit
11-1-9: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
11-1-10: Variance Procedure
11-1-11: Violation; Penalty
11-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The Legislature of Idaho has, in the Idaho Code, delegated the responsibility
to local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public
health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry. (Ord. 201, 10-10-1987)
11-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the City are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health, and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in areas of special flood hazards which increase flood heights and velocities,
and when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas. Uses that are
inadequately floodproofed, elevated, or otherwise protected from flood damage
also contribute to the flood loss. (Ord. 201, 10-10-1987)
11-1-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this Chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed:
   A.   To protect human life and health;
   B.   To minimize expenditure of public money and costly flood control
projects;
   C.   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   F.   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
   G.   To ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an
area of special flood hazard; and
   H.   To ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions. (Ord. 201, 10-10-1987)
11-1-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this Chapter includes methods and
provisions for:
   A.   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   B.   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Controlling the alteration of natural flood plains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood
waters;
   D.   Controlling filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   E.   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or may increase flood hazards in other areas.
(Ord. 201, 10-10-1987)
11-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this Chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this Chapter its most reasonable application:
   APPEAL: A request for a review of the Watermaster's interpretation of any
provision of this Chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO or AH Zone on the Flood Insurance
Rate Map (FIRM). The base flood depths range from one foot (1') to three feet
(3'); a clearly defined channel does not exist; the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate; and, velocity flow may be evident. AO is
characterized as sheet flow and AH indicates ponding.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the flood plain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
Designation on maps always includes the letters A or V.
   BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equalled or
exceeded in any given year. Also referred to as the 100-year flood. Designation
on maps always includes the letters A or V.
   DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazard.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): The official map on which the Federal
Insurance Administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the Federal Insurance
Administration that includes flood profiles, the Flood Boundary-Floodway Map,
and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters and/or
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any
source.
   FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot (1').
   LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including
basement. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a basement area,
is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable
nonelevation design requirements of this Chapter found at subsection
11-1-9B1b of this Chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For flood plain
management purposes the term "manufactured home" also includes park trailers,
travel trailers, and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than
one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days. For insurance purposes the term
"manufactured home" does not include park trailers, travel trailers, and other
similar vehicles.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel or contiguous parcels of
land divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date hereof.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, placement or other improvement was within one hundred
eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers, or foundation or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure.
   STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally aboveground.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: A. Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure either:
      1.   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
      2.   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred. For the purposes of this definition, substantial improvement
is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor,
or other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that
alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   B.   The term does not, however, include either:
      1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
State or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
      2.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
   VARIANCE: A grant of relief from the requirements of this Chapter which
permits construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this
Chapter. (Ord. 201, 10-10-1987)
11-1-6: APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Lands To Which This Chapter Applies: This Chapter shall apply to all
areas of special flood hazards within the jurisdiction of the City.
   B.   Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard: The areas of
special flood hazard identified by the Federal Insurance Administration in a
scientific and engineering report entitled "The Flood Insurance Study for the
City of Idaho City," dated November 10, 1988, with accompanying Flood Insurance
Maps is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this Chapter.
The Flood Insurance Study is on file at City Hall.
   C.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This Chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions. However, where this Chapter and another ordinance, easement,
covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   D.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this Chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the City Council; and
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
State statutes.
   E.   Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: The degree of flood protection
required by this Chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may be increased by manmade or
natural causes. This Chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of
special flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages. This Chapter shall not create liability on the part
of the City, any officer or employee thereof, or the Federal Insurance
Administration, for any flood damages that resulted from reliance on this
Chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder. (Ord. 201, 10-
10-1987)
11-1-7: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Designation Of Watermaster: The Watermaster is hereby appointed to
administer and implement this Chapter by granting or denying development permit
applications in accordance with its provisions.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities Of The Watermaster: Duties of the
Watermaster shall include, but not be limited to:
      1.   Permit Review:
         a.   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this Chapter have been satisfied.
         b.   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those Federal, State or local governmental
agencies from which prior approval is required.
         c.   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development is located in the floodway. If located in the floodway, assure that
the encroachment provisions of subsection
11-1-9C1 of this Chapter are met.
      2.   Use Of Other Base Flood Data: When base flood elevation data has not
been provided in accordance with subsection
11-1-6B of this Chapter, the Watermaster shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a Federal,
State or other source, in order to administer subsections
11-1-9B and C of this Chapter.
      3.   Information To Be Obtained And Maintained:
         a.   Where base flood elevation data is provided through the Flood
Insurance Study or required as in subsection
11-1-7B2 of this Chapter, obtain and record the actual elevation in relation to
mean sea level of the lowest floor, including basement, of all new or
substantially improved structures, and whether or not the structure contains a
basement.
         b.   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed structures:
            (1)   Verify and record the actual elevation in relation to mean
sea level; and
            (2)   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in
subsection
11-1-8B3 of this Chapter.
         c.   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this Chapter.
      4.   Alteration Of Watercourses:
         a.   Notify adjacent communities and the Department of Water Resources
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of
such notification to the Federal Insurance Administration.
         b.   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is
not diminished.
      5.   Interpretation Of FIRM Boundaries: Make interpretations where
needed, as to exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood
hazards, for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped
boundary and actual field conditions. The person contesting the location of the
boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation
as provided in Section
 11-1-10 of this Chapter. (Ord. 201, 10-10-1987)
11-1-8: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
   A.   Development Permit Required: A development permit shall be obtained
before construction or development begins within any area of special flood
hazard established in subsection
11-1-6B of this Chapter. The permit shall be for all structures including
manufactured homes, as set forth in Section
11-1-5 of this Chapter, and for all development including fill and other
activities, also set forth in Section
11-1-5.
   B.   Application For Development Permit: Application for a development
permit shall be made on forms furnished by the Watermaster and may include, but
not be limited to: plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature,
location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in question; existing or
proposed structures, fill, storage or materials, drainage facilities, and the
location of the foregoing. Specifically, the following information is required:
      1.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor,
including basement, of all structures;
      2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any structure has
been floodproofed;
      3.   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet the
floodproofing criteria in subsection
 11-1-9B2 of this Chapter.
      4.   Description of the extent to which a watercourse will be altered or
relocated as a result of proposed development. (Ord. 201, 10-10-1987)
11-1-9: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
   A.   General Standards: In all areas of special flood hazards, the following
standards are required:
      1.   Anchoring:
         a.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
         b.   All manufactured homes must likewise be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement, and shall be installed using methods
and practices that minimize flood damage. Anchoring methods may include, but
are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors
(reference FEMAs "Manufactured Home Installation in Flood Hazard Areas"
guidebook for additional techniques).
      2.   Construction Materials And Methods:
         a.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
         b.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
         c.   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air- conditioning
equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or otherwise
elevated or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components during conditions of flooding.
      3.   Utilities:
         a.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
         b.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and
         c.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      4.   Subdivision Proposals:
         a.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
         b.   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
         c.   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided
to reduce exposure to flood damage; and
         d.   Where base flood elevation data has not been provided or is not
available from another authoritative source, it shall be generated for
subdivision proposals and other proposed developments which contain at least
fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres, whichever is less.
      5.   Review Of Building Permits: Where elevation data is not available
either through the Flood Insurance Study or from another authoritative source
(subsection
11-1-7B2 of this Chapter), applications for building permits shall be reviewed
to assure that proposed construction will be reasonably safe from flooding. The
test of reasonableness is a local judgment and includes use of historical data,
high-water marks, photographs of past flooding, etc., where available. Failure
to elevate at least two feet (2') above grade in these zones may result in
higher insurance rates.
   B.   Specific Standards: In all areas of special flood hazards where base
flood elevation data has been provided as set forth in subsection
11-1-6B or
11-1-7B2 of this Chapter, the following provisions are required:
      1.   Residential Construction:
         a.   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
base flood elevation.
         b.   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to
flooding are prohibited, or shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or must meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
            (1)   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding shall be provided.
            (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
(1') above grade.
            (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      2.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the level
of the base flood elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall:
         a.   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood level the structure
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
         b.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
         c.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice for meeting provisions of this subsection based on their
development and/or review of the structural design, specifications and plans.
Such certifications shall be provided to the official as set forth in
subsection
11-1-8B3b of this Chapter.
         d.   Nonresidential structures that are elevated, not floodproofed,
must meet the same standards for space below the lowest floor as described in
subsection
11-1-9B1b of this Chapter.
         e.   Applicants floodproofing nonresidential buildings shall be
notified that flood insurance premiums will be based on rates that are one foot
(1') below the floodproofed level, e.g., a building constructed to the base
flood level will be rated as one foot below that level.
      3.   Manufactured Homes: All manufactured homes to be placed or
substantially improved within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE shall be elevated on a
permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at
or above the base flood elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of subsection
11-1-9A1b of this Chapter.
   C.   Floodways: Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
subsection
11-1-6B of this Chapter are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway
is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry
debris, potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions
apply:
      1.   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other development unless certification by a
registered professional engineer or architect is provided demonstrating that
encroachments shall not result in any increased flood levels during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      2.   If subsection C1 of this Section is satisfied, all new construction
and substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this Section. (Ord. 201, 10-10-1987)
11-1-10: VARIANCE PROCEDURE:
   A.   Appeal Board:
      1.   The City Council as established by the City shall hear and decide
appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this Chapter.
      2.   The City Council shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged
there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination made by the
Watermaster in the enforcement or administration of this Chapter.
      3.   Those aggrieved by the decision of the City Council, or any
taxpayer, may appeal such decision to the Magistrate Court of the Fourth
Judicial District.
      4.   In passing upon such applications, the City Council shall consider
all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified in other
sections of this Chapter and:
         a.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         b.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         c.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         d.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         e.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         f.   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use of
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
         g.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         h.   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan
and flood plain management program for that area;
         i.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         j.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         k.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
      5.   Upon consideration of the factors of subsection A4 of this Section
and the purposes of this Chapter, the City Council may attach such conditions
to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose of
this Chapter.
      6.   The Watermaster shall maintain the records of all appeal actions and
report any variances to the Federal Insurance Administration upon request.
   B.   Conditions For Variances:
      1.   Generally, the only condition under which a variance from the
elevation standard may be issued is for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, providing subsections A4a through A4k of this Section
have been considered. As the lot size increases the technical justification
required for issuing the variance increases.
      2.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in this Section.
      3.   Variances shall not be issued within a designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      4.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      5.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; (Ord. 201, 10-10-1987)
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances. (Ord. 201, 10-10-
1987; amd. 2000 Code)
      6.   Variances as interpreted in the National Flood Insurance Program are
based on the general zoning law principle that they pertain to a physical piece
of property; they are not personal in nature and do not pertain to the
structure, its inhabitants, economic or financial circumstances. They primarily
address small lots in densely populated residential neighborhoods. As such,
variances from the flood elevation should be quite rare.
      7.   Variances may be issued for nonresidential buildings in very limited
circumstances to allow a lesser degree of floodproofing than watertight or dry-
floodproofing, where it can be determined that such action will have low damage
potential, complies with all other variance criteria except subsection
11-1-10B1 of this Chapter, and otherwise complies with subsections
11-1-9A1 and A2 of this Chapter.
      8.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation. (Ord. 201, 10-10-1987)
11-1-11: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or altered without full compliance with the terms of this Chapter and
other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this Chapter by
failure to comply with any of its requirements, including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions, shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this Chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject
to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code, and in addition shall pay all costs and expenses involved
in the case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City from taking such
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. (Ord.
201, 10-10-1987; amd. 2000 Code)
TITLE 12
SUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12-1-1:    Short Title
12-1-2:    Authority
12-1-3:    Purpose
12-1-4:    Jurisdiction
12-1-5:    Interpretation
12-1-6:    Administration
12-1-7:    Combining of Permits
12-1-8:    Definitions
12-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Title shall be known as the SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF IDAHO
CITY, IDAHO. (Ord. 362, 12-23-2020)
12-1-2: AUTHORITY:
These regulations are authorized by title 50, chapter 13 of the Idaho Code;
title 67, chapter 65 of the Idaho Code; and article 12, section 2 of the Idaho
Constitution, as amended or subsequently codified. (Ord. 362, 12-23-2020)
12-1-3: PURPOSE:
The purposes of these regulations are to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare, and to provide for the harmonious development of the
community. (Ord. 362, 12-23-2020)
12-1-4: JURISDICTION:
These regulations shall apply to the subdividing of land within the corporate
limits of Idaho City and the property within the impact area boundary. (Ord.
362, 12-23-2020)
12-1-5: INTERPRETATION:
All subdivisions as herein defined shall be submitted for approval by the
Council and shall comply with the provisions of these regulations. These
regulations shall supplement all other regulations, and where at variances with
other laws, regulations, ordinances or resolutions, the more restrictive
requirements shall apply. (Ord. 362, 12-23-2020)
12-1-6: ADMINISTRATION:
The Mayor shall appoint an Administrator, with the consent of the Council, to
carry out the provisions as herein specified and to serve at the pleasure of
the Mayor. The Administrator shall receive and process all subdivision
applications. (Ord. 362, 12-23-2020)
12-1-7: COMBINING OF PERMITS:
The City is hereby required to coordinate with other departments and agencies
concerning all permits which may be required in this Title and previously or
subsequently adopted City ordinances. (Ord. 362, 12-23-2020)
12-1-8: DEFINITIONS:
Terms or words used herein shall be interpreted as follows: the present tense
includes the past or future tense; the singular includes the plural and the
plural includes the singular; the word "shall" is mandatory; "may" is
permissive; and the word "should" is preferred; and the masculine shall include
the feminine.
ADMINISTRATOR: An official, having knowledge in the principles and practices of
subdividing, who is appointed by the Mayor to administer this Title.
APPLICANT: May be Subdivider.
BLOCK: A group of lots, tracts or parcels within well-defined boundaries,
usually streets.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: An imaginary line established by a zoning ordinance that
requires all buildings to be set back a certain distance from lot lines.
COMMISSION: The Planning and Zoning Commission, appointed by the Mayor, with
the consent of the Council (See also Title 10-2-1; Ord. 352 adopted 4-25-2018).
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: An adopted document that herein may be referred to as a
Comprehensive Plan showing the general location and extent of present and
proposed development.
CONDOMINIUM: An estate consisting of an undivided interest in common in real
property, in an interest or interests in real property, or in any combination
thereof; together with a separate interest in real property, in an interest or
interests in real property or in any combination thereof.
COUNCIL: The Council of Idaho City, Idaho.
COVENANT: A written promise or pledge.
CULVERT: A drain that channels water under a bridge, street, road or driveway.
DEDICATION: The setting apart of land or interests in land for use by the
public by ordinance, resolution or entry in the official minutes as by the
recording of a plat. Dedicated land becomes public land upon the acceptance by
the City.
DEVELOPER: Used interchangeably with "SUBDIVIDER", as defined herein.
FINAL PLAT: The map of a subdivision to be recorded after approval by the
Council and any accompanying material as described in these regulations.
HILLSIDE SUBDIVISION: Any subdivision application that includes any portion of
property with grades in excess of fifteen percent (15%). These types of
subdivisions are subject to the additional requirements of Section 12-5-2 of
this Title.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT SUBDIVISION: A subdivision designed as a combination
of planned land uses for a tract of land to be developed as a unit under single
ownership or control, which is developed for the purpose of selling individual
lots or estates, whether fronting on private or dedicated streets, which may
include three (3) or more principal buildings (See Section 12-5-3 of this
Title).
PLAT: The drawing of a subdivision, cemetery, townsite or other tract of land
or a replatting of such certifications, descriptions and approvals.
PLAT, MINOR: A proposed subdivision that does not exceed four (4) lots.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY: The preliminary drawing or drawings, described in these
regulations, indicating the proposed manner or layout of the subdivision to be
submitted to the City for approval. A minor subdivision plat is four (4) or
fewer lots.
RESERVE STRIP: A strip of land between a partial street and adjacent property,
which is reserved or held in public ownership for future street extension or
widening.
STREET: A right of way which provides access to adjacent properties, the
dedication of which has been officially accepted. The term "street" also
includes the terms highway, thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, boulevard,
land, place and other such terms.
   A.   Alley: A minor street providing secondary access at the back or side of
a property otherwise abutting a street.
   B.   Minor Street: A street which has the primary purpose of providing
access to abutting properties.
   C.   Collector Street: A street designated for the purpose of carrying
traffic from minor streets to other collector streets and/or arterial streets.
   D.   Arterial: A street designated for the purpose of carrying fast and/or
heavy traffic.
   E.   Loop: A minor street with both terminal points on the same street of
origin.
   F.   Cul-De-Sac: A street connected to another street at one end only and
provided with a turnaround space at its terminus.
   G.   Frontage: A minor street, parallel and adjacent to an arterial street
to provide access to abutting properties.
   H.   Partial: A dedicated right of way providing only a portion of the
required street width, usually along the edge of a subdivision or tract of
land.
   I.   Private: A street that is not accepted for public use or maintenance
which provides vehicular and pedestrian access.
SUBDIVIDER: A subdivider shall be deemed to be the individual, firm,
corporation, partnership, association, syndicate, trust or other legal entity
that executes the application and initiates proceedings for the subdivision of
land in accordance with the provisions of this Title. The subdivider need not
be the owner of the property; however, he shall be an agent of the owner or
have proprietary rights in the property to represent the owner. Upon request,
the subdivider must demonstrate authority to subdivide subject property.
SUBDIVISION: The result of an act of dividing any land, vacant or improved,
into two (2) or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots, condominiums, tracts,
or interests for the purpose of transfer of ownership or development, which may
also include the dedication of a public street and the addition to, or creation
of, a cemetery.
SURVEYOR: Any person who is licensed in the state as a land surveyor to do
professional surveying.
UTILITIES: Installations for conducting water, sewage, gas, electricity,
television, storm water and similar facilities providing service to and used by
the public.
VARIANCE: A modification of the strict terms of the relevant regulations where
such modification will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing
to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the action of the
applicant, a literal enforcement of this Title would result in unnecessary and
undue hardship.
(Ord. 362, 12-23-2020)
CHAPTER 2
PROCEDURE FOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL
SECTION:
12-2-1:    Subdivision Approval Required
12-2-2:    Preapplication
12-2-3:    Preliminary Plat
12-2-4:    Final Plat
12-2-1: SUBDIVISION APPROVAL REQUIRED:
Any person desiring to create a "subdivision" as herein defined shall submit
all necessary applications to the Administrator. No final plat shall be filed
with the county recorder or improvements made on the property until the plat
has been acted upon by the Commission and approved by the Council. No lots
shall be sold until the plat has been recorded in the office of the County
Recorder. (Ord. 362, 12-23-2020)
12-2-2: PREAPPLICATION:
   A.   Application: The subdivider may submit a preapplication to enable the
Administrator to review and comment on the proposed subdivision. The
preapplication shall include at least one copy of a sketch plan. The sketch
plan shall include the entire developmental scheme of the proposed subdivision
in schematic form and include the following:
      1.   The general layout and approximate dimensions of streets, blocks and
lots in sketch form.
      2.   The existing conditions and characteristics of the land on and
adjacent to the proposed subdivision site.
      3.   The areas set aside for schools, parks and other public facilities.
   B.   Fee: No fee required.
   C.   Administrator Action: The Administrator shall notify the subdivider
within thirty (30) days from the date of receiving an acceptable preapplication
as to the general conformance or nonconformance of the proposal with this
title, and shall provide the necessary forms and checklists, as well as any
additional concerns. (Ord. 362, 12-23-2020)
12-2-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Application: The subdivider shall file with the Administrator a
complete subdivision application form and preliminary plat data as required in
this Title.
   B.   Minor Subdivision, Combining Preliminary and Final Plats: The applicant
may request that the subdivision application be processed as both a preliminary
and final plat if all of the following exist:
      1.   The proposed subdivision does not exceed four (4) lots.
      2.   No new street dedication or street widening is involved. Street
dedication on contiguous existing public streets is allowed.
      3.   No major special development considerations are involved
(floodplain, hillside, etc.).
      4.   Information for both preliminary and final plat is complete.
   C.   Content of Preliminary Plat: The subdivider shall submit to the
Administrator at least the following:
      1.   Copies of Plat: Six (6) copies of the preliminary plat of the
proposed subdivision, drawn in accordance with the requirements hereinafter
stated. The plat shall have dimensions of not less than twenty-four inches by
thirty-six inches (24" x 36"); shall be drawn to a scale of not less than one
inch to one hundred feet (1" = 100'); shall show the drafting date and north
arrow.
      2.   Set of Engineering Plans: Six (6) sets of preliminary engineering
plans (not meant to be cross sections or detailed designs) for streets, water,
sewers, sidewalks and other required public improvements.
      3.   Application Requesting Approval: A written application requesting
approval of the preliminary plat.
      4.   Special Development Area Information: Appropriate information that
sufficiently details the proposed development within any special development
area.
      5.   Proof of Interest: Proof of interest in the subject property.
   D.   Requirements of Preliminary Plats: The following shall be shown on the
preliminary plat or shall be submitted separately:
      1.   The name of the proposed subdivision.
      2.   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the subdivider or
subdividers and the engineer or surveyor who prepared the preliminary plat.
      3.   The name and address of all adjoining owners of property whether or
not bisected by a public right of way as shown on record in the county
assessor's office.
      4.   The legal description of the subdivision.
      5.   A statement of the intended use of the proposed subdivision.
      6.   A map of the entire area scheduled for development.
      7.   A vicinity map showing the relationship of the proposed plat to the
surrounding area (1/2-mile minimum radius, scale optional).
      8.   The land use and existing zoning of the proposed subdivision and the
adjacent land.
      9.   Streets, street names, rights of way and roadway widths, including
adjoining streets or roadways.
      10.   Lot lines and blocks showing the dimensions and numbers of each.
      11.   Contour lines, shown at two foot (2') intervals.
      12.   A site report as required by the appropriate health district where
individual wells or septic tanks are proposed.
      13.   Any proposed or existing utilities.
      14.   A copy of any proposed restrictive covenants and/or deed
restrictions.
      15.   Any dedications to the public and/or easements, together with a
statement of location, dimensions and purpose of such.
      16.   Any additional required information for special developments.
      17.   A statement as to whether or not a variance will be requested with
respect to any provision of this title describing the particular provision, the
variance requested and the reasons thereof.
   E.   Fee: At the time of submission of an application for a preliminary
plat, the subdivider shall pay a processing fee in accordance with the fee
schedule established by the Council. There shall be no additional fee for the
combining of the preliminary and final plats.
   F.   Administrator Review:
      1.   Certification: Upon receipt of the preliminary plat, and all other
required data as provided for herein, the Administrator shall certify the
application as complete and shall affix the date of application acceptance
thereon.
      2.   Review By City Of Idaho City's Engineering Firm: The City of Idaho
City's engineering firm will review preliminary subdivision plats and plans.
The developer shall be responsible for all fees charged by that firm. These
application review fees must be paid at the time of application as a prepayment
before any review will begin from the city engineer.
      3.   Review By Other Agencies: The Administrator shall refer the
preliminary plat and application to as many agencies as deemed necessary. The
developer shall be responsible for all fees charged because of reviews by other
agencies.
   G.   Public Notification:
      1.   Notification To Property Owners: The Administrator shall notify all
adjoining property owners within three hundred feet (300') whose names and
addresses have been provided by the developer at least ten (10) days prior to
the Commission meeting.
      2.   Failure To Notify: The Administrator's failure to comply with the
notification provision shall not invalidate the city's action, provided the
spirit of the procedure is observed.
      3.   Public Hearing Process: Prior to approving or disapproving a
preliminary plat, at least one public hearing in which interested persons shall
have an opportunity to be heard shall be held. The public hearing will be held
with the Commission which will recommend action to the Council, which will
consider the recommendations of the Commission and make the final
determination. At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of the
time and place shall be published in the official newspaper or paper of general
circulation within the jurisdiction. The applicant is responsible for all
notices and publishing costs.
   H.   Action By The Commission And Council:
      1.   Commission: Within twenty (20) days after the public hearing, the
Commission shall, in writing, recommend to the Council either approval,
conditional approval, or denial of the preliminary plat application as
presented. The applicant shall be responsible for all required notices and
publishing costs associated with the public hearing.
      2.   Council: The Council shall consider the recommendation of the
Commission at the next available regularly scheduled council meeting and may
delay their decision pending submission of additional information; or, approve,
conditionally approve, or deny the preliminary plat application as presented to
the Commission. Should the Council disapprove the recommendation of the
Commission it shall hold a public hearing following the notification and
hearing procedures listed above.
      3.   In determining the approval of a proposed subdivision, the
Commission and Council shall consider the objectives of this Title and at least
the following:
         a.   The conformance of the subdivision with the comprehensive
development plan.
         b.   The availability of public services to accommodate the proposed
development.
         c.   The public financial capability of supporting services for the
proposed development.
         d.   The other health, safety or environmental problems that may be
brought to the Commission's attention. Upon granting or denying a preliminary
plat, the Council shall specify:
            (1)   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the
application.
            (2)   The reasons for approval or denial.
            (3)   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain
approval.
   I.   Notification To Applicant: Within ten (10) days after a decision has
been rendered by the Council, the Administrator shall provide the applicant
with written notice of the action on the request. The preliminary plat will not
be considered fully approved until all conditions have been satisfied and the
appeal period has expired.
   J.   Action On Combined Preliminary And Final Plat: A recommendation shall
be forwarded to the Council in the same manner as herein specified for a final
plat. The Commission may recommend that the combined application be approved,
approved conditionally or denied.
   K.   Appeal Of Decision Of Council: The applicant or an affected citizen of
Idaho City shall have twenty (20) days from the date of the mailing of the
notice of the decision of the Council within which to appeal said decision to a
court of competent jurisdiction.
   L.   Approval Period:
      1.   Filing Certification: Failure to file and obtain the certification
of the acceptance of the final plat application from the subdivider within
eighteen (18) months after action by the Council shall cause all approvals of
said preliminary plat to be null and void, unless an extension of time is
applied for by the subdivider and granted by the Council. Said application for
time extension shall be submitted in writing to the Administrator prior to the
expiration date and shall state the reasons for failure to file the final plat
application. The application shall also include a proposed length of extension,
not to exceed twelve (12) months. More than one extension may be granted upon
showing of good cause.
      2.   Phasing: In the event the development of the preliminary plat is
made in successive contiguous phases in an orderly and reasonable manner, and
conforms substantially to the approved preliminary plat, such phases, if
submitted within successive intervals of one year, may be considered for final
approval without resubmission for preliminary plat approval. The one year time
frame shall begin on the recording date of the final plat of the prior phase.
   M.   Legal Descriptions: An applicant who requests a division of any parcel
will provide a legal description for each parcel created. The format of the
legal description will be in a format acceptable to the Boise County Assessor's
Office. The applicant will pay for the cost of obtaining these legal
descriptions.
   N.   Construction Plans: After approval of a preliminary plat application by
Council, the applicant shall submit to the Administrator the required number of
final construction plans prepared by a civil engineer licensed in Idaho. Such
plans shall adhere to the design and improvement standards set forth in this
Title as well as all applicable city standards. No construction of any kind
shall take place on the site of an approved subdivision until final
construction plans are reviewed and approved by the city engineer. Systems
reviewed and subject to approval include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Streets, including curbs and sidewalks.
      2.   Water delivery system and/or water supply.
      3.   Sanitary sewer system.
      4.   Stormwater collection and treatment plans, including stormwater
management during construction.
      5.   Streetlight plans.
      6.   Off-site improvements (streets, traffic signals, sidewalks,
lighting, etc.).
      7.   Irrigation water delivery system.
      8.   Site grading plans.
   O.   Effect Of Approval: Upon final written approval and signatures and upon
subsequent review and approval of construction plans by the city engineer, the
applicant may proceed with construction of the subdivision. Approval of the
preliminary plat does not, however, authorize the conveyance of lots or other
privileges reserved until after the final plat is approved and recorded. (Ord.
362, 12-23-2020)
12-2-4: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Application Content: After the approval or conditional approval of the
preliminary plat, the subdivider may cause the total parcel, or any part
thereof, to be surveyed and a final plat prepared in accordance with the
approved preliminary plat. The final plat shall include and be in compliance
with all items required under Idaho Code title 50, chapter 13 and shall be
drawn at such a scale and contain lettering of such size as to enable the same
to be placed on a sheet of eighteen inch by twenty seven inch (18" x 27") Mylar
sheet with no part of the drawing nearer to the edge than one inch (1"). The
final plat application shall include at least the following:
      1.   Three (3) copies of the final plat.
      2.   A written application for approval of such final plat as stipulated
by the Council.
      3.   Proof of current ownership of the real property included in the
proposed final plat.
      4.   Such other information as the Administrator or Council may deem
necessary to establish whether or not all proper parties have signed and/or
approved said final plat.
      5.   Conformance with the approved preliminary plat and meeting all
requirements or conditions thereof.
      6.   Conformance with all requirements and provisions of this title.
      7.   Conformance with acceptable engineering practices and local
standards.
      8.   Final construction completion letter, issued by the city of Idaho
City public works department.
   B.   Fee: All fees shall be paid at the time of submission of an application
for a final plat. The applicant shall pay final plat fees as set by resolution
of the Council.
   C.   Administrator Review: Upon receipt of the final plat, and compliance
with all other requirements as provided for herein, the Administrator shall
certify the application as complete and shall affix the date of acceptance
thereon.
   D.   Review By City Of Idaho City's Engineering Firm: The city of Idaho
City's engineering firm shall review final subdivision plats and plans. The
developer shall be responsible for all fees charged by that firm. These
application review fees must be paid at the time of application as a prepayment
before any review of the final plat will begin from the city engineer.
   E.   Agency Review: The Administrator may transmit one copy of the final
plat or other documents submitted, for review and recommendation to the
departments and agencies as he deems necessary to ensure compliance with the
preliminary approval and/or conditions of preliminary approval.
   F   Public Meeting (Deliberation) Process: Prior to approving or
disapproving a final plat, at least one public meeting (deliberation) shall be
held by the Council.
   G.   Action By The Council: The Council may delay their decision pending
submission of additional information or approve, or deny the final plat
application as presented. Upon granting or denying an application for final
plat, the Council shall specify:
      1.   The ordinance and standard used in evaluating the application.
      2. The reasons for approval or denial.
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain
approval.
   H.   Notification To Applicant: Within ten (10) days after a decision has
been rendered by the Council, the Administrator shall provide the applicant
with written notice of the action on the final plat. The final plat will not be
considered fully approved until all conditions have been satisfied and the
appeal period has expired.
   I.   Appeal Of Decision Of Council: The applicant or citizen shall have
twenty (20) days from the date of the mailing of the notice of the decision of
the Council within which to appeal said decision to a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   J.   Approval Period: Final plat shall be recorded with the Boise County
Recorder within one year after written approval by the Council, otherwise such
approval shall become null and void unless prior to said expiration date an
extension of time is applied for by the applicant and granted by the Council.
Said application for time extension shall be submitted in writing to the
Administrator prior to the expiration date and shall state the reasons for
failure to record the final plat. The application shall also include a proposed
length of extension, not to exceed six (6) months.
   K.   Method Of Recording: Upon approval of the final plat by the Council,
the subdivider's prepayment of recording fees, posting of surety bonds or other
acceptable guarantee and the inclusion of the following signatures on the final
plat, the subdivider may submit the final plat to the Boise County Recorder for
recording:
      1.   Certification and signature of the city clerk verifying that the
subdivision has been approved by the Council.
      2.   Certification of an authorized representative of Central District
Health Department regarding the sanitation restrictions on the face of the plat
per Idaho Code section 50-1326.
      3.   Certification of the county surveyor, as required by Idaho Code 50-
1305.
      4.   Certification of the city engineer, as required by Idaho Code 50-
1308(1).
      5.   Certification of the county treasurer, as required by Idaho Code 50-
1308(1). This certification is only valid if the plat is recorded within thirty
(30) days of signature.
      6.   Certification of the county assessor that the plat is acceptable for
assessment purposes. (Ord. 362, 12-23-2020)
CHAPTER 3
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
12-3-1:    Minimum Design Standards Required
12-3-2:    Dedication
12-3-3:    Location
12-3-4:    Specifications
12-3-5:    Street Names
12-3-6:    Intersections
12-3-7:    Pedestrian Walkways
12-3-8:    Easements
12-3-9:    Blocks
12-3-10: Lots
12-3-11: Public Sites And Open Spaces
12-3-12: Protective Covenants
12-3-1: MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS REQUIRED:
All plats submitted pursuant to the provisions of this Title, and all
subdivisions, improvements and facilities, constructed or made in accordance
with said provisions shall comply with the minimum design standards set forth
hereinafter in this chapter; provided, however, that any higher standards
adopted by any highway district, state highway department or health agency
shall prevail over those set forth herein. (Ord. 362, 12-23-2020)
12-3-2: DEDICATION:
Within a proposed subdivision, arterial and collector streets shall be
dedicated to the public, unless specifically identified and approved by the
Council as private streets. (Ord. 362, 12-23-2020)
12-3-3: LOCATION:
Street and road location shall conform to the following:
   A.   Street Location And Arrangements: When an official street plan or
comprehensive development plan has been adopted, subdivision streets shall
conform to such plans.
   B.   Minor Streets: Shall be so arranged as to discourage their use by
through traffic.
   C.   Stub Streets: Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the arrangement
of streets in new subdivisions shall be such that said streets extend to the
boundary line of the tract to make provisions for the future extension of said
streets into adjacent areas.
   D.   Relation To Topography: Streets shall be arranged in proper relation to
topography.
   E.   Alleys: Alleys shall be provided in multiple dwellings or commercial
subdivisions unless other provisions are made for service access and off street
loading and parking. Dead end alleys shall be prohibited in all cases.
   F.   Frontage Roads: Where a subdivision abuts or contains an arterial
street, it shall be required that there be frontage roads approximately
parallel to, and on each side of, such arterial street; or, such other
treatment as is necessary for the adequate protection of residential properties
and to separate through traffic from local traffic.
   G.   Cul-De-Sac Streets: Cul-de-sac streets shall not be more than seven
hundred feet (700') in length and shall terminate with an adequate turnaround
having a minimum radius for right of way that is not less than the minimum
requirement of the international fire code that has been adopted by the city.
   H.   Half Streets: Half streets shall be prohibited except where unusual
circumstances make such necessary to the reasonable development of a tract in
conformance with this title and where satisfactory assurance for dedication of
the remaining part of the street is provided.
   I.   Private Streets: Private streets may be permitted, in the discretion of
the Council. (Ord. 362, 12-23-2020)
12-3-4: SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Street Right Of Way Widths: Street and road right of way widths shall
conform to the adopted major street plan or comprehensive development plan and
the rules of the state division of highways and the highway district or
department having jurisdiction.
   Minimum right of way standards are as follows:
      1.   Street right of way width is to be measured from property line to
property line.
 
Highway And Street Types Widths       Face To Face Curb
Expressway or freeway    160-260 feet 140-240 feet
Major arterial           120 feet     100 feet
Minor arterial           80 feet      60 feet
Collector street         60 feet      44 feet
Minor street             50 feet      36 feet
Alley                    20 feet      20 feet
 
   B.   Street Grades: Street grades shall not exceed ten percent (10%) on
either minor or collector streets, and six percent (6%) for arterial streets.
   C.   Street Alignment: Street alignment shall be as follows:
      1.   Horizontal Alignment: When street lines deflect from each other by
more than ten degrees (10°) in alignment, the centerlines shall be connected by
a curve having a minimum radius of five hundred feet (500') for arterial
streets, three hundred feet (300') for collector streets. Between reverse
curves on collector and arterial streets, there shall be a minimum tangent
distance of two hundred feet (200');
      2.   Vertical Alignment: Minimum stopping sight distances shall be two
hundred feet (200') for minor streets and designed in accordance with design
speed for collector and arterial streets. (Ord. 362, 12-23-2020)
12-3-5: STREET NAMES:
The naming of streets shall conform to the following:
   A.   Street names shall not duplicate any existing street names within the
city except where a new street is a continuation of an existing street; street
names that may be spelled differently but sound the same as existing streets
shall not be used.
   B.   All new streets shall be named as follows: streets having predominantly
east-west direction shall be named “street” or “road;” streets having a
predominantly north-south direction shall be named “avenue” or “way;”
meandering streets shall be named “drive,” “lane,” “path” or “trail;” and cul-
de-sacs shall be named “circle,” “court” or “place.” (Ord. 362, 12-23-2020)
12-3-6: INTERSECTIONS:
Intersections shall conform to the following:
   A.   Angle Of Intersection: Streets shall intersect at ninety degrees (90°)
or as closely thereto as possible, and in no case shall streets intersect at
less than seventy degrees (70°).
   B.   Sight Triangles: Minimum clear sight distances at all minor street
intersections shall permit vehicles to be visible to the driver of another
vehicle when each is one hundred feet (100') from the center of the
intersection.
   C.   Number Of Streets: No more than two (2) streets shall cross at any one
intersection.
   D.   "T" Intersections: "T" intersections may be used wherever such design
will not restrict the free movement of traffic.
   E.   Centerline Offsets: Street centerlines shall be offset by a distance of
at least one hundred twenty-five feet (125').
   F.   Vertical Alignment Of Intersection: A nearly flat grade with
appropriate drainage slopes is desirable within intersections. This flat
section shall be extended a minimum of one hundred feet (100') each way from
the intersection. An allowance of two percent (2%) maximum intersection grade
in rolling terrain, and four percent (4%) in hilly terrain, will be permitted.
(Ord. 362, 12-23-2020)
12-3-7: PEDESTRIAN WALKWAYS:
Right of way for pedestrian walkways (at least 10 feet wide) may be required
where necessary to obtain convenient pedestrian circulation. (Ord. 362, 12-23-
2020)
12-3-8: EASEMENTS:
Unobstructed utility easements shall be provided along front lot lines, rear
lot lines and side lot lines when deemed necessary; total easement width shall
not be less than five feet (5'). Unobstructed drainageway easements shall be
provided as required by the city. (Ord. 362, 12-23-2020)
12-3-9: BLOCKS:
Every block shall be so designed as to provide two (2) tiers of lots, except
where lots back onto arterial street, natural feature or subdivision boundary;
blocks should not be less than five hundred feet (500') long in all cases.
(Ord. 362, 12-23-2020)
12-3-10: LOTS:
Lots shall conform to the following:
   A.   Zoning: The lot width, depth and total area shall not be less than the
requirements of any applicable zoning ordinance.
   B.   Future Arrangements: Where parcels of land are subdivided into
unusually large lots (such as when large lots are approved for septic tanks),
the parcels shall be divided, where feasible, so as to allow for future
resubdividing into smaller parcels.
   C.   Sufficient Area For Septic Tank: Where individual septic tanks have
been authorized, sufficient area shall be provided for a replacement sewage
disposal system. (Ord. 362, 12-23-2020)
12-3-11: PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES:
Public sites and open spaces shall conform to the following:
   A.   Natural Features: Existing natural features which add value to
residential development and enhance the attractiveness of the community shall
be preserved in the design of the subdivision.
   B.   Open Space Defined: "Common open space" shall mean land area exclusive
of street rights of way and street buffers, except for right of way
specifically dedicated for landscaping within a subdivision. The portion of
street buffers that is wider than the required minimum dimension may be counted
as open space. Open space may be active or passive in its intended use, and
must be accessible by all residents of the subdivision.
   C.   Special Developments: In the case of planned unit developments and
large scale developments, the city may require park or open space facilities.
   D.   Phasing Required: Development of subdivisions shall be phased to avoid
the extension of city services. Each phase must include the required parks,
pathways, and open space.
   E.   Phasing Agreement: Subdividers requesting phased subdivisions shall
enter into a phasing agreement with the city. Any phasing agreement shall be
approved and executed by the council and the developer on or before the
preliminary plat approval by the council.
   F.   Contribution:
      1.   The developer of each residential subdivision, or any part thereof,
consisting of nine (9) or more dwelling units, without regard to the number of
phases within the subdivision, shall set aside or acquire land area within,
adjacent to, or in the general vicinity of the subdivision for parks. Parks,
pathways and open space shall be within the city. Parks shall be set aside in
accordance with the following formula:
         P = x multiplied by .0277
         “P” is the parks contribution in acres
         “x” is the number of single-family lots, townhouse sublots, or
condominium units contained within the plat. Where multi-family lots are being
platted with no fixed number of units, "x" is the maximum number of residential
units possible within the subdivision based on current zoning regulations.
      2.   Where a parcel of land is owned or otherwise controlled, in any
manner, directly or indirectly:
         a.   By the same individual(s) or entity(ies), including, but not
limited to, corporation(s), partnership(s), limited liability company(ies) or
trust(s), or
         b.   By different individuals or entities, including, but not limited
to, corporations, partnerships, limited liability companies or trusts where: 1)
such individual(s) or entity(ies) has a controlling ownership or contractual
right with the other individual(s) or entity(ies), or 2) the same individual(s)
or entity(ies) acts in any manner as an employee, owner, partner, agent,
stockholder, director, member, officer or trustee of the entity(ies), multiple
subdivisions of said parcel that cumulatively result in nine (9) or more
dwelling units, are subject to the provisions of the ordinance codified herein,
and shall provide the required improvements subject to the required standards
at or before the platting or development of nine (9) or more dwelling units.
   G.   Required Improvements: Improvements for parks shall be based on size
and be considered either a minipark (between 1/4 acre and 1 acre), or a
neighborhood park (between 1 and 10 acres).
      1.   Minipark:
         a.   Minimum improvements: Finished grading and ground cover, trees
and shrubs, picnic table, trash container(s), park bench(es). All parks shall
provide an average of fifteen (15) trees per acre, of which at least fifteen
percent (15%) shall be of four inch (4") caliper or greater. A maximum of
twenty percent (20%) of any single tree species may be used.
      2.   Neighborhood park:
         a.   Minimum improvements: Finished grading and ground cover, large
grassy areas, trees and shrubs, sheltered picnic table(s), trash container(s),
park bench(es), parking as required by ordinance, and one or more of the
following: play structure, restrooms, an athletic field, trails, hard surface
multiple use court (tennis or basketball courts), or gardens that demonstrate
conservation principles. All parks shall provide an average of fifteen (15)
trees per acre, of which at least fifteen percent (15%) shall be of four inch
(4") caliper or greater. A maximum of twenty percent (20%) of any single tree
species may be used.
   H.   Required Standards: Land proposed to be dedicated for recreation
purposes shall meet identified needs and standards contained within the parks
master plan. All parks, green space, and trails shall meet the following
criteria for development, location and size (unless unusual conditions exist
that prohibit meeting one or more of the criteria):
      1.   Shall provide safe and convenient access, including ADA standards.
      2.   Shall not be gated so as to restrict access.
      3.   Shall not be configured in such a manner that will create a
perception of intruding on private space.
      4.   Shall be configured in size, shape, topography and improvements to
be functional for the intended users.
      5.   Shall not create undue negative impact on adjacent properties and
shall be buffered from conflicting land uses.
      6.   Shall not create undue demands on city services.
      7.   Shall require low maintenance, or provide for maintenance or a
maintenance endowment.
      8.   Shall not conflict with the use or planned use depicted in the parks
master plan.
      9.   Shall be connected in a useful manner to other recreation
opportunities. Preserved green space within proposed developments shall be
designed to be contiguous and interconnecting with adjacent green space (both
existing and potential future space). The following criteria for connections
shall be met.
      10.   The developer shall define a meaningful pedestrian circulation
system for each development, which connects to the major trail system, parks,
schools, shopping areas and community assets. Subdividers shall install such
sidewalks and trails as required by ordinance and according to city standards.
No park dedication credit will be given for pedestrian improvements required by
ordinance.
      11.   The developer shall construct and pave all trails through and
abutting their developments identified in the parks master plan. Such trail
improvements shall be undertaken at the same time as other public improvements
are installed within the development (i.e., grading with site grading and
paving with street or parking lot paving). Deviation from this timing
requirement may be allowed only when deemed beneficial for the project. Park
dedication credit may be given for trails and pedestrian improvements
identified in the parks master plan. The minimum pathway width shall be ten
feet (10') (except in cases where topography requires less).
      12.   The developer may complete, construct and pave all trails not
identified in the parks master plan. Park dedication credit will be given for
such trails if they connect to existing or proposed trails identified in the
parks master plan.
      13.   The city may permit easements to be granted by developers for trail
corridors identified in the parks master plan, thereby allowing the developer
to include the land area in the determination of setbacks and building density
on the site. In such cases, park dedication credit will not be given.
      14.   To be eligible for park dedication credit, land dedicated must be
located on slopes less than twenty-five degrees (25°), and must be located
outside of drainways, floodways and wetland areas.
   I.   Dedication And Maintenance: All park land shall be dedicated to the
city of Idaho City upon completion, unless otherwise allowed by the Council
upon recommendation by the parks department. Parks shall be guaranteed and
maintained by the developer for a period of two (2) years after full build out.
Any privately owned and maintained park or recreation space (by the future
residents or business owners of the subdivision) must meet the following. The
city of Idaho City will not accept land dedications as public parks if the
gross area is less than one acre in size, unless otherwise allowed by the
Council, upon receiving a recommendation from the parks department.
      1.   Land area shall not be occupied by nonrecreational buildings and
shall be available for the use of all the residents or employees of the
proposed subdivision.
      2.   The use of the private green space shall be restricted for public
parks, playground, trail green space or recreational purposes by recorded
covenants which run with the land in favor of the future owners of the property
within the tract and which cannot be modified without the consent of the
Council.
      3.   The proposed private green space shall be reasonably adaptable for
use for such purposes, taking into consideration such factors as size, shape,
topography, geology, access and location of the private green space land.
      4.   The facilities proposed for such purposes are in accordance with the
provisions of the recreational element of the comprehensive plan.
      5.   The private ownership and maintenance of the green space shall be
adequately provided for by written agreement.
      6.   Public and private green space for park or recreation purposes shall
be complementary to one another and their use should not be exclusive to the
homeowners, residents, or employees of the development only.
   J.   In Lieu Contributions: After receiving a recommendation by the parks
department, the Council may at their discretion approve and accept voluntary
cash contributions in lieu of park land dedication/park improvements, which
contributions must be segregated by the city and not used for any other purpose
other than the acquisition of park land and/or park improvements. The fee
structure for cash contributions for acquisition of park land shall be the
appraised value of the required land area at the time of the application. The
appraisal shall be submitted by a mutually agreed upon appraiser and paid for
by the applicant. The fee structure for park improvements, including all costs
of acquisition, construction and all related costs, shall be based upon the
estimated costs of an approved improvement provided by a qualified contractor
and/or vendor. The city will not grant a one hundred percent (100%) waiver for
open space within a subdivision unless it can be proved there is existing open
space or park land within one-fourth (1/4) mile of the subdivision or other
allowances are made to break up the housing density. (Ord. 362, 12-23-2020)
12-3-12: PROTECTIVE COVENANTS:
Protective covenants may be prepared and recorded as part of a subdivision. The
Council shall review and approve subdivision restrictive covenants prior to
recording. The determination of the Council, upon reviewing and approving the
protective covenants, is to resolve any conflicts with existing subdivision and
zoning regulations. (Ord. 362, 12-23-2020)
CHAPTER 4
IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
12-4-1:    Responsibility For Plans
12-4-2:    Required Public Improvements
12-4-3:    Warranty And Guarantee Of Completion Of Improvements
12-4-1: RESPONSIBILITY FOR PLANS:
It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider of every proposed subdivision
to have prepared by a registered engineer a complete set of construction plans,
including profiles, cross sections, specifications and other supporting data
for all required public streets, utilities and other facilities. All
construction plans shall be prepared in accordance with the public agencies'
standards or specifications. (Ord. 362, 12-23-2020)
12-4-2: REQUIRED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
Every subdivider shall be required to install the following public and other
improvements in accordance with the conditions and specifications as follows:
   A.   Monuments: Survey monuments shall be set in accordance with section 50-
1303, Idaho Code. Also, all lot corners; block corners; street center lines;
center of cul-de-sacs; point of curvature; point of tangency; and points of
beginning shall be surveyed and established on the ground.
   B.   Streets And Alleys: All streets and alleys shall be constructed in
accordance with the standards and specifications adopted by the Council.
   C.   Curbs And Gutters: Vertical curbs and gutters shall be constructed on
collector and arterial streets. Rolled curbs and gutters shall be required on
minor streets. All construction shall be in accordance with the standards and
specifications adopted by the Council.
   D.   Bicycle Pathways: A bicycle pathway may be required within
subdivisions, as part of the public right of way or separate easement.
   E.   Installation Of Public Utilities: Underground utilities are encouraged
and may be required subject to the Council adopted policies and ordinances.
   F.   Driveways: All driveway openings in curbs shall be as specified by the
Public Works Department, Highway District or State Highway Division.
   G.   Storm Drainage: The requirements for each particular subdivision shall
be established by the Council. Construction shall follow the specifications and
procedures established by the Council.
   H.   Public Water Supply And Sewer Systems: All public water supply or sewer
systems (serving 2 or more separate premises or households) shall be
constructed in accordance with any adopted local plans and specifications. All
new public water supply or sewer systems shall be an extension of an existing
public system whenever possible. If it is determined by the Council that a new
water supply or sewer system is necessary, such system shall be built to the
standards and specifications required by the City. Section 50-1326, Idaho Code,
requires that all water and sewer plans be submitted to the State Department of
Health and Welfare or its authorized agent for approval.
   I.   Fire Hydrants And Water Mains: Adequate fire protection shall be
required in accordance with the appropriate Fire Department or district
standards.
   J.   Street Name Signs: Street name signs shall be installed in the
appropriate locations at each street intersection in accordance with local
standards.
   K.   Sidewalks And Pedestrian Walkways: Sidewalks may be required on both
sides of the street or on only one side of the street subject to review and
approval by the Council.
   L.   Greenbelt: Greenbelts or landscaping screening may be required by the
council.
   M.   Street Lighting: A subdivider will put in streetlights subject to the
requirements of the City and the public utility providing such lighting. (Ord.
362, 12-23-2020)
12-4-3: WARRANTY AND GUARANTEE OF COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Warranty Agreement: The city requires a one year warranty agreement
with responsible parties prior to acceptance of public improvements for public
maintenance.
   B.   Financial Guarantee Arrangements: In lieu of the actual installation of
required landscaping before filing of the final plat, the council may permit
the subdivider to provide a financial guarantee in one or a combination of the
arrangements outlined in subsection C of this section for those outstanding
requirements. All other required improvements must be completed and accepted by
the city before filing the final plat application. Once building construction
within a subdivision has begun, it shall be halted once twenty five percent
(25%) of the lots in that phase have received or been issued building permits
for primary structures (e.g., houses). In order for any further building
permits to be issued, remaining landscaping pertaining to the phase shall be
completed.
   C.   Cash Deposit, Certified Check, Or Irrevocable Bank Letter Of Credit:
      1.   Deposit: A cash deposit, certified check, or an irrevocable bank
letter of credit or such other surety acceptable by the council, shall be
deposited with the city clerk.
      2.   Dollar Value: The dollar value of the cash deposit, certified check,
or irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be equal to one hundred fifty
percent (150%) of the estimated cost of the materials and installation of the
landscaping as recommended by the superintendent of public works or zoning
Administrator and approved by the council.
      3.   Time: The duration for the cash deposit, certified check, or
irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be for a period to be specified by the
council.
      4.   Progressive Payment: In the case of cash deposits or certified
checks, an agreement between the council and the subdivider may provide for
progressive payment out of the cash deposit or reduction of the certified
check, or irrevocable bank letter of credit, to the extent of the cost of the
completed portion of the landscaping, in accordance with a previously entered
into agreement.
   D.   Conditional Approval Of Final Plat: The approval of all final
subdivision plats shall be conditioned on the accomplishment of the following:
      1.   The construction of improvements required by this title shall have
been completed by the subdivider and approved by the council; except that
      2.   For landscaping improvements, surety acceptable to the council shall
have been filed with the city clerk in the form of a cash deposit, certified
check, or irrevocable bank letter of credit.
   E.   Inspection Of Public Improvements Under Construction: Before approving
a final plat and construction plans and specifications for public improvements,
an agreement between the subdivider and the council shall be made to provide
for checking or inspecting the construction and its conformity to the submitted
plans.
   F.   Submittal Of As Built Plans: Prior to acceptance by the council of any
improvements installed by the subdivider and before the first building permit
is issued, two (2) sets of as built plans and specifications, certified by the
subdivider's engineer, shall be filed with the public works department. Within
ten (10) days after completion of improvements and submission of as built
drawings, the city engineer shall certify the completion of the improvements
and the acceptance of the improvements, and shall submit copy of such
certification to the subdivider.
   G.   Penalty In Case Of Failure To Complete Landscaping Improvements: In the
event the subdivider shall, in any case, fail to complete such work within the
period of time as required by the conditions of the guarantee for the
completion of the landscaping improvements, it shall be the responsibility of
the council to proceed to have such work completed. In order to accomplish
this, the council shall reimburse itself for the cost and expense thereof by
appropriating the cash deposits, certified check, or irrevocable bank letter of
credit which the subdivider deposited. (Ord. 362, 12-23-2020)
CHAPTER 5
SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
12-5-1:    Purpose
12-5-2:    Hillside Subdivision
12-5-3:    Planned Unit and Condominium Subdivisions
12-5-4:    Mobile Home Subdivision
12-5-5:    Large-Scale Development Subdivision
12-5-6:    Cemetery Subdivision
12-5-7:    Subdivision Within a Flood Plain
12-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to identify various types of developments that
normally pose special concerns to the City when reviewing and acting upon
subdivision requests. (Ord. 362, 12-23-2020)
12-5-2: HILLSIDE SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Appearance and Preservation: In order to preserve, retain, enhance and
promote the existing and future appearance, natural topographic features,
qualities and resources of hillsides, special consideration shall be given to
the following:
      1.   Skyline and ridge tops.
      2.   Rolling grassy land forms, including knolls, ridges and meadows.
      3.   Tree and shrub masses, grass, wildflowers and topsoil.
      4.   Rock outcroppings.
      5.   Streambeds, draws and drainage swales, especially where tree and
plant formations occur.
      6.   Characteristic vistas and scenic panoramas.
   B.   Hillside Development Evaluation: All development proposals shall take
into account the following:
      1.   Planning of development to fit the topography, soils, geology,
hydrology and other conditions existing on the proposed site.
      2.   Orientation of development on the site so that grading and other
site preparation is kept to an absolute minimum.
      3.   Shaping of essential grading to blend with natural land forms and to
minimize the necessity of padding and/or terracing of building sites.
      4.   Division of large tracts into smaller workable units on which
construction can be completed within one construction season.
      5.   Completion of paving as rapidly as possible after grading.
      6.   Allocation of areas not suited for development to open space and
recreation uses.
      7.   Minimizing disruption of existing plant and animal life.
      8.   Consideration of the view from and of the hills.
   C.   Engineering Plans: The developer shall retain a professional engineer
(s) to obtain the following information:
      1.   Soils Report: For any proposed hillside development, a soils
engineering report shall be submitted with the preliminary plat. This report
shall include data regarding the nature, distribution and strength of existing
soils, conclusions and recommendations for grading procedures, design criteria
for corrective measures, and opinions and recommendations covering the adequacy
of sites to be developed.
      2.   Geology Report:
         a.   For any proposed hillside development, a geology report shall be
submitted with the preliminary plat. This report shall include an adequate
description of site geology and an evaluation of the relationship between the
proposed development and the underlying geology and recommendations for
remedial remedies.
         b.   The investigation and subsequent report shall be completed by a
professional geologist registered in the State of Idaho.
      3.   Hydrology Report:
         a.   For any proposed hillside development, a hydrology report shall
be submitted with the preliminary plat. This report shall include an adequate
description of the hydrology, conclusions and recommendations regarding the
effect of hydrologic conditions on the proposed development, and opinions and
recommendations covering the adequacy of sites to be developed.
         b.   In a flood-prone area, flood frequency curves shall be provided
for the area proposed for development.
   D.   Grading Plan:
      1.   A preliminary grading plan shall be submitted with each hillside
preliminary plat proposal and shall include the following information:
         a.   Approximate limiting dimensions, elevations or finish contours to
be achieved by the grading, including all cut and fill slopes, proposed
drainage channels and related construction.
         b.   Preliminary plans and approximate locations of all surface and
subsurface drainage devices, walls, dams, sediment basins, storage reservoirs
and other protective devices to be constructed.
         c.   A description of methods to be employed in disposing of soil and
other material that is removed from the grading site, including the location of
the disposal site.
      2.   A final grading plan shall be submitted with each final plat and
shall include the following information:
         a. Limiting dimensions, elevations or finish contours to be achieved
by the grading, including all proposed cut and fill slopes, and proposed
drainage channels and related construction.
         b.   Detailed plans and locations of all surface and subsurface
drainage devices, walls, dams, sediment basins, storage reservoirs and other
protective devices to be constructed.
         c.   A schedule showing when each stage of the project will be
completed, including the total area of soil surface which is to be disturbed
during each stage together with estimated starting and completion dates.
   E.   Development Standards:
      1.   Soils:
         a.   Fill areas shall be prepared by removing organic material, such
as vegetation and rubbish, and any other material which is determined by the
soils engineer to be detrimental to proper compaction or otherwise not
conductive to stability; no rock or similar irreducible material with a maximum
dimension greater than eight inches (8") shall be used as fill material in
fills that are intended to provide structural strength.
         b.   Fills shall be compacted to at least ninety five percent (95%) of
maximum density, as determined by AASHTO T99 and ASTM D698.
         c.   Cut slopes shall be no steeper than two (2) horizontal to one
vertical; subsurface drainage shall be provided as necessary for stability.
         d.   Fill slopes shall be no steeper than two (2) horizontal to one
vertical; fill slopes shall not be located on natural slopes two to one (2:1)
or steeper, or where fill slope toes out within twelve feet (12') horizontally
of the top of an existing or planned cut slope.
         e.   Tops and toes of cut and fill slopes shall be set back from
property boundaries a distance of three feet (3') plus one-fifth (1/5) of the
height of the cut or fill but need not exceed a horizontal distance of ten feet
(10'); tops and toes of cut and fill slopes shall be set back from structures a
distance of six feet (6') plus one-fifth (1/5) the height of the cut or fill,
but need not exceed ten feet (10').
         f.   The maximum horizontal distance of disturbed soil surface shall
not exceed seventy-five feet (75').
      2.   Roadways:
         a.   Road alignments should follow natural terrain and no unnecessary
cuts or fills shall be allowed in order to create additional lots or building
sites.
         b.   One-way streets shall be permitted and encouraged where
appropriate for the terrain and where public safety would not be jeopardized.
Minimum width shall be seventeen feet (17') between the backs of curbs if off-
street parking is provided.
         c.   The width of the graded section shall extend three feet (3')
beyond the curb back or edge of pavement on both the cut and fill sides of the
roadway. If sidewalk is to be installed parallel to the roadway, the graded
section shall be increased by the width of the sidewalk plus one foot (1')
beyond the curb back.
         d.   Standard six inch (6") vertical curb and gutter shall be
installed along both sides of all paved roadways.
         e.   A pedestrian walkway plan shall be required.
      3.   Driveways and Parking: Combinations of collective private driveways,
cluster parking areas and on-street parallel parking bays shall be used to
attempt to optimize the objectives of minimum soil disturbance, minimum
impervious cover, excellence of design and aesthetic sensitivity.
   F.   Vegetation and Revegetation:
      1.   The developer shall submit a slope stabilization and revegetation
plan which shall include a complete description of the existing vegetation, the
vegetation to be removed and the method of disposal, the vegetation to be
planted, and slope stabilization measures to be installed. The plan shall
include an analysis of the environmental effects of such operations, including
the effects on slope stability, soil erosion, water quality and fish and
wildlife.
      2.   Vegetation sufficient to stabilize the soil shall be established on
all disturbed areas as each stage of grading is completed. Areas not contained
within lot boundaries shall be protected with perennial vegetal cover after all
construction is completed. Efforts shall be made to plant those species that
tend to recover from fire damage and do not contribute to a rapid rate of fire
spread.
      3.   The developer shall be fully responsible for any destruction of
native vegetation proposed for retention. He shall carry the responsibility
both for his own employees and for all subcontractors from the first day of
construction until the notice of completion is filed. The developer shall be
responsible for replacing such destroyed vegetation.
   G.   Maintenance: The owner of any private property on which grading or
other work has been performed pursuant to a grading plan approved or a building
permit granted under the provisions of this Title shall continuously maintain
and repair all graded surfaces and erosion prevention devices, retaining walls,
drainage structures or means, and other protective devices, plantings and
ground cover installed or completed.
   H.   Utilities: All new service utilities shall be placed underground. (Ord.
362, 12-23-2020)
12-5-3: PLANNED UNIT AND CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   General: Planned unit and condominium developments shall be subject to
requirements as set forth in the Zoning Ordinance and also subject to all
provisions within this Title.
   B.   Minimum Area: There is no minimum area.
   C.   Site Development Plan: The developer shall provide the City with a
rendering of adequate scale to show the completed development that will include
at least the following:
      1.   Architectural style and building design.
      2.   Building materials and color.
      3.   Landscaping.
      4.   Screening.
      5.   Garbage areas.
      6.   Parking.
      7.   Open space.
   D.   Streets: Street construction standards shall be based upon
recommendations from an engineer of the City. Adequate construction standards
may vary depending on the size of the development and the demands placed on
such improvements. No private streets shall be allowed. The minimum standard
for a street shall be the same as for a minor street in subsection
12-3-4A of this Title.
   E.   Homeowner's Association: The Homeowner's Association bylaws and other
similar deed restrictions, which provide for the control and maintenance of all
common areas, recreation facilities or open space shall meet with the approval
of the Council.
   F.   Storage Areas: Storage areas shall be provided for the anticipated
needs of boats, campers and trailers. For typical residential development, one
adequate space shall be provided every two (2) living units.
   G.   Parking Space: One additional parking space beyond that which is
required by the Zoning Ordinance may be required for every three (3) dwelling
units to accommodate visitor parking.
   H.   Maintenance Building: A maintenance building may need to be provided,
size and location to be suitable for the service needs that are necessary for
the repair and maintenance of all common areas.
   I.   Open Space: The location of open space shall be appropriate to the
development and shall be of such shape and area to be usable and convenient to
the residents of the development.
   J.   Control During Development: Single ownership or control during
development shall be required and a time limit may be imposed to guarantee the
development is built and constructed as planned. (Ord. 362, 12-23-2020)
12-5-4: MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION:
   A.   General: Mobile home subdivisions shall be subject to any requirements
set forth in the Zoning Ordinance.
   B.   Special Requirements: Mobile home subdivisions shall be subject to the
following special requirements:
      1.   Screening from adjacent areas, other than subdivisions of the same
type, by aesthetically acceptable fences, walls, living planting areas and
existing natural or manmade barriers.
      2.   Creation of a Homeowner's Association to assure that all common
areas are adequately maintained. (Ord. 362, 12-23-2020)
12-5-5: LARGE-SCALE DEVELOPMENT SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Required Information: Due to the impact that a large-scale development
would have on public utilities and services, the developer shall submit the
following information along with the preliminary plat:
      1.   Identification of all public services that would be provided to the
development.
      2.   Estimate the public service costs to provide adequate service to the
development.
      3.   Estimate the tax revenue that will be generated from the
development.
      4.   Suggested public means of financing the services for the development
if the cost for the public services would not be offset by tax revenue received
from the development. (Ord. 362, 12-23-2020)
12-5-6: CEMETERY SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Function: The developer shall provide the City with written
documentation that will sufficiently explain the functions of the proposed
cemetery for either human or animal remains.
   B.   Compliance With Idaho Code: The developer shall submit a written
statement that has been prepared by an attorney that adequately assures the
compliance of the proposed cemetery with the procedural management requirements
that are outlined in title 27, Idaho Code. (Ord. 362, 12-23-2020)
12-5-7: SUBDIVISION WITHIN A FLOOD PLAIN:
   A.   Flood Areas: For any proposed subdivision that is located within a
flood plain, the developer shall provide the City with a development plan of
adequate scale and supporting documentation that will show and explain at least
the following:
      1.   Location of all planned improvements.
      2.   The location of the floodway and the floodway fringe per engineering
practices as specified by the Army Corps of Engineers.
      3.   The location of the present water channel.
      4.   Any planned rerouting of waterways.
      5.   All major drainageways.
      6.   Areas of frequent flooding.
      7.   Means of floodproofing buildings.
      8.   Means of insuring loans for improvements within the flood plain.
   New construction and substantial improvements of residential structures
within the flood plain shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated to one foot (1') above the level of the one hundred (100)-year flood;
and, for new construction or substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures, the lowest floor (including basement) shall be elevated to one foot
(1') above the level of the one hundred (100)-year flood, or together with
attendant utility and sanitary facilities, shall be floodproofed up to one foot
(1') above the level of the one hundred (100)-year flood.
   B.   Justification For Development: Upon the determination that buildings
are planned within the flood plain or that alterations of any kind are
anticipated within the flood plain area that will alter the flow of water, the
developer shall demonstrate conclusively to the City that such development will
not present a hazard to life, limb or property; will not have adverse effects
on the safety, use or stability of a public way or drainage channel or the
natural environment.
   No subdivision or part thereof shall be approved if levees, fills,
structures or other features within the proposed subdivision will individually
or collectively significantly increase flood flows, heights or damages.
      Subdivisions shall be reviewed to assure that:
      1.   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage.
      2.   All public utilities and facilities are located and constructed to
minimize or eliminate flood damages.
      3.   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
      New or replacement water supply systems and/or sanitary sewage systems
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into
the system and discharges from the systems into flood waters, and require on-
site waste disposal systems to be located so as to avoid impairment of them or
contamination from them during flooding. (Ord. 362, 12-23-2020)
 
 
