IDAHO COUNTY, IDAHO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-1 Supplement contains:
Legislation current through Ord. 72-B, passed 8-8-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CHARTER OF
THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
OF IDAHO COUNTY, IDAHO
Article
   
I.   Name, seal, and definitions
   
II.   Authority and creation of the Corporation
   
III.   Duration of the Corporation
   
IV.   Purposes of the Corporation
   
V.   Powers of the Corporation
   
VI.   Limitations of the Corporation
   
VII.   Organized of the Corporation
   
VIII.   Commencement of the Corporation
   
IX.   Alteration of dissolution of the Corporation
   
X.   Bylaws
   
XI.   Amendments to charter and bylaws
   
XII.   Miscellaneous
ARTICLE I
NAME, SEAL AND DEFINITIONS
   The name of this public corporation shall be The Industrial Development
Corporation of Idaho County, Idaho. The corporate seal of this corporation
shall be a circle with the name “The Industrial Development Corporation of
Idaho County, Idaho” inscribed therein. As used in this Charter, unless
otherwise required by context, the following words shall have the following
meanings:
   Act means Chapter 27, Title 50, Idaho Code.
   Board means the Board of Directors of the public corporation.
   Construct or Construction means construction and acquisition, whether by
devise, purchase, gift, lease or otherwise.
   Corporation means The Industrial Development Corporation of Idaho County,
Idaho.
   County means the Idaho County, Idaho.
   Facilities means land, rights in land, buildings, structures, machinery,
landscaping, extension of utility services, approaches, roadways and parking,
handling and storage areas, and similar ancillary facilities.
   Financing Document means a lease, sublease, installment sale agreement,
conditional sale agreement, loan agreement, mortgage, deed of trust, guaranty
agreement or other agreement for the purpose of providing funds to pay or
secure debt service on Revenue Bonds.
   Improve or Improvement means to reconstruct, remodel, rehabilitate, extend
and enlarge.
   Industrial Development Facility or Industrial Development Facilities means
manufacturing, processing, production, assembly, warehousing, solid waste
disposal, recreation and energy facilities, excluding facilities to transmit,
distribute or produce electrical energy. Recreation facilities shall be limited
to ski areas, and funds raised pursuant to the Act shall be limited in
application to the acquisition and preparation of land, acquisition and
construction of ski lifts, lighting of ski slopes, construction of access and
interior roadways, parking lots, maintenance facilities and maintenance
equipment, administrative facilities, and utilities.
   Ordinance means Ordinance No. 22 of the County, pursuant to which the
Corporation is created.
   Project Costs means costs of:
      (a)   Acquisition, construction and improvement of any Facilities
included in an Industrial Development Facility;
      (b)   Architectural, engineering, consulting, accounting and legal costs
related directly to the development, financing and construction of an
Industrial Development Facility, including costs of studies assessing the
feasibility thereof and all administrative costs incurred before the issuance
of Revenue Bonds;
      (c)   Financing costs, including discounts, if any, the costs of issuing
Revenue Bonds, and costs incurred in carrying out any trust agreement;
      (d)   Interest during construction and interest on Revenue Bonds issued
to finance such Facility to a date no later than six (6) months subsequent to
the estimated date of completion, and capitalized debt service or repair and
replacement or other appropriate reserves;
      (e)   The refunding of any outstanding obligations incurred for any of
the costs outlined in this subsection; and
      (f)   Other costs incidental to any of the costs listed in this section.
   Revenue Bonds means nonrecourse revenue bonds, nonrecourse revenue notes or
other nonrecourse revenue obligations issued for the purpose of financing an
Industrial Development Facility on an interim or permanent basis.
   User means any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, investor-owned utility, association, joint stock company, trust,
estate, or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns acting as lessee, purchaser, mortgagor or borrower under a Financing
Document and may include a party who transfers the right of use and occupancy
to another party by lease, sublease or otherwise.
ARTICLE II
AUTHORITY FOR THE CREATION OF THE CORPORATION
   The Corporation is a public corporation organized pursuant to the Act and
the Ordinance.
ARTICLE III
DURATION OF THE CORPORATION
   Unless modified by State law or by an ordinance of the County, the duration
of this Corporation shall be perpetual.
ARTICLE IV
PURPOSES OF THE CORPORATION
   The purpose of the Corporation is to function as a public corporation
pursuant to the provisions of the Act and the Ordinance, to issue tax exempt
nonrecourse Revenue Bonds to finance Industrial Development Facilities within
the boundaries of the County.
   The financing of Industrial Development Facilities within the boundaries of
the County is for the purpose of promoting higher employment; facilitating
economic development; encouraging the development of new jobs; maintaining and
supplementing the capital investments in industry that currently exist within
the State; encouraging future employment by insuring future capital investment;
attracting environmentally sound industry within the boundaries of the County
and to the State; protecting and enhancing the quality of natural resources and
the environment; and promoting the production and conservation of energy.
   The objects and purposes specified in the foregoing clauses shall, except as
otherwise expressed, be in no wise limited or restricted by reference to, or
inference from, the terms of any other clause in this Charter but the objects
and purposes specified in each of the foregoing clauses shall be regarded as
independent objects and purposes.
ARTICLE V
POWERS OF THE CORPORATION
   The Corporation shall have all the powers granted to it by the Act and by
the Ordinance, including, but not limited to, the following:
      (a)   To locate, construct and maintain one or more Industrial
Development Facilities;
      (b)   To lease to a lessee all or any part of any Industrial Development
Facility for such rentals and upon such terms and conditions, including lease
renewals and options to purchase, as its Board considers advisable and not in
conflict with the Act;
      (c)   To sell by installment contract or otherwise and convey all or any
part of any Industrial Development Facility for such purchase price and upon
such terms and conditions as its Board considers advisable, which are not in
conflict with the Act;
      (d)   To make loans for the purpose of providing temporary or permanent
financing or refinancing of all or part of the project cost of any Industrial
Development Facility, including the refunding of any outstanding obligations,
mortgages, or advances issued, made, or given by any person for the project
costs; and to charge and collect interest on the loans for the loan payments
upon such terms and conditions as its Board considers advisable which are not
in conflict with the Act;
      (e)   To issue Revenue Bonds for the purpose of financing all or part of
the Project Cost of any Industrial Development Facility and to secure the
payment of the Revenue Bonds as provided in the Act;
      (f)   As security for the payment of the principal of and interest on any
Revenue Bonds issued and any agreements made in connection therewith, to
mortgage, pledge, or otherwise encumber any or all of its Industrial
Development Facilities or any part or parts thereof, whether then owned or
thereafter acquired, and to assign any lease or mortgage and repledge any
security conveyed to the Corporation, to secure any loan made by the
Corporation and to pledge the revenues and receipts therefrom;
      (g)   To sue and be sued, complain, and defend in its corporate name;
      (h)   To make contracts and to execute all instruments necessary or
convenient for the carrying out of its business;
      (i)   To have a corporate seal and to use the same by causing it, or a
facsimile thereof, to be impressed or affixed or in any other manner
reproduced;
      (j)   Subject to the limitations of Section 50-2706, Idaho Code, to
borrow money, accept grants from, or contract with any local, state, or federal
governmental agency or with any financial public, or private corporation;
      (k)   To make and alter bylaws not inconsistent with its Charter for the
administration and regulation of the affairs of the Corporation;
      (l)   To collect fees or charges from users or prospective users of
Industrial Development Facilities to recover actual or anticipated
administrative costs;
      (m)   To execute financing documents incidental to the powers enumerated
in this subsection;
      (n)   To have any and all other powers granted to public corporations
under the Act as from time to time amended;
      (o)   To invest any funds in its possession or under its control in such
manner and in such obligations as provided in the bond indenture pursuant to
which Revenue Bonds were issued, provided, however, such funds are not
commingled with any other funds;
      (p)   To provide in proceedings authorizing any Revenue Bonds or in any
financing documents securing said Revenue Bonds that if there is a default in
the payment of the principal or of interest on the Revenue Bonds or in the
performance of any agreement contained therein, that payment and performance
may be enforced by mandamus or by the appointment of a receiver in equity with
power to charge and collect rents, purchase price payments and loan repayments,
and to apply the revenues of the Industrial Development Facility in accordance
with the proceedings or provisions of the Financing Document. Any Financing
Document may also provide that in the event of default or violation of any
agreement contained therein, the Industrial Development Facility may be
foreclosed and sold under proceedings in equity or in any other manner now or
hereafter permitted by law and that the trustee or bondholder may become the
purchaser at any foreclosure sale if it is the highest bidder.
ARTICLE VI
LIMITATIONS ON THE CORPORATION
   1.   The County may not give or lend any money or property in aid of the
Corporation. This provision shall not preclude the County from accepting grants
from the United States government or any agency thereof and applying same in
connection with Industrial Development Facilities.
   2.   The County shall annually review any financial statements of the
Corporation and shall at all times have access to the books and records of the
Corporation.
   3.   The Corporation may not issue Revenue Bonds except upon the approval of
the County.
   4.   No Revenue Bonds may be issued by the Corporation unless the Board
makes a finding that in its opinion the interest paid on the bonds will be
exempt from income taxation by the federal government.
   5.   Revenue Bonds issued by this Corporation shall not be considered to
constitute a debt of the State of Idaho, of the County, or of any other
municipal corporation, quasi-municipal corporation, subdivision or agency of
this state or to have pledged any or all of the faith and credit of any of
those entities.
   6.   Revenue Bonds issued by the Corporation shall be payable solely from
the revenues derived as a result of the Industrial Development Facilities
funded by the Revenue Bonds, including, without limitation, amounts received
under the terms of any Financing Document or by reason of any additional
security furnished by the User of the Industrial Development Facility in
connection with the financing thereof, and money and other property received
from private sources.
   7.   Each Revenue Bond issued by this Corporation shall contain on its face
statements to the effect that:
      (a)   Neither the State, the County, or any other municipal corporation,
quasi-municipal corporation, subdivision or agency of the state is obligated to
pay the principal or the interest thereon;
      (b)   No tax funds or governmental revenue may be used to pay the
principal or interest thereon; and
      (c)   Neither any or all of the faith and credit nor the taxing power of
the State, the County, or any other municipal corporation, quasi-municipal
corporation, subdivision, or agency thereof is pledged to the payment of the
principal of or the interest on the Revenue Bonds.
   8.   Revenue bonds issued pursuant to the Act shall bear the seal of the
Corporation, which may either be physically impressed thereon or printed as a
facsimile thereof, and the signature of the President of the Board, or in his
absence and in his stead, the Vice-President, and the signature of the
Secretary of the Board, or in his absence and in his stead, the Assistant
Secretary. The signature may be either manual or facsimile, or a combination
thereof.
   9.   The Corporation may incur only those financial obligations which will
be paid, from revenues received pursuant to Financing Documents, from fees or
charges paid by users or prospective users of the Industrial Development
Facilities funded by the Revenue Bonds, or from the proceeds of Revenue Bonds.
The Corporation has no authority to incur or create any liability that permits
recourse by any person to any assets, resources, or credit of the County.
   10.   The Corporation constitutes an instrumentality of the County (within
the meaning of Treasury Regulations and Section 103 of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1954, as amended), and may act on behalf of the County only for the
purposes set forth in this Charter. The Corporation is not a municipal
corporation or a political subdivision within the meaning of the State
Constitution, and the County shall not delegate to the Corporation any of its
attributes of sovereignty, including, without limitation, the power to tax, the
power of eminent domain and police power.
   11.   The finances of the Corporation are subject to examination by the
Legislative Auditor’s Office at any time.
   12.   Within ten (10) days after the issuance of any Revenue Bonds by the
Corporation, the Corporation shall record complete information with the State
Department of Finance, Bureau of Securities, including the name of the issuer,
the amount of Revenue Bonds issued, a description of the proposed Industrial
Development Facilities and the projected increase in employment resulting from
the construction of the Industrial Development Facilities.
   13.   The Corporation may not operate any Industrial Development Facility as
a business other than as lessor, seller, or lender. The purchase and holding of
mortgages, deeds of trust, or other security interests and contracting for any
servicing thereof is not considered the operation of an Industrial Development
Facility.
   14.   The Corporation may not exercise any of the powers authorized in this
Charter or issue any Revenue Bonds with respect to any Industrial Development
Facility unless the Industrial Development Facility is located wholly within
the boundaries of the County. In cases involving proposed energy facilities or
solid waste disposal facilities, which may be located partially or wholly
outside the boundaries of the County, the Corporation must have approval of
both the County, and planning and zoning approval by the county or city within
whose planning jurisdiction the proposed Industrial Development Facilities lie.
   15.   No part of the proceeds received from the sale of any Revenue Bonds,
or any revenue derived from any Industrial Development Facility, or any
interest realized on moneys received may be commingled with funds of the
County.
   16.   Before entering into a lease, sale contract or loan agreement with
respect to any Industrial Development Facility, the Corporation shall determine
that there are sufficient revenues to pay:
      (a)   The principal of and the interest on the Revenue Bonds proposed to
be issued to finance the Industrial Development Facility;
      (b)   The amount necessary to be paid each year into any reserve funds
which Corporation considers advisable to establish in connection with the
retirement of the proposed bonds and the maintenance of the Industrial
Development Facility; and
      (c)   Unless the terms of the lease, sale contract or loan agreement
provide that the lessee or contracting party shall maintain the Industrial
Development Facility and carry all proper insurance with respect thereto, the
estimated cost of maintaining the industrial facility in good repair and
keeping it property insured.
   17.   Any resolution authorizing the issuance of Revenue Bonds shall be
published one (1) time in a newspaper of general circulation within the County.
Any Financing Document authorized therein may be incorporated as an exhibit but
need not be published as part of the resolution. For a period of thirty (30)
days from the date of such publication, any person in interest may file suit in
any court of competent jurisdiction to contest the regularity, formality or
legality of the proceedings authorizing the Revenue Bonds or the legality of
the provisions of such resolution or the Revenue Bonds and the security
therefor. After the expiration of the thirty (30) day period, no one shall have
any right of action to contest the validity of the Revenue Bonds, the
proceedings, the resolution or the pledges and covenants made in such
proceedings and resolution, and the Revenue Bonds and the provisions for their
payment shall be conclusively presumed to be legal and no court shall
thereafter have authority to inquire into such matters.
   18.   At or prior to the time the principal of, interest and premium, if
any, on any Revenue Bonds issued to provide a particular project have been
fully paid, the Corporation may execute such deeds and conveyances as are
necessary and required to convey its rights, title and interest in such project
to any User, provided that if such conveyance is made prior to when the Revenue
Bonds are fully paid, the Corporation has determined that adequate provision
has been made for the payment of the principal of, interest and premium, if
any, on the bonds as they become due.
ARTICLE VII
ORGANIZATION OF THE CORPORATION
   1.   Management of the affairs of the Corporation shall reside in the Board
of Directors. The Board shall be composed of the number of members designated
by the Ordinance.
   2.   The members of the Board shall constitute themselves by the election of
a President, Vice-President, and Secretary-Treasurer. Officers shall be
eligible to hold two (2) offices. The President shall be the agent of the
Corporation for service of process. The Board shall oversee the activities of
the Corporation, establish or implement policy, participate in corporate
activity as necessary and have stewardship for management in determination of
all corporate affairs.
   3.   No director, officer, agent or employee of the Corporation may have a
direct or indirect financial interest in any property, services or materials to
be furnished or used in connection with any Industrial Development Facility
financed through this Corporation.
   4.   Every person who was or is a party, or is threatened to be made a party
to, or is involved in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal,
administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that he or a person of
whom he is the legal representative is or was a director or officer of the
Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a
director or officer of another corporation, or as its representative in a
partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, shall be indemnified and
held harmless to the fullest extent legally permissible under the law of the
State of Idaho from time to time against all expenses, liability and loss
(including attorneys’ fees, judgments, fines and amount paid or to be paid in
settlement), reasonably incurred or suffered by him in connection therewith,
such rights of indemnification shall be a contract right which may be enforced
in any manner desired by such person. Such right of indemnification shall not
be exclusive of any other right which such directors, officers, or
representatives may have or hereafter acquire, and without limiting the
generality of such statement they shall be entitled to their respective rights
of indemnification under any bylaw, agreement, vote of stockholders, provision
of law, or otherwise, as well as their rights under this Article. The Board may
adopt bylaws from time to time with respect to indemnification to provide at
all times the fullest indemnification permitted by the law of the State of
Idaho, and may cause the Corporation to purchase and maintain insurance on
behalf of any person who is or was a director or officer of the Corporation, or
is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director or officer of
another corporation, or as its representative in a partnership, joint venture,
trust or other enterprise, against any liability asserted against such person
and incurred in any such capacity or arising out of such status, whether or not
the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person.
ARTICLE VIII
COMMENCEMENT OF THE CORPORATION
   The Corporation shall commence its existence upon the effective date of
Ordinance No. 22 of the County, creating the Corporation and granting this
Charter. A true and complete copy of this Charter, certified by the Clerk of
the County as being on file with the County, together with a certified copy of
the Ordinance, shall be filed with the permanent records of the Corporation.
ARTICLE IX
ALTERATION OR DISSOLUTION OF THE CORPORATION
   The County may, at its discretion and at any time, alter or change the
structure, organizational programs or activities of the Corporation.
   The Corporation may be dissolved by ordinance of the County if contracts
entered into by the Corporation are not impaired, and if the Corporation:
      (a)   Has no property to administer other than funds or property, if any,
to be paid or transferred to the County; and
      (b)   All outstanding obligations have been satisfied.
   All net earnings of the Corporation, beyond those necessary for retirement
of indebtedness, shall inure only to the County. Upon dissolution of the
Corporation, title to all property owned by the Corporation shall vest in the
County.
ARTICLE X
BYLAWS
   The Board shall adopt Bylaws (rules and regulations) to provide such rules
for governing the Corporation and its activities as are not inconsistent with
the Ordinance, this Charter, and the Act. Adoption of the Bylaws or any
amendments thereto requires a majority vote of the Board. The Board may provide
in the Bylaws for all matters relating to the governance of the Corporation,
including but not limited to matters referred to elsewhere in this Charter for
inclusion therein, and for the following:
      (a)   The existence of committees and duties of any such committee.
      (b)   Regular and special meetings of the Board, and whether or not such
meetings or reports thereof shall be open to the public.
      (c)   Retention of staff or personnel and how the relationship of the
Corporation with the County shall be managed.
      (d)   Such other matters as may become necessary or important to the
proper functioning of the Corporation.
ARTICLE XI
AMENDMENTS TO CHARTER AND BYLAWS
   1.   This Charter may be amended by ordinance of the County.
   2.   Bylaws may be amended by a majority of the Board.
ARTICLE XII
MISCELLANEOUS
   Audits, dissolutions, alterations of this Charter, trusteeships, and other
matters affecting the Corporation are governed by the Ordinance and the Act.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title
   
10.02   Acceptance
   
10.03   Amendments
   
10.04   Maintenance of county code
   
10.05   Repeal of general ordinances
   
10.06   Public utility ordinances
   
10.07   Saving clause
   
10.08   General constructional rule
   
10.09   Plural and singular words
   
10.10   Masculine and feminine gender
   
10.11   Priority of ordinance
   
10.12   Definitions
   
10.13   Captions
   
10.14   Adherence to supreme law
   
10.15   Severability
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE.
   This codification of the general ordinances of Idaho County is declared to
be the official County Code of Idaho County.
§ 10.02 ACCEPTANCE.
   Any official copy of the code shall be received without further proof in all
courts and in all administrative tribunals of the state.
§ 10.03 AMENDMENTS.
   Any ordinance amending the code shall set forth the title, chapter, and
section number of the section or sections to be amended. All such ordinances
shall comply with the provisions of the code and Idaho Code Title 50, Chapter
9, regarding passage, execution, and publication of ordinances. All such
amendments shall be promptly forwarded to the codifiers by the Clerk of the
District Court and such ordinance shall be promptly published and inserted in
its proper place in each copy of the county code.
§ 10.04 MAINTENANCE OF COUNTY CODE.
   Upon receipt of each published ordinance from the codifiers, the County
Clerk shall promptly forward a copy of each page thereof to each person having
an official copy of the county code. The County Clerk may collect a fee for
each copy of the county code and an annual fee for maintenance thereof;
provided, such fees shall be established by resolution or ordinance duly passed
by the County Commission.
§ 10.05 REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES.
   All general ordinances of the county are hereby repealed, except as herein
specifically preserved or are, by implication, reserved from repeal, subject to
the saving clauses herein contained, excluding without limitation, the special
ordinances relating to the following subjects: tax levies; appropriation of
public moneys; boundaries; annexations; franchises; ordinances granting special
rights to persons or correspondence; contracts; issuance of warrants; public
salaries; ordinances establishing name or vacating streets, alleys, or other
public places; improvement districts; bonds; local elections; the sale or
exchange of real estate; sign ordinances; economic development; urban renewal;
public utilities; zoning; and all special ordinances of any kind, except for
those provisions in such special ordinances which the code expressly amends.
§ 10.06 PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES.
   No ordinance or section thereof relating to railroad or railroad crossings
of streets and other public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service,
or rates of public utilities, shall be repealed by the adoption of the code or
by §
10.05 of this chapter, except as this code specifically provides for such
repeal.
§ 10.07 SAVING CLAUSE.
   Any ordinance amending or repealing any section of the code shall not be
deemed or construed to abate any pending action based upon such amended or
repealed section, nor shall the passage of such ordinance prevent the arrest,
prosecution, and punishment of any violation of such section committed prior to
the effective date of such ordinance.
§ 10.08 GENERAL CONSTRUCTIONAL RULE.
   Except as expressly stated in the code, all words shall have their ordinary,
generally accepted meaning.
§ 10.09 PLURAL AND SINGULAR WORDS.
   Whenever any word in the code is used in either the singular or in the
plural form, then such word shall be deemed to include both the plural and
singular forms of such word, unless the context indicates an intent otherwise.
§ 10.10 MASCULINE AND FEMININE GENDER.
   When any person is referred to in any section of the code by use of the
masculine gender, then such reference shall be deemed to include the feminine
gender unless the context indicates an intent otherwise.
§ 10.11 PRIORITY OF ORDINANCE.
   In the event of any discrepancy or conflict between the code and any
ordinance passing or amending the same section of the code, then the provisions
of the ordinance shall prevail.
§ 10.12 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another.
   BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS. The lawfully elected governing body of Idaho
County, Idaho.
   COUNTY. The County of Idaho.
   CRIME. An act in violation of this code.
   FELONY. A crime as defined under Idaho Code § 18-111.
   INFRACTION. A civil public offense, not constituting a crime, which is
punishable only by a penalty not exceeding $100 and for which no incarceration
may be imposed.
   LICENSE. The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, trade,
profession, or occupation.
   MISDEMEANOR. Every crime, except a felony.
   OCCUPANT. Any person who occupies the whole or any part of such building or
land, whether alone or with others.
   OFFENSE. A crime or other violation of this code.
   OPERATOR. The person who is generally in charge of or responsible for
conducting any business, profession, or enterprise.
   OWNER. Any person owning real or personal property, including any part
owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, remainderman, or person
holding a life estate or reversionary interest of any kind.
   PERSON. A human being and any public or private corporation, firm,
partnership, trust, estate, sole proprietorship, association, organization,
government, or any other entity recognized under state law.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Money, goods, chattels, effects, rights in action, and
all written instruments evidencing any pecuniary obligation.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
   STATE. The State of Idaho.
   STREET. All public roads, ways, alleys, and rights-of-way used for the
movement of vehicular traffic, including any public sidewalks adjacent thereto.
   TENANT. Any person who occupies any building or real property for a
consideration to the owner.
§ 10.13 CAPTIONS.
   The captions and titles used at the commencement of each section or division
of the code are used only to indicate the content of the section and shall not
limit, modify, or in any manner affect the scope, meaning, or intent of the
provisions thereafter.
§ 10.14 ADHERENCE TO SUPREME LAW.
   The Bill of Rights and the Constitution for the United States of America,
which is the supreme law of the land, shall be upheld and enforced within the
boundaries of the county; repugnant acts, ordinances, or regulations of
government in clear contravention notwithstanding.
(Ord. 45, passed 9-23-2003)
§ 10.15 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this code are hereby declared to be severable and if any
provision of this chapter or the application of such provision to any person or
circumstance is declared invalid for any reason, such declaration shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this code.
§ 10.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Misdemeanor penalty. Whenever any act or omission constitutes a crime
not constituting a felony or infraction and no specific penalty is stated in
the code, such crime shall be punishable by a fine up to $300, or by
imprisonment for up to six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment for
any single violation.
   (B)   Infractions. Whenever any person commits an infraction and no specific
penalty is provided for such act, such person shall be punished by a fine not
exceeding $100 and no imprisonment may be imposed.
   (C)   Applicability of penalty. The penalties provided in this section shall
be applied as though they were a part of every separate section of the code.
   (D)   Multiple violations. Whenever the same person violates the same
section of the code on two or more days, then each violation on each day shall
be deemed a separate offense and said person shall be separately punishable for
each such offense.
   (E)   Prosecutorial discretion. Whenever the same offense, act, or omission
is punishable under different sections of the code, the county may elect under
which section to proceed; but no more than one sentence of imprisonment may be
imposed against the same person for the same offense; provided that, revocation
of a license or permit shall not be considered a penalty so as to bar
imposition of a penalty under the code.
   (F)   Penalty against officers. The penalty provisions of this section shall
not apply to any section of the code which designates the duties of any officer
or employee of the county, unless the intention to impose a fine or penalty is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
      
31.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   EMPLOYMENT
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
      
34.   GENERAL COUNTY POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
Section
   
30.01   Regular meetings
§ 30.01 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The Board of County Commissioners hereby resolve to change the meeting date
of the Board of County Commissioners from Monday mornings at 9:00 a.m. to
Tuesday morning at 9:00 a.m.
(Ord. 57, passed 1-12-2009)
CHAPTER 31: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Historic Preservation Commission
   
31.01   Definitions
   
31.02   Purpose
   
31.03   Establishment and appointments
   
31.04   Organization, officers, rules, and meetings
   
31.05   Powers, duties, and responsibilities
   
31.06   Special restrictions
Department of Disaster Management
   
31.20   Definitions
   
31.21   Purpose
   
31.22   Establishment and appointments
   
31.23   Coordinator; appointment and duties
   
31.24   Alternate Coordinator
   
31.25   Immunity from liability
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
§ 31.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSION. The Historic Preservation Commission of the county.
   COUNTY. The County of Idaho.
   HISTORIC PRESERVATION. The research, documentation, protection, restoration,
and rehabilitation of buildings, structures, objects, districts, areas, and
sites significant in the history, architecture, archaeology, or culture of this
state, its communities, or the nation.
   HISTORIC PROPERTY. Any building, structure, area, or site that is
significant in the history, architecture, archaeology, or culture of the
community, state, or nation.
(Ord. 35, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 31.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to promote the educational, cultural,
economic, and general welfare of the public of the county through
identification, evaluation, designation, and protection of those buildings,
sites, areas, structures, and objects that reflect significant elements of the
city’s, the state’s, and the nation’s historic, architectural, archaeological,
and cultural heritage.
(Ord. 35, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 31.03 ESTABLISHMENT AND APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a Historical Preservation
Commission which shall consist of at least five members and up to ten members,
who shall be appointed by the Board of County Commissioners.
   (B)   All members of the Commission shall have a demonstrated interest,
competence, or knowledge in history or historic preservation. The Board of
County Commissioners shall endeavor to appoint at least two members with
professional training or experience in the disciplines of architecture,
history, architectural history, urban planning, archaeology, engineering, law,
or other historic preservation-related disciplines.
   (C)   Initial appointments to the Commission shall be made as follows: One
one-year term; two two-year terms; two three-year terms. All subsequent
appointments shall be made for three-year terms. Commission members may be
reappointed to serve additional terms. Vacancies shall be filled in the same
manner as original appointments, and the appointee shall serve for the
remainder of the unexpired term.
   (D)   The members of the Commission may be reimbursed by the Historical
Society for expenses incurred in connection with their duties.
(Ord. 35, passed 4-14-1997; Ord. 68, passed 3-10-2020)
§ 31.04 ORGANIZATION, OFFICERS, RULES, AND MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Commission shall have the power to make whatever rules are
necessary for the execution of its duties as set forth in this subchapter.
Rules of procedure and bylaws adopted by the Commission shall be available for
public inspection.
   (B)   The Commission shall elect officers from among the Commission members.
The Chairperson shall preside at meetings of the Commission. The Vice
Chairperson shall, lacking the Chairperson, perform the duties of the
Chairperson.
   (C)   All meetings of the Commission shall be open to the public, and follow
the requirements of the state’s open meeting laws. The Commission shall keep
minutes and other appropriate written records of its resolutions, proceedings,
and actions.
   (D)   The Commission may recommend to the Board of County Commissioners,
within the limits of its funding, the employment of or the contracting with
other parties for the services of technical experts or other persons as it
deems necessary to carry on the functions of the Commission.
(Ord. 35, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 31.05 POWERS, DUTIES, AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Commission shall be advisory to the Board of County Commissioners and
shall be authorized to:
   (A)   Conduct a survey of local historic properties;
   (B)   Recommend the acquisition of fee and lesser interests in historic
properties, including adjacent or associated lands, by purchase, bequest, or
donation;
   (C)   Recommend methods and procedures necessary to preserve, restore,
maintain, and operate historic properties under the ownership or control of the
county;
   (D)   Recommend the lease, sale, or other transfer of disposition of
historic properties, subject to rights of public access and other covenants and
in a manner that will preserve the property;
   (E)   Contract, with the approval of the Board of County Commissioners, with
the state or federal government, or any agency of either, or with any other
organization;
   (F)   Cooperate with the federal, state, and local governments in the
pursuance of the objectives of historic preservation;
   (G)   Make recommendations in the planning processes undertaken by the
county, city, state, or federal government and the agencies of these entities;
   (H)   Recommend ordinances and otherwise provide information for the
purposes of historic preservation in the county;
   (I)   Promote and conduct an educational and interpretive program on
historic preservation and historic properties in the county;
   (J)   Commission members, employees, or agents of the Commission may enter
private property, buildings, or structures in the performance of its official
duties only with the express consent of the owner or occupant thereof; and
   (K)   Review nominations of properties to the National Register of Historic
Places for properties within the county’s jurisdiction.
(Ord. 35, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 31.06 SPECIAL RESTRICTIONS.
   Under the provisions of Idaho Code § 67-4612, the county may provide, by
ordinances, special conditions, or restrictions for the protection,
enhancement, and preservation of historic properties.
(Ord. 35, passed 4-14-1997)
DEPARTMENT OF DISASTER MANAGEMENT
§ 31.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD or BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The Board of Idaho County Commissioners.
   DISASTER. The occurrence or imminent threat of widespread or severe damage,
injury, or loss of life or property resulting from any natural or human-made
cause, including but not limited to: fire; flood; earthquake; windstorm; wave
action; volcanic activity; explosion; riot; or hostile military or paramilitary
action.
   DISASTER MANAGEMENT. The activities required for preparation, mitigation,
response to, and recovery from disasters, to the extent of the responsibility
of the county as may be provided by law, to prevent, minimize, and repair
injury and damage resulting from a disaster.
   LOCAL DISASTER EMERGENCY. A declaration of a local disaster emergency by the
Chairperson of the Board of County Commissioners or the Board of County
Commissioners, as provided by Idaho Code § 46-1011.
(Ord. 47, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 31.21 PURPOSE.
   The county’s Department of Disaster Management is created to administer the
Disaster Management Policy of the county pursuant to the requirements of Idaho
Code § 46-1009. The purposes of this subchapter are to provide for the
preparation and carrying out of plans for the protection of persons, property,
and the environment within the county in the event of a disaster, and provide
for the coordination of the disaster management functions of the county with
all other public agencies and affected private persons, corporations, and
organizations.
(Ord. 47, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 31.22 ESTABLISHMENT AND APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   There is hereby created the county Department of Disaster Management,
which is hereby designated as the Disaster Agency, maintained by the county
pursuant to Idaho Code Title 46, Chapter 10.
   (B)   The Department of Disaster Management shall consist of the Disaster
Management Coordinator as its head, and such other personnel and volunteers as
may be appointed or authorized by the Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 47, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 31.23 COORDINATOR; APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The DISASTER MANAGEMENT COORDINATOR, hereafter “the Coordinator”,
means the administrative head of the county’s Department of Disaster
Management, and shall be appointed by the Board of County Commissioners. The
Coordinator shall serve at the will of the Board of County Commissioners.
   (B)   The Coordinator shall, with respect to county disaster management:
      (1)   Coordinate, supervise, and direct the effort of the Department of
Disaster Management of the county for the accomplishment of the purposes of
this subchapter and as may be directed by the Board of County Commissioners;
      (2)   Coordinate and direct, in conjunction with the County Sheriff, or
other county-elected officials and agencies, the mitigation, preparedness,
response, and recovery of all county agencies during the disaster. Nothing
herein shall been deemed to grant or authorize the Coordinator to exercise any
supervisory or command authority over any deputies or employees of county
public officials, or equipment goods or materials of said offices, which shall,
at all times, remain under the authority and direction of the respective public
official;
      (3)   Represent the Office of Disaster Management in all dealings with
public or private agencies pertaining to Disaster Management, and act as a
liaison between county and other governmental and non-governmental emergency or
disaster management and response agencies;
      (4)   Coordinate the preparation and implementation of county plans and
programs for disaster management, which are consistent with national and state
plans and programs;
      (5)   Provide for updating and testing of the county’s Disaster
Operations Plan and training of county personnel for damage assessment, damage
survey, and radiological monitoring;
      (6)   Coordinate all requests from local governments for disaster
services;
      (7)   With the prior approval of the Board of County Commissioners,
accept the services of volunteers for the purposes of disaster management on
behalf of the county on such terms and conditions as designated by the Board of
County Commissioners. The Coordinator shall have no authority to employ or
contract with any person or entity on behalf of the county except with the
express prior authorization of the Board of County Commissioners; and
      (8)   Execute all others duties of Coordinator as may otherwise be
designated by the Board of County Commissioners, as may be permitted by law.
   (C)   However, nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed or construed to:
      (1)   Interfere with the course or conduct of a labor dispute, except
that actions otherwise authorized by this act or other laws may be taken when
necessary to forestall or mitigate imminent or existing danger to public health
or safety;
      (2)   Interfere with the dissemination of news or comment on public
affairs;
      (3)   Affect or limit the jurisdiction or responsibilities of police
forces, sheriffs or their deputies, fire fighting forces, local emergency
medical service (EMS) agencies licensed by the state’s Department of Health and
Welfare EMS Bureau, units of the armed forces of the country, or of any
personnel thereof, when on active duty;
      (4)   Grant any authority to the Coordinator to take, appropriate, or
commandeer any public or private property from its rightful owner or possessor
for the purposes of disaster management; or
      (5)   Adopt or consent to adopt any plaits or programs, including state
or federal plans or programs, relating to disaster management without separate
consideration and approval of the Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 47, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 31.24 ALTERNATE COORDINATOR.
   In the event that the Coordinator is absent or unable to function in that
capacity described in §
31.23, the Chairperson or designated member of the Board of County
Commissioners may serve as or appoint an alternate Coordinator.
(Ord. 47, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 31.25 IMMUNITY FROM LIABILITY.
   Authorized personnel engaged in disaster management activities and persons,
agencies, or any other entity providing building or premises designated by
proper authority as disaster shelters shall have immunity from liability for
property damage, bodily injury, or death to the extent provided by state or
federal law.
(Ord. 47, passed 2-14-2005)
CHAPTER 32: EMPLOYMENT
Section
   
32.01   Peace officers; training
§ 32.01 PEACE OFFICERS; TRAINING.
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners declares that it desires to qualify
to receive aid for police training from the Law Enforcement Planning Commission
under the provisions of Idaho Code Chapter 51, § 9-5118.
   (B)   Pursuant to Idaho Code Chapter 51, § 19-5117, the county, while
receiving aid from the Law Enforcement Planning Commission, pursuant to said
Chapter 51, will adhere to the standards for employment and training
established by the state’s Peace Officer Standards and Training Advisory
Council.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-25-1973)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
Section
Property Tax Exemptions
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Purpose
   
33.03   Preliminary negotiations
   
33.04   Project plan
   
33.05   Application
   
33.06   Approval process
   
33.07   Investments; new business
   
33.08   Investments; existing business
   
33.09   Property valuation
   
33.10   Annual report and review
PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTIONS
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The words and phrases included in this subchapter shall be given their
regular and ordinary meaning. Legal terms shall be given the meanings
applicable to Idaho Code § 63-602NN when applicable, and when not defined
therein, as otherwise provided by applicable state law.
(Ord. 62, passed 12-12-2017)
§ 33.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to authority conferred by Idaho
Constitution Article 7, § 4, and Idaho Code §§ 31-714, 31-801, and 63-602NN.
The purpose of this subchapter is to provide objective criteria for determining
the amount of incentive tax relief that is proportional to the significant
economic benefits produced by a proposed project. Placing these criteria in
this subchapter provides prospective applicants with information for planning
and makes the process more transparent.
   (B)   Because property tax incentives effectively shift the tax burden to
other taxpayers, it is important that significant benefits accrue to the public
good, primarily in the form of high-paying jobs and increased property values.
As a result, exemptions should not be granted unless the Board of County
Commissioners finds that a combination of direct and indirect benefits to the
community from a proposed project substantially exceeds the projected cost of
the tax shift. These criteria are intended to help make those determinations.
   (C)   While the purpose of property tax incentives is to both attract new
businesses and retain existing business, relevant incentives may differ.
Therefore, in some respects, new and existing businesses are evaluated
differently.
(Ord. 62, passed 12-12-2017)
§ 33.03 PRELIMINARY NEGOTIATIONS.
   Prospective applicants, or their authorized agents, may request to meet with
the Board of County Commissioners to engage in preliminary negotiations and
discussions regarding incentives. Applicants may operate under a pseudonym and
meetings may be held in executive session under Idaho Code § 74-206(1)(e) if an
agent of the prospective applicant with authority to negotiate is present and
when approved by the Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 62, passed 12-12-2017)
§ 33.04 PROJECT PLAN.
   Prior to completing an application, prospective applicants should prepare a
written project plan that addresses all requirements under Idaho Code § 63-
602NN. The project plan can be used during preliminary negotiations and must be
included, as proposed exemptions should be part of the project plan.
(Ord. 62, passed 12-12-2017)
§ 33.05 APPLICATION.
   In order to be considered, an application must include a project plan. An
application can be filed under a pseudonym, but no application will be granted
until the prospective applicant has secured the right to obtain or secure a
particular property and the applicant is prepared to make the project public.
No exemption can be granted under a pseudonym. Application must be made on a
form provided by the County Assessor’s office.
(Ord. 62, passed 12-12-2017)
§ 33.06 APPROVAL PROCESS.
   Applications will initiate final negotiations and preparation of documents
that will be necessary for the Board of County Commissioners to consider and
approve an exemption. Once documents are prepared, a public meeting will be
placed on the Board of County Commissioners’ agenda and notice will be
provided, as required by Idaho Code § 63-602NN(5). At the public meeting, the
Board of County Commissioners will consider the application and make
determinations regarding whether exemptions will be granted, and if so, to what
extent. In doing so, the Board of County Commissioners will be guided by the
criteria set forth in this subchapter. Applicants must be prepared to have
their identity made public once the public meeting is scheduled.
(Ord. 62, passed 12-12-2017)
§ 33.07 INVESTMENTS; NEW BUSINESS.
   (A)   It is the intent of the Board of County Commissioners to provide
incentives for investments in new business, where the new business:
      (1)   Demonstrates and certifies that “but for” the incentive, the
business would not locate in the county, but would locate at another specific
locale;
      (2)   Creates jobs that pay competitive wages that exceed the average
wage (including benefits) for the county, as determined by the state;
      (3)   Demonstrates significant indirect benefits; and
      (4)   Agrees to all terms and conditions imposed by the Board of County
Commissioners, including, but not limited to, recouping waived property taxes.
   (B)   Businesses that meet these criteria may be eligible for the following
incentives.
 
Level of Investment Investment         Net New Job Creation Exemption
Level I             $500,000 to        Ten or more          Up to 40% for up to
                    $3,000,000                              three years
Level II            $3,000,001 or more 20 or more           Up to 55% for up to
                                                            five years
 
   (C)   Both the investment and job creation requirements of a level must be
met to be eligible for that level. Investment includes only qualified
investments as defined by Idaho Code § 63-602NN. In no event can an exemption
be made unless it qualifies under Idaho Code § 63-602NN.
(Ord. 62, passed 12-12-2017)
§ 33.08 INVESTMENTS; EXISTING BUSINESS.
   It is the intent of the Board of County Commissioners to provide incentives
for investments in existing business under the same criteria and limitations as
set forth in §
33.07, with the following modifications:
   (A)   Investment includes only qualified investments as defined by Idaho
Code § 63-602NN, not including replacement equipment; and
   (B)   The existing business may be eligible for a reduced exemption as
follows:
 
Level of Investment Investment             Exemption
Level I             $500,000 to $3,000,000 Up to 25% for up to three years
Level II            $3,000,001 or more     Up to 30% for up to five years
 
(Ord. 62, passed 12-12-2017)
§ 33.09 PROPERTY VALUATION.
   In order to avoid value disputes immediately after the expiration of any
exemptions granted under this subchapter, as a condition of receiving an
exemption, a recipient must agree that all property subject to an exemption
will, after expiration of the exemption, be valued for assessment purposes at
the capitalized value for the life of the investment using State Tax Commission
schedules.
(Ord. 62, passed 12-12-2017)
§ 33.10 ANNUAL REPORT AND REVIEW.
   (A)   No later than March 1 each year, beginning the year an exemption is
effective, and continuing each year thereafter until the exemption ends, each
recipient of an exemption under this subchapter shall submit a report and
certification of compliance. The report shall contain, at a minimum, the
following:
      (1)   The average number of full-time employees during the previous
calendar year;
      (2)   A schedule of the employee positions, together with salaries paid,
and employee benefit costs listed separately, together with copies of each
Employer Quarterly Unemployment Insurance Tax Report for the previous calendar
year (the civil penalties for filing a false report or untimely submission of
the report can be found at Idaho Code § 72-1372);
      (3)   An itemized list of all new equipment and the cost and
capitalization of each; and
      (4)   A compliance statement explaining whether recipient is in
compliance with the terms and conditions of the exemption, and fully explaining
any areas of non-compliance.
   (B)   Failure to timely submit a complete annual report is grounds for
immediately terminating an exemption.
   (C)   The annual report shall be submitted to the County Assessor’s office,
with a copy provided to the Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 62, passed 12-12-2017)
CHAPTER 34: GENERAL COUNTY POLICIES
Section
   
34.01   Medicaid applicant confidentiality
§ 34.01 MEDICAID APPLICANT CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   From and after November 10, 1987, the requirements set forth in Idaho
Code § 31-873 shall be met in full by the county.
   (B)   The information provided as stated in Idaho Code § 31-873, shall be
kept confidential. Confidential information includes, but is not limited to:
names of applicants and recipients; addresses; financial information;
identifying numbers; and any and all information obtained through the county’s
participation in the Title 56, Chapter 2, “Medicaid program”. Additional
information may be requested from the state regarding recipients and shall be
subject to the same confidentiality provisions.
   (C)   There is hereby adopted, as required by Idaho Code § 31-873, as a
means to safeguard confidential communications from the state’s Department of
Health and Welfare, the following statement to be signed by all county
employees dealing with the state medicaid program and retained by the Board of
County Commissioners:
 
   Comes now [insert name] and hereby acknowledges and expressly agrees that he or
she shall observe the confidentiality of information requirements set forth in
Idaho Code §§ 56-221 and 56-222 and the applicable Department of Health and
Welfare and federal rules and regulations.
 
   In particular, [insert name] understands that, pursuant to Idaho Code § 56-222,
it is unlawful, except for the purpose directly connected with the participation
of Idaho Code Title XIX, “Medicaid program”, and in accordance with the rules and
regulations of the state’s Department of Health and Welfare, for any person or
persons to disclose, make use of, authorize, knowingly permit, or participate in
the use of any list of names, or any information concerning persons applying for
or receiving such assistance or services, directly or indirectly derived from the
records, papers, files, or communications of the state, county, subdivision, or
agencies thereof, or acquired in the course of the performance of official duties
specifically dealing with the participation of the Title 56, Chapter 2,”Medicaid
program”.
 
(Ord. 31, passed 11-10-1987)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEM
      
51.   SEWAGE SYSTEM
      
52.   EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Definitions
   
50.002   Purpose and scope
Designated Disposal Site
   
50.015   Designated collection sites
   
50.016   Collection sites; limited use
   
50.017   Maintenance of collection sites
   
50.018   Refuse containers
   
50.019   Container service schedule
   
50.020   Transfer stations
   
50.021   Mandatory use of the system
   
50.022   Operation of maintenance system
   
50.023   Funding
Exemptions and Variances
   
50.035   Special exemptions
   
50.036   Fees; exemptions
   
50.037   Variances
Accounts, Contracts, and Specific Titles
   
50.050   Contract authorization
   
50.051   Solid Waste Coordinator
   
50.052   Hazardous/infectious waste ownership
   
50.053   Commercial accounts; fees
   
50.054   Independent contractor
   
50.055   Recycling; rights of Commissioners
Violations and Enforcement
   
50.070   Unlawful accumulation of solid waste
   
50.071   Littering; securing waste
   
50.072   Injunction
 
   
50.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. The residue from the burning of wood, coal, or other combustible
materials.
   BOARD. The Board of County Commissioners of Idaho County, Idaho.
   BULKY ITEMS. Any items exceeding three feet in length, width, or height.
   COMMERCIAL PREMISES. Multi-family dwellings, rooming houses, apartment
houses, hospitals, nursing and convalescent homes, hotels, motels, restaurants,
drive-in establishments, mobile home parks, trailer courts, schools,
kindergartens, and any other place of habitation, office, shop, farming or
ranching operations, or establishment or place of conducting a business, trade,
profession, or occupation.
   CONTRACTOR. A person or entity holding a license or contract with the county
or employed by the county and thereby authorized or designated by the county to
collect, handle, transport, and dispose of solid waste.
   COUNTY. The County of Idaho, State of Idaho.
   GENERATOR. Any resident of a residential unit or business unit who creates
any solid waste of any kind, including, but not limited to, “hazardous” or
“infectious” wastes.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any chemical, compound, mixture, substance, or article
which is designated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency, or
other appropriate agency of the federal government or the state, to be
“hazardous” as that term is commonly defined or defined pursuant to law to
include certain petroleum products.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Includes all waste from industrial, agricultural, logging,
or other business that is not acceptable for collection as being too bulky,
hazardous, or inflammable.
   INFECTIOUS WASTE. Any material, chemical, compound, mixture, substance, or
article known to be infectious by the producer or which is designated by the
United States Environmental Protection Agency, or other appropriate agency of
the federal government or the state, to be “infectious”, as that term is
commonly defined or defined pursuant to law.
   PERSON. The United States or agencies thereof; any state or public or
private corporation, local government unit, public agency, individual,
partnership, association, firm, trust, estate, or any other entity.
   PREMISES. Land and all buildings and structures thereon, including, but not
limited to: single or multi-family dwellings; rooming houses; apartment houses;
hospitals; nursing and convalescent homes; hotels; motels; restaurants; drive-
in establishments; schools; kindergartens; and any other place of habitation;
office; shop; farming or ranching operations; or establishment or place of
conducting a business, trade, profession, or occupation.
   PUTRESCIBLE WASTE. Solid wastes capable of being decomposed anaerobically
with sufficient rapidity as to cause nuisances from offensive odors or produce
fly-breeding conditions.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. Products, including: paper; cardboard; metal; glass;
or other substance capable of being re-processed into consumer materials, which
have served the purpose for which they were originally manufactured or produced
and have passed through their end usage as consumer items, and which have been
discarded or placed for collection by their owner, whether or not such products
have monetary value.
   RECYCLING CENTER. Any materials recovery facility that receives recyclables,
then sorts, bails, loads, or physically alters the material and transports the
commodities to markets.
   REFUSE. All garbage and rubbish, more particularly referred to as MUNICIPAL
SOLID WASTE (MSW) and NON-MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE (non-MSW).
   RESIDENT or OWNER. Every person, including lessees and occupants, in
possession, charge, custody, or control of any premises, residential or
commercial, where solid waste is created or accumulated.
   RESIDENTIAL UNITS. Every type of dwelling unit, including, but not limited
to: houses; apartments; and mobile homes.
   RUBBISH. Refuse other than garbage: tin cans; bottles; ashes; paper;
pasteboard; cardboard; wooden boxes; incidental, non-commercial grass and
leaves; and/or construction and demolition waste materials, produced in the
normal course of doing business or everyday living.
   SOLID WASTE. All solid material that is considered to be useless, unwanted,
or discarded by the person in possession of it, including, but not limited to:
ashes; garbage; refuse; rubbish; or any other discarded material resulting from
community activities. SOLID WASTE shall mean any garbage or refuse resulting
from community activities as follows.
      (1)   INERT WASTE. Non-combustible, non-hazardous, and non-putrescible
solid wastes that are likely to retain their physical and chemical structure
and have a de minimis potential to generate leachate under expected conditions
of disposal.
      (2)   GARBAGE. All putrescible waste, except sewage and body waste, both
animal and human, including waste that attends the preparation, use, cooking,
dealing in or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit and vegetables; and shall
include all such waste or accumulations of vegetable matter of residences,
restaurants, hotels, and places where food is prepared for human consumption.
It shall also include small animals. GARBAGE shall not include recognized
industrial bi-products or hazardous and infectious waste as defined by the
state’s Department of Health and the United States Environmental Protection
Agency.
   SOLID WASTE COORDINATOR. The authorized employee of the county or individual
designated by the Board of County Commissioners as having the duty of the
enforcement of this chapter.
   SYSTEM. The lands, sites, facilities, equipment, regulation, procedures, and
schedules established by this chapter for the collection, transportation,
storage, treatment, processing, reuse, recycling, or other means necessary for
the disposal of solid waste.
   TRANSFER STATION. A facility, or portion thereof, where solid wastes are
transferred from a vehicle or container and subsequently transported off-site
to another facility. A TRANSFER STATION does not include an authorized rural
drop-box or other facilities where persons are authorized to store individual
waste for ultimate collection and disposal, or any other facility that stores
solid waste generated at the facility for collection and disposal off-site. A
TRANSFER STATION shall include waste tire collection sites, as defined in Idaho
Code § 39-6501.
   WHITE GOODS. Household appliances including, but not limited to:
refrigerators; ranges; washers; dryers; and the like.
(Ord. 65, passed 9-17-2019)
§ 50.002 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to continue a solid waste disposal
system compliant with current federal and state rules and regulations, pursuant
to the authority of, and in compliance with, Idaho Code Title 31, Chapter 44.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to all lands and premises within the county,
including those lands within the corporate limits of cities, even if they are
operating and maintaining a solid waste disposal system of their own. It is the
finding of the Board of County Commissioners that all citizens within the
county contribute to solid waste production, and should contribute financially,
as herein described, to the overall county solid waste system. A continuing
exception to the scope of this chapter shall be lands held in trust by the
United States for Native Americans.
   (C)   In selecting and agreeing with solid waste contractors, the county
shall have the right to divide the county into geographic areas and assign
portions of the county to different contractors. Geographic areas assigned to
the contractors as of September 17, 2019 shall be continued until further
amendment of this chapter.
(Ord. 65, passed 9-17-2019)
DESIGNATED DISPOSAL SITE
§ 50.015 DESIGNATED COLLECTION SITES.
   Any solid waste contractor authorized by contract with the county shall,
with the advice and consent of the Board of County Commissioners, designate
places in the county for the location of refuse containers for the purpose of
dumping and depositing refuse.
(Ord. 65, passed 9-17-2019)
§ 50.016 COLLECTION SITES; LIMITED USE.
   (A)   There shall be two types of collection sites: gated; and non-gated.
      (1)   The only dumping allowed in designated non-gated collection sites
is basic household garbage and incidental non-commercial yard waste. No person
shall deposit any of the following items at the designated disposal sites:
industrial waste; hazardous waste; bulky items; concrete; asphalt; rocks;
masonry products; metal products in excess of six inches in length, width, or
height; tires; automotive batteries; wire fencing; furniture; tree stumps
larger than 12 inches in diameter; branches or limbs larger than six inches in
diameter; dead animals; or appliances, including, but not limited to:
refrigerators; freezers; microwaves; washers; dryers; ovens; or stoves.
      (2)   The only dumping allowed in designated gated facilities is basic
household garbage and incidental non-commercial grass and leaves. Brush and
tree limbs are not allowed.
   (B)   All persons paying a residential fee are authorized to use the system
and may create or accumulate a continuous volume of up to one cubic yard of
refuse each week without being subject to paying an additional fee to the
contractor for refuse in excess of the one cubic yard.
      (1)   Within cities that are served by solid waste contractors under
separate contracts, it is presumed that each residential household and small
commercial businesses have one-half yard capacity per week available to them in
either solid waste carts or garbage cans.
      (2)   All persons paying one-half of a commercial fee are authorized to
use the system and may create or accumulate a continuous volume of up to one
cubic yard of refuse each week without being subject to paying an additional
fee to the contractor for refuse in excess of the one cubic yard.
   (C)   (1)   Residents within cities within the county, which cities have
independently contracted for door to door pickup of solid waste, shall pay a
fee to the county. The rate actually charged shall be set annually by the Board
of County Commissioners.
      (2)   Within cities and other areas that are currently receiving door to
door solid waste service on properties upon which are located multifamily
structures (apartments or duplexes) shall be billed in the following manner:
Each unit in that structure 10% less of the calculated total as a vacancy
credit.
      (3)   Each mobile or manufactured home unit that is used as a permanent
residence shall be treated as a separate residence for billing purposes,
regardless of whether the same is within a mobile home park or not.
      (4)   Within the rural county, multifamily structures (apartments and
duplexes) shall receive full county rural residential bill for each unit 10%
less of the calculated total as an occupancy credit.
   (D)   In the alternative, at the discretion of the Board of County
Commissioners, rather than adding the city’s contribution to the tax bills
annually, the county may reach an agreement with each incorporated city that
has door to door service and an existing contractor agreement, to have the city
administer and pay the city’s fee to the county on a quarterly or semiannual
basis, in lieu of adding the city’s fee to the county tax bill.
   (E)   The Board of County Commissioners, at its discretion, shall be
permitted to continue a solid waste levy on all applicable properties, pursuant
to the authority found in Idaho Code § 31-4404(1).
   (F)   No person owning or occupying premises within or upon lands held in
trust by the United States for Native Americans shall deposit any solid waste
from such premises at the designated disposal sites, unless the Nez Perce
Tribal Council has entered into a contract with the county joining the county
system.
   (G)   The current solid waste policy statement, which is §
50.036(E), shall be applicable and is hereby adopted as part of chapter for
hardship cases, exemption, and non-users.
   (H)   (1)   All users authorized to use the system must dispose of white
goods and tires at a transfer station or designated roll-off. Said users are
allowed to dispose of four passenger car or light-duty truck tires without rims
a month.
      (2)   Commercial tire companies must have a disposal agreement with a
solid waste contractor which addresses proper disposal of used tires. The
county shall permit each contractor to charge individual users of the system a
separate fee for the disposal of tires and white goods equal to the amount that
the county is billed for the disposal of such items, and when the contractors
receive funds from users, the county shall not be billed for the disposal of
such items.
      (3)   All persons desiring to dispose of tires must properly dispose of
said items at a transfer station.
   (I)   The county shall also have the ability to authorize the contractor to
charge additionally for hazardous waste added to the county system.
(Ord. 65, passed 9-17-2019) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.017 MAINTENANCE OF COLLECTION SITES.
   (A)   Each collection site shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary
manner by the contractor serving each site, unless there is abnormal abuse of
any dumpster or dumpster site; and then it shall be a joint effort of the
contractor and the county to enforce the provisions of this chapter relating to
dumpster abuse.
   (B)   Each person depositing refuse at such sites shall deposit all refuse
in the refuse containers provided therefor, and shall be responsible for
cleaning up any spillage of waste caused by such person at such sites. If
cleanup is not performed by the person causing the same, he or she will be
charged for any cleanup costs incurred by the county. If said person refuses to
pay the cleanup costs, a lien will be placed on the person’s property for any
cleanup costs.
(Ord. 65, passed 9-17-2019) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.018 REFUSE CONTAINERS.
   At each collection site designated by the Board of County Commissioners,
there shall be located and maintained refuse containers, which shall be
sufficient in size or number to receive and contain the accumulation of refuse
deposited therein between collection dates. All containers shall be maintained
in a good working order, clean, painted, and in sanitary condition by the
authorized contractor.
(Ord. 65, passed 9-17-2019)
§ 50.019 CONTAINER SERVICE SCHEDULE.
   The Board of County Commissioners shall have the authority, by contract, to
require contractors to service disposal sites with sufficient frequency to
dispose of all refuse accumulated at such site, allowing appropriate
compensation for increased service when that occurs.
(Ord. 65, passed 9-17-2019)
§ 50.020 TRANSFER STATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Since federal and state law now require all non-inert solid
waste to be transported to an approved Subtitle D landfill, the Board of County
Commissioners shall be permitted to agree with solid waste contractors that
transfer stations shall be operated by the contractors, which will allow the
transfer of solid waste from collection and private vehicles into a common
location where it can then be compacted and re-transferred into sufficient
trailers to transport it to an approved landfill.
      (2)   The county shall also allow, pursuant to state and federal
regulations, contractors to operate a non-MSW, inert, or benign landfills at
any sites approved by the Idaho Public Health Department, North Central
District, or other regulatory agency in the county’s discretion. Future solid
waste contracts shall address the responsibility of contractors to transport
non-inert or benign solid waste to approved landfills, and otherwise
appropriately deal with and bury non-MSW, inert, or benign solid waste at local
landfills.
   (B)   (1)   The county shall cause contractors to provide transfer station
facilities that include, as a minimum: a covered building with two bays; and a
drop box. Each such facility shall be capable of handling at least 40 tons of
solid waste each day and shall provide for expansion based upon growing
population. All buildings must include push walls and a concrete tipping floor.
The design of any building must be flexible enough to adapt to different
hauling systems. Scales must be included to weigh the waste stream that is
ultimately transported to an approved facility. All transfer stations will have
adequate facilities for employees, including: restrooms; a telephone; and an
operator’s station.
      (2)   All buildings and materials in place or hereafter constructed shall
be of an adequate workmanship to comply with all current building and
electrical codes; and all such facilities must be certified by the state’s
Public Health Department and be operated in the future according to Health
District 2 guidelines, including any other applicable federal and state rules
and regulations. The county shall provide in its contract for specific hours of
transfer station operation, and in the event of conflict within a contractor
the arbitration rules described in §
50.015 are incorporated herein as a mechanism to solve such disputes.
   (C)   In the event that the county approves contracts for solid waste
disposal with contractors who own their own transfer stations, the county shall
have the right in any executed contracts to continue to use those transfer
stations after the termination of any contract with a particular contractor for
at least six months, so that the county system of solid waste disposal is not
unreasonably interrupted while alternate plans are being developed, and such
transfer station owners shall be reasonably compensated.
   (D)   In the event of a change in federal or state laws or regulations
concerning solid waste disposal and handling, the county shall be permitted to
adjust and negotiate its then-existing contractual obligations to remain
compliant with any potential changes in laws. This will include, but not be
limited to: non-MSW, inert, and/or benign landfill operation; solid waste
disposal and handling; the ultimate disposal of white goods and tires; and the
handling of hazardous waste; or any other potential law change.
(Ord. 65, passed 9-17-2019)
§ 50.021 MANDATORY USE OF THE SYSTEM.
   (A)   All solid waste in the county must be disposed of in the county’s
solid waste disposal system, as herein provided.
   (B)   Garbage and rubbish must be disposed of:
      (1)   By depositing the same at the designated disposal sites or taken to
the available transfer stations throughout the county. All citizens are
encouraged to segregate inert waste from putrescible waste, and the county
shall, by contract, encourage its contractors to make solid waste containers
available for the segregation of non-MSW, inert, and benign waste from all
other waste;
      (2)   By contracting with an authorized collector for the disposal of the
same if any solid waste production exceeds the maximum specified herein;
      (3)   By depositing the same at the appropriate landfill area after
obtaining appropriate permission from the contractor or operator of the
landfill; or
      (4)   By disposing of the same pursuant to a special permit as herein
provided and approved by the state’s Public Health Department.
   (C)   Industrial waste, excluding hazardous waste and bulky items, shall be
disposed of by dumping the same either at the transfer station or at a
designated non-MSW, inert, or benign landfill, after obtaining an appropriate
permit therefor and by paying any additional fees required for such excess
volume.
   (D)   Hazardous materials and dead animals shall be disposed of in
accordance with the rules, regulations, and directives of the Idaho Public
Health Department, North Central District, or the state’s Department of Health
and Welfare.
(Ord. 65, passed 9-17-2019)
§ 50.022 OPERATION OF MAINTENANCE SYSTEM.
   The Board of County Commissioners reserves the right to perform the
maintenance and operation of the solid waste disposal system in any of the ways
authorized by Idaho Code § 31-4403, or any combination thereof.
(Ord. 65, passed 9-17-2019)
§ 50.023 FUNDING.
   (A)   (1)   In addition to and explanation of §
50.016, the maintenance and operation of the solid waste disposal system shall
be funded by the assessment and collection of a fee upon each residence or
commercial property and any mobile trailer or storage shed/container sited for
long-term and/or occasional use on any state, federal, or privately owned
property within the county.
      (2)   All property owners who receive an agricultural exemption on their
ad valorem taxes shall pay a solid waste fee as described in this chapter,
unless they are specifically exempted pursuant to §
50.035(B) of this chapter.
   (B)   The solid waste fee for those receiving agricultural tax exemptions
shall be equal to one-half of the then-existing commercial rate set by the
Board of County Commissioners. The amount of the fee shall be determined by the
Board of County Commissioners and may include potential surcharge increases for
increases in costs, including, but not limited to: proven fuel; insurance; and
ultimate tipping fees.
   (C)   All such fees and any levy charges authorized in §
50.016 shall be billed annually by the County Treasurer with the annual tax
statement, or as otherwise directed by the Board of County Commissioners. All
fees and taxes levied by the Board of County Commissioners shall be payable and
collected in the same manner as are real and personal property taxes under
Idaho Code Title 63, Chapters 11, 12, and 13.
   (D)   All fees collected shall be placed in a special fund to be known as
the Solid Waste Fund, and all expenses of the county in the establishment and
operation of the system shall be paid therefrom, so long as funds are available
therein. Any funds from fees collected for solid waste service remaining
therein at the end of each fiscal year shall be retained in the Solid Waste
Fund. In the event the funds in the solid waste system are at any time
insufficient to maintain and operate the system, such expenses may be paid by
order of the Board of County Commissioners from current revenues of the county,
in accordance with Idaho Code § 31-4404.
(Ord. 65, passed 9-17-2019)
EXEMPTIONS AND VARIANCES
§ 50.035 SPECIAL EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners shall have the authority to issue
special exemptions pursuant to the application of §
50.036(E) to persons who apply therefor, exempting such persons from payment of
all or a part of the fees imposed to fund the maintenance and operation of the
system, upon satisfactory proof that because of unusual circumstances which
effect their ability to pay, such persons should be relieved from paying such
fees in order to avoid undue hardship; which undue hardship must be determined
by the Board of County Commissioners. Such exemptions shall be for the current
fee year only and premises exempt hereunder shall be billed and assessed for
the ensuing fee years as other premises. Claimants seeking exemption under this
provision must apply each year.
   (B)   The Board of County Commissioners shall have authority to issue
special exemptions to persons who apply therefor, exempting such persons from
payment of all, or a part of, the fees imposed to fund the maintenance and
operation of the system, upon satisfactory proof that because of unusual
circumstances, such persons do not create or accumulate solid waste upon the
premises owned by such persons who do not use the solid waste disposal system,
all as is described in §
50.036(E). Such exemption shall be for the current fee-year only and premises
exempt hereunder shall be billed and assessed for the ensuing fee years as
other premises. Claimants seeking exemption under this provision must apply
each year.
(Ord. 65, passed 9-17-2019)
§ 50.036 FEES; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Currently, the county, through the County Assessor’s office, has
adopted a set of criteria for one-half rate occupancy of certain residences
throughout the county.
   (B)   All persons owning more than one residence in the county shall pay a
full solid waste residential rate for their first residence, and a one-half
rate for each additional residence owned by that person or entity unless the
additional residence or residences qualify for full rates, pursuant to the
terms of division (E) below.
   (C)   As new properties are added to the tax rolls under the County
Assessor’s current policies, which includes division (E) below, the
questionnaire portion of division (E) below shall be used by the County
Assessor’s office to make an initial determination of whether a half rate
applies to the particular property or whether a whole rate applies.
   (D)   Any person, firm, or entity falsely reporting information pursuant to
any exemption, pursuant to this section, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and
shall additionally permanently be disqualified thereafter from qualifying for
such exemption on that specific property for as long as that violator owns such
property.
   (E)   Pursuant to current county ordinances, solid waste fees shall apply to
all residences and businesses, including agricultural business within the
county; and a partial rate shall be applicable to city residents. Current
charges per year per residence will appear on the annual tax notice. Individual
fees for larger commercial and industrial properties will be determined by the
Board of County Commissioners.
      (1)   Exemptions may be granted for uninhabited residences. To qualify,
no one may reside in the residence, even on an occasional basis, from January 1
to December 31. Residences are generally not considered to be vacant unless
emptied of personal living effects. Residences where the owner is away because
of work, travel, vacation, and the like are generally considered to be
occupied. Residences considered to be occupied for purposes of the “home owner
exemption” are considered to be fully occupied for solid waste purposes.
      (2)   Exemptions of one-half rate may be granted for residences that
serve as summer cabins or recreational cabins or are used on an occasional
basis, from one day to up to six months per year. The minimum charge for such
additional residences in this category is one-half the regular rate. However,
said part-time residence owners must pay the full rate on their county
residence before they can receive the half rate on their second residence.
      (3)   Exemptions in whole or in part may be granted for financial
hardship. No exemption will be granted for any person earning $8,500 or more
per year, or owning $50,000 or more in assets. Assets to include, but are not
limited to: real property; personal property; financial accounts; or any
beneficiary to a trust in excess of $50,000.
         (a)   No financial hardship will be considered until said person has
made a good faith effort to make payments through the County Treasurer’s
office.
         (b)   A financial statement must accompany any request. A statement of
pertinent facts concerning ability to pay should also accompany the
application. Exemption in whole or in part may be granted to residences the
Board of County Commissioners believes to be outside the service area of the
county collection system.
      (4)   Commercial and industrial properties in areas covered by this
chapter will be charged yearly solid waste fees by the county. They may
independently contract with the garbage hauler for additional service. These
additional services will not affect the fees charged by the county. Solid waste
fees will appear on the annual tax bill.
      (5)   Solid waste fees for mobile homes will be billed with the mobile
home tax bill. Mobile homes leaving the county after January l will be billed
on a prorated basis, provided that taxes are paid and a license is purchased
for the mobile home.
      (6)   It is understood that the per-residence fee covers all residences
in the service area unless specifically exempt from solid waste charges. It is
further understood that the hauler may ask an additional fee for his or her
services above the county fee for house to house service.
      (7)   Residences constructed or moved into the area covered by this
chapter after January l will be billed on a prorated basis.
      (9)   Applications for exemption or reduction of solid waste fees must be
submitted before the fourth Monday of June.
(Ord. 65, passed 9-17-2019)
§ 50.037 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Pursuant to §
50.021, any person, firm, corporation, or agency desiring to dispose of solid
waste in any manner other than using the county solid waste disposal system
shall apply to the Board of County Commissioners for a waiver of that
requirement. Such request may be on forms provided by the state for application
for a special permit to dispose of solid waste on the applicant’s land, or upon
land upon which the applicant has possessory right. Such application shall
provide sufficient information to acquaint the Board of County Commissioners
with the terms of the request and the likely impact upon the environment.
   (B)   Upon the receipt of such application, the Board of County
Commissioners shall consider the same at its next regular meeting, or at such
later time as it shall direct by motion.
   (C)   Before passing upon such application for a special permit, pursuant to
§
50.021(B)(4), the Board of County Commissioners shall be satisfied that there
will be no improper impact upon the environment and shall further satisfy
itself that state permission for the use of such alternate disposal site has
been secured.
(Res. 34-IR, passed 2-13-1984)
ACCOUNTS, CONTRACTS, AND SPECIFIC TITLES
§ 50.050 CONTRACT AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   The county, subject to franchises existing by October 1, 2019, may
contract for the collection, removal, and disposal of solid waste and
materials, the operation and maintenance of disposal sites, the availability of
transfer stations and designated non-MSW, inert, or benign landfills, or any
combination thereof.
   (B)   The county may contract with the Nez Perce Tribal Council for the
purpose of permitting such Council to join the county solid waste disposal
system or the county solid waste collection system hereby established, or any
combination of the same, as well as with the United States Forest Service, the
United States Bureau of Land Management, the state, any organized school
districts, and Adams County.
(Ord. 65, passed 9-17-2019)
§ 50.051 SOLID WASTE COORDINATOR.
   The Board of County Commissioners shall have authority, should the need
arise, to appoint a Solid Waste Coordinator and to employ such additional
persons as it shall deem necessary to administer the solid waste disposal and
collection system. All salaries paid from the Solid Waste Fund shall be
determined and fixed by the Board of County Commissioners. All duties and
responsibilities of the Solid Waste Coordinator shall be determined and fixed
by the Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 65, passed 9-17-2019)
§ 50.052 HAZARDOUS/INFECTIOUS WASTE OWNERSHIP.
   The ownership of hazardous and infectious waste, as defined in this chapter,
shall always remain with the generator and the generator always remains
responsible for such waste, under all circumstances.
(Ord. 65, passed 9-17-2019)
§ 50.053 COMMERCIAL ACCOUNTS; FEES.
   (A)   The assessed fees and levy amounts described earlier in §§
50.023 through
50.036 shall be assessed against all non-exempt properties and households
throughout the county. In addition, each permanent business will be charged a
minimum commercial charge and any appropriate levy amount as well. Any
commercial account which produces more than one two cubic yards of solid waste
per week shall also be required to independently agree with the contractor for
such extra service as the generator might, from time to time, need.
      (1)   Billings for those commercial accounts, if within rural county,
will be based upon a schedule of container and dumpster services available from
the county’s hired contractors. That list of charges shall be retained by the
County Clerk, as changed from time to time, and be available to commercial
customers. Any commercial business that disagrees with the charges levied by a
contractor shall have the right of appeal to the Board of County Commissioners
concerning charging grievances, and the Board of County Commissioners decision
shall be final after hearing.
      (2)   Each commercial business that is already paying a solid waste fee
for door-to-door pickup and also receives a personal property tax bill from the
county shall pay a county solid waste fee.
      (3)   Commercial users receiving door to door pickup but not receiving
personal property tax bills (e.g., governmental agencies, schools, hospitals,
churches and benevolent agencies) shall pay the fee described in division (A)
(2) above. Each city’s commercial solid waste billing list shall be used to
determine such users.
      (4)   Within incorporated cities that have separate agreements with the
county’s authorized contractors, the cities shall reserve the right to
arbitrate disputes between the contractors and commercial account holders that,
from time to time, might arise.
   (B)   In the event that a contractor or another builder, including an
individual of a substantial structure or one who engages in demolition of a
previous structure, which actions significantly adds to the solid waste stream,
such person or entity shall make private arrangements for any such substantial
construction job, remodeling project, or for the demolition of any existing
buildings.
      (1)   In the event that a substantial construction job, qualifying
remodeling project, or demolition project occurs without previous arrangements
having been made with the appropriate solid waste contractor, said party shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to the general misdemeanor
penalties described in §
50.999. Upon an application for a sewer permit within the county, if it is tied
to future construction, it shall be the duty of the County Recorder to provide
such information to the applicant of the requirements of this chapter and that
potentially a dumpster is required for that project. All solid waste
contractors shall likewise be entitled to information concerning sewer permit
applicants, which will help them monitor the flow of construction waste.
      (2)   A qualifying substantial construction project, or qualifying
remodeling project, shall be one that involves construction of 400 square feet
or more of any structure within the county.
      (3)   Each solid waste contractor shall develop a formula for charging
for the construction wastes, as are described in this chapter, and deliver
those fee schedules to the county so that they can be delivered to inquiring
citizens.
   (C)   The dispute resolution provisions described in divisions (A) and (B)
above shall be applicable to resolve disputes over the appropriate
applicability and costs applicable to any construction or demolition project
under this subchapter.
   (D)   In any building project for which a sewer permit is required, or for
which electricity will be required from either Idaho Power Company, Avista
Utilities, or Idaho County Light and Power, the Health Department offices in
Orofino, Kamiah, and Grangeville, and the appropriate county offices of the
electrical utilities shall be regularly supplied with the provisions of this
subchapter and this chapter so that those builders will be familiar with the
requirements of this chapter. The county shall be permitted to reach agreements
with the three utilities and the Idaho Public Health Department, North Central
District, concerning the affirmative duty to disseminate information to the
public, as described in this subchapter.
   (E)   Any contractor or individual not complying with the provisions of this
subchapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to the
misdemeanor penalties described herein.
(Ord. 65, passed 9-17-2019) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.054 INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR.
   (A)   (1)   Unless the county shall independently determine to have
employees, all contractors will, under state law, be independent contractors.
The county shall require in any franchise or contract issued to solid waste
contractors appropriate workers compensation and liability insurance in such
amounts as, from time to time, are reasonable under all circumstances.
      (2)   Any such policy will have provisions that it cannot be cancelled
until at least 30 days’ prior notice has been given to the county. Minimum
liability rates shall be $1,000,000 for any accident and $2,000,000 in the
aggregate, with the contractor being required also to carry excess liability or
umbrella coverage with an additional $1,000,000 policy limit covering the
county as an additional named insured.
(Ord. 65, passed 9-17-2019)
§ 50.055 RECYCLING; RIGHTS OF COMMISSIONERS.
   The Board of County Commissioners reserve the right to investigate and
promote recycling and all issues associated therewith to protect the
environment, and to properly reuse recyclable materials.
(Ord. 65, passed 9-17-2019)
VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 50.070 UNLAWFUL ACCUMULATION OF SOLID WASTE
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor punishable, as herein
described, for any person to accumulate or to permit or to cause the
accumulation in or about any premises or upon any road, street, alley, or
public way adjacent to such premises owned or occupied by such persons, any
solid waste in any amount or manner that will contribute to or result in danger
to public health, or the creation or existence of a nuisance or safety hazard,
or the pollution of water or air, or excessive land abuse.
   (B)   In addition to the criminal penalties for violation of this section,
civil damages in an amount of up to three times the actual damage shall be
imposed upon the person so convicted to be used to restore the lands to the
original state. Such civil actions shall be brought in and for the county and
any remainder of damages collected after restoration shall be used for
maintenance and operation of the solid waste disposal system.
(Ord. 65, passed 9-17-2019) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.071 LITTERING; SECURING WASTE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, discard, deposit, or litter
any solid waste upon any private or public property or right-of-way not
authorized by any county, city, or the owner of such property. All persons
shall properly secure their loads for transportation of their disposable waste
to a dumpster site or to a transfer station. Any person causing disposable
waste to be deposited along any public road or highway and who did not have his
or her load properly secured shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished in
accordance with §§
50.072 and
50.999(D).
(Ord. 65, passed 9-17-2019) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.072 INJUNCTION.
   (A)   In addition to the criminal penalties provided for violation of a
county ordinance, whenever it appears to the Board of County Commissioners that
any person has engaged, or is about to engage, in any act or practice
constituting a violation of any provision of this chapter, or any ordinance
enacted pursuant to this chapter, the Board of County Commissioners may bring
an action in any court of competent jurisdiction to enjoin any such acts or
practices and to enforce compliance with this chapter, or any ordinance
hereunder. Upon a showing that a person has engaged, or is about to engage, in
an act or practice constituting a violation of this chapter hereunder, a
permanent or temporary injunction, restraining order, or writ of mandamus shall
be granted. The Board of County Commissioners shall not be required to furnish
bond.
   (B)   The injunctive powers granted to the county shall include such
injunctions against any contractors that are not complying with any contracts
or franchises granted to contractors, and will allow the county to bring such
actions as will keep the solid waste system operating on a continuous basis to
provide safe county services to the county citizens.
(Ord. 65, passed 9-17-2019) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person in violation of any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person causing damage to the gates, fences, or signs at the
designated collection sites, as described in §
50.016, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine up to
$1,000, or up to six months in jail, or both.
   (C)   A failure to comply with §
50.017 by any person shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable by a fine up to
a $1,000, or up to six months in jail, or both. If cleanup is not performed by
the person causing the same, they will be charged for any cleanup costs
incurred by the county. If said person refuses to pay the cleanup costs, a lien
will be placed on the person’s property for any cleanup costs.
   (D)    Any person causing disposable waste to be deposited along any public
road or highway who properly secured his or her load, as described in §
50.071, shall be guilty of an infraction and shall receive a penalty of $50.
   (E)   A willful violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a
misdemeanor, punishable by fine up to $1,000, or up to six months’ imprisonment
in the county jail, or both. A continuing violation of any such provision is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
(Ord. 65, passed 9-17-2019)
CHAPTER 51: SEWAGE SYSTEM
Section
   
51.01   Electrical energy utility connection; violations
§ 51.01 ELECTRICAL ENERGY UTILITY CONNECTION; VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any building, structure, mobile home, or
manufactured house which is intended to be served by an individual sewage
disposal system to be energized by connecting or energizing any electrical
installation until an energizing authorization card containing the respective
sewage disposal permit number and signature of the North Central District
Health Department (hereinafter referred to as NCDHD) has been presented by the
applicant to the power company involved.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any individual, person, corporation, or other
entity to request or demand from any utility, private or public, the connection
of such power without first displaying to said utility or other company a valid
energizing authorization card issued by the NCDHD.
   (C)   The energizing authorization shall be issued only after an individual
sewage disposal permit has first been issued by the NCDHD.
   (D)   It shall be a misdemeanor for any such individual, person,
corporation, or entity to violate this section, and it shall be a misdemeanor
to mislead the utility or other company by showing an energy authorization card
which is not duly and regularly issued, or which does not cover the structure
or installation for which is sought, or to represent falsely that no such
permit is required by the ordinances of the county.
(Ord. 32, passed 6-12-1989)
CHAPTER 52: EMERGENCY COMMUNICATION SYSTEM
Section
   
52.01   Creation
   
52.02   Financing
   
52.03   Service area
   
52.04   Governing board
   
52.05   Administrator
   
52.06   Net savings
   
52.07   Telephone line user fee; collection
   
52.08   Joint powers board
   
52.09   County Clerk’s account
   
52.10   Pay phone conversion
§ 52.01 CREATION.
   There is hereby created, for the purpose of providing for the public health,
safety, and welfare of the public, a consolidated emergency communication
system, also known as a 911 telephone system, in the county, all as permitted
and sanctioned by Idaho Code Title 31, Chapter 48. The purpose for the creation
of the emergency communication system is to provide a county-wide 911 telephone
system.
(Ord. 37, passed 6-22-1998)
§ 52.02 FINANCING.
   The financing of the consolidated emergency communication system shall, in
whole, be by line user fee in an amount not greater than $1 per month, to be
used to fund an emergency telephone system, commonly known as 911 service.
(Ord. 37, passed 6-22-1998)
§ 52.03 SERVICE AREA.
   The service area for the emergency communication system shall be the
entirety of the county, as described in Idaho Code § 31-127.
(Ord. 37, passed 6-22-1998)
§ 52.04 GOVERNING BOARD.
   The governing board of the emergency communication system shall be the Board
of County Commissioners, as duly elected or appointed, or its designated agent.
(Ord. 37, passed 6-22-1998)
§ 52.05 ADMINISTRATOR.
   The administrator for the emergency communication system shall be such
person, officer, or agency designated to operate the emergency communication
system, as may be appointed by the governing board.
(Ord. 37, passed 6-22-1998)
§ 52.06 NET SAVINGS.
   The net savings, if any, from the operating expenditures realized by the
county from the implementation of the consolidate emergency communication
system shall be used by the county for the reduction of the ad valorem tax
charges of said taxing district.
(Ord. 37, passed 6-22-1998)
§ 52.07 TELEPHONE LINE USER FEE; COLLECTION.
   (A)   The telephone line user fee shall be a uniform amount not to exceed $1
per month per exchange access line, trunk line, network access register, or
equivalent, and such fee shall be used exclusively to finance the initiation,
maintain, or enhance the consolidated emergency communication system within the
county. The fee for collection of the monthly telephone line user fee shall be
collected from customers on a monthly basis by all telecommunication entities
which provide local telephone line service within the county, and may be listed
as a separate item on customers’ monthly billings.
   (B)   (1)   All such telephone companies shall remit such fee to the County
Treasurer’s office or to the Administrator, as designated by the governing
board. From every remittance to the governing board made on or before the date
when the same becomes due, the telephone company required to remit the same
becomes due; the telephone company required to remit the same shall be entitled
to deduct and retain three-fourths of 1% (0.75%) of the collected amount as the
cost of administration for collecting the charge.
      (2)   Local exchange companies will be allowed to list the surcharge on a
separate item in the telephone subscriber’s bill, and shall not be obligated to
take any legal action to enforce the collection of any charge, nor be held
liable for such uncollected amounts.
(Ord. 37, passed 6-22-1998)
§ 52.08 JOINT POWERS BOARD.
   (A)   The governing board or administrator may establish a joint powers
agreement, as provided in Idaho Code Title 67 Chapter 23. Such joint powers
board or Administrator shall be responsible for establishing, maintaining, and
governing a consolidated emergency communication system. Providing an emergency
communication service shall be considered a government function.
   (B)   The governing board, in the absence of an agreement to form a joint
powers board or administrator, as provided in this division herein, are
authorized to appoint an official or administrator to maintain and govern a
consolidated emergency communication system.
(Ord. 37, passed 6-22-1998)
§ 52.09 COUNTY CLERK’S ACCOUNT.
   The County Clerk is authorized to establish a dedicated fund to be
designated the “Emergency Communication Fund” in which all fees collected
pursuant to this chapter shall be deposited and such fund shall be used
exclusively for the purposes of this chapter. The monies collected and the
interest earned in this fund shall be apportioned by the Board of County
Commissioners, or governing board, for expenses incurred by the emergency
communication system, as set forth in an annual budget prepared by the joint
powers board, or in its absence, the Board of County Commissioners, and
incorporated into the annual county budget. All monies collected and not so
expended shall be held in trust by the County Clerk, pending commencement of
the budget year for fiscal year 1998.
(Ord. 37, passed 6-22-1998)
§ 52.10 PAY PHONE CONVERSION.
   Every provider of telephone services or other owner of a pay station
telephone within the county must convert every pay station telephone to permit
dialing 911 or the telephone company operator without deposit of a coin or
other charge to the caller. Said conversion must be completed by or before the
time the emergency telephone system is operational.
(Ord. 37, passed 6-22-1998)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Compression brakes
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 COMPRESSION BRAKES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. All “vehicles” as defined under Idaho Code Title 49,
Chapter 1, as amended.
      COMPRESSION BRAKES. Those certain mechanisms, systems, or devices on a
motor vehicle, commonly known as compression brakes, exhaust brakes, engine
brake, or jake brakes, used to reduce the speed of the motor vehicle.
   (B)   Use of compression brakes on motor vehicles shall be prohibited on the
following public roads, or sections thereof, to wit: United States Highway 12,
between milepost 96.6 and milepost 97.6.
   (C)   For any section of road designated in division (B) above, the county
shall cause signs to be placed to advise motor vehicle operators entering the
designated section that use of compression brakes are prohibited within the
designated section. Where any designated section is within the jurisdiction of
any highway district or any other public highway agency, the county shall
request and authorize said district or agency to place advisory signs.
   (D)   All such advisory signs shall comply with any applicable standards for
highway signs as may be established by the state; and shall state that use of
compression brakes are prohibited and the milepost designations for the
affected section of the roadway. Proof that warning signs have been so placed
and that said signs display the words “Use of Compression Brakes Prohibited -
MP XX.X to MP XX.X”, or words of similar meaning, shall be prima facie evidence
that division (C) above and this division (D) have been complied with.
(Ord. 38, passed 4-26-1999) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of §
70.01 shall be an infraction, and subject to a fine of $53.
(Ord. 38, passed 4-26-1999)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   NUISANCES
      
91.   AIRPORT
CHAPTER 90: NUISANCES
Section
Abandoned Vehicles
   
90.01   Regulations
   
90.02   Exemptions
   
90.03   Removal; notice
   
90.04   Enforcement
   
90.05   Abatement
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 90.01 REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations are adopted concerning abandoned junk, other
abandoned useless personal property, or vehicles so dismantled and inoperable
to constitute less than the whole vehicle that are located on the public
rights-of-way under the jurisdiction of the Fenn Highway District.
   (A)   Abandoned motor vehicles that are intact enough to qualify as a
vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of Idaho Code Title 49, Chapter 18,
concerning their removal.
   (B)   Motor vehicle parts that are dismantled such that they no longer
constitute a whole vehicle, other abandoned junk, or useless personal properly
placed on the public rights-of-way within the Fenn Highway District shall be
then subject to the following rules.
      (1)   The accumulation and storage of abandoned, wrecked, junk,
dismantled, or inoperative vehicle parts less than the whole of the vehicle on
the public rights-of-way of the Fenn Highway District is found to create a
condition tending to limit the use of the public rights-of-way of the Fenn
Highway District and such collection of such useless personal property tend to
create dangerous situations, fire hazards, attractive nuisances, and a hazard
to the health and safety of citizens within the Fenn Highway District.
Therefore, the presence of such abandoned junk, other useless personal
property, and dismantled or inoperative vehicles parts less than the whole of
the vehicle on the rights-of-way within the Fenn Highway District is
specifically prohibited and hereby declared to be a public nuisance, which may
be abated in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   An abandoned, wrecked, or dismantled inoperable motor vehicle part
less than a whole vehicle, herein called a JUNK VEHICLE PART, shall be defined
as any unsightly motor vehicle part that cannot be towed away, but must be
hauled away.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person or persons,
firm, partnership, corporation, or other entity to maintain a junk vehicle part
or any other abandoned useless personal property, as defined in division (B)
above, on the public rights-of-way within the Fenn Highway District for more
than three days.
(Ord. 56, passed 1-6-2009; Res. 2009.1, passed 1-20-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter shall not apply to a whole vehicle, a part thereof, or
personal property which is temporarily stored in a lawful manner out of the
main traveled portion of the right-of-way in connection with the business of a
licensed dismantler, licensed vehicle dealer, or junk dealer when such storage
or parking is necessary for the operation of a lawfully conducted business or
commercial enterprise.
   (B)   Temporary placement under this exemption shall never exceed 15
consecutive days for any such motor vehicle part or other piece of personal
property that is located on the public right-of-way.
(Ord. 56, passed 1-6-2009; Res. 2009.1, passed 1-20-2009)
§ 90.03 REMOVAL; NOTICE.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of the Fenn Highway District or its
designated agent may order the removal of any such useless personal property,
the placement of which violates the term of this subchapter and/or exceeds any
allowed exemptions described in §
90.02.
   (B)   (1)   A true copy of such order shall be placed upon the abandoned
personal property, and copies of such order shall be served upon any adult
owning or possessing such abandoned personal property, if known.
      (2)   If no owner or possessor of such abandoned personal property can be
found, a notice affixed to the actual personal property shall constitute notice
to the owner or possessor of said personal property.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person who is the owner
of a junk motor vehicle part or other abandoned personal property or the
possessor thereof, or the person who placed or abandoned the said personal
property on the public right-of-way or refuse, to remove or refuse to abate
such nuisance when ordered to do so in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 56, passed 1-6-2009; Res. 2009.1, passed 1-20-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   A misdemeanor penalty for violation of this subchapter shall be the current
general misdemeanor penalties adopted in accordance with state law, and shall
be applicable for any person failing to comply with an order to remove such
abandoned personal property from the public rights-of-way after ten days have
expired following the delivery of the order hereunder authorized.
(Ord. 56, passed 1-6-2009; Res. 2009.1, passed 1-20-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.05 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   If such junk vehicle part or other abandoned personal property is not
removed within the time allowed pursuant to this subchapter, the Commissioners
of the Fenn Highway District may cause such abandoned personal property to be
removed at the expense of the owner or possessor and place it in an impound
yard, where those pieces of personal property shall be offered for sale to the
highest bidder at public auction not later than ten days after one publication
in the Idaho County Free Press, pursuant to the provisions of Idaho Code § 45-
805.
   (B)   The proceeds from such sale shall be used to pay removal expenses and
rental of the impound yard to which such abandoned personal property was
removed. In the event the sale of such personal property fails to bring enough
revenue to pay the towing and impounding charges, the balance would be due and
payable immediately by the owner or possessor of such personal property. The
Highway District may, however, dispose of such abandoned personal property
after notice and removal of the same without the necessity of notice and sale
where the abandoned personal property does not have a market or salvage value
higher than $100.
(Ord. 56, passed 1-6-2009; Res. 2009.1, passed 1-20-2009)
CHAPTER 91: AIRPORT
Section
Airport Advisory Board
   
91.001   Definitions
   
91.002   Establishment, members, and terms of office
   
91.003   Advisory Board meetings
   
91.004   Advisory Board duties
General Rules
   
91.015   Prohibited actions
   
91.016   Parking and ramp fees
   
91.017   Government agreements
   
91.018   Master plan
   
91.019   Penalties and posting of rules
Operation and Maintenance of the Airport
   
91.030   Definitions
   
91.031   Airport manager
   
91.032   Rules and regulations
   
91.033   Areas of use
Aircraft Operation and Airport Traffic
   
91.045   General
   
91.046   Taxiing rules
   
91.047   Landing and takeoff rules
   
91.048   Landing fees
   
91.049   Ground rules
   
91.050   Fire regulations
Airport Leases and Concessions
   
91.060   Business activities; application
   
91.061   Application; denial
   
91.062   Application; supporting documents
   
91.063   License and leases
   
91.064   Business regulations; tie-down rates
   
91.065   Waiver of provisions
Fixed Base Operator Qualifications
   
91.080   General
   
91.081   Sales and rentals
   
91.082   Charter operations
   
91.083   Flight school
   
91.084   Additional services
   
91.085   Aircraft storage
Fixed Base Operators
   
91.100   General regulations
   
91.101   Construction and facilities
   
91.102   Claims and complaints
   
91.103   Termination of lease
   
91.104   Enforcement of rules
 
   
91.999   Penalty
AIRPORT ADVISORY BOARD
§ 91.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVISORY BOARD. The county’s Airport Advisory Board.
   AIRPORT. The county’s airport.
   AIRPORT MANAGER. The individual appointed by the state’s Board of County
Commissioners as the primary person responsible to the Board of County
Commissioners for maintenance and operation of the county’s airport.
   BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS. The Board of the county’s Commissioners.
(Ord. 51, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 91.002 ESTABLISHMENT, MEMBERS, AND TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The county’s Airport Advisory Board is hereby created.
   (A)   The Advisory Board shall consist of five members to be appointed by
the Board of County Commissioners, at least one of which shall be a member
recommended to the Board of County Commissioners by the City Council and reside
within the City of Grangeville. The Advisory Board may make recommendations to
the Board of County Commissioners concerning all new or replacement members.
The Board of County Commissioners may appoint one member of the Advisory Board
to represent the interests of the United States Forest Service on the Advisory
Board.
   (B)   Each member of the Advisory Board shall serve at the will and pleasure
of the Board of County Commissioners; provided, however, that unless sooner
terminated, the term of office for members shall be as follows: Three members
shall be appointed for a term of three years; and two members shall be
appointed for a term of two years. (The initial City of Grangeville member
shall be appointed to fill any existing vacancy, and then the Grangeville
position shall rotate as described in this section.)
   (C)   Members of the Advisory Board shall be classified as “volunteers” and
shall not be entitled to compensation for their service. Members of the
Advisory Board shall not be entitled to reimbursement for expenses incurred by
reason of their service unless prior written approval of the Board of County
Commissioners is obtained.
(Ord. 40, passed 4-10-2000; Ord. 51, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 91.003 ADVISORY BOARD MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Advisory Board shall hold one regular meeting at least every three
months in a public location. The date and time of said meetings shall be
established by the Advisory Board. All meetings shall be open to the public and
shall be held in compliance with Idaho’s Open Meeting Laws. The Advisory Board
may adopt internal rules for orderly conduct of meetings.
   (B)   A quorum shall be a majority of the Advisory Board. All
recommendations and actions shall be made by a majority vote of a quorum of the
Advisory Board.
   (C)   The Advisory Board shall elect a chairperson and secretary from its
members annually during the January meeting. The Chairperson shall be
responsible for conduct of meetings and communications with the Board of County
Commissioners and the Airport Manager. The Secretary shall be responsible for
preparing meeting minutes, providing notification of meetings, and preparing
and disseminating general correspondence for the Board. The Secretary shall
also keep, maintain, and safeguard all records and documents pertaining to the
Advisory Board until otherwise advised by the Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 51, passed 1-9-2006; Ord. 72-B, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 91.004 ADVISORY BOARD DUTIES.
   (A)   The Advisory Board’s duties shall be advisory only. The Advisory Board
and its members shall have no powers or authority to contract or incur any
liability or expense on behalf of the county, to supervise or direct airport
management or operations, or to make or enforce any laws or regulations.
   (B)   The Advisory Board shall review and make recommendations to the Board
of County Commissioners on matters pertaining to the management, operation, and
development of the airport, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Identifying problems involving airport safety, compliance with
Federal Aviation Administration regulations and other airport policies, and
recommending solutions;
      (2)   Reviewing the airport master plan and making recommendations for
the development, improvement, and promotion of the airport and for funding
sources;
      (3)   Reviewing lease requests and making recommendations prior to
consideration by the Board of County Commissioners;
      (4)   Reviewing airport fees and lease rates and making recommendations
for changes; and
      (5)   Receiving comments from members of the public concerning the
airport and communicating the same to the Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 51, passed 1-9-2006)
GENERAL RULES
§ 91.015 PROHIBITED ACTIONS.
   The following actions are prohibited on Idaho County Airport Property (ICAP)
without a written permit, signed and dated by the county’s Airport Manager, to
wit:
   (A)   Overnight camping on the county’s airport property. OVERNIGHT CAMPING
is any overnight stay, whether in a tent, recreational vehicle, or motorized
vehicle;
   (B)   Smoking on any outdoor airport property, or within 500 feet of any
fueling facility or fueling operation;
   (C)   Unleashed animals upon airport property. Any animals brought upon
airport property must be on a leash at all times. At no time shall an animal be
unleashed;
   (D)   The use of drone operations and/or unmanned aerial vehicles on or
above airport property. DRONES and/or UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLES to be defined as
any unmanned aerial aircraft without a human pilot onboard and any type of
unmanned vehicle. Unmanned aerial vehicles are a component of an unmanned
aircraft system and include: an unmanned aerial vehicle; a ground based
controller; and a system of communication between the two;
   (E)   Any and all unauthorized vehicle (including, but not limited to:
utility terrain vehicles; all-terrain vehicles; and motorcycles) access upon
airport property;
   (F)   Walking, jogging, power walking, or running upon all airport runways/
taxi-lanes or aircraft parking areas, except to access or attend to an
aircraft; and
   (G)   Aircraft landing on any surfaces not designated by the Federal
Aviation Administration.
(Ord. 69, passed 4-28-2020) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.016 PARKING AND RAMP FEES.
   Ramp and parking fees on all paved surfaces at the airport are as follows:
   (A)   For light planes, defined as any craft whose published gross weight is
less than 12,500 pounds;
      (1)   Five dollars per day or $50 per month when occupying 1,200 square
feet of area or less. Annual rates may apply;
      (2)   Ramp/parking areas used as repair areas are $10 per day plus
liability for any damage caused to the asphalt surface; and
      (3)   Transient general aviation (GA) light planes will be allowed up to
five days per calendar year at no cost.
   (B)   For heavy aircraft, defined as any craft whose published gross weight
exceeds 12,500 pounds;
      (1)   Five dollars per day for each 1,200 square foot of area occupied
for longer than eight hours; and
      (2)   Ramp/parking areas used as repair areas are $10 per day for each
1,200 square foot area occupied, plus liability for any damage caused to the
asphalt service.
   (C)   Ramp/parking fees are waived for the following aircraft:
      (1)   All Life Flight and Medivac; and
      (2)   Additional aircraft fees may be waived by motion of the Board of
County Commissioners.
   (D)   Airport ramp and parking fees previously established pursuant to
divisions (A) through (C) above will be enforced by imposing a penalty for non-
payment, specifically: Any invoice delinquency of 30 days or more or failure to
pay will result in the placement of a lien on the aircraft that is, or was,
occupying the airport grounds that incurred the parking or ramp fee. Full
payment of the past due amount will release the lien and entitle the owner of
the aircraft to occupy parking space at the airport grounds upon pre-payment of
one month’s fees.
(Res. 2018-11, passed 6-12-2018; Ord. 64, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.017 GOVERNMENT AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   During the time of war or national emergency, the county shall have
the right to lease the airport, or the landing area, or any part thereof, to
the government for military or naval use, and any license or authority granted
under the rules described in this chapter and any lease and agreement executed
pursuant hereto shall be subject to such government lease, and the provisions
of the government lease shall control insofar as they are inconsistent with the
said operator’s agreement, lease, or authority.
   (B)   Any license, authority, lease, or agreement entered into pursuant to
these regulations shall be subject and subordinate to the provisions of any
existing or future agreement between the county and the United States, relative
to the operation or the maintenance of the airport, the execution of which has
been, or may be, required as a condition precedent to the expenditure of
federal funds for the development of the airport.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-9-1965)
§ 91.018 MASTER PLAN.
   The county may, without the knowledge, consent, or approval of any fixed
base operator, or other person licensed to do business or use part of the
airport, make changes in the master plan of the airport and in its planning and
policies in connection with the development of the airport. The Board of County
Commissioners reserves the power to designate as common use areas such portions
of any leased area or areas used by any fixed base operator, as shall be
necessary for the development of the airport or for the flow of aircraft
traffic to other areas on the airport.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-9-1965)
§ 91.019 PENALTIES AND POSTING OF RULES.
   (A)   The rules and regulations, as described in this chapter, may be known
and cited as the “airport rules”, and shall be posted in the office building of
each fixed base operator.
   (B)   (1)   In addition to any penalties otherwise provided by county
resolution, ordinance, law, civil aviation regulations, federal aviation
regulations, and all other rules and regulations of the Civil Aeronautics Board
and the Federal Aviation Administration, any person violating these rules or
regulations, operating or handling any aircraft in violation of these rules and
regulations, or failing or refusing to comply with these rules and regulations
may be promptly removed or ejected from the airport by or under the authority
of the airport manager; or, upon his or her order, such person may be
temporarily grounded or deprived of the further use of the airport and its
facilities pending presentation of the matter to the Board of County
Commissioners.
      (2)   Such matters shall be presented to the Board of County
Commissioners as soon as practicable and at least by the next regular meeting
of the Board of County Commissioners, at which time the violator shall appear
before the Board of County Commissioners and show cause, if any, why he or she
should not be deprived of the further use of the airport and its facilities.
Upon the order of the Board of County Commissioners, such person may be
deprived of the further use of the airport and its facilities for such length
of time as may be deemed necessary by the Board of County Commissioners to
ensure the safeguarding of the airport, its operations, and the public use
thereof, and the county’s interest therein.
   (C)   Any person violating the rules described in this chapter and/or the
traffic laws of the state in connection with vehicular traffic on the airport
shall be subject to prosecution in the appropriate court for such violation.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-9-1965) Penalty, see §
91.999
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF THE AIRPORT
§ 91.030 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIRPORT. The county airport and all of the area, buildings, facilities, and
improvements within the exterior boundaries of such airport, as it now exists
or as it may hereafter be extended or enlarged.
   AIRPORT MANAGER. The Manager of the airport.
   BOARD. The Board of County Commissioners.
   C.A.B. The Civil Aeronautics Board.
   F.A.A. The Federal Aviation Administration.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company,
association, joint-stock association, or body politic, and includes any:
trustee; receiver; assignee; or other similar representative thereof.
   PORT. The airport of the county.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-9-1965)
§ 91.031 AIRPORT MANAGER.
   The person designated by the Board of County Commissioners is the Airport
Manager. The Airport Manager shall, at all times, have authority to take such
action as may be necessary for the handling, policing, protection, and
safeguarding the public while present at the airport, and to regulate vehicular
traffic on the airport. The Airport Manager may suspend or restrict any or all
operations without regard to weather conditions whenever such action is deemed
necessary in the interest of safety, subject to the review of such action by
the Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-9-1965)
§ 91.032 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   All aeronautical activities, all operation and flying of
aircraft, and all business and other activities on or at the airport shall be
conducted in conformity with the rules and regulations described in this
chapter, and all amendments, supplements, changes, and additions hereto, which
may hereafter be adopted by the Board of County Commissioners, and further in
conformity with all pertinent rules, regulations, orders, and rulings of the
Civil Aeronautics Board, the Federal Aviation Administration, and, if
appropriate or effective, any other governmental agency, which are made a part
of the rules described in this chapter by this reference; provided, however,
nothing herein contained shall affect or impair any existing agreement.
      (2)   In the event of any conflict between the rules and regulations
described in this chapter and any law, rule, regulation or order of the Civil
Aeronautics Board, the Federal Aviation Administration, or other governmental
agency exercising the same or similar jurisdiction, the latter shall prevail.
   (B)   (1)   The use of the airport or any of its facilities in any manner
shall constitute an assumption by the user of the rules and regulations
described in this chapter, and shall create an obligation on the part of the
user to abide by and obey the rules and regulations described in this chapter.
      (2)   Flight instructors shall have the duty to fully acquaint their
students with the rules described in this chapter and shall be responsible for
the conduct of students under their direction. When a student is flying solo,
it shall be his or her responsibility to comply with all applicable rules.
   (C)   All persons licensed to do business on or conducting operations of any
kind on the airport shall keep a current copy of the rules and regulations
described in this chapter in his or her office or place of business and make it
available to all persons.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-9-1965)
§ 91.033 AREAS OF USE.
   (A)   Special events. Special events such as air shows, air races, fly-ins,
skydiving, and all events requiring the general use of the airport, other than
normal or routine airport traffic, shall be held only upon the prior approval
of the Airport Manager, and on such dates, in such areas, and upon such terms
and conditions as shall be specified by the Airport Manager.
   (B)   Public use. The airport shall be open for public use at all hours of
the day, subject to regulation or restriction due to weather, the conditions of
the landing area, the presentation of special events, and like causes, as may
be determined by the Airport Manager, and revocation of the right to use for
violation of the rules and regulations described in this chapter.
   (C)   Common use areas.
      (1)   All runways for landing and takeoff; all runway, marker, guidance,
signal and beacon lights used to guide operation aircraft; all apparatus or
equipment for disseminating weather and wind information for signaling, for
radio-directional finding, or for radio or other electrical communication, and
any other structure, equipment or mechanism having a similar purpose for
guiding or controlling flight in the air or the landing and takeoff of
aircraft; and together with such aprons, ramps, turn-offs, tie-down areas,
taxiways, and other areas of the airport as the Airport Manager shall specify
or designate as common use areas, shall be considered common use areas
available for use, in common, by all persons flying or operating aircraft on
the airport, and shall be kept clear and available for aircraft traffic.
      (2)   No fixed base operator or other person shall use any common use
area for the parking or storing of aircraft, the repair, servicing, or gassing
of aircraft, or for any other purpose other than the flying and operation of
aircraft without the prior consent or authorization of the Airport Manager.
      (3)   Common use areas are subject to change.
   (D)   Vehicular traffic.
      (1)   The traffic laws of the county and the state shall apply to the
streets, roads, and parking areas of the airport.
      (2)   Except for fire fighting equipment, ambulances, and emergency
vehicles, no person shall take or drive any vehicle on the airport, other than
on established streets, roads, and automobile parking facilities, unless
permission has been first obtained from the Airport Manager and notice given to
the Flight Service Station.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-9-1965) Penalty, see §
91.999
AIRCRAFT OPERATION AND AIRPORT TRAFFIC
§ 91.045 GENERAL.
   (A)   All aeronautical activities at the airport, and all flying of aircraft
departing from or arriving at the airport within three miles horizontally of
the center of the airport, shall be conducted in conformity with the current
pertinent provisions of the civil aviation regulations issued by the Civil
Aeronautics Board.
   (B)   The Airport Manager shall, at all times, have authority to take such
action as may be necessary to safeguard the public in attendance at the
airport.
   (C)   Instructors shall fully acquaint their students with these rules and
shall be responsible for the conduct of students under their direction during
dual instructions. When the student is flying solo, it shall be his or her sole
responsibility to observe and abide by the rules described in this chapter.
   (D)   No signs or other advertising shall be placed or constructed upon the
airport, or any building, structure, or improvement thereon without the prior
approval of the Board of County Commissioners. No signs or advertising shall be
permitted if, in the Board of County Commissioners’ opinion, it is undesirable,
unnecessary, or in any way creates a safety hazard.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-9-1965) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.046 TAXIING RULES.
   (A)   No person shall taxi an aircraft to or from the hangar line, or to or
from an approved parking space, until he or she has ascertained that there will
be no danger of collision with any person or object.
   (B)   No aircraft shall be taxied except at a safe and reasonable speed.
   (C)    No aircraft not equipped with adequate brakes shall be taxied near
buildings or parked aircraft unless an attendant is at a wing of the aircraft
to assist.
   (D)   Stop aircraft clear of runway for engine check. Make sure runway is
clear of traffic before entering crossing.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-9-1965) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.047 LANDING AND TAKEOFF RULES.
   (A)   Landings and takeoffs shall be made in a direction indicated by the
controlled wind sock located within the airport.
   (B)   No landing or takeoff shall be made except at a safe distance from
buildings and aircraft.
   (C)   No turn shall be made after the takeoff until the airport boundary has
been reached, and the pilot has attained an altitude of at least 500 feet and
has ascertained there will be no danger of turning into the path of a following
aircraft.
   (D)   Traffic altitude is 800 feet above the airport. All turns shall be
made to the left.
   (E)   Enter traffic at 800 feet above the airport, 45 degrees to the
downwind leg. Leave traffic on a 45-degree right turn at 500 feet after the
first 90-degree left turn, and outside of the airport boundary.
   (F)   It is recommended that takeoffs of all aircraft be made from the end
of the runway. However, pilots of light aircraft, at their discretion, and
their own responsibility, may take off from the intersections to reduce
taxiing. No plane will enter upon the active runway while another plane is on
the runway.
   (G)   Pilots of light aircraft making final landings will land on the side
of the runway on which they intend to turn off. Clear the runway as soon as
possible.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-9-1965) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.048 LANDING FEES.
   (A)   There shall be imposed upon all aircraft of 12,500 pounds published
maximum takeoff weight (MTOW) or greater that use the Idaho County Airport, a
landing fee. That fee shall be calculated at the rate of $2 per each 1,000
pounds of MTOW.
   (B)   Each owner of an aircraft that lands such aircraft at the Idaho County
Airport with a MTOW of 12,500 pounds or greater shall be charged a fee as
described above based on the aircraft’s recorded landings. The owner shall be
billed monthly by Idaho County for any payments that were not made at the time
of landing. All balances shall be paid in full within 30 days of billing. All
past due amounts will accrue interest at the maximum legal rate applicable.
   (C)   Any invoice delinquency of 30 days or more or failure to pay will
result in the placement of a lien on the aircraft that utilized the Idaho
County Airport and incurred the landing fee. Full payment of the past due
amount, including county costs for collection, will release the lien.
   (D)   The following aircraft are exempt from the above landing fees:
      (1)   Air ambulance flights.
      (2)   Aircraft exempted by approved motion of the Idaho County
Commissioners.
(Ord. 27, passed 9-19-1985; Ord. 72, passed 5-24-2022)
§ 91.049 GROUND RULES.
   (A)   Aircraft engines shall be started or warmed up only in the places
designated for such purposes. At no time shall engines be turned up when
hangars, shops, other buildings, or persons in the observation area are in the
path of the propeller stream.
   (B)   Aircraft shall not be parked except in areas designated for that
purpose.
   (C)   All repairs to aircraft or engines, except emergency repairs, shall be
made in the spaces designated for this purpose, and not on the area reserved
for landing and takeoff.
   (D)   No automobile shall be driven onto the landing area proper without the
express permission of the Airport Manager or his or her designated
representative.
   (E)   No automobile shall be parked on the airport property except in areas
designated for the purpose.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-9-1965) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.050 FIRE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All persons using, in any way, the airport area or the facilities of
the airport shall exercise the utmost care to guard against fire and injury to
persons or property.
   (B)   No person shall smoke within 50 feet of any aircraft.
   (C)   All aircraft shall be positively grounded when being serviced with
gasoline.
   (D)   No aircraft shall be fueled when the engine is running.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-9-1965) Penalty, see §
91.999
AIRPORT LEASES AND CONCESSIONS
§ 91.060 BUSINESS ACTIVITIES; APPLICATION.
   (A)   Subject to applicable orders, certificates or permits of the Civil
Aeronautics Board or the Federal Aviation Administration, or their successors;
no person shall use the airport, or any portion thereof, or any of its
improvements or facilities, for revenue producing commercial, business, or
aeronautical activities who has not first complied with these rules and
regulations and obtained the consent and all appropriate permits and licenses
for such activities from the Board of County Commissioners, and entered into
such written leases and other agreements prescribed by the Board of County
Commissioners, or agreed upon by the Board of County Commissioners and such
person.
   (B)   Applications for leases of ground on the airport, or for permission to
carry on any commercial, business, or aeronautical activity on the airport,
with the necessary permits and licenses, shall be made to the Airport Manager
on forms prescribed by the Board of County Commissioners. The Airport Manager
shall present the application to the Board of County Commissioners by at least
its next regular meeting. The Board of County Commissioners may, if it deems it
advisable, have a public hearing upon the application. The applicant shall
submit all information and material necessary, or requested by the Board of
County Commissioners, to establish, to the satisfaction of the Board of County
Commissioners, that the applicant can qualify and will comply with these rules
and regulations. The application shall be signed and submitted by every party
owning an interest in the business, those who will be managing the business,
every partner of a partnership, and each director and officer of a corporation.
   (C)   Nothing contained in these rules and regulations shall be construed as
requiring the county to maintain, repair, restore, or replace any structure,
improvement, or facility which is substantially damaged or destroyed due to an
act of God or other condition or circumstance beyond the control of the county.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-9-1965)
§ 91.061 APPLICATION; DENIAL.
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners may deny any application, if, in its
opinion, it finds any one or more of the following:
      (1)   The applicant, for any reason, does not meet the qualifications,
standards, and requirements established by these rules and regulations;
      (2)   The applicant’s proposed operations or construction will create a
safety hazard on the airport;
      (3)   The granting of the application will require the port to spend
port’s funds, or to supply labor or materials in connection with the proposed
operations to an extent which or at a time when the Board of County
Commissioners is unwilling to enter into such arrangement; or the operation
will result in a financial loss to the port;
      (4)   There is no appropriate, adequate, or available space or building
on the airport to accommodate the entire activity of the applicant at the time
of the application;
      (5)   The proposed operation, airport development, or construction does
not comply with the master plan of the airport;
      (6)   The development or use of the area requested by the applicant will
result in depriving existing fixed base operators or portions of the area in
which they are operating; or will result in a congestion of aircraft or
buildings; or will result in unduly interfering with the operations of any
present fixed base operator on the airport through problems in connection with
aircraft traffic or service, or preventing free access to the fixed base
operator’s area;
      (7)   Any party applying or interested in the business has supplied the
Board of County Commissioners with any false information or has misrepresented
any material fact in his or her application or in supporting documents; or has
failed to make full disclosure on his or her application or in supporting
documents;
      (8)   Any party applying or interested in the business has a record of
violating the rules and regulations described in this chapter, or the rules and
regulations of any other airport, civil aviation regulations, federal aviation
regulations, or any other rules and regulations applicable to the airport;
      (9)   Any party applying or interested in the business has defaulted in
the performance of any lease or other agreement concerning the airport;
      (10)   Any party applying or interested in the business has a credit
report which contains derogatory information and does not appear to be a person
of satisfactory business responsibility and reputation;
      (11)   The applicant does not appear to have, or have access to, the
finances necessary to conduct the proposed operation for a minimum period of
six months;
      (12)   Any party applying or interested in the business has been
convicted of any crime or violation of any city ordinance of such a nature that
it indicates to the Board of County Commissioners that the applicant would not
be a desirable operator on the airport; or
      (13)   The protection of the health, welfare, safety, or morals of the
inhabitants of the county require such denial.
   (B)   Nothing contained herein shall be construed to prohibit the Board of
County Commissioners from granting or denying, for any reason it deems
sufficient, an application to do business on the airport for the purpose of
selling, furnishing, or establishing non-aviation products and supplies, or any
service or business of a nonaeronautical nature, or the application by a person
for an area on the airport for the personal non-profit use of such person.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-9-1965)
§ 91.062 APPLICATION; SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS.
   If requested by the Board of County Commissioners, the applicant shall
submit the following supporting documents to the Board of County Commissioners,
together with such other documents and information as may be requested by the
Board of County Commissioners; to-wit:
   (A)   A current financial statement prepared or certified by a Certified
Public Accountant;
   (B)   A written listing of the assets owned or being purchased which will be
used in the business on the airport;
   (C)   A current credit report covering all areas in which the applicant has
done business during the past ten years; and
   (D)   A written authorization for the Federal Aviation Administration and
the Civil Aeronautics Board, and all aviation or aeronautic commissions,
administrators, or departments of all states in which the applicant has engaged
in aviation business to supply the Board of County Commissioners with all
information in their files relating to the applicant, or his or her operation.
The applicant shall execute such forms, releases, and discharges as may be
requested by any of these agencies.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-9-1965)
§ 91.063 LICENSE AND LEASES.
   No right, privilege, permit, or license to do business on the airport, or
any lease of any area of the airport shall be assigned, sold, or otherwise
transferred or conveyed, in whole or in part, without the prior consent of the
Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-9-1965)
§ 91.064 BUSINESS REGULATIONS; TIE-DOWN RATES.
   (A)   Refuse. No person shall throw, dump, or deposit any waste, refuse, or
garbage on the airport. All waste, refuse, or garbage shall be placed and kept
in closed garbage cans or containers and all operating areas shall be kept in a
safe, near clean, and orderly manner at all times and in such a manner as to
minimize any hazards.
   (B)   Approval of construction. No buildings, structures, tie-downs, ramps,
paving, taxi areas, or any other improvement or addition on the airport shall
be placed or construed on the airport, or altered or removed without the prior
approval of the Board of County Commissioners. In the event of any
construction, the Board of County Commissioners may, in its discretion, require
an appropriate bond to guarantee the completion of the construction in
accordance with the Board of County Commissioners’ approval.
   (C)   Operation area. No person authorized to operate on or conduct business
activities on the airport shall conduct any of its business or activities on
any area except those specified by the Board of County Commissioners, or the
Airport Manager, and the leased areas.
   (D)   Business name. No person shall conduct business operations on the
airport under a business name the same as or deceptively similar to the
business name of any other fixed base operator previously established on the
airport.
   (E)   Tie-down rates. Rates charged for hangar space, T-hangar rentals, tie-
downs, and service charges in connection with aircraft shall not be excessive,
discriminatory nor otherwise unreasonable, and shall be filed with the Airport
Manager. Transient and home-owned aircraft using parking facilities of the
airport not under lease to fixed base operators shall be charged in accordance
with rates on file with the Airport Manager.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-9-1965) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.065 WAIVER OF PROVISIONS.
   The Board of County Commissioners may, in its discretion, waive all or any
portion of §§
91.060 through
91.065,
91.080 through
91.085, and
91.100 through
91.104 for the benefit of any commercial airline, any government or
governmental agency, department, or person performing non-profit public
services to the aircraft industry, performing air search and rescue operations,
or performing fire prevention or fire fighting operations.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-9-1965)
FIXED BASE OPERATOR QUALIFICATIONS.
§ 91.080 GENERAL.
   (A)   No person shall use the airport as fixed base operator until such
person has applied for and received, from the Board of County Commissioners, a
fixed base operator’s license and has met the qualifications, standards, and
requirements of the rules and regulations described in this chapter. A fixed
base operator shall be a person who carries on all of the following services
for profit on the airport:
      (1)   Aircraft sales;
      (2)   Parts and accessories sales;
      (3)   Charter operations, which include, without limitation: passenger or
“air-taxi”; freight or delivery; photography, aerial survey; agricultural
spraying, and the like;
      (4)   Aircraft rental;
      (5)   Flight instruction or ground schools;
      (6)   Aircraft storage, inside and/or outside;
      (7)   Maintenance services which shall include services in one or more of
the following:
         (a)   Airframe overhaul and repair;
         (b)   Engine overhaul and repair;
         (c)   Radio and electrical shop;
         (d)   Instrument shop;
         (e)   Aircraft interior work; and
         (f)   Refinishing and painting.
      (8)   Line services, which shall include one or more of the following
services:
         (a)   Supplying the fuel, oil and other fluids; and
         (b)   De-icing fluid.
   (B)   For a fixed base operator to qualify for a license, he or she must
have available sufficient operating funds to conduct the proposed business for
a period of at least 12 months.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-9-1965) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.081 SALES AND RENTALS.
   (A)   The fixed base operator shall provide the office required by the rules
described in this chapter, and shall lease from the port on the airport an area
of sufficient size to permit the storage and/or display of all aircraft for
sale or used in the aircraft sales business. Lease terms and rentals shall be
set by the Board of County Commissioners.
   (B)   A fixed base operator shall be licensed to conduct one or more other
fixed base operator services and provide suitable space for the display and
sale of such items.
   (C)   A fixed base operator shall provide the office required by the rules
described in this chapter, and shall lease from the port an area on the airport
of sufficient size for the buildings and to accommodate all aircraft that will
be used by the operator. Lease terms and rentals to be set by the Board of
County Commissioners.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-9-1965)
§ 91.082 CHARTER OPERATIONS.
   (A)   A fixed base operator shall provide the office required by these
regulations:
      (1)   Shall own at least one aircraft based on the airport which is so
equipped and maintained as to comply with the applicable rules and regulations
of the Civil Aeronautics Board and the Federal Aviation Administration; and
      (2)   Shall lease from the airport an area on the airport of sufficient
size to accommodate all such buildings, and all aircraft that will be used in
such charter operations.
   (B)   Lease terms and rentals shall be set by the Board of County
Commissioners.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-9-1965)
§ 91.083 FLIGHT SCHOOL.
   A fixed base operator shall provide the office building required by the
rules described in this chapter, which shall be of sufficient size as to
provide a suitable classroom, and shall lease from the port an area on the
airport of sufficient size to accommodate the buildings and all aircraft that
will be used by the fixed base operator; and shall own and have based upon the
airport one or more aircraft suitable for flight instruction, which comply with
the rules and regulation of the Federal Aviation Administration and the Civil
Aeronautics Board. Lease terms and rentals shall be set by the Board of County
Commissioners.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-9-1965)
§ 91.084 ADDITIONAL SERVICES.
   (A)   Maintenance services. A fixed base operator shall provide a shop
building of sufficient size to accommodate at least one twin-engine private
aircraft, together with all tools and equipment and the office required by
these rules. In addition, the fixed base operator shall equip the shop with
such tools, machinery, equipment, parts, and supplies normally necessary to
conduct a full time business operation in connection with the maintenance
service being offered. Such shop shall be staffed by mechanics and personnel
who are qualified and competent and who hold any and all certificates necessary
from the Civil Aeronautics Board or the Federal Aviation Administration. Lease
terms and rentals shall be set by the Board of County Commissioners.
   (B)   Line services. A fixed base operator shall be licensed to provide at
least one other fixed base operator service, and shall provide the office
required by the rules described in this chapter. In addition:
      (1)   The fixed base operator shall provide and maintain all necessary
pumps, tanks, and/or mobile gas trucks, gassing islands and areas, ramps and
other gassing facilities that may be necessary; provided, however, the fixed
base operator shall not place or maintain any gassing facilities on the
airport, mobile or fixed, which is not previously approved by the Board of
County Commissioners;
      (2)   The fixed base operator shall not deliver fuel into any aircraft
unless the fuel has first been placed in a suitable and approved filtration
tank. There shall be no fueling direct from a common carrier transport truck
into refueler without filtration;
      (3)   Each fixed base operator offering line services shall maintain
enough full time attendants on duty to service aircraft without unreasonable
delay during the normal times and weather for this type of service. The fixed
base operator shall offer night service by having an attendant available who
will respond, by a telephone call, to a telephone number conspicuously posted
at the facility;
      (4)   The fixed base operator with gassing facilities shall, at all
times, maintain an adequate supply of the gasses, oils, and fluids normally
called for on an airport;
      (5)   If the fixed base operator maintains a mobile gas truck, he or she
shall operate this truck only on the area leased by him or her and such other
areas as the Airport Manager may designate, from time to time; and
      (6)   The fixed base operator must have an area of sufficient size to
accommodate the line services and flow of traffic in and out of the line
services, for all buildings and for the parking or storing of all aircraft used
by the fixed base operator in his or her operations, and for his or her
customers’ aircraft. Lease terms and rentals shall be set by the Board of
County Commissioners.
   (C)   Airline services. A fixed base operator shall be licensed to provide
at least one other fixed base operator service, shall maintain, on hand and
available, all equipment, tools, parts, and inventory necessary to properly
conduct the service, and shall conduct this service in only those areas
specified or authorized by the Airport Manager.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-9-1965)
§ 91.085 AIRCRAFT STORAGE.
   For outside aircraft storage, the fixed base operator must be licensed to
supply at least one other fixed base operator’s service in addition to the
qualifications thereof; and have a paved tie-down area of sufficient size to
accommodate all aircraft used by the fixed base operator in his or her
operations and all aircraft that will be parked or stored by the operator. If
the fixed base operator will offer inside hangar of T-hanger storage, the
operator shall have an area of sufficient size to accommodate the building or
buildings with proper access. Lease terms and rentals shall be set by the Board
of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-9-1965)
FIXED BASE OPERATORS
§ 91.100 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Each fixed base operator shall, upon being authorized by the Board of
County Commissioners and as the construction of any required physical
facilities permit, immediately commence and conduct, on a full-time basis, all
business activities and services authorized.
   (B)   Except in cases of fixed base operators offering T-hanger or inside
hangar aircraft storage only, each fixed base operator shall provide and
maintain an office, which shall be staffed and open to the public during the
normal business hours of each normal business day, which shall be the
operator’s office of place of business on the airport, and shall provide
therein, at least: a waiting room with appropriate furnishings; separate
restrooms for men and women; and a public telephone. These facilities and
office shall be kept in a neat, clean, and orderly condition, and properly
painted. Only one office shall be required of each fixed base operator. No
fixed base operator, or its employees, agents, officers, or other persons
connected with the business shall use the office area or other facilities of
any other fixed base operator without the consent of said fixed base operator.
   (C)   The fixed base operator and all personnel and employees shall be
competent and shall hold all current, valid certificates, permits, licenses, or
other authorities required by the Civil Aeronautics Board and the Federal
Aviation Administration, including any required Federal Aviation Administration
air taxi permits and Public Service Commission certificates. Fixed base
operators shall not utilize any pilot in any aircraft operations who does not
hold valid and current certificates from the Civil Aeronautics Board and
Federal Aviation Administration necessary for him or her to conduct such
activities.
   (D)   Each fixed base operator approved shall enter into an agreement with
the port, which includes an agreement on the part of the fixed base operator to
accept, be bound by, comply with, and conduct his or her business operations in
accordance with the rules and regulations described in this chapter, and to
agree that his or her license and authority to carry on business on the airport
shall be subject to the terms and conditions set out in the rules and
regulations described in this chapter; and the revocation or termination
thereof is herein provided.
   (E)   Each fixed base operator shall be responsible for the removal of snow
and ice from all his or her leased areas and areas in which he or she is
authorized to operate, and shall keep his or her leased areas and areas in
which he or she is authorized to operate free and clear of all weeds, rocks,
debris, and other material which could cause damage to aircraft, buildings,
persons, or automobiles as the result of aircraft engine operation. The county
may, at the request of the operator and in the discretion of the Airport
Manager, assist the fixed base operator in snow, ice, and weed removal;
provided such operator shall assume the liability of the county’s actions in
this regard and shall indemnify and hold the county, its officials, officers,
agents, and employees harmless from all liability in connection with all things
done by the county pursuant thereto and in connection with such snow, ice, and
weed removal.
   (F)   The fixed base operator shall park and store the aircraft used in his
or her operations and his or her customers’ aircraft on his or her assigned
area only, unless he or she arranges for such parking with another fixed base
operator or the Airport Manager.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-9-1965)
§ 91.101 CONSTRUCTION AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise agreed to by the Board of County Commissioners, the
fixed base operator shall, at his or her own expense, provide, construct,
install, equip, and maintain all utilities, buildings, structures, ramps, tie-
down areas, taxi-ways, fences, and all other facilities and improvements
requested or approved by the Board of County Commissioners as being advisable
and necessary for the fixed base operator to carry on the activities or
services authorized by the Board of County Commissioners. The Board of County
Commissioners may, in its discretion, provide port assistance in the
development of the operation area.
   (B)   The fixed base operator shall promptly pay, when due, all charges for
sewer, water, power, telephone service, and all other utilities and services
supplied to his or her operation on the airport, all wages or salaries, and all
rentals, fees, and payments payable to the Board of County Commissioners.
   (C)   Plans and specifications for all construction shall be submitted to
the Board of County Commissioners for its approval within 90 days after
approval of the application, and construction thereon shall commence within 90
days after approval of the plans and specifications by the Board of County
Commissioners. All construction shall be completed by the fixed base operator
within one year from the date of the Board of County Commissioners approval of
the plans and specifications. These times may be extended by the Board of
County Commissioners upon good cause shown by the fixed base operator. All
construction shall comply with all applicable building codes and ordinances.
   (D)   Airport areas on which fixed base operator facilities, if any, are to
be constructed or operated shall be specified by the Board of County
Commissioners or the Airport Manager in accordance with the rules described in
this chapter and the master plan of the airport.
   (E)   Unless otherwise provided by the Board of County Commissioners, all
operations of the fixed base operator shall be conducted on one area of
sufficient size to accommodate all services for which the operator is licensed,
allowing for future growth and additional services, as contemplated by the
Board of County Commissioners, Airport Manager, or the applicant, at the time
of application to the extent, however, that space is available on the airport.
The fixed base operator shall carry on his or her business operations strictly
within the area assigned him or her by the Board of County Commissioners or the
Airport Manager; and his or her operations shall not in any way interfere with
the operations of other fixed base operators, agencies, or other businesses
operating on the airport, the use of the airport by the general public, or with
any common use areas. The fixed base operator shall not use any common use
areas, except as authorized by these rules or the Airport Manager.
   (F)   A fixed base operator shall cooperate with the Airport Manager in
operation, management, and control of the airport, and shall do all things
reasonable to advance or promote the airport and aeronautical activities
thereon and to develop the airport into an attractive, efficient, and modern
airport.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-9-1965)
§ 91.102 CLAIMS AND COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints against any fixed base operator for violation of the
rules described in this chapter shall be made in writing, signed by the party
submitting the complaint and shall specify dates, times, and witnesses, if any.
   (B)   The fixed base operator agreed to indemnify, defend, and save the
airport, its authorized agents, officers, representatives, and employees
harmless from and against any and all actions, penalties, liability, claims,
demands, damages, or loss resulting from claims or court actions, whether
civil, criminal, or in equity, and arising directly or indirectly out of acts
or omissions of the fixed base operator, his or her or its agents, employees,
servants, guests, or business visitors.
   (C)   (1)   To guarantee performance of division (B) above, the fixed base
operator shall secure public liability and property damage insurance on which
the county shall be named as joint assured with the fixed base operator. Such
policies of insurance, shall be maintained in full force and effect during all
terms of existing leases, agreements, business licenses, renewals, or
extensions thereof.
      (2)   Such policies shall be for not less than the amount of $50,000 for
one person and $100,000 for one accident, and shall be placed with a reputable
company approved by the Board of County Commissioners. Copies of all such
policies of insurance shall be delivered to the Board of County Commissioners
and shall be held for the benefit of the parties as their respective interests
may appear. The amounts of said insurance shall not be deemed a limitation on
the fixed base operator’s liability to the county, and if the county or any of
its authorized agents, officers, representatives, or employees becomes liable
for an amount in excess of the insurance, the fixed base operator will save and
hold them harmless for the whole thereof.
   (D)   The fixed base operator shall furnish all services authorized or
licensed by the Board of County Commissions on a fair, equal, and not unjustly
discriminatory basis to all users thereof, and shall charge fair, reasonable,
and not unjustly discriminatory prices for each unit or service; provided, that
the fixed base operator may make reasonable and non-discriminatory discounts,
rebates, or other similar types of price reductions to volume purchasers, if
permitted by law.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-9-1965)
§ 91.103 TERMINATION OF LEASE.
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners shall have the right, in its
discretion, to terminate any lease or other agreement authorizing the fixed
base operator to conduct any services or business on the airport, and to revoke
any fixed base operator’s license, authority, or permit to do business upon the
airport for any cause or reason provided in the rules described in this
chapter, or by law and in addition thereto, upon the happening of any one or
more of the following:
      (1)   Filing of a petition voluntarily or involuntarily, for the
adjudication of the fixed base operator as a bankrupt;
      (2)   The making by the fixed base operator of any general assignment for
the benefit of creditors;
      (3)   The abandonment or discontinuance of any permitted operation at the
airport by the fixed base operator or the failure to conduct them on a full-
time basis without the prior approval of the Board of County Commissioners;
      (4)   Except for payment of rents, charges, fees, and other payments to
be paid to the county, the failure of the fixed base operator to remedy any
default or breach or violations by him or her, or his or her personnel in
keeping, observing, performing, and complying with §§
91.019,
91.030 through
91.033, and
91.060 through
91.065,
91.080 through
91.085, and
91.100 through
91.104 of the rules and regulations described in this chapter; and the terms,
covenants, and conditions in any lease or agreement entered into pursuant
hereto on the part of the fixed base operator to be performed, kept, or
preserved within 30 days from the date written notice from the Airport Manager
has been mailed or delivered to the place of business of the fixed base
operator at the airport;
      (5)   The failure to promptly pay to the county, when due, all rents,
charges, fees, and other payments, which are payable to the county by the
operator;
      (6)   Any party applying for a fixed base operator’s license or who is
interested in the business; who has supplied the Board of County Commissioners
with any false information; or misrepresented any material fact to the Board of
County Commissioners in the application, supporting documents, or in statements
to or before the Board of County Commissioners; or failed to make full
disclosure to the Board of County Commissioners in the application, the
supporting documents, or in statements to or before the Board of County
Commissioners; or
      (7)   The fixed base operator, or any partner, officer, director,
employee, or agent thereof commits any of the following:
         (a)   Violates any of the rules of §§
91.045 through
91.050 of these rules;
         (b)   Engages in unsafe, abnormal, or reckless practices in the
operation of an aircraft on, or in the vicinity of the airport, which creates a
hazard to the safety of other airport users, other aircraft, or the general
public, or endangers property, or which could, if any emergency developed,
foreseeably result in causing personal injuries or death to a person or damage
to property;
         (c)   Causes personal injury to or the death of a person, or property
damage involving in excess of $500 for repairs or loss; or
         (d)   Operates the business of the fixed base operator in such a
fashion as to create a safety hazard on the airport for other airport users,
aircraft, property on the airport, the general public, the airport, any pilots,
students, or passengers.
   (B)   (1)   In the event of such termination, the fixed base operator shall
forthwith peaceably vacate the airport and surrender possession of the premises
to the county and cease and desist all business operations on the airport.
      (2)   Should the operator fail to make such surrender, the county shall
have the right, at once, and without further notice to the fixed base operator,
to enter and take full possession of the space occupied by the fixed base
operator on the airport, by force or otherwise, and with or without legal
process to expel, oust, and remove any and all parties and any and all goods
and chattels not belonging to the county that may be found within or upon the
same at the expense of the operator, and without being liable to prosecution or
to any claim for damages therefor.
      (3)   Upon such termination by the county, all rights, powers, and
privileges of the fixed base operator hereunder shall cease, and the fixed base
operator shall immediately vacate any space occupied by it under this agreement
or any lease or leases, and shall make no claim of any kind whatsoever against
the county, its agents, or representatives by reason of such termination or any
act incident thereto.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-9-1965)
§ 91.104 ENFORCEMENT OF RULES.
   (A)   In addition to all other rights and remedies provided in the rules
described in this chapter, the county shall have any and all other remedies at
law or in equity, including the equitable remedy of injunction, to enforce said
rules and regulations.
   (B)   Subject to the terms of any written agreement or lease, the Board of
County Commissioners, in its discretion, may permit the fixed base operator to
remove from the airport any buildings or structures thereon owned or
constructed thereon by the operator.
   (C)   To the extent necessary to protect the rights and interests of the
county, or to investigate compliance with the terms of the rules and
regulations described in this chapter, the Airport Manager, any member of the
Board of County Commissioners, the County Engineer, the County Attorney, and
any other agent of the county shall have the right to inspect, at all
reasonable times, all airport premises together with all structures or
improvements, all aircraft, equipment, licenses, and registrations.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-9-1965)
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation of §
91.015 shall be an infraction and subject to a fine of $100. Additional
infractions shall be $200.
(Ord. 69, passed 4-28-2020)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
Licensing
   
110.01   License required
   
110.02   License application; fee
   
110.03   Qualifications
   
110.04   Time limit for applications
   
110.05   Issuance and restrictions of license
Hours of Sale
   
110.20   Authority and purpose
   
110.21   Sunday sales
   
110.22   Hours of sale by drink
   
110.23   Extension approval
 
   
110.99   Penalty
LICENSING
§ 110.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   In accordance with the provisions of the Idaho Session Laws Chapter 144, of
the first regular session of the forty-second legislature, and under the
provisions of Idaho Code § 23-1315, as amended, it shall be lawful for any
person to sell wine at retail by the drink, after having first procured a
license therefor.
(Ord. 5, passed 6-12-1973)
§ 110.02 LICENSE APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   Applications for licenses shall be in writing, signed and sworn to by
the applicant, and upon application forms furnished by the County Clerk. Such
application shall be filed by the County Clerk and presented to the Chairperson
and the Board of County Commissioners at the next meeting of the Board of
County Commissioners for its approval, rejection, or further consideration.
   (B)   The license fee imposed and collected shall be the sum of $25 per year
(cannot exceed $100 per annum, for the license year). Such license year shall
be from 12:01 a.m., January 1 through December 31; provided, however, should a
license be issued for less than a full calendar year, the license fee shall be
prorated in accordance with the actual months of issuance.
(Ord. 5, passed 6-12-1973)
§ 110.03 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The applicant for a license shall possess all of the qualifications
necessary to obtain a license from the Commissioner of Law Enforcement of the
state, as prescribed by Idaho Code, and maintain such qualifications throughout
the period for which such license is issued. The possession of licenses
regularly issued by the Department of Law Enforcement, in addition to a county
beer license, shall be prima facie evidence of the applicant’s qualifications
to receive a license hereunder. A licensee for liquor by the drink shall not be
required to obtain an additional license, under the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 5, passed 6-12-1973)
§ 110.04 TIME LIMIT FOR APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners shall act upon an application for a
beer and/or wine license, or a transfer or renewal thereof, at the next
regularly scheduled monthly meeting of the Board of County Commissioners
following the receipt of the application by the Board of County Commissioners.
In the event the Board of County Commissioners would have scheduled the
continuation of any meeting, which continued meeting would occur prior to the
next regularly scheduled monthly meeting, the Board of County Commissioners may
act upon such application at an earlier time.
   (B)   The procedure for processing applications for beer and/or wine
licenses, transfers, or renewals shall be governed by Idaho Code §§ 23-1015,
23-1315, and 23-1318, and any rules and regulations promulgated by the Board of
County Commissioners, in accordance with Idaho Code Title 67, Chapter 52, the
Administrative Procedure Act.
(Ord. 23, passed 8-9-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Idaho Code §§ 23-1015, 23-1315, 23-1318, 31-714, 31-
801, 31-828
§ 110.05 ISSUANCE AND RESTRICTIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon filing the application for a license and production of evidence,
as required by this subchapter, as to the qualifications of the applicant, and
by the payment of the required license fee, the County Clerk shall, upon
approval of the Board of County Commissioners, issue to the applicant a license
to sell wine at retail, by the drink, within the county for such calendar year
or remainder thereof.
   (B)   The assignment or transfer of a wine by the drink license, issued
hereunder, shall be the same as provided for the assignment or transfer of a
beer license.
(Ord. 5, passed 6-12-1973)
HOURS OF SALE
§ 110.20 AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to the authority conferred by Idaho Code
§§ 23-927, 23-1012, and 23-1332, as amended in 1987, which provides that a
county may, by ordinance, allow the sale of liquor by the drink on Sundays,
Memorial Day, and Thanksgiving, and may also extend until 2:00 a.m. the hours
of sale of liquor by the drink, beer, and wine.
(Ord. 30 Amendment(2), passed 11-8-1987)
§ 110.21 SUNDAY SALES.
   Liquor by the drink may be sold, offered for sale, or given away on any
licensed premises under the same rules, limitations, and conditions as apply to
all other days of the week.
(Ord. 30 Amendment(2), passed 11-8-1987)
§ 110.22 HOURS OF SALE BY DRINK.
   (A)   No liquor, beer, or wine shall be sold, offered for sale, or given
away upon any licensed premises, and all liquor not in sealed bottles must be
locked in a separate room or cabinet, except during the maximum time limits
provided under Idaho Code.
   (B)   Any patron present on the licensed premises after the sale of liquor,
beer, and wine has stopped, as provided in division (A) above, shall have a
reasonable time, not to exceed 30 minutes, to consume any beverages already
served.
   (C)   Any person who consumes or intentionally permits the consumption of
any alcoholic beverage upon licensed premises after the time provided for in
division (B) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, as defined in Idaho Code
§§ 18-111 and 18-113.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of every person who is employed at or upon a
licensed premises, or who owns or manages a licensed premises, and is present
upon the licensed premises during the hours and at the time set forth in
division (A) of this section to lock up and keep locked up in a locked room or
locked cabinet all unsealed containers of liquor during the hours and at the
times set forth in division (A) above; and any such person who fails to perform
the duty provided herein shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, as defined in Idaho
Code §§ 18-111 and 18-113.
(Ord. 30 Amendment(2), passed 11-8-1987) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.23 EXTENSION APPROVAL.
   The various city councils may approve the extension of hours of sale of
liquor by the drink, beer, and wine by proper action by the city council, and
until such action by the city council, the provision in §
110.22 will not apply to the areas within the various city limits.
(Ord. 30 Amendment(2), passed 11-8-1987)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §§
110.01 through
110.03 and
110.05, or fails to comply with any of the terms and conditions thereof, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and be punished for such violation by fine up to
$350, or up to 30 days’ jail sentence, or both.
(Ord. 5, passed 6-12-1973)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
[Reserved]
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
151.   MANUFACTURED HOMES
      
152.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Purpose
   
150.002   Jurisdiction, interpretation, and administration
   
150.003   Definitions
   
150.004   Procedure for property division approval
Procedure for Subdivision Approval
   
150.015   Subdivision required
   
150.016   Application
   
150.017   Preliminary plats
   
150.018   Preliminary plat review
   
150.019   Final plat application
   
150.020   Final plat approval
Design and Improvement Standards
   
150.035   General; design standards
   
150.036   Names and dedications
   
150.037   Street and road location
   
150.038   Road specifications
   
150.039   Intersections and easements
   
150.040   Lots and blocks
   
150.041   General; improvement standards
   
150.042   Required public improvements
   
150.043   Guaranteed completion of improvements
Special Developments and Variances
   
150.055   Purpose; identifying special developments
   
150.056   Flood plains
   
150.057   Cemeteries
   
150.058   Other large developments
   
150.059   Variances
Violations and Enforcement
   
150.070   Civil enforcement
   
150.071   Sale of unplatted lots
   
150.072   Sale of property and applications
   
150.073   Unlawful subdivisions
 
   
150.999   Penalty
   Appendix A: Minimum Plat Certification Language
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The regulations described in this chapter are authorized by: Idaho
Code Title 31, Chapters 6, 7, and 8; Title 50, Chapter 13; and Title 67,
Chapter 65, as amended or subsequently codified.
   (B)   The purposes of the regulations described in this chapter are to
promote public health, safety, and general welfare, and to provide for:
      (1)   The orderly development of the county consistent with applicable
policies and plans adopted by the Board of County Commissioners;
      (2)   To achieve well laid-out streets and building sites in accordance
with proposed uses and adapted to the terrain and natural setting;
      (3)   To conserve the natural beauty of the county;
      (4)   To provide safe access, adequate drainage, and utilities for the
proposed sites;
      (5)   The avoidance of scattered subdivision of land as would involve
danger of injury to health, safety, or general welfare by reason of the lack of
water supply, drainage, transportation, or other public services, or the
unnecessary imposition of an excessive expenditure of public funds for the
supply of such services;
      (6)   The requirements as to the extent and manner in which roads shall
be created and improved; water, sewer, and other utility mains shall be
installed as condition precedent to the approval of a plat;
      (7)   The manner and form of making and filing of any plat; and
      (8)   The administration of the regulations described in this chapter by
defining the powers and duties of approval authorities, including procedures
for the equitable review and approval of all plats of subdivisions covered by
these provisions.
(Ord. 70, passed 5-19-2020)
§ 150.002 JURISDICTION, INTERPRETATION, AND ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Jurisdiction. These regulations shall apply to the subdividing of all
land within the unincorporated territory of the county, except within any area
of city impact for which the county has adopted regulations for subdivisions
within the area of city impact by separate ordinance pursuant to Idaho Code
Title 67, Chapter 65.
   (B)   Interpretation. Any subdivision, as defined within this chapter, shall
be submitted for approval of the Board of County Commissioners and shall comply
with the provisions of the regulations described in this chapter. Such
regulations shall supplement all other regulations, and where at variance with
other laws, regulations, ordinance, or resolutions, the more restrictive
requirements shall apply. It is not intended by this chapter to repeal,
abrogate, annul or in any way impart or interfere with existing provisions of
other laws, ordinances, or regulations, or with private restrictions placed
upon property by deed, covenant, or other private agreements, or with
restrictive covenants running with the land to which the county is a party.
   (C)   Administration. The County Clerk shall receive and process all
subdivision applications.
(Ord. 70, passed 5-19-2020)
§ 150.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AREA OF CITY IMPACT (AOCI). A geographical area where a city is expected to
grow into and annex at some future time. Idaho Code requires all cities to
define an AOCI with their respective counties. Besides defining the geographic
area for future growth, the AOCI also includes an agreement between a city and
county about which plans, policies, and development standards will apply in the
area. All proposed AREAS OF CITY IMPACT must be approved by the Board of County
Commissioners.
   BLOCK. A group of lots, tracts, or parcels within well-defined boundaries
(usually streets).
   BOARD. The Board of County Commissioners.
   BUILDING. A structure designed or used as the living quarters for one or
more families; or, the structure designed or used for occupancy by people for
commercial, industrial, or agricultural uses.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. An imaginary line established by subdivision
regulations requiring all buildings to be set back a certain distance from lot
lines and street rights of way. Subdivision SETBACK LINES must meet Idaho Local
Highway Technical Assistance Council (LHTAC) standards.
   BUILDING SITE. An area proposed or provided and improved by grading,
filling, excavation, or other means for erecting pads for buildings.
   CEMETERY. A lot or subdivision that has been planned for the selling of
sites for the burial of animal or human remains.
   CITY. The incorporated municipality having jurisdiction of the parcel of
land under consideration.
   COMMISSION. The Planning and Zoning Commission of the county, being the
Board of County Commissioners, having jurisdiction over the parcel of land
under consideration.
   COUNTY CLERK. The office of the County Clerk.
   COUNTY SURVEYOR. The registered surveyor appointed by the Board of County
Commissioners to check plats and make surveys, maps, and plats, as ordered by
the Board of County Commissioners.
   COVENANT. A written promise or pledge.
   CULVERT. A drain that channels water under a bridge, street, road, or
driveway.
   DEDICATION. The setting apart of land or interest in land for use by the
public. Land becomes dedicated when accepted by the county as a public
dedication, either by ordinance, resolution, entry in the official minutes, or
by the recording of a plat showing such dedication.
   DEVELOPER. Authorized agent(s) of a subdivider, or the subdivider himself or
herself.
   DIVISION(S). See definition of splits.
   DWELLING UNIT (PREFAB). A building or other structure proposed or built for
occupancy by people that is designed for initial transportation on streets and
highways, which arrives at a site where it is installed on a permanent
foundation.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner to specific persons or to the public
to use, and for specific purposes.
   ENGINEER. Any person who is licensed in the state to practice professional
engineering.
   FLOOD PLAIN. The relatively flat area or low land adjoining the channel of a
river, stream, water course, lake, or other body of standing water, which has
been, or may be, covered by water of a flood of 100-year frequency. The FLOOD
PLAIN includes the channel, floodway, and floodway fringe.
      (1)   FLOOD ON 100-YEAR FREQUENCY. A flood magnitude which has a 1%
chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
      (2)   FLOOD. The temporary inundation of land adjacent to and inundated
by overflow from a river, stream, lake, or other body of standing water.
      (3)   CHANNEL. A natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible extent,
with definite bed and banks to confine and conduct continuously or periodically
flowing water.
      (4)   DESIGNATED FLOODWAY. A floodway whose limits have been designated
as a floodway.
      (5)   FLOODWAY. The channel of a watercourse and those portions of the
flood plain adjoining the channels which are reasonably required to carry and
discharge the flood water of any watercourse.
      (6)   FLOODWAY-ENCROACHMENT LINES. The lines limiting a designated
floodway.
      (7)   FLOODWAY FRINGE. The part of the flood plain which is beyond the
floodway-encroachment lines limiting a designated floodway. Such areas will
include those portions of the flood plain which will be inundated by a flood
plain of 100-year frequency, but which may be developed for use under land use
regulations without material effect upon the flood water carrying capacity of
the floodway and the flood water levels. Such areas are characterized by
shallow flood depths and low velocities of water flow.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Board of County Commissioners.
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part is open to the use of the public for vehicular travel,
with jurisdiction extending to the adjacent property line, including:
sidewalks; shoulders; berms; and public rights-of-way not intended for
motorized traffic. The terms STREET or ROAD are interchangeable with HIGHWAY.
   IMPROVEMENT. Any alteration to the land or other physical construction
associated with subdivision and building site developments.
   LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT. A subdivision that has 20 or more lots or dwelling
units. It must be declared to the county if there are plans or possibilities
for a phased development which results in 20 or more lots by the final phase.
If this is the case, and the phases also utilize the same infrastructure (e.g.,
roads, water, sewer, and utility lines), then the subdivision will be treated
from the beginning as a LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT. The Board of County
Commissioners will make the final determination whether or not a proposal
qualifies as a LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT or not. The determination will be made
at the end of the application for a subdivision.
   LOCAL HEALTH AGENCY. North Central Public Health District.
   LOT. A parcel of land.
   LOT AREA. The area of any lot shall be determined exclusive of a dedicated
street, highway, public road, or railroad right-of-way.
   LOT TYPES. As used in the regulations described in this chapter, LOT TYPES
are as follows.
      (1)   CORNER LOT. A lot located at the intersection of two or more
streets.
      (2)   INTERIOR LOT. A lot other than a corner lot, with frontage on only
one street.
      (3)   RESERVED LOT. A lot with frontage on a side street or other right-
of-way, other than interior or corner lots.
      (4)   THROUGH LOT. A lot with frontage on more than one street; not a
corner lot. Also known as a DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A single family dwelling designed for transportation
after fabrication on streets and highways on its own wheels, or on a flatbed or
other trailer, and arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a
dwelling complete and ready for occupancy, except for minor incidental
unpacking and assembling operations, location on jacks, or other temporary or
permanent foundations, connections to utilities, and the like. A prefab
dwelling unit or travel trailer is not to be considered as a MANUFACTURED HOME.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A subdivision designed and intended for
residential use where residence is in manufactured homes exclusively.
   MONUMENT. Any permanent marker either of concrete, galvanized iron pipe, or
iron or steel rods used to permanently establish any tract, parcel, lot, or
street lines, as specified in Idaho Code § 50-1303.
   OPEN SPACE. An area open to the sky for outdoor recreation activity.
Streets, buildings, or other covered structures are not included in computing
these areas.
   ORIGINAL PARCEL OF LAND. A lot as recorded on any subdivision plat or
conveyance on file in the office of the County Recorder, and of record as of
May 3, 1983, or:
      (1)   Any one-sixteenth of a section (sectional one-fourth one-fourth);
      (2)   Any government lot;
      (3)   Any patented mining claim or mineral survey within a group lode
claim;
      (4)   Any homestead entry survey or any 40-acre parcel within a homestead
entry survey. In the event there is a remaining parcel of less than 40 acres,
that parcel will not be considered an original parcel; and
      (5)   This chapter shall not apply to any lot or lots forming a part of
any subdivision created or conveyance of real property made and recorded prior
to May 3, 1983, unless a split of any such lot or lots already created is/are
sought after May 2, 1983.
   OWNER. The person or persons, firm, association, syndicate, partnership,
corporation, or any other entity capable of holding title under state statute,
having proprietary interest in the land to be subdivided by either holding
title by a deed or as vendees under a land contract.
   PARCEL DIVISION. A recorded conveyance of a portion of a lot.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A use or a combination of residential, commercial,
industrial, and recreational uses planned for a tract of land to be developed
as a unit under single ownership or control, which is developed for the purpose
of selling or renting individual lots or estates, whether fronting on private
or dedicated streets.
   PLAT. The drawing, mapping, or planning of a subdivision, cemetery,
townsite, or other tract of land, or a re-platting of such including
certifications, descriptions, and approvals.
      (1)   PRELIMINARY PLAT. The first formal presentation by maps or drawings
of a proposed subdivision.
      (2)   FINAL PLAT. The final and formal presentation by a map drawn as
herein set forth of an approved subdivision development, the original and one
copy of which is filed with the County Clerk and County Recorder.
   RESERVE STRIP. A strip of land between a dedicated street or partial street
and adjacent property; in either case, reserved or held in public ownership for
future street extension or widening.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land dedicated or reserved for use as a public way
which may include streets, sidewalks, and other public utilities or service
areas.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of sidewalks, shoulders, berms, and other portions
of the public right-of-way.
      (1)   ALLEY. A public way of limited use intended to provide access to
the rear or side of lots or buildings in urban districts.
      (2)   ARTERIAL. A general term including expressways, major and minor
arterial streets and interstate, and state or county highways having regional
continuity.
      (3)   COLLECTOR. A street or highway that provides for traffic movement
within neighborhoods of the local highway jurisdiction, between major streets
and local streets, and for direct access to abutting property.
      (4)   COMMERCIAL. A street designated for the purpose of providing
traffic movement in a commercial area.
      (5)   CUL-DE-SAC. A road or street having one end permanently terminated
in a vehicular turnaround.
      (6)   DEAD END. A street connecting to another street at one end only and
not having provision for vehicular turnaround at its terminus.
      (7)   FRONTAGE. A minor street, parallel and adjacent to an arterial
street, which has the primary purpose of providing access to abutting
properties.
      (8)   HALF STREET. A portion of the width of a street, usually along the
edge of a subdivision where the remaining portion of the street could be
provided in an adjoining subdivision.
      (9)   HIGHWAY. A street designated as a state or federal highway by the
state or federal agency responsible therefor.
      (10)   INDUSTRIAL. A street designated for the purpose of providing
traffic movement in an industrial area.
      (11)   LOOP. A minor street with both terminal points on the same street
of origin.
      (12)   MINOR STREET. A street which has the primary purpose of providing
access to abutting properties.
      (13)   PARTIAL STREET. A dedicated right-of-way providing only a portion
of the required street width, usually along the edge of a subdivision or tract
of land.
       (14)   PRIVATE STREET. A street which provides vehicular and pedestrian
access to one or more properties, however, not accepted for public dedication
or maintenance.
       (15)   SIDE STREET. A secondary street that provides access to a corner
lot of which the principal building is not oriented toward.
      (16)   STREET. A right-of-way which provides access to adjacent
properties, the dedication of which has been officially accepted. STREET also
includes the terms highway, thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, boulevard,
lane, place, and other such terms.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street right-of-way outside the street pavement
which is improved for pedestrian use. Also known as WALKWAY.
   SPLIT. The creation of two or more parcels from an existing parcel.
   STATE. State of Idaho.
   STATE HEALTH AGENCY. The state’s Department of Health and Welfare, Division
of Environmental Quality.
   SUBDIVIDER. The individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association,
syndicate, trust, or other legal entity that executes the application and
initiates proceedings for the subdivision of land in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter; or who subdivides land without going through the
application process. The SUBDIVIDER need not be the owner of the property;
however, he or she shall be an agent of the owner or have sufficient
proprietary rights in the property to represent the owner.
   SUBDIVISION. Effective May 3, 1983, the division of any original parcel of
land into five or more parts for the purpose of transfer of ownership or
development; or the division of any original parcel of land of five acres or
less in which any parcel is less than one acre. However, this chapter shall not
apply to any of the following:
      (1)   The exchange of land for the purpose of adjusting property
boundaries between two existing lots;
      (2)   An allocation of land in the settlement of an estate of a decedent
or a court decree for the distribution of property;
      (3)   The unwilling sale of land as a result of legal condemnation as
defined and allowed in the Idaho Code;
      (4)   Widening of existing street; or
      (5)   The acquisition of collector and arterial street right-of-way by a
public agency.
(Ord. 70, passed 5-19-2020)
§ 150.004 PROCEDURE FOR PROPERTY DIVISION APPROVAL.
   (A)   Parcel division review procedure for parcels outside recorded
subdivisions. As of May 3, 1983, any property owner desiring to divide a parcel
of land not in a recorded subdivision may voluntarily submit an application for
parcel division review to the County Assessor’s Deed Processor, along with a
$25 application fee.
      (1)   The application initiates a review of the number of divisions
within the original parcel of land after May 3, 1983. If the review determines
that a violation would not occur from another parcel division, a parcel
division approval will be recorded and sent to the subdivider.
      (2)   The parcel division approval is only valid for the current property
owner at the time it is issued. If the review determines that the original
parcel of land has had four or more divisions since May 3, 1983, a parcel
division denial will be recorded and sent to the applicant.
      (3)   If an applicant still desires to divide a parcel of land after
receiving a parcel division denial, he or she must either obtain a variance
from the Board of County Commissioners, pursuant to §§
150.055 through
150.059, or record a subdivision plat that has been approved by the Board of
County Commissioners, pursuant to §§
150.015 through
150.020. Parcel divisions excepted from this section are parcels within
incorporated city limit boundaries.
   (B)   Parcels within an officially recorded platted subdivision. As of May
3, 1983, whenever a property owner proposes to re-subdivide, replat, or amend
the plat of an approved preliminary plat, final plat, or a recorded
subdivision, the developer shall file a new application for a subdivision, and
such application shall be processed in the manner set forth in the procedure
for subdivision approval, or apply for a variance.
(Ord. 70, passed 5-19-2020)
PROCEDURE FOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL
§ 150.015 SUBDIVISION REQUIRED.
   Any person desiring to create a subdivision, as defined by this chapter,
shall submit all necessary applications to the County Clerk. No final plat
shall be filed with the County Clerk until the plat has been approved by the
Board of County Commissioners. No lots shall be sold from any plat until it has
been recorded in the office of the County Clerk. This section shall not be used
to prevent the recording of a drawing or map of parcels of land that are
specifically excluded from the definition of subdivision, as listed in §
150.003.
(Ord. 70, passed 5-19-2020)
§ 150.016 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person interested in subdividing any parcel of land within the
county must fill out an application for subdivisions, and submit a fee equal to
$100 per proposed lot in the subdivision. The subdivider will then be placed on
the agenda of the Board of County Commissioners at its next available regular
meeting, as approved by the Chairperson.
   (B)   At that meeting, the subdivider should provide a general outline of
his or her plan to the Board of County Commissioners, during which time there
shall be a discussion about:
      (1)   The checklist for subdivision approval;
      (2)   Any unique environmental or hazardous concerns that may be directly
or indirectly associated with the subject property;
      (3)   Any known special permits required;
      (4)   Whether the subdivision is in an area of city impact or in a flood
plain;
      (5)   Whether it is a large scale development (more than 20 lots);
      (6)   Whether it is a manufactured home subdivision;
      (7)   Whether any subsequent developments are planned;
      (8)   Whether any variances are being sought; and
      (9)   What the fees and costs are expected to be.
   (C)   Once the subdivider has made his or her intentions known to the Board
of County Commissioners, as described above, the Board of County Commissioners
may grant or deny approval for proceeding. Approval is granted by a motion of
the Board of County Commissioners and is recorded in the minutes, along with a
signed application for subdivision. Once the subdivider has received approval
for proceeding, he or she can file a preliminary plat.
(Ord. 70, passed 5-19-2020)
§ 150.017 PRELIMINARY PLATS.
   Any subdivider must file with the County Clerk a preliminary plat and
preliminary plat data, as required by this chapter in such form and content as
is required.
   (A)   Technical requirements for preliminary plats. The following technical
information shall be provided in the preliminary plat:
      (1)   The name of the proposed subdivision. The name shall not duplicate,
or be deceptively similar to, an existing subdivision name;
      (2)   The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the subdivider or
subdividers and the engineer or surveyor who prepared the plat;
      (3)   The legal description of the subdivision;
      (4)   A statement of the intended use of the proposed subdivision, such
as, residential single-family, two-family, and multiple housing, commercial,
industrial, recreational, or agricultural, and a showing of any sites proposed
for parks, playgrounds, schools, churches, or other public uses;
      (5)   A map of the entire area scheduled for development if the proposed
subdivision is a portion of a larger holding intended for subsequent
development;
      (6)   A vicinity map showing the relationship of the proposed plat to the
surrounding area (half-mile minimum radius, scale optional);
      (7)   Streets, street names, rights-of-way, and roadway widths, including
adjoining streets or roadways;
      (8)   Lot lines, dimensions, numbers, and the total number of lots by
blocks;
      (9)    If requested by the Board, the County Surveyor, or the County
Engineer, contours, shown at five-foot intervals where land slope is greater
than 10% and at two-foot intervals where land slope is 10% or less, with an
established benchmark including location and elevation;
      (10)   A proposed method of sewage disposal and domestic water supply and
any additional supporting data as may be required by the local and/or state
health agencies;
      (11)   Any proposed or existing utilities, including, but not limited to:
storm and sanitary sewers; irrigation laterals; ditches; drainages; bridges;
culverts; water mains; fire hydrants; and their respective profiles or
indicated alternative methods;
      (12)   A copy of any proposed restrictive covenants and/or deed
restrictions or, if none, a statement that none are proposed;
      (13)   Any dedication to the public and/or easements, together with a
statement of locations, dimensions, and purpose of such;
      (14)   Any additional required information for special developments, as
specified in §§
150.055 through
150.059;
      (15)   A statement as to whether or not a variance will be requested with
respect to any provision of this chapter describing the particular provision,
the variance requested, and the reasons therefor; and
      (16)   Engineering plans for streets, water, sewers, sidewalks, and other
required public improvements. Said plans shall be submitted and bear a stamp of
a licensed professional engineer.
   (B)   Further documentation to accompany the preliminary plat.
      (1)   Application for subdivision/land development review with the North
Central Public Health District must be made and completed. The subdivider must
provide the Board of County Commissioners with a copy of the letter from North
Central Public Health stating that the sanitary restrictions have been
satisfied;
      (2)   A letter from the public road jurisdiction (which may be the United
States Forest Service in some cases) stating: approval of the subdivision
roads; approval and grant of approach permits for any connections between
subdivision roads and public roads; as well as acknowledgment that subdivision
roads do indeed connect to a public road with adequate easements; and
      (3)   Documentation/evidence of legal access to all lots within the
subdivision.
   (C)   Method of submission. Two copies of the preliminary plat of the
proposed subdivision along with further documentation, now in accordance with
the requirements hereinabove stated, shall be given to the County Clerk; each
copy of said plat shall be on good quality paper, shall have dimensions of not
less than 18 inches by 27 inches, shall be drawn to scale of not less than one
inch to 100 feet, shall show the drafting date, and shall indicate thereon by
arrow the generally northerly direction of the land depicted.
(Ord. 70, passed 5-19-2020; Ord. 71-B, passed 12-20-2022)
§ 150.018 PRELIMINARY PLAT REVIEW.
   (A)   When the subdivider files a preliminary plat and further documentation
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, the plat upon its filing
with the County Clerk may be submitted to the County Surveyor and/or Engineer,
as determined by the Board of County Commissioners, and subsequently given to
the County Surveyor and/or Engineer within five business days. The County
Surveyor and/or Engineer shall make a recommendation to the Board of County
Commissioners concerning the technical appropriateness of the content of the
plat and shall recommend how deficiencies or shortcomings of the preliminary
plat might be overcome.
   (B)   Once the Board of County Commissioners has received the review of the
preliminary plat by the County Surveyor and/or Engineer, or the Board of County
Commissioners has sufficiently reviewed the preliminary plat by itself, then
consideration of the preliminary plat by the Board of County Commissioners can
be placed on the agenda of the Board of County Commissioners.
      (1)   The Board of County Commissioners may approve, disapprove, or table
the preliminary plat pending additional information or necessary modifications.
The action and reason for such action shall be stated in writing by the Board
of County Commissioners to the subdivider, including any necessary
modifications for approval.
      (2)   (a)   If necessary modifications are required of the preliminary
plat before approval, the subdivider must resubmit the preliminary plat with
the changes completed. The resubmitted preliminary plat may again be submitted
to the County Surveyor and/or Engineer for review and recommendation to the
Board of County Commissioners.
         (b)   Once the recommendation of the County Surveyor and/or Engineer
is received by the Board of County Commissioners, or the Board of County
Commissioners has sufficiently reviewed the preliminary plat by itself, the
consideration of the preliminary plat can once again be placed on the agenda of
the Board of County Commissioners, and the Board of County Commissioners can
take the same actions as stated above.
         (c)   The subdivider or property owner must pay the County Clerk for
the cost of the additional review by the County Surveyor and/or Engineer before
the consideration of the resubmitted plat can be placed on the agenda, if
indeed the cost of additional review(s) has exceeded the $100 per proposed lot
fee already collected in the application process.
      (3)   If the Board of County Commissioners’ conclusion is approval of the
preliminary plat, the subdivider shall, at that time, proceed to comply with
the balance of the requirements of this chapter concerning final plats.
(Ord. 70, passed 5-19-2020)
§ 150.019 FINAL PLAT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Once the preliminary plat has been approved by the Board of County
Commissioners, the subdivider shall cause the subdivision, or any part thereof,
to be surveyed and a formal plat prepared in accordance with the approved
preliminary plat.
   (B)   The subdivider shall submit to the County Clerk four copies of the
final plat and four copies of the final engineering construction drawings; for
example: streets; water; sewers; sidewalks; and other public improvements.
   (C)   The content of any final plat shall include all of the technical
details set forth for preliminary plats, earlier referred to in §§
150.017(A)(1) through (A)(16), excluding division (A)(10); and shall, in
addition, be in complete compliance with all of the items required under Idaho
Code Title 50, Chapter 13; and shall be drawn at such a scale and contain
lettering of such size as to enable the same to be placed on one or more sheets
of 18-inch by 27-inch drawing paper, with no part of the drawing nearer to the
edge than one inch. The reverse of said sheet shall not be used for any portion
of the drawing, written matter as to dedications, certifications of various
county officers, or other similar information. Language and certifications on
the final plat shall contain, at a minimum, that language and those sections
set forth in Appendix A.
   (D)   The final plat submittal shall also include the following:
      (1)   A written statement from the developer’s engineer to the Board of
County Commissioners which states that all aspects of the plat that were
engineered were done so according to acceptable engineering practices and
standards, and the engineer assumes liability for quality control and quality
assurance;
      (2)   A certification by the owner that he or she holds fee title to all
the property within the boundaries of the subdivision;
      (3)   A certification by the County Recorder that the plat is technically
correct for recording purposes;
      (4)   A certification by the County Assessor that the proposed lots and
other graphic subdivisions within the plat are technically correct for ad
valorem taxation purposes;
      (5)   A certification by the County Surveyor that all technical
requirements of this chapter and the technical requirements of Idaho Code Title
50, Chapter 13 have been met;
      (6)   A certification by the County Treasurer that all ad valorem
property taxes concerning the property described within the plat have been
paid;
      (7)   A certification of the public road jurisdiction approving the final
plat concerning all roadways and approach permits involved and acknowledging
that the subdivision’s roadways connect to a public roadway, with adequate
easements. The public road jurisdiction further certifies the dedication of the
roadway, whether public or private, and where the responsibility of maintenance
lies;
      (8)   A certification that sanitary restrictions have been met; and
      (9)   A written request for approval of the final plat submitted from the
owner and developer that includes:
         (a)   A request for approval;
         (b)   A statement of conformance to all requirements and provisions of
this chapter, excepting any variances granted;
         (c)   A statement that any plat requirements that were deemed
necessary by the Board of County Commissioners have been satisfied and met in
all respects;
         (d)   A statement of conformance with the recommendations of the
County Surveyor and/or Engineer, if a County Surveyor and/or Engineer was
employed by the county for review;
         (e)   Acknowledgment and assurance that construction will be done
according to the engineering and survey plans submitted to the Board of County
Commissioners; and
         (f)   Statement that the owner, developer, and developer’s engineer
assume liability for quality control and quality assurance.
(Ord. 70, passed 5-19-2020)
§ 150.020 FINAL PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   Upon the receipt of the required numbers of copies of the final plat
and the required numbers of copies of the final engineering construction
drawings as are hereunder required, and upon receipt of all other written
certifications hereinabove set forth (some are contained on the plat itself,
see Appendix A), the County Clerk shall place review of the final plat on the
agenda of the Board of County Commissioners at the next available regularly
scheduled meeting, upon approval of the Chairperson; and the Board of County
Commissioners, if it shall find that all certifications are proper and that the
plat is in conformance with the terms of this chapter, and the modifications of
the preliminary plat earlier were satisfied and approved, approve the final
plat. Otherwise, the Board of County Commissioners will put in writing to the
subdivider its reason for disapproving or tabling the final plat.
   (B)   Upon the approval of the final plat by the Board of County
Commissioners, the subdivider shall submit the final plat to the County Clerk
for recording.
      (1)   Final plat and covenants (if any) shall be filed with the County
Recorder within 90 days after written approval by the Board of County
Commissioners has been had; otherwise, such approval shall become null and
void, unless, prior to the said expiration date, an extension of time is
applied for and granted by the Board of County Commissioners. This extension of
time is applied for by a written letter to the Board of County Commissioners.
      (2)   The letter must arrive to the County Clerk before the 90 days,
referenced in division (B)(1) above, have passed. The letter must state the
request, the reason for the need of an extension, and the anticipated recording
date. The maximum extension is one year from the date of the approval of the
final plat.
(Ord. 70, passed 5-19-2020)
DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
§ 150.035 GENERAL; DESIGN STANDARDS.
   All plats submitted pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, and all
subdivision improvements and facilities done, constructed, or made in
accordance with said provisions, shall fully comply with the minimum design
standards set forth hereinafter in this subchapter; provided, however, that any
higher standards adopted by any highway district, state highway department, or
health agency shall prevail over those set forth herein.
(Ord. 70, passed 5-19-2020)
§ 150.036 NAMES AND DEDICATIONS.
   (A)   All streets may be dedicated to the public. Streets may be dedicated
as private or to a homeowner’s association. No matter the specific dedication,
all streets must meet the standards put forth by the public road jurisdiction.
   (B)   The naming of streets shall conform to the following: street names
shall not duplicate any existing street name, or be deceptively similar, within
the county, except where a new street is a continuation of an existing street.
(Ord. 70, passed 5-19-2020) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.037 STREET AND ROAD LOCATION.
   Street and road location shall conform to the following.
   (A)   Street location and arrangements. When a major street plan or
comprehensive development plan has been adopted, subdivision streets shall
conform to such plans.
   (B)   Local or minor streets. Shall be so arranged as to discourage their
use by through traffic.
   (C)   Street continuation and extension. The arrangement of streets shall
provide for the continuation of existing streets from adjoining areas into new
subdivisions unless otherwise approved by the Board of County Commissioners and
the Highway District or Department having jurisdiction over such streets.
   (D)   Stub streets. Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the
arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall be such that said streets
extend to the boundary line of the tract to make provisions for the future
extension of said streets into adjacent areas. A reserve strip may be required
and held in public ownership.
   (E)   Relation to topography. Streets shall be arranged in proper relation
to topography so as to result in usable lots, safe streets, and acceptable
gradients.
   (F)   Alleys. Alleys shall be provided in multiple dwelling or commercial
subdivisions, unless other provisions are made for service access and off-
street loading and parking. Dead end alleys shall be prohibited in all cases.
   (G)   Cul-de-sac streets. In any case where a proposed cul-de-sac street
exceeds 900 feet in length, the Board of County Commissioners may require,
based upon safety considerations, that said cul-de-sac street not exceed 900
feet. Furthermore, any cul-de-sac street shall have an adequate turn-around
area at its terminating end, having a minimum radius of 60 feet for right-of-
way.
   (H)   Half streets. Half streets shall be prohibited except where unusual
circumstances make such necessary to the reasonable development of a tract in
conformance with this chapter and where satisfactory assurance for dedication
of the remaining part of the street is provided. Whenever a tract to be
subdivided borders on an existing half or partial street, the other part of the
street shall be dedicated within such tracts.
(Ord. 70, passed 5-19-2020) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.038 ROAD SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Road specifications must meet the standards of the public road
jurisdiction. Approach permits must be obtained by the subdivider from the
public road jurisdiction. The public road jurisdiction may require additional
road work be done by the subdivider upon adjoining roads that are impacted by a
large scale development (e.g., requiring a left hand turn lane) if required for
traffic safety and the reasonable maintenance of the road.
   (B)   If the public road jurisdiction is the county’s Road and Bridge
Department, the following road standards must be met: Idaho Local Highway
Technical Assistance Council (LHTAC) standards shall be used in the design and
construction, except:
      (1)   Plant mix pavement is not required by this chapter. Two inches of
top course of one inch minus crushed rock material may be substituted for the
plant mix pavement, and this in addition to the four inches of base material,
where the owner, developer, and engineer have assumed liability for quality
control and assurance of the final product;
      (2)   Gradation and compaction of sub-base or ballast may be modified
where the owner, developer, and engineer have assumed liability for quality
control and assurance of the final product; and
      (3)   Compaction of subgrade may be modified where the owner, developer,
and engineer have assumed liability for quality control and assurance of the
final product.
(Ord. 70, passed 5-19-2020)
§ 150.039 INTERSECTIONS AND EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Intersection specifications must meet the standards put forth by the
public road jurisdiction. If the public road jurisdiction is the county’s Road
and Bridge Department, intersection specifications must meet Idaho Local
Highway Technical Assistance Council (LHTAC) standards.
   (B)   Unobstructed utility easements shall be provided according to state
law and the serving utility. Total easement width shall be not less than 12
feet where lots adjoin. Unobstructed drainage way easements shall be provided.
(Ord. 70, passed 5-19-2020)
§ 150.040 LOTS AND BLOCKS.
   (A)   Blocks. Every block shall be so designed as to provide two tiers of
lots, except where lots back onto an arterial street, natural topographic
feature, or subdivision boundary. Block lengths shall be 300 feet or greater.
   (B)   Minimum lot sizes. The Board of County Commissioners may approve
minimum lot sizes for the area to be served as follows:
      (1)   Public water and public sewage disposal service according to North
Central Public Health District standards; and
      (2)   Individual well and individual sub-surface sewage disposal service
according to North Central Public Health District and the state’s Department of
Water Resources standards.
   (C)   Zoning. The lot width, depth, and total area shall not be less than
the requirements of any applicable zoning ordinance.
   (D)   Lot lines. Side lot lines should be within 30 degrees of perpendicular
to straight streets and shall be within 30 degrees of radial to curved streets.
   (E)   Width related to length. Narrow, deep lots should be avoided.
   (F)   Corner lots. Corner lots shall have sufficient extra width to permit
appropriate building setback from both streets or orientation to both streets,
pursuant Idaho Local Highway Technical Assistance Council (LHTAC) standards.
   (G)   Uninhabitable areas. Land subject to flooding or which shall be
otherwise deemed to be uninhabitable shall not be platted for residential
purposes, or for any other uses that may increase or create a danger to health,
life, or property, or which may increase or create a flood hazard. Such land
within a subdivision shall be set aside for other uses, such as parks or other
open spaces.
   (H)   Lot frontage. All rectangular lots shall have at least 25 feet of
frontage upon a publicly dedicated street. Variances may be permitted for an
approved planned development.
   (I)   Existing lots. If existing lots are included in a subdivision plat and
owned by someone else other than the owner of the rest of the lots, the other
owners shall sign the ownership certifications on the final plat.
(Ord. 70, passed 5-19-2020)
§ 150.041 GENERAL; IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish and define the public
improvements which will be required to be constructed by the subdivider as
conditions for final plat approval and also to outline the procedures and
responsibilities of the subdivider and the various public officials and
agencies concerned with the administration, planning, design, construction, and
financing of public facilities, and to further establish procedures for
assuring compliance with these requirements.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider of every proposed
subdivision to have prepared, by a registered engineer, a complete set of
construction plans, including: profiles; cross-section specifications; and
other supporting data, for all required public streets, utilities, and other
facilities. All construction plans hereunder required shall be prepared in
accordance with the public agency’s standards or specifications.
(Ord. 70, passed 5-19-2020)
§ 150.042 REQUIRED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   Every subdivider shall be required to install the following public and other
improvements in accordance with the conditions and specifications as follows.
   (A)   Monuments. Monuments shall be set in accordance with Idaho Code § 50-
1303. In addition, permanent monumentation shall be required on the centerline
of all roads at the point of intersection, point of terminus, or the point of
curvature on all curves.
   (B)   Streets and alleys. All streets and alleys shall be constructed in
accordance with the standards put forth by the public road jurisdiction. In
addition, all streets and alleys on an approved plat shall be under the
jurisdictions of the particular public road jurisdiction that have the proposed
subdivisions within its boundaries.
   (C)   Installation of public utilities. Underground utilities are
recommended and may be required by the Board of County Commissioners in areas
where overhead facilities would not be compatible with the surrounding
properties. However, in areas where underground facilities would be
impracticable or unreasonably costly, a subdivider may apply to the Board of
County Commissioners for a determination of the issue prior to the submission
of any final plat.
   (D)   Storm drainage. Prior to the submission of any final plat, the
developer’s engineer shall certify that the proposed plat has an adequate storm
drainage system based upon appropriate engineering standards for the removal of
the surface water (needs to be on the preliminary plat or during the
preliminary plat process).
   (E)   Water supply system. When a proposed subdivision is to be serviced by
a public water supply system, fire hydrants, and other required water system
appurtenances, shall be provided by the subdivider. If there is no existing or
accessible public water supply system, the subdivider may be required to
install a water supply system for the common use of the lots within the
subdivision, as approved by the North Central Public Health District.
Individual wells may be permitted in accordance with the requirements of the
state’s Department of Water Resources and North Central Public Health District.
The subdivider shall be required to provide a written statement from North
Central Public Health District approving any proposed water system. Failure on
the part of the subdivider to provide approval of the water system by North
Central Public Health District shall be grounds for denial of the subdivision.
   (F)   Sanitary sewer systems. Must meet public health standards.
(Ord. 70, passed 5-19-2020)
§ 150.043 GUARANTEED COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Only lots with a completed road according to the public road
jurisdiction’s requirements can be sold. The Board of County Commissioners must
receive a notarized affidavit of road completion from the developer/
subdivider’s engineer stating that the road is finished to said lots in
question from which the developer/subdivider would like to sell, before those
lots can be sold. This letter must be signed and agreed to by the Chairperson
or Supervisor of the public road jurisdiction, and it must contain the
instrument number of the recorded subdivision plat.
   (B)   If the subdivider wants to sell lots to which the road has not been
completed, the subdivider must submit a bond to the public road jurisdiction in
such amount as agreed to by the public road jurisdiction. The agreement may
include some compensation for costs incurred in this case by the public road
jurisdiction in dealing with the bond and inspections. The maximum amount of
time given to the developer/subdivider to complete the road is five years.
(Ord. 70, passed 5-19-2020)
SPECIAL DEVELOPMENTS AND VARIANCES
§ 150.055 PURPOSE; IDENTIFYING SPECIAL DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to identify the various types of
special developments that normally pose special concerns to the Board of County
Commissioners and elected officials when reviewing and acting upon subdivision
requests. Therefore, this subchapter outlines the general plan submittal
requirements and design standards that shall be taken into consideration when
acting on special developments. The provisions of this subchapter are in
addition to the plan requirements and design standards that are required by §§
150.015 through
150.020 and
150.035 through
150.040. The required information shall be submitted to the County Clerk with
the preliminary plat.
   (B)   The developer shall provide the Board of County Commissioners with a
drawing or map of adequate scale to show the completed development, and will
include, at least, the following:
      (1)   The exterior boundary of the site; and
      (2)   A topographic map showing contour lines at an adequate interval for
the site, any major natural features, such as: large rock outcroppings;
streams; lakes; and the like, with existing natural ground cover of the area,
such as: trees; meadows; cropland; sage; and the like.
(Ord. 70, passed 5-19-2020)
§ 150.056 FLOOD PLAINS.
   (A)   For any proposed subdivision that is located or partially located
within a flood plain, the developer shall provide the Board of County
Commissioners with a development plan of adequate scale, and supporting
documentation that will show and explain, at least, the following:
      (1)   Location of all planned improvement;
      (2)   The location of the floodway and the floodway fringe per
engineering practices, as specified by the Army Corps of Engineers;
      (3)   Any planned rerouting of water channels;
      (4)   All major drainage ways;
      (5)   Areas of frequent flooding; and
      (6)   Means of flood proofing buildings.
   (B)   Upon the determination that buildings are planned within the flood
plain or that alterations of any kind are anticipated within the flood plain
area that will alter the flow of water, the developer shall, through design,
demonstrate conclusively to the Board of County Commissioners that such
development will not present a hazard to life or limb, hazard to property, or
adverse effects on the safety, use, or stability of a public way or drainage
channel.
   (C)   In determining the appropriateness of a subdivision for land located
within a flood plain, the Board of County Commissioners shall consider the
objectives of this chapter, and, at least, the following:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to the increased risk of flood;
      (2)   The danger that improvements may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others;
      (3)   The adequacy of proposed water supply and sanitation systems and
the ability of these systems to prevent disease, contamination, and unsanitary
conditions under flood conditions;
      (4)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage;
      (5)   The compatibility of the proposed uses with existing development,
and development anticipated in the foreseeable future;
      (6)   The relationship of the proposed subdivision to the flood plain
management program for the area;
      (7)   The safety of access to the property for emergency vehicles;
      (8)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the flood waters expected at the site; and
      (9)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as: sewer; gas; electrical; water systems; streets; and bridges. No
subdivision, or part thereof, shall be approved if levees, fills, structures,
or other features within the proposed subdivision will individually or
collectively significantly increase flood-flows, heights, or damages. If only
part of a proposed subdivision can be developed, the Board of County
Commissioners shall limit development to that part and shall require the
developer to proceed consistent with that determination.
   (D)   Any subdivision lying within the boundaries of any flood plain shall
clearly show on the final plat said flood plain boundaries.
(Ord. 70, passed 5-19-2020)
§ 150.057 CEMETERIES.
   (A)   The developer shall provide the Board of County Commissioners with
written documentation that will sufficiently explain if the proposed cemetery
will be used for either human or animal remains or the functions that are
anticipated on the property.
   (B)   The developer shall submit a written statement that has been prepared
by an attorney that adequately assures the compliance of the proposed cemetery
with the procedural platting requirements and management requirements that are
outlined in Idaho Code Title 27.
(Ord. 70, passed 5-19-2020)
§ 150.058 OTHER LARGE DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Manufactured home subdivisions. Density in the subdivision will be so
limited as to not create a substantial fire risk.
   (B)   Large scale developments. Due to the impact that a large scale
development would have on public utilities and services, the developer shall
submit the following information along with the preliminary plat:
      (1)   Identification of all public services that would be provided to the
development that will occur as a result of the subdivision (i.e., fire
protection, police protection, central water, central sewer, road construction,
recreation, maintenance, schools, and the like);
      (2)   Estimate the public service costs to provide adequate service to
the development;
      (3)   Estimate the tax revenue that will be generated from the
development; and
      (4)   Public means of financing the services for the development if any
public services would not be offset by tax revenue received from the
development.
(Ord. 70, passed 5-19-2020)
§ 150.059 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Where in the case of a particular proposed subdivision it can be shown
that strict compliance with the requirements of this chapter would result in
extraordinary hardship to the subdivider because of unusual topography, other
physical conditions, or other such conditions which are not self-inflicted, or
that these conditions would result in inhibiting the achievement of the
objectives of this chapter, the Board of County Commissioners may grant a
variance, modification, or waiver of certain requirements. No variance shall be
granted unless the Board of County Commissioners finds, after a public hearing:
      (1)   There are such special circumstances or conditions affecting said
property that the strict application of the provisions of this chapter would
clearly be impracticable, or unreasonable;
      (2)   The granting of the specified variance will not be detrimental to
the real value of other property in the area in which said property is
situated;
      (3)   Such variance will not violate the provisions of Idaho Code;
      (4)   Such variance will not have the effect of nullifying the interest
and purpose of this charter;
      (5)   The public hearing required before the Board of County
Commissioners shall be after at least 15 days’ notice to adjoining property
owners, or if in an existing subdivision, to all subdivision owners, and at
least 15 days after one publication in the Idaho County Free Press.
Furthermore, the Board of County Commissioners shall not disapprove any
variance unless the same notice requirements have been met, and a public
hearing is held before the Board of County Commissioners in relation to the
sought-after variance; and
      (6)   The subdivider shall be required to pay a filing fee of $400 for
the costs of publication and notice of hearing that shall be incurred by the
Board of County Commissioners in processing an application for a variance.
   (B)   If a developer intends to develop an area as a planned unit
development, it shall be so stated as part of the presentation to the Board of
County Commissioners concerning preliminary plats and, as such, shall be
considered automatically at variance with portions of this chapter. Special
permission from the Board of County Commissioners to proceed in this manner
shall be obtained at the next regularly scheduled meeting after the preliminary
plat has been submitted. In considering this request, the Board of County
Commissioners shall take into account the nature of the proposed use of land
and the existing land use in the vicinity, and the number of persons to reside
or work in the proposed subdivision.
   (C)   When a request is made for a variance, modification, or waiver of a
portion of this chapter, the Board of County Commissioners shall approve or
disapprove the request. This action may be taken before or at the time of the
preliminary plat approval.
(Ord. 70, passed 5-19-2020)
VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 150.070 CIVIL ENFORCEMENT.
   Appropriate actions and proceedings may be taken at law or in equity to
prevent any violation of the regulations described in this chapter, to prevent
unlawful land division, to recover damages, to restrain, correct, or abate a
violation, to prevent illegal divisions of land for development purposes; and
these remedies may be in place of or in addition to the other penalties
described in this subchapter.
(Ord. 70, passed 5-19-2020)
§ 150.071 SALE OF UNPLATTED LOTS.
   (A)   A person upon whom a penalty is imposed shall receive written notice
of intent to assess the penalty provided in this section, including the factual
basis supporting the imposition of the penalty. Before any action may be taken,
the Board of County Commissioners shall give the property owner written notice
via certified mail. Any notice sent via certified mail which is returned to the
Board of County Commissioners shall be re-sent via first class mail.
   (B)   The penalty may be appealed to the Board of County Commissioners.
Notice of appeal request must be submitted, in writing, to the Board of County
Commissioners within 30 days from the mailing of the written notice of intent.
   (C)   (1)   If the Board of County Commissioners finds that a violation of
this section occurred, or if the alleged violator fails to appear at the appeal
hearing, or fails to request a hearing, the violation shall be deemed to have
been conclusively established, and the appropriate penalty shall be applied. A
person upon whom a penalty is imposed and for whom the appeal period has
expired, or for whom an appeal is denied by the Board of County Commissioners,
shall receive written demand to remit payment for the penalty within 30 days of
the mailing of the demand.
      (2)   Enforcement of the penalty provided in this section shall not
preclude the Board of County Commissioners from taking additional enforcement
action as otherwise authorized by law, including, but not limited to: enjoining
such action from continuing further.
   (D)   Further, and in addition to the injunctive powers set forth herein,
should the Board of County Commissioners determine that an illegal subdivision
has already occurred in any particular instance after May 3, 1983, the Board of
County Commissioners may notify the subdivider and all current record owners of
the land within the subdivision of the existing violations. The subdividers and
the landowners shall then, within 30 days of the receipt of notice, provide
evidence to the Board of County Commissioners of their intention to properly
plat the existing ground in conformance with the requirements in each detail.
   (E)   In no event, without the express written consent of the Board of
County Commissioners, should longer than six months be allowed for completion
of the platting process if this method is followed. In the event that evidence
of the intent to plat is not submitted as hereunder required, the Board of
County Commissioners may contract to plat the property.
   (F)   (1)   The county shall have the right to cause the necessary required
public improvements, including streets of proper width, to be reflected on the
plat, and no claim shall be made by either the subdivider or a then-existing
landowner or contract purchaser of the county’s assumption of additional
property concerning public improvements that might be necessary to comply with
the terms of this chapter.
      (2)   Should the county proceed by this method, the subdivider and the
landowners should be jointly and severally liable to the county for all costs
incurred by the county and any other incidental costs to produce the plat in
conformity with the requirements hereof. Upon the determination of all such
costs, the county shall be entitled to claim a lien back against all property
within the subdivision upon a duly recorded lien; which lien must be foreclosed
by a lawsuit of the District Court of the Second Judicial District of the state
within six months of the recording of the lien.
(Ord. 70, passed 5-19-2020) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.072 SALE OF PROPERTY AND APPLICATIONS.
   If a portion of the property that is the subject of a subdivision
application is divided prior to recordation of the plat, the application shall
become null and void, and the owner will be required to submit a new
application to the Board of County Commissioners. If the property is not
divided, but is sold in its entirety, a new application shall not be required,
and the new owner may proceed through the applicable subdivision approval
process with the existing application.
(Ord. 70, passed 5-19-2020)
§ 150.073 UNLAWFUL SUBDIVISIONS.
   As provided for in sections Idaho Code §§ 67-6518 and 67-6527, it shall be
unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, or their agent, to knowingly and
willfully cause a subdivision plat to be recorded, or to knowingly and
willfully participate in constructing a road, installing utilities, or
otherwise developing a subdivision, except in conformance with this chapter.
Any subdivision plat which is recorded in violation of the provisions of this
chapter, or of Idaho Code Title 50, Chapter 13, shall be deemed void ab initio.
In addition to actions and penalties provided in Idaho Code Title 50, Chapter
13, any person, firm, or corporation, or his or her or their agent, who
knowingly and willfully commits, participates in, assists in, or maintains any
violation of this chapter may be subject to civil and criminal enforcement
actions.
(Ord. 70, passed 5-19-2020) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A) Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   In accordance with Idaho Code § 50-1316, any person who shall dispose
of or offer for sale any lots prior to recordation of a plat, as provided in
Idaho Code §§ 50-1301 through 50-1325, shall pay $100 for each lot and part of
a lot sold, disposed of, or offered for sale. There will also be a subdivision
ordinance violation recorded against the grantor’s and the grantees’ parcels of
land involved in the nonconforming conveyance.
   (C)   Should the method described in §
150.071(F)(1) be chosen as a separate portion of the claim against the
landowners and the subdividers, the District Court shall impose a civil penalty
of $500 per lot for each lot sold prior to the recording of the final plat.
(Ord. 70, passed 5-19-2020)
APPENDIX A: MINIMUM PLAT CERTIFICATION LANGUAGE
 
Planning and Zoning Commission Acceptance
The foregoing plat was accepted and approved by the Idaho County Board of
Commissioners in lieu of a Planning and Zoning Commission, Idaho County, Idaho
on this ___ day of __________, 20___.
 
_______________________               __________________
Chairperson                           Date
 
 
Ownership Certification
I certify that I hold fee title to all property within the boundaries of the
subdivision. [May need multiple lines if existing lots owned by someone else
are included in the subdivision plat.]
 
_______________________               __________________
Owner                              Date
 
 
Certificate of County Assessor
I certify as County Assessor in and for the County of Idaho, State of Idaho,
that the lots and other graphic subdivisions within the plat are technically
correct for ad valorem taxation purposes.
 
_______________________               __________________
Idaho County Assessor                  Date
 
 
Certificate of Recorders Office
I certify that the plat is technically correct for recording purposes.
 
_______________________               __________________
County Clerk                        Date
 
 
Certificate of County Treasurer
I certify as County Treasurer in and for the County of Idaho, State of Idaho,
per the requirements of Idaho Code § 50-1308, that any and all current and/or
delinquent county property taxes for the property included in the proposed
subdivision have been paid in full.
 
_______________________               __________________
Idaho County Treasurer                  Date
 
 
Certificate of County Surveyor
I certify as assigned County Surveyor in and for the County of Idaho, State of
Idaho, that I am a Professional Land Surveyor licensed in the State of Idaho,
that I have examined the foregoing plat and computations for making the same
and have determined that they comply with the laws of Idaho related thereto.
_______________________               __________________
County Surveyor                  Date
 
 
Sanitary Restrictions
Sanitary restrictions as required by Idaho Code Title 50 Chapter 13 have been
satisfied. Sanitary restrictions may be re-imposed, in accordance with Idaho
Code § 50-1326, Idaho Code, by the issuance of a certificate of disapproval.
 
_______________________               __________________
Public Health North Central District         Date
 
 
Idaho County Highway District Acceptance [(or) the Independent Highway
District]
The engineered roads within the subdivision and the approach permit(s) were
accepted and approved by the Idaho County Highway District, Idaho County, Idaho
on the __ day of _____________, 20___. The District further acknowledges that
the subdivision road connects to a public road, that the subdivision road is
dedicated to the public (or is private) and will be maintained by the owners
(home owners association, etc.).
 
_______________________               __________________
Road Supervisor                  Date
 
 
Idaho County Commissioners Acceptance
The foregoing plat was duly accepted and approve by the Idaho County Board of
Commissioners in the State of Idaho on this ___ day of ____________, 20___.
 
_______________________               __________________
Attest: Clerk                  Chairman
 
CHAPTER 151: MANUFACTURED HOMES
Section
   
151.01   Permit system
   
151.02   Inspection system
§ 151.01 PERMIT SYSTEM.
   (A)   Transportable, factory built, residential dwellings, commonly known as
mobile homes and/or manufactured homes, shall hereafter be referred to as
units.
   (B)   The definition of the word INSTALLED, as contained herein this
section, shall be defined as the placing, by any means, a unit anywhere within
the unincorporated limits of the county, including: the placing of a unit on
the ground; on blocks; on cement foundation; on the trailer; or other
foundation for residential occupancy. However, the unit, if not being used for
residential occupancy, shall not be placed within 300 feet of any other
residence or any other landowner’s building, garage, shop, barn, shed, office,
or other structure.
   (C)   Units constructed prior to June 15, 1976, may not be installed in the
incorporated limits of the county unless they meet the rehabilitation
requirements set forth in Idaho Code §§ 44-2501 through 44-2504. The owner or
owners of such older units, before installation, must receive eight
certificates of compliance from the administration of the state’s Division of
Public Safety.
      (1)   The County Commissioners shall authorize, by appropriate motion or
resolution, the County Clerk to be available for contact with people desiring
to install a unit constricted prior to June 15, 1976, anywhere within the
incorporated limits of the county. Upon any such contact, the County Clerk
shall notify the owner or installer of the requirements of this section and the
provisions to of Idaho Code §§ 44-2501 through 44-2504. The owner shall
likewise be notified of the need to make written application to the County
Clerk for a permit, which will be issued later upon the receipt of the
appropriate certificate of compliance from the state’s Division of Public
Safety.
      (2)   After the application for a permit is received, the County Clerk
shall wait for a certificate of compliance, as described herein. After the
certificate is received, the county shall issue a permit on forms adopted by
the Board of County Commissioners for the installation of the rehabilitated
units and that permits may be issued then by the County Clerk in writing in
accordance with the requirements of Idaho Code § 44-2502(2).
      (3)   There shall be no fee for the county’s administration of the permit
system hereunder.
   (D)   Units existing within the unincorporated limits of the county prior to
the adoption of this chapter may continue in use at the site they occupy on
July 11, 2005, but may not be used in other site within unincorporated limits
of that county unless they meet the rehabilitation requirements set forth in
Idaho Code §§ 44-2501 through 44-2504.
   (E)   Any violation of this chapter is declared to be a misdemeanor, and
shall be punishable in accordance with the general misdemeanor penalties set
forth in the Idaho Code.
   (F)   In addition to the criminal penalties described in division (E) above,
the county shall be permitted to seek injunctive relief as might, from time to
time, be required to enforce the terms of this section.
(Ord. 50, passed 7-11-2005; Ord. 63, passed 8-28-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.02 INSPECTION SYSTEM.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of Idaho Code § 63-304, the Board of County
Commissioners authorizes state-certified building inspectors and/or state-
licensed mobile home installers/service company representatives to assist with
applications made to the County Assessor’s office for persons wishing to
convert manufactured homes or mobile homes to real estate.
      (1)   Any person or entity desiring to have a mobile home or manufactured
home converted to real estate shall be responsible to contact his or her choice
of an authorized inspector to make an inspection of the installed unit to
determine whether the provisions of Idaho Code Title 44, Chapter 22, have been
complied with, and whether the provisions which allow manufactured housing or
mobile homes to become real estate under the Idaho Code have been complied
with.
      (2)   If the authorized inspector is satisfied that all of the provisions
applying to installed mobile homes have been met, said inspector shall complete
a form furnished to him or her by the County Recorder’s office; in which form
the inspector will certify that the unit is in compliance with the provisions
of state law and can, thereafter, be considered as real estate by the County
Assessor and County Recorder. The applicant shall have the responsibility of
paying all costs of the inspector’s services and have the additional
affirmative duty of delivering the completed form to the County Assessor’s
office, along with any other forms required by Idaho Code § 63-304.
      (3)   If, however, the inspector is not willing to certify that all
requirements of law have been met, said inspector shall notify the applicant
that the property is non-qualifying.
   (B)   If, at the time a mobile home is being installed, one of the approved
inspectors and/or installer service company representatives certifies, in
writing, that the installation complies with all provisions of state law
allowing the unit to become real estate, the property owner may then file the
application with the County Assessor’s office, and may proceed thereafter to
complete the process contemplated by this section.
   (C)   Approved inspectors shall be authorized by this section to assess and
collect their inspection costs, if any, in advance of performing inspections,
if they choose that option.
(Ord. 53, passed 2-22-2006)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Zoning districts established
   
152.02   Road naming
   
152.03   Road signing
   
152.04   Road naming and signing jurisdiction
   
152.05   Road naming and signing violations
Airport Zoning
   
152.20   Purpose
   
152.21   Definitions
   
152.22   Airspace obstruction zoning
   
152.23   Land use safety zoning
   
152.24   Airport zoning map
   
152.25   Nonconforming use
   
152.26   Uses of property
   
152.27   Variances and limitations
   
152.28   Conflicts
Airport Zoning Organizations and Persons
   
152.40   Airport Zoning Administrator
   
152.41   Board of County Commissioners
   
152.42   Appeals
   
152.43   Judicial review
   
152.44   Recording of airport zoning
 
   
152.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Airport, see
Chapter 91
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   In accordance with the provisions of Idaho Code, all land in the
unincorporated areas of the county is hereby classified as multi-use with no
restrictions, except for those restrictions contained in an applicable
ordinance therebefore or hereinafter adopted. In the interpretation and
application of the provisions of this section, the requirements shall be held
to be the minimum requirements.
(Ord. 67, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 152.02 ROAD NAMING.
   (A)   Sections
152.02 through
152.05 are authorized under the provisions of Idaho Constitution Article 12, §
2, and by Idaho Code Title 50, Chapter 13, and Title 67, Chapter 65, as amended
or subsequently codified.
   (B)   Although all county roads within the county, both within subdivisions
and outside of subdivisions, may be named, only those with more than two
residences are required to be named pursuant to this section. (Roads already
platted but not maintained or new roads laid out but not maintained shall
likewise be exempt from the requirements of this section.)
   (C)   The purpose of §§
152.02 through
152.05 is to establish a standardize procedure for road naming and signing. To
accomplish this goal, the aforementioned sections set forth a procedure to
govern the selection of road names and the assignment of address numbers
throughout the county’s incorporated areas. Additionally, the purpose shall be
as follows:
      (1)   To minimize future road named conflicts;
      (2)   To provide a data base for county records and enhanced 911 service;
      (3)   To expedite property identification for emergency service
providers; and
      (4)   Comply with the following addressing guidelines: United States
Postal Service Publication 28: Addressing.
   (D)   County roads will be named using postal guidelines and abbreviations.
Public roads will be distinguished with a green street sign. A blue sign will
distinguish private roads.
      (1)   Road names for the entire county shall, as far as possible, be
unique throughout the county and not conflict with, or be substantially similar
to, other road names in or out of incorporated areas or within subdivisions.
The owner or owners of private roads to be newly named shall submit a list of
names to the county, under §
152.03, which they intend to assign their private roads; provided, however, the
final choice of names shall be at the sole discretion of the Board of County
Commissioners and conform to the procedures set forth in this subchapter.
      (2)   An existing road name may be changed by resolution of the Board of
County Commissioners, upon the application of any interested parties.
   (E)   The application for a road name change shall be made in writing and
filed with the County Clerk. Upon filing of the application for a change of
name of a road, the Board of County Commissioners adopts the notice and hearing
procedure available in Idaho Code § 67-6509, the terms and conditions of which
are incorporated herein. After a public hearing, the Board of County
Commissioners may exercise its discretion to change a road name by
appropriately passed written resolution.
(Ord. 48, passed 5-9-2005)
§ 152.03 ROAD SIGNING.
   All signs required under this section shall, at the adoption hereof, be of a
dimension as currently required under the state’s Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices, including such a length as will accommodate the name of the
road and any adopted abbreviation. Signs shall be permanently located on all-
weather wood or metal posts, and located in accordance with said state’s Manual
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices and those specifications set forth in Idaho
Code § 49-201, now in force or as hereafter amended. Previously located signs
of a dimension other than described herein shall be continued until they have
to be replaced, and, upon replacement, must comply with the then-current terms
of said manual.
(Ord. 48, passed 5-9-2005)
§ 152.04 ROAD NAMING AND SIGNING JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The requirements under §§
152.02 through
152.05 of street naming shall be applicable to all new roads in the county,
including new roads within new subdivisions. Any owner or developer desiring to
name new streets shall file a list of street names with the County Mapping
Department. If after 14 days there has been no discovery of a conflict, then
the proposed new street names shall be allowed. If there is a conflict
determined, the land developer shall select a different name, thereby
eliminating any conflict.
   (B)   Public and private roads within the jurisdiction of an independent
highway district within the county shall be named and signed by those
jurisdictions in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter, as soon
as those jurisdictions can properly budget for the purchase of and installation
of such signing.
      (1)    Each highway district shall have the separate ability to pass
ordinances and make policies that require developers or land owners to name and
sign their roads and pay for sign costs and installation costs, as well as any
publication and hearing costs contemplated by this section.
      (2)   Persons owning public or private roads within the jurisdiction of
the county desiring to change the name of their roads shall be obligated to pay
for any hearing or publication costs contemplated by this subchapter. If those
roads are private, such owners shall be responsible for the costs of and
installation of appropriate signing hereunder required.
      (3)   The county shall pay only for sign costs and installation costs of
any new publicly maintained road signs within the county, or older, but yet
unnamed, publicly maintained roads within the county.
(Ord. 48, passed 5-9-2005)
§ 152.05 ROAD NAMING AND SIGNING VIOLATIONS.
   An owner of property creating a new road, which is required to be named
under the terms of §§
152.02 through
152.05, shall comply with the terms hereof within 90 days of the opening of
said road for public or private use. Any person, firm, or entity not complying
with the terms hereof shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 48, passed 5-9-2005) Penalty, see §
152.99
AIRPORT ZONING
§ 152.20 PURPOSE.
   The Board of County Commissioners, pursuant to the provisions and authority
conferred by Idaho State Constitution Article 12, § 2 and Idaho Code Title 21,
Chapter 5, and Title 67, Chapter 65, hereby finds and declares as follows.
   (A)   An airport hazard endangers the lives and property of users of the
airport and property or occupants of land in its vicinity, and also if of the
obstructive type, in effect reduces the size of the area available for landing,
takeoff, and maneuvering of aircraft; thus, tending to destroy or impair the
utility of the airport and the public investment therein.
   (B)   The creation or establishment of an airport hazard is a public
nuisance and an injury to the region served by the airport.
   (C)   For the protection of the public health, safety, order convenience,
prosperity, and general welfare, and for the promotion of the most appropriate
use of land, it is necessary to prevent the creation or establishment of
airport hazards.
   (D)   The prevention of these airport hazards should be accomplished, to the
extent legally possible, by the exercise of the police power without
compensation.
   (E)   The prevention of the creation or establishment of airport hazards,
and the elimination, removal, alteration, mitigation, or marking and lighting
of existing airport hazards, are public purposes for which political
subdivisions may raise and expend public funds.
(Ord. 19 amendment, passed 2-14-2012)
§ 152.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIRPORT. The county’s airport located in Township 30, North Range Two and
Three East, Boise Meridian.
   AIRPORT ELEVATION. The established elevation of the highest point on the
usable landing area, which elevation is established to be 3,310.6 feet above
mean sea level.
   AIRPORT HAZARD. Any structure or tree or use of land which obstructs the
airspace required for, or is otherwise hazardous to, the flight of aircraft in
landing or taking off at the airport; and any use of land which is hazardous to
the persons or property because of its proximity to the airport.
   DWELLING. Any building, or portion thereof, designed or used as a residence
or sleeping place of one or more persons.
   HEIGHT. For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set
forth in this subchapter and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean
sea level elevation unless otherwise specified.
   LANDING AREA. The area of the airport used for the landing, taking off, or
taxiing of aircraft.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any pre-existing structure, tree, natural growth, or use
of land which is inconsistent with the provisions of this subchapter, or an
amendment hereto.
   NONPRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY. A runway having an existing or planned
straight-in instrument approach procedure utilizing air navigation facilities
with only horizontal guidance, and for which no precision approach facilities
are planned or indicated on an approved planning document.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association, or body politic, and includes: a trustee; receiver;
assignee; administrator; executor; guardian; or other representative.
   PLANNED. Refers only to those proposed future airport developments that are
so indicated on a planning document having the approval of the Federal Aviation
Administration, the Division of Aeronautics, and the county.
   RUNWAY. Any existing or planned paved surface or turf covered area of the
airport which is specifically designated and used, or planned to be used, for
the landing and/or taking off of aircraft.
   SLOPE. An incline from the horizontal expressed in an arithmetic ratio of
horizontal magnitude to vertical magnitude of three to one slope to
approximately three feet horizontal to one foot vertical.
   STRUCTURE. An object constructed or installed by man, including, but without
limitations: buildings; towers; smokestacks; and overhead transmission lines.
   TREE. Any object of natural growth.
   VISUAL RUNWAY. A runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft using
visual approach procedures, with no straight-in instrument approach procedure
and no instrument designation indicated on an approved planning document.
   WATER SURFACES. The same meaning as land for the establishment of protected
zones.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The Board of County Commissioners or person appointed
by the Board of County Commissioners to act as the ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
(Ord. 19, passed 2-14-2012)
§ 152.22 AIRSPACE OBSTRUCTION ZONING.
   (A)   Airspace zones. In order to carry out the purpose of this subchapter,
as set forth in §
152.20 above, the following airspace zones are hereby established: Primary
Zone; Horizontal Zone; Approach Zone; Conical Zone; and Transitional Zone, and
whose locations and dimensions are as follows.
      (1)   Primary zone. All that land which lies directly under an imaginary
primary surface longitudinally centered on a runway and extending 200 feet
beyond each end of runway 07-25. The elevation of any point on the primary
surface is the same as the elevation of the nearest point of the runway
centerline. The width of the primary surface is 500 feet for runway 07-25.
      (2)   Horizontal zone. All that land which lies directly under an
imaginary horizontal surface 150 feet above the established airport elevation,
or a height of 3,460 feet above mean sea level, the perimeter of which is
constructed by swinging arcs of specified radii from the center of each end of
the primary surface of each runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by lines
tangent to those arcs. The radius of each arc is 10,000 feet for runway 07-25.
      (3)   Conical zone. All that land which lies directly under an imaginary
conical surface extending outward and upward from the periphery of the
horizontal surface at a slope of 20 to one for a horizontal distance of 4,000
feet as measured radially outward from the periphery of the horizontal surface.
      (4)   Approach zone. All that land which lies directly under an imaginary
approach surface longitudinally centered on the extended centerline at each end
of a runway. The approach surface is 500 feet in width, and is the same
elevation as, and coincides with, the end of the primary surface. The approach
surface inclines outward and upward at a slope of 34 to one for runway 07-25.
The approach surface expands uniformly to a width of 3,500 feet for runway 07-
25. The approach surface extends for a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet for
runway 07-25.
      (5)   Transitional zone. All that land which lies directly under an
imaginary surface extending outward and upward at right angles to the runway
centerline and extended at a slope of seven to one from the sides of the
primary surfaces and from the sides of the approach surfaces until they
intersect the horizontal surface or the conical surface.
   (B)   Height restrictions.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, and except as
necessary and incidental to airport operations, no structure or tree shall be
constructed, altered, maintained, or allowed to grow in any airspace zone
created in division (A) above so as to project above any of the imaginary
airspace surfaces described in said division (A) above.
      (2)   Where an area is covered by more than one height limitation, the
more restrictive limitations shall prevail. Nothing in this subchapter shall be
construed as prohibiting the growth, construction, alteration, or maintenance
of any tree or structure so long as the tree or structure does not project
above the imaginary airspace surfaces described in said division (A) above.
However, this condition or interpretation of the severability clause shall be
in no way foreclose the public right to acquire easements, through purchase or
condemnation, over such area when necessary.
(Ord. 19, passed 2-14-2012) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.23 LAND USE SAFETY ZONING.
   (A)   Safety zone boundaries. In order to carry out the purpose of this
subchapter, as set forth in §
152.20, and also in order to restrict those uses which may be hazardous to the
operational safety of aircraft operating to and from the airport, and
furthermore, to limit population and building density in the runway approach
areas, thereby creating sufficient open space so as to protect life and
property in case of an accident, there are hereby created and established the
following land use safety zones.
      (1)   Safety zone A. All land in that portion of the approach zones of a
runway, as defined in §
152.22(A), which extends from the end of primary surface a distance of 1,000
feet from the end of the primary surface, as shown by the zoning map in §
152.24.
      (2)   Safety zone B. All land in that portion of the approach zones of a
runway, as defined in §
152.22(A), which extends outward from safety zone A a distance of 9,000 feet,
as shown by the zoning map in §
152.24.
      (3)   Safety zone C. All that land which is enclosed within the perimeter
or the horizontal zone, as defined §
152.22(A), and which is not included in zone A or zone B.
   (B)   Use restrictions. Subject, at all times, to the height restriction set
forth in § 152.22(B), no use shall be made of any land in any of the safety
zones defined in §
152.22(A) which creates or causes interference with the operations of radio or
electronic facilities on the airport or with radio or electronic communications
between the airport and aircraft, makes it difficult for pilots to distinguish
between airport lights and other lights, results in glare in the eyes of pilots
using the airport, impairs visibility in the vicinity of the airport, or
otherwise endangers the landing, taking off, or maneuvering of aircraft.
      (1)   Zone A. Subject at all time to the height restrictions set forth in
§
152.22(B), and to the general restrictions contained in §
152.22(B), areas designated as zone A shall contain no buildings or temporary
structures, except as allowed under § 152.25(A), and shall be restricted to
those uses which will not create, attract, or bring together an assembly of
persons thereon. Permitted uses may include: agricultural; light outdoor
recreation (nonspectator); cemeteries; and auto parking.
      (2)   Zone B. Subject at all times to the height restrictions set for in
§
152.22(B), and to the general restrictions contained in division (B) above,
areas designated as zone B shall be restricted in use as follows:
         (a)   Each use shall be on a site whose area shall not be less than
three acres;
         (b)   Each use shall not create, attract, or bring together a site
population that would exceed 15 times that of the site acreage;
         (c)   Each site shall have not more than one residential building plot
upon which any number of structures may be erected;
         (d)   A residential building plot shall be a single, uniform, and non-
contrived area, whose shape is uncomplicated and whose area shall not exceed
the following minimum ratios with respect to the total site area; and
 
Site Area at  But Less Than  Ratio of Site    Building Plot Maximum Site
Least (Acres) (Acres)        Area to Building Area (Square  Population (15
                             Plot Area        Feet)         Persons per Acre)
3             4              12:1             10,900        45
4             6              10:1             17,400        60
6             10             8:1              32,600        90
10            20             6:1              72,500        150
20 and up     -              4:1              218,000       300
 
         (e)   The following uses are specifically prohibited in zone B:
churches; hospitals; schools; theaters; stadiums; hotels; and motels; trailer
courts; camp grounds; and other places of public or semipublic assembly.
      (3)   Zone C. Zone C is subject only to height restrictions set forth in
§
152.22(B), and to the general restrictions contained in division (B) above.
(Ord. 19, passed 2-14-2012)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.24 AIRPORT ZONING MAP.
   The several zones herein established are shown on the airport zoning map,
consisting of one sheet prepared by Riedesel Engineering on February 13, 2012,
with the revisions to this subchapter. The original zoning map was prepared by
Edwards, Howard, and Martens, dated August 11, 1982, and amended once by
Edwards, Howard, and Martens on March 16, 1983. The current airport zoning map
and all notations, references, elevations, data, zone boundaries, and other
information thereon is hereby adopted as part of this subchapter.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c03df0e2a05b360468e3e152c13da917d8c3a9a8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-471.png]
(Ord. 19, passed 2-14-2012)
§ 152.25 NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A)   Regulations are not retroactive. The regulations prescribed by this
subchapter, adopted on March 17, 1983, shall not be construed to require the
removal, lowering, or other changes or alterations of any structure or tree not
conforming to the regulations as of March 17, 1983, or otherwise interfere with
the continuance of any nonconforming use. Nothing herein contained shall
require any change in the construction, alteration, intended use of any
structure, the construction or alteration of which was begun prior to the
effective date of the original subchapter, dated March 17, 1983, and is
diligently prosecuted and completed within two years thereof.
   (B)   The owner of any nonconforming structure or tree is hereby required to
obtain a permit for the installation, operation, and maintenance thereon of
such markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the Zoning
Administrator to indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the
airport the presence of such airport hazards. Such marking and lighting shall
be in conformance with existing published standards provided by the state or
federal government. Such markers and lights shall be installed, operated, and
maintained at the owner’s expense.
(Ord. 19, passed 2-14-2012)
§ 152.26 USES OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   Future uses. A future use of land by any persons or owners shall in
all respects conform to the restrictions set forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   Existing uses. No existing use of property shall be changed, replaced,
substantially altered, or rebuilt within any zone hereunder created if such
change would create an airport hazard, or permit a nonconforming use,
structure, or tree to become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on
May 17, 1983.
   (C)   Nonconforming uses abandoned or destroyed. Whenever the Zoning
Administrator determines that a nonconforming structure or tree has been
abandoned or more than 80% torn down, physically deteriorated, or decayed, that
particular nonconforming structure or tree shall not be replaced in its
nonconforming condition, but shall be changed or eliminated so as to comply
with the restrictions set forth in this subchapter.
      (1)   Whenever the Zoning Administrator determines that a nonconforming
use has been abandoned in accordance with the terms hereof, the Zoning
Administrator shall notify the owner of that nonconforming use in writing that
it is necessary to bring the nonconforming use into compliance with this
subchapter. In the event that the owner, after 30 days’ notice, shall fail or
neglect or refuse to comply with the order of the Zoning Administrator, the
Zoning Administrator may, by appropriate legal action, proceed to have the
abandoned or partially destroyed nonconforming structure lowered, removed,
reconstructed, or equipped so that it might be in conformance with this
subchapter, and then assess the cost and expense thereof against the land upon
which the structure is or was located.
      (2)   Unless such assessment is paid within 90 days from the service of
the notice thereof on the owner of the land, the sum shall bear interest at the
rate of 18% per annum from the date the cost is incurred until paid, and shall
be collected in the same manner as are general taxes.
(Ord. 19, passed 2-14-2012) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.27 VARIANCES AND LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
structure, to permit the growth of any tree, or use his or her property not in
accordance with the regulations prescribed in this subchapter may apply to the
Board of County Commissioners for a variance.
      (2)   Such variance shall be allowed where it is duly found that a
literal application or enforcement of the regulations would result in practical
difficulty or unnecessary hardship, and relief granted would not be contrary to
the public interest, but do substantial justice and be in accordance with the
spirit of this subchapter; provided, any variance so allowed may be subject to
any reasonable conditions that the Board of County Commissioners may deem
necessary to effectuate the purposes of this subchapter.
      (3)   Any variance granted by the Zoning Administrator or Board of County
Commissioners, as the case may be, may, if such action is deemed advisable to
effectuate the purpose of this subchapter and be reasonable in the
circumstances, so condition such variance as to require the owner of the
structure or tree in question, at his or her own expense, to install, operate,
and maintain thereon such markers and lights as may be necessary to indicate to
pilots the presence of an airport hazard.
   (B)   The requirements established by this subchapter in no way preempt or
waive the requirements for notification or review established by other public
agencies, such as those established by Federal Aviation Regulations
(specifically, the form currently designated as FAA form 7460-1).
(Ord. 19, passed 2-14-2012)
§ 152.28 CONFLICTS.
   (A)   Where there exist conflicts between any of the regulations or
limitations prescribed in this subchapter and any other regulations applicable
to the same area, whether the conflict be with respect to the height of
structures or trees, the use of land, or any other matter, the more stringent
limitation or regulation should govern or prevail.
   (B)   This subchapter may be coordinated with and become appendices to area-
wide comprehensive zoning ordinances encompassing the areas described.
(Ord. 19, passed 2-14-2012)
AIRPORT ZONING ORGANIZATIONS AND PERSONS
§ 152.40 AIRPORT ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the Airport Zoning Administrator to administer and
enforce the regulations prescribed in §§
152.20 through
152.28. Applications for variances shall be made to the Airport Zoning
Administrator upon a form furnished by the Zoning Administrator. Variance
applications shall be forthwith transmitted to the Airport Zoning Administrator
for action by the Board of County Commissioners, as is hereinafter provided.
Unless otherwise provided for by resolution of the Board of County
Commissioners, the Airport Zoning Administrator shall be the Board of County
Commissioners.
(Ord. 19, passed 2-14-2012)
§ 152.41 BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   Establishment: The Board of County Commissioners shall serve as the
interim Board of Administration for §§
152.20 through
152.28 and
152.40 through
152.44, but reserves the right, by appropriate amendment to the aforementioned
sections, to create a Board of Administration for the operation of the airport,
which shall have the powers set forth in this section and such additional
powers as the Board of County Commissioners shall desire to delegate to such
Board.
   (B)   Powers. The Board of County Commissioners shall have and exercise the
following powers:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision,
or determination made by the Zoning Administration in the enforcement of §§
152.20 through
152.28;
      (2)   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of §§
152.20 through
152.28; and
      (3)   To hear and decide specific variances.
   (C)   Procedures.
      (1)   The Board of County Commissioners may adopt rules for its
governance and procedure in harmony with the provisions of §§
152.20 through
152.28 and
152.40 through
152.44. Business concerning §§
152.20 through
152.28 shall come before the Board of County Commissioners at its regular
meeting held monthly, or at such other times as special meetings in accordance
with law shall be needed.
      (2)   The Board of County Commissioners shall make written findings of
fact and conclusions of law giving the facts upon which it acted and its legal
conclusions from such facts in reversing, affirming, or modifying any order,
requirement, decision, or determination which comes before it, under the
provisions of §§
152.20 through
152.28 and
152.40 through
152.44.
(Ord. 19, passed 2-14-2012)
§ 152.42 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by a decision of the
Zoning Administrator made in its administration of §§
152.20 through
152.28 and
152.40 through
152.44 may appeal to the Board of County Commissioners.
   (B)   All appeals hereunder must be commenced within 30 days of the Zoning
Administrator’s decision by filing with the Zoning Administrator a notice of
appeal specifying the grounds therefor. The Zoning Administrator shall
forthwith transmit the same to the Board of County Commissioners, together with
all documentation constituting the record upon which the action appealed from
was taken.
   (C)   (1)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the
action appealed from, unless the Zoning Administrator certifies to the Board of
County Commissioners, after the notice of appeal has been filed with it, that
by reason of the facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his or her
opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property.
      (2)   In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed except by order of
the Board of County Commissioners on notice to the Zoning Administrator and on
due cause shown.
   (D)   The Board of County Commissioners shall fix a reasonable time for
hearing appeals, give public notice and due notice to the parties in interest,
and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may
appear in person, by agent, or by attorney.
   (E)   The Board of County Commissioners may, in conformity with the
provisions of §§
152.20 through
152.28 and
152.40 through
152.44, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify the order,
requirement, decision, or determination appealed from, and may make such order,
requirement, decision, or determination, as may be appropriate under the
circumstances, and to that end shall have all the powers of the Zoning
Administrator.
(Ord. 19, passed 2-14-2012)
§ 152.43 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the
Board of County Commissioners may present a petition to the county’s District
Court, setting forth that the decision is illegal, in whole or in part, and
specifying the grounds of the illegality. Such petition shall be presented to
the District Court within 30 days after the decision is filed in the office of
the Board of County Commissioners.
   (B)   The petitioner must exhaust the administrative remedies provided
herein prior to availing himself or herself of the right to petition to the
District Court, as herein provided.
(Ord. 19, passed 2-14-2012)
§ 152.44 RECORDING OF AIRPORT ZONING.
   Copies of §§
152.20 through
152.28 and
152.40 through
152.44 shall be filed with the County Recorder, the County Assessor, and the
State Division of Aeronautics of the state’s Transportation Department. All
amendments, permits, and variances, granted pursuant to authority herein, shall
be recorded and filed at county level in a manner prescribed and adopted by the
Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 19, passed 2-14-2012)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B) Every person who shall construct, establish, substantially change, or
alter any existing structure or use, or permit the growth of, any tree without
having complied with the provisions of §§
152.20 through
152.28 and 152.40 through 152.44; or who, have been granted a variance under
the provisions of §§
152.20 through
152.28 and
152.40 through
152.44, shall construct, establish, substantially change or substantially alter
any existing growth or structure or permit the growth of any tree, except as
permitted by such variance, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished by a fine up to $300, or up to 90 days’ imprisonment, or both. The
Airport Zoning Administrator may enforce all provisions of §§
152.20 through
152.28 and
152.40 through
152.44 through such proceedings for injunctive relief, and other relief as may
be proper under the laws of the state and other applicable law.
(Ord. 19, passed 2-14-2012)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES AND CONTRACTS
      
II.   VACATIONS
      
III.   AREA OF IMPACT DEDICATIONS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES AND CONTRACTS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Granting and offering Simmons Sanitation Service
4             3-19-1973   Incorporated operation of a sanitary facility and
                          service, and ability to negotiate with users and
                          charge fees, for a term of five years.
                          Authorizing and approving entering into an agreement
                          with the United States of America through its
29            9-22-1986   Department of the Army, Corporation of Engineers,
                          Walla Walla District, for flood control measures,
                          Lawyer Creek, City of Kamiah, and Idaho and Lewis
                          Counties for flood control purposes.
-             -5-13-2008  Solid waste management contract between Idaho County
                          and Walco Incorporated.
                         
 
TABLE II: VACATIONS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Vacating portions of the subdivision of Copperville,
                          including: College Street; the alleyway running north
                          and south from G to C Street through Blocks 11, 12,
                          13, and 14; State Street; the alleyway running north
                          and south from G to C Street through Blocks seven,
26            8-8-1983    eight, nine, and ten; Main Street east and west of
                          existing County Roadbed; the alleyway running north
                          and south from F Street to D Street through Blocks
                          two and three; and all of C, D, E, F, and G Streets
                          from the west boundary of Section 22, T 28N, R1E in
                          their entirety to the west edge of the Salmon River.
                         
 
TABLE III: AREA OF IMPACT DEDICATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
             An area of impact agreement including a geographical area around the City of
33    5-3-   Riggins, adopting Riggins City Ord. 126; plans and ordinances to be applied to
      1995   such described area. Establishing an effective date pursuant to IdahoCode §
             67-6526.
      5-3-   An area of impact agreement defining and establishing a geographical area of
34    1995   impact around the City of Grangeville, adopting Grangeville City Ord. 674;
             plans and ordinances to be applied to such described area.
      3-11-  An area of impact agreement including a geographical area around the City of
34A   1996   Kooskia; plans and ordinances to be applied to such area. Establishing an
             effective date pursuant to IdahoCode § 67-6526.
      3-11-  An area of impact agreement including a geographical area around the City of
34B   1996   Cottonwood; plans and ordinances to be applied to such area. Establishing an
             effective date pursuant to IdahoCode § 67-6526.
41    6-5-   Amending the area of impact agreement described in Ord.34; amending § 1 of
      2000   Grangeville City Ord. 793.
52    2-22-  Amending the area of impact agreement described in Ord.34; amending § 10 of
      2006   Grangeville City Ord. 793.
      9-14-  An area of impact agreement defining and establishing a geographical area of
60    2010   cite impact around the City of Grangeville. Establishing an effective date
             pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-6526.
             An area of impact agreement defining and establishing a geographical area of
             cite impact around the City of Grangeville; extending the City of Grangeville
61    9-14-  comprehensive plan and identifying areas in which like zoning ordinances
      2010   apply; identifying variances and methods of enforcement of the comprehensive
             plan within the area of impact. Establishing an effective date pursuant to
             Idaho Code § 67-6526.
62(2) 9-23-  Amending § IV(b)C of the area of impact agreement described in Ord. 61 above,
      2014   concerning underground and well injections.
            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Idaho Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO IDAHO CODE
Idaho Code Cite Code Section
Idaho Code Cite         Code Section
18-111                  10.12;
                        110.22
18-113                  110.22
Title XIX               34.01
Title 21, Chapter 5     152.20
23-927                  110.20
23-1012                 110.20
23-1015                 110.04
23-1315                 110.01;
                        110.04
23-1318                 110.04
23-1332                 110.20
Title 27                150.057
Title 31, Chapter 6     150.001
Title 31, Chapter 7     150.001
Title 31, Chapter 8     150.001
Title 31, Chapter 44    50.002
Title 31, Chapter 48    52.01
31-127                  52.03
31-714                  33.02;
                        110.04
31-801                  33.02;
                        110.04
31-828                  110.04
31-873                  34.01
31-4403                 50.022
31-4404                 50.023
31-4404(1)              50.016
39-6501                 50.001
Title 44, Chapter 22    151.02
44-2501 through 44-2504 151.01
44-2502(2)              151.01
45-805                  90.05
Title 46, Chapter 10    31.22
46-1009                 31.21
46-1011                 31.20
Title 49, Chapter 1     70.01
Title 49, Chapter 18    90.01
49-201                  152.03
Title 50, Chapter 9     10.03
                        150.001;
                        150.019;
Title 50, Chapter 13    150.073;
                        Ch. 150, Appendix A;
                        152.02
Title 50, Chapter 27    Charter, Article I
50-1301 through 50-1325 150.999
50-1303                 150.003;
                        150.042
50-1308                 Ch. 150, Appendix A
50-1316                 150.999
50-1326                 Ch. 150, Appendix A
50-2706                 Charter, Article V
Chapter 51, 19-5117     32.01
Chapter 51, 9-5118      32.01
Title 56, Chapter 2     34.01
56-221                  34.01
56-222                  34.01
Title 63, Chapter 11    50.023
Title 63, Chapter 12    50.023
Title 63, Chapter 13    50.023
63-304                  151.02
                        33.01;
                        33.02;
63-602NN                33.04;
                        33.07;
                        33.08
63-602NN(5)             33.06
Title 67, Chapter 23    52.08
Title 67, Chapter 52    110.04
                        150.001;
Title 67, Chapter 65    150.002;
                        152.02;
                        152.20
67-4612                 31.06
67-6509                 152.02
67-6518                 150.073
67-6526                 TSO Table III
67-6527                 150.073
72-1372                 33.10
74-206(1)(e)            33.03
                        
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
34-IR    2-13-1984   50.037
2009.1   1-20-2009   90.01 -
                     90.05
2018-11  6-12-2018   91.016
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.        Date Passed Description
64              - -         91.016
                            91.017 -
                            91.019;
                            91.030;
                            91.032;
                            91.033;
                            91.045 -
                            91.047;
1               3-9-1965    91.049;
                            91.050;
                            91.060 -
                            91.065;
                            91.080 -
                            91.085;
                            91.100 -
                            91.104
4               3-19-1973   TSO Table I
                            110.01 -
5               6-12-1973   110.05;
                            110.99
6               6-25-1973   32.01
22              7-14-1983   Charter, Article I;
                            VII
26              8-8-1983    TSO Table II
23              8-9-1983    110.04
27              9-19-1985   91.048
29              9-22-1986   TSO Table I
30 Amendment(2) 11-8-1987   110.20 -
                            110.23
31              11-10-1987  34.01
32              6-12-1989   51.01
33              5-3-1995    TSO Table III
34              5-3-1995    TSO Table III
34A             3-11-1996   TSO Table III
34B             3-11-1996   TSO Table III
35              4-14-1997   31.01 -
                            31.06
37              6-22-1998   52.01 -
                            52.10
38              4-26-1999   70.01;
                            70.99
40              4-10-2000   91.002
41              6-5-2000    TSO Table III
45              9-23-2003   10.14
47              2-14-2005   31.20 -
                            31.25
48              5-9-2005    152.02 -
                            152.05
50              7-11-2005   151.01
51              1-9-2006    90.001 -
                            91.004
52              2-22-2006   TSO Table III
53              2-22-2006   151.02
-               5-13-2008   TSO Table I
56              1-6-2009    90.01 -
                            90.05
57              1-12-2009   30.01
60              9-14-2010   TSO Table III
61              9-14-2010   TSO Table III
                            152.20 -
                            152.28;
19              2-14-2012   152.40 -
                            152.44;
                            152.99
62(2)           9-23-2014   TSO Table III
62              12-12-2017  33.01 -
                            33.10
63              8-28-2018   151.01
                            50.001;
                            50.002;
                            50.015 -
                            50.023;
                            50.035;
65              9-17-2019   50.036;
                            50.050 -
                            50.055;
                            50.070 -
                            50.072;
                            50.999
67              2-18-2020   152.01
68              3-10-2020   31.03
69              4-28-2020   91.999;
                            91.015
                            150.001 -
                            150.004;
                            150.015 -
                            150.020;
                            150.035 -
70              5-19-2020   150.043;
                            150.055 -
                            150.059;
                            150.070 -
                            150.073;
                            150.999
71-B            12-20-2022  150.017
72              5-24-2022   91.048
72-B            8-8-2023    91.003
                           
 
