JEFFERSON COUNTY, ID
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-3 Supplement contains:
Legislation current through Ord. 2025-05, passed 7-14-2025
Published in 2020 by Order of the Board of County Commissioners
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
COUNTY OFFICIALS
Shayne Young (District 1 Commissioner)
Scott Hancock (District 2 Commissioner)
Roger Clark (District 3 Commissioner)
Board of County Commissioners
_____________________________
Paul Butikofer
County Attorney
_____________________________
Colleen Poole
County Clerk
CURRENT OFFICIALS
_____________________________
Shayne Young (District 1 Commissioner)
Scott Hancock (District 2 Commissioner)
Roger Clark (District 3 Commissioner)
Board of County Commissioners
_____________________________
Mark Taylor
County Attorney
_____________________________
Colleen Poole
County Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 2021-04
AN ORDINANCE CONSOLIDATING, AMENDING, ADOPTING, AND CODIFYING THE GOVERNING
ORDINANCES OF JEFFERSON COUNTY FOR THE PURPOSE OF ENACTING A CODE FOR JEFFERSON
COUNTY, IDAHO; PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED
THEREIN; PROVIDING A PENALTY FOR THE VIOLATION THEREOF; PROVIDING FOR THE
MANNER OF AMENDING SUCH CODE; AND PROVIDING WHEN SUCH CODE AND THIS ORDINANCE
SHALL BECOME EFFECTIVE.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS:
Section 1. The Code entitled "Jefferson County Code," published by Municipal
Code Corporation on or about June 21, 2021, consisting of chapters 1 through
110, each inclusive, is adopted and incorporated herein by reference. A copy of
each of these chapters may presently be obtained from the Planning and Zoning
Department until hardbound copies are delivered to the County Clerk and until
the copies are available to the public on the internet.
Section 2. All governing ordinances of a general and permanent nature addressed
by this Code enacted on or before June 21, 2021, and not included in the Code
or recognized and continued in force by reference therein, are repealed;
provided, however, that the following shall not be repealed by this ordinance
and shall continue in full force and effect unless or until subsequently
amended or repealed:
(1)   Such ordinances and/or resolutions that may be declaratory, quasi-
judicial, or ministerial in nature which may include, but are not limited to,
ordinances designating zoning for a specific parcel of property, validation of
roadways, or establishment of fees, unless otherwise provided in those codified
chapters herein.
(2)   The zoning ordinance, as adopted on April 25, 2005, and subsequently
amended.
Section 3. The repeal provided for in section 2 hereof shall not be construed
to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent
ordinance that is repealed by this ordinance.
Section 4. Unless another penalty is expressly provided, every person convicted
of a violation of any provision of the Code or any ordinance, rule or
regulation adopted or issued in pursuance thereof shall be punished by a fine
of not more than $1,000.00, or by imprisonment not to exceed six (6) months, or
both such fine and imprisonment. Except as otherwise provided by ordinance, (i)
with respect to violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to
time, each day that the violation continues is a separate offense; and (ii)
with respect to other violations, each violation constitutes a separate
offense. The penalty provided by this section, unless another penalty is
expressly provided, shall apply to the amendment of any Code section, whether
or not such penalty is reenacted in the amendatory ordinance. In addition to
the penalty prescribed above, the county may pursue other remedies such as
abatement of nuisances, injunctive relief and revocation of licenses or
permits.
Section 5. Additions or amendments to the Code when passed in such form as to
indicate the intention to make the same a part of the Code shall be deemed to
be incorporated in the Code, so that reference to the Code includes the
additions and amendments.
Section 6. Ordinances adopted after June 21, 2021, which amend or refer to
ordinances that have been codified in the Code, shall be construed as if they
amend or refer to like provisions of the Code.
Section 7. This ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its adoption.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Jefferson County Commissioners on this 21st day of
June, 2021.
___________
Scott Hancock
Chairman, Board of County Commissioners, Jefferson County, Idaho
Witnessed/Attested to:
___________
Colleen Poole
County Clerk, Jefferson County, Idaho
PART I
GENERAL ORDINANCES
Chapter 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sec. 1-1. How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute
and be designated the "Jefferson County Code," and may be so cited. This Code
may also be cited as the "Jefferson County, Idaho, Code."
(Added in 2020 codification)
State law reference(s)-Ordinance codification, Idaho Code, § 31-715.
Sec. 1-2. Definitions and rules of construction.
(a)   Definitions. In the construction of this Code, and of all ordinances and
resolutions, the rules and definitions set out in this section shall be
observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest
intent of the board of county commissioners. The rules of construction and
definitions set out herein shall not be applied to any section of this Code
which shall contain any express provision excluding such construction, or where
the subject matter or context of such section may be repugnant thereto.
(b)   Generally.
   (1)   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in
this Code shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent and
meaning of the board of county commissioners may be fully carried out.
   (2)   In the interpretation and application of any provisions of this Code,
they shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of
the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. When
provisions conflict, the specific shall prevail over the general and the more
stringent provision shall prevail.
   (3)   Grammatical errors shall not vitiate, and a transposition of words and
clauses may be resorted to when the sentence or clause is without meaning as it
stands. Scrivener's errors shall be ignored.
   (4)   Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and
approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others
as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be
construed and understood according to such meaning.
   Board of county commissioners, county commissioners. The term "board of
county commissioners" or "county commissioners" means the board of county
commissioners of Jefferson County, Idaho.
   Code. The term "Code" or "this Code" means the Jefferson County Code as
designated in section 1-1. This Code consists of parts I, II and III. The
misclassification of a provision into the incorrect part does not excuse
noncompliance with the provision.
   Computation of time. The time in which any act is to be done is computed by
excluding the first day, and including the last unless the last is a holiday
and then it is also excluded.
   Conjunctions. In a provision involving two or more items, conditions,
provisions or events, which items, conditions, provisions or events are
connected by the conjunction "and," "or," or "either … or," the conjunction
shall be interpreted as follows, except that in appropriate cases the term
"and" and the term "or" are interchangeable.
      (1)   "And" indicates that all the connected terms, conditions,
provisions or events apply.
      (2)   "Or" indicates that the connected terms, conditions, provisions or
events apply singly or in any combination.
      (3)   "Either … or" indicates that the connected terms, conditions,
provisions or events apply singly but not in combination.
   County. The term "county" means Jefferson County, Idaho.
   Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of
a department or some other county officer or county employees to do some act or
perform some duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the
department or other officer or employee to designate, delegate and authorize
subordinates to perform the required act or perform the duty.
   Gender. Words used in the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter.
   Idaho Code. References to the Idaho Code are to the Idaho Code, as now or
hereafter amended. References to acts codified in the Idaho Code by short title
are to such act as now or hereafter amended.
   Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons
or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
persons or officers.
   May. The term "may" is to be construed as being permissive and not
mandatory.
   May not. The term "may not" has a prohibitory effect and states a
prohibition.
   Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
   Must. The term "must" shall be construed as being mandatory.
   Number. The singular number includes the plural and the plural the singular.
   Oath. The term "oath" includes an affirmation or declaration, and every mode
of oral statement, under oath or affirmation, is embraced by the term
"testify," and every written one in the term "depose."
   Officers, departments, etc. References to officers, departments, board,
commissions or employees are to county officers, county departments, county
boards, county commissions and county employees.
   Owner. The term "owner," applied to a building or land, includes any part
owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant, or
tenant by the entirety of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
   Person. The term "person" means any individual, corporation, limited
liability corporation, organization, government, governmental subdivision or
agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, association and any other
legal entity.
   Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of
property except real property.
   Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean next before
and next after, respectively.
   Property. The term "property" includes real and personal property.
   Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements and
hereditaments.
   Shall. The term "shall" is to be construed as being mandatory.
   Signature and subscription. The terms "signature" and "subscription" include
a mark when the person cannot write, his name being written near it, and
witnessed by a person who writes his own name as a witness.
   State. The term "state" means the State of Idaho.
   Tenant and occupant. The terms "tenant" and "occupant," applied to a
building or land, include any person holding a written or oral lease or who
occupies the whole or a part of such buildings or lands, either alone or with
others.
   Tense. The present tense includes the past and future tenses. The future
tense includes the present tense.
   Wholesale, wholesaler, etc. In all cases where the term "wholesale,"
"wholesaler," or "wholesale dealer" are used in this Code, unless otherwise
specifically defined, it shall be understood and held to relate to the sale of
goods, merchandise, articles or things in quantity to persons who purchase for
purposes of resale, as distinguished from a retail dealer who sells in smaller
quantities direct to the consumer.
   Written andin writing. The terms "written" and "in writing" shall be
construed to include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether
by printing or otherwise.
   Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Added in 2020 codification)
Sec. 1-3. Catchlines of sections effect of history notes, state law references,
etc.
(a)   The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface
type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section
and shall not be deemed or taken to be the title of such sections, nor as any
part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed
when any of such sections, including the catchlines are amended or reenacted.
(b)   The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after a section in
this Code have no legal effect and only indicate legislative history. Cross
references, editor's notes, and state law references that appear in this Code
after sections or subsections or that otherwise appear in footnote form are
provided for the convenience of the user of this Code and have no legal effect.
(c)   Unless specified otherwise, all references to chapters or sections are to
chapters or sections of this Code.
(Added in 2020 codification)
Sec. 1-4. Effect of repeal of ordinance, resolution, etc.
(a)   When any ordinance, resolution or motion repealing a former ordinance,
resolution, motion, clause or provision shall be itself repealed, such repeal
shall not be construed to revive such former ordinance, resolution, motion,
clause or provision unless it shall be therein so expressly provided.
(b)   The repeal of an ordinance, resolution or motion shall not affect any
punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit,
prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense
committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance, resolution or motion
repealed.
(Added in 2020 codification)
Sec. 1-5. Amendments to Code.
(a)   All ordinances adopted subsequent to this Code that amend, repeal or in
any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of
repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby and such subsequent provisions as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of them until such time as this Code and subsequent provisions
numbered or omitted are readopted as a new Code by the board of county
commissioners.
(b)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending
such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the
following language: "Section _____ of the Jefferson County Code is hereby
amended to read as follows: …." The new provisions shall then be set out in
full as desired.
(c)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the
following language shall be used: "The Jefferson County Code is hereby amended
by adding a section (division, article or chapter) to be numbered _____, which
section (division, article or chapter) reads as follows: …." The new section,
division, article or chapter shall then be set out in full as desired.
(d)   All sections, divisions, articles, chapters or other provisions desired
to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section, division, article or
chapter number, as the case may be.
(Added in 2020 codification)
Sec. 1-6. Supplementation of Code.
(a)   By contract or by county personnel, supplements to this Code shall be
prepared on an annual basis. A supplement to the Code shall include all
substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the mayor and
council during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made
thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they
will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages that
have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so
prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through
the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)   In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
(c)   When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier, meaning the
person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement, may make
formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
   (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
   (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and
other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in
such catchlines, headings and titles.
   (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers.
   (4)   Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to
"this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or
to "sections _____ to _____," inserting section numbers to indicate the
sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the Code.
   (5)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original
meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the Code.
In no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of
ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
(Added in 2020 codification)
Sec. 1-7. General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)   In this section, the term "violation of this Code" means any of the
following:
   (1)   Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an
offense, a violation, an infraction or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or
regulation authorized by ordinance.
   (2)   Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by
ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
   (3)   Failure to perform an act if the failure is prohibited or is made or
declared unlawful, an offense, a violation, an infraction or a misdemeanor by
ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)   In this section, the term "violation of this Code" does not include the
failure of a county officer or county employee to perform an official duty
unless it is specifically provided that the failure to perform the duty is to
be punished as provided in this section.
(c)   Except as otherwise provided by law or ordinance, a person convicted of a
violation of this Code shall be punished as follows:
   (1)   Unless the violation is declared to be an infraction, by a fine of not
more than $1,000.00 or by imprisonment not to exceed six months, or by both
such fine and imprisonment.
   (2)   If the violation is declared to be an infraction by a fine not
exceeding $300.00. No incarceration may be imposed.
(d)   Except as otherwise provided by ordinance:
   (1)   With respect to violations of this Code that are continuous with
respect to time, each day that the violation continues is a separate offense.
   (2)   With respect to other violations, each violation constitutes a
separate offense.
(e)   The imposition of a penalty does not prevent suspension or revocation of
a license, permit or franchise or other administrative sanctions.
(f)   Violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time are a
public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The
imposition of a penalty does not prevent injunctive relief or civil or quasi-
judicial enforcement.
(Added in 2020 codification)
State law reference(s)-Penalty for ordinance violations, Idaho Code, § 31-714;
penalty for infractions, Idaho Code, § 18-111.
Sec. 1-8. Severability.
The sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are
severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this
Code shall be declared unconstitutional, invalid or unenforceable by the valid
judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such
unconstitutionality, invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any of the
remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code.
(Added in 2020 codification)
Sec. 1-9. Provisions deemed continuation of existing legislation.
The provisions of this Code, insofar as they are substantially the same as
previously adopted legislation adopted by the county relating to the same
subject matter, shall be construed as reinstatements and continuations thereof
and not as new enactments.
(Added in 2020 codification)
Sec. 1-10. Code does not affect prior offenses or rights.
(a)   Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code affects any
offense or act committed or done, any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any
contract or right established before the effective date of this Code.
(b)   The adoption of this Code does not authorize any use or the continuation
of any use of a structure or premises in violation of any county ordinance on
the effective date of this Code.
(Added in 2020 codification)
Sec. 1-11. Certain ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code affects the validity
of any ordinance or portion of an ordinance enumerated as follows, which is not
published in this Code:
   (1)   Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money or authorizing the
issuance of bonds or other instruments of indebtedness.
   (2)   Authorizing or approving any contract, deed, or agreement.
   (3)   Making or approving any appropriation or budget.
   (4)   Providing for salaries of employees or other employee benefits or job
descriptions for employee positions.
   (5)   Granting any right or franchise.
   (6)   Pertaining to a specific election.
   (7)   Establishing a prevailing wage.
   (8)   Adopting or amending the comprehensive plan.
   (9)   Levying or imposing any special assessment or local improvement.
   (10)   Dedicating, establishing, naming, locating, relocating, opening,
paving, widening, repairing or vacating any street.
   (11)   Establishing the grade of any street or sidewalk.
   (12)   Dedicating, accepting or vacating any plat or subdivision.
   (13)   Amending the zoning map or zoning atlas, or rezoning specific
property.
   (14)   That is temporary, although general in effect.
   (15)   That is special, although permanent in effect.
   (16)   The purpose of which has been accomplished.
(Added in 2020 codification)
Chapter 2
ADMINISTRATION
(RESERVED)
Chapter 4
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Sec. 4-1. Short title and purpose.
This chapter shall be known and cited as the "Jefferson County Alcoholic
Beverage Ordinance." The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the issuance
of beer by the drink, retail beer, retail wine, wine by the drink, and liquor
by the drink licenses and licensing fees; to provide regulations; and to
establish procedures for renewal, suspension, revocation or termination of such
licenses.
(Ord. No. 12-01, § 1-6-1, 12-12-2011)
Sec. 4-2. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning
   Beer means any beverage obtained by alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
decoction of barley, malt, and /or other ingredients in drinkable water,
containing not more than four percent alcohol by weight.
   Beer by the drink license means a license to sell beer by the individual
glass, open bottle, or open can at retail for consumption on the premises only.
   Bottled beer means beer sold or disposed of while securely, tightly and
adequately sealed in a glass, metal or other container of a capacity not to
exceed two gallons.
   Draft beer means beer sold or disposed of while securely, tightly and
adequately sealed in a glass, metal or other container of capacity exceeding
two gallons.
   Licensed retailer means any person engaged in the sale or distribution of
beer, wine or liquor by the drink to the consumer.
   Liquor means any alcoholic beverage other than beer or wine.
   Liquor by the drink license means a license to sell liquor by the drink at
retail for consumption on the premises only (includes wine).
   Person means any individual, firm, co-partnership, association, corporation
or any other group or combination acting as a unit.
   Premises means a building in which the sale of beer, wine or liquor by the
drink is authorized.
   Retail beer means a license authorizing a person to sell beer at retail for
consumption off the licensed premises.
   Retail wine means a license authorizing a person to sell wine at retail for
consumption off the licensed premises.
   Wine means any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 14 percent
alcohol by volume obtained by the fermentation of the natural sugar content of
fruits or other ingredients are added.
   Wine by the drink means a license to sell wine by the drink at retail for
consumption on the premises only.
(Ord. No. 12-01, § 1-6-2, 12-12-2011; altered in 2020 codification)
Sec. 4-3. Exceptions to regulations.
Nothing contained in this chapter shall prohibit the state liquor dispensary
from acting pursuant to the Idaho Liquor Act (Idaho Code, § 23-101 et seq.).
(Ord. No. 12-01, § 1-6-3, 12-12-2011)
Sec. 4-4. License required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell beer, wine or liquor at retail for
consumption on or off the premises within the boundary of the county until a
license is granted by the board of county commissioners as provided by this
chapter.
(Ord. No. 12-01, § 1-6-4, 12-12-2011)
Sec. 4-5. Application for license.
(a)   Prior to the issuance of a license, the applicant shall file with the
county clerk an application, in writing, signed by the applicant and containing
information and statements relative to the applicant and the premises (existing
or to be constructed in accordance with plans and specifications approved by
the county) where the beer, wine, or liquor is to be sold. The application
shall be verified by the affidavit of the applicant before a person authorized
to administer oaths. In addition to setting forth the qualifications required
by other provisions of this chapter, the applicant must show:
   (1)   A detailed description of the premises for which a license is sought
and its location (street address).
   (2)   The names and addresses of all persons who will have any financial
interest in any business to be carried on in and upon the licensed premises,
whether such interest results from open loans, mortgages, conditional sales
contracts, silent partnerships, trusts or any other basis than open trade
accounts incurred in the ordinary course of business, and the amounts of such
interests.
   (3)   If the premises to be licensed are not owned by the applicant, then a
certified copy of the lease by which he will occupy the premises showing that
the owner consents to the sale of beer, wine or liquor on such premises.
   (4)   The name and address of the applicant, which shall include all members
of a partnership or association and the officers, members of the governing
board and ten principal stockholders of a corporation.
   (5)   A copy of the articles of incorporation and bylaws of any corporation,
the articles of association and the bylaws of any association, or the articles
of partnership of any partnership.
(b)   If during the period of any license issued hereunder any change shall
take place in any of the requirements of this section, the licensee shall
forthwith make a verified written report of such change to the county clerk.
(c)   Applications for retail beer, retail wine, or liquor by the drink shall
be accompanied with the license issued by the director of the department of law
enforcement of the state for the premises and for the time which the
application is made, which license shall be returned to the applicant after
examination by the board of county commissioners.
(d)   If any false statement is made in any part of an application, or any
subsequent report, the applicant, or applicants, shall be deemed guilty of a
felony and upon conviction thereof shall be imprisoned in the state prison for
not less than one year nor more than five years and fined not less than
$1,000.00 nor more than $5,000.00, or both such fine and imprisonment (Idaho
Code, § 23-905(7)).
(e)   Each application shall be accomplished by the required license fee which
shall be returned to the applicant if the board of county commissioners refuses
to issue the license.
(Ord. No. 12-01, § 1-6-5, 12-12-2011)
Sec. 4-6. Issuance of license.
The board of county commissioners shall duly consider and evaluate all new
applications and renewal applications for a license to sell or dispense beer,
wine or liquor at retail, and after do evaluating shall determine to grant or
deny each application in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Prior
to said determination, new applications shall be submitted to the sheriff of
the county for review, and his assessment of each application shall be
considered by the board of county commissioners prior to its decision. If the
board of county commissioners so order, the county clerk shall issue a license
to the applicant, which license or licenses shall at all times be prominently
displayed in the place of business of the licensee and shall be issued only for
the particular premises therein described. Separate beer by the drink, retail
beer, retail wine, wine by the drink, and liquor by the drink licenses shall be
required for each premises, except that retailers holding valid licenses for
the sale of liquor by the drink may sell wine for consumption on the licensed
premises.
(Ord. No. 12-01, § 1-6-6, 12-12-2011)
Sec. 4-7. Reasons for denial of license.
(a)   No license shall be issued to:
   (1)   A person not 21 years of age or older.
   (2)   A person not the bona fide owner of such business.
   (3)   A person who is an illegal alien or who has not been a bona fide
resident of the state for at least 30 days preceding the date of the
application for a license, provided that if the applicant is:
      a.   A partnership, no member shall be an illegal alien and at least one
of the partners shall have been a bona fide resident of the state for 30 days
prior to the date of application and shall be 21 years of age or older.
      b.   A corporation or association, it must be organized under the laws of
the state or qualified under the laws of the state to do business in the state
and the person who is, or will be, the manager of the corporation's or
association's business of selling beer, wine or liquor by the drink shall not
be an illegal alien, and said manager of the corporation or association shall
have been a bona fide resident of the state for at least 30 days prior to the
date of application.
   (4)   Any person, or any one of its members, officers, or governing board,
who has, within three years prior to the date of making application, been
convicted of any violation of the laws of the United States, the state, or any
other state of the United States, or of the resolutions or ordinances of any
county or city of this state, relating to the importation, transportation,
manufacture or sale of alcoholic liquor or beer, or who has been convicted of,
paid any fine, been placed on probation, received a deferred sentence, received
a withheld judgment or completed any sentence of confinement for any felony
within five years prior to the date of making application for any license.
   (5)   A person who is engaged in the operation, or interested therein, of
any house or place for the purpose of prostitution or who has been convicted of
any crime or misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality.
   (6)   A person whose license issued under this act has been revoked; an
individual who was a member of a partnership or association which was a
licensee under this act and whose license has been revoked; an individual who
was an officer, member of the governing board or one of the ten principal
stockholders of a corporation which was a licensee under this act and whose
license has been revoked; a partnership or association one of whose members was
a licensee under this act and whose license was revoked; a corporation one of
whose officers, member of the governing board or ten principal stockholders was
a licensee under the provisions of this act and whose license has been revoked;
an association or partnership, one of whose members was a member of a
partnership or association licensed under the provisions of this act and whose
license has been revoked; a partnership or association, one of whose members
was an officer, a member of the governing board, or one of the ten principal
stockholders of a corporation licensed under the provisions of this act and
whose license has been revoked; a corporation, one of whose officers, member of
the governing board, or ten principal stockholders was a member of a
partnership or association licensed under the provisions of this act and whose
license was revoked; a corporation, one of whose officers, member of the
governing board, or ten principal stockholders was an officer, member of the
governing board, or one of the ten principal stockholders of a corporation
licensed under the provisions of this act and whose license was revoked.
   (7)   Any officer, agent, or employee of any distillery, winery, brewery, or
any wholesaler, or jobber, of liquor or malt beverages except as provided in
Idaho Code, § 23-912. This prohibition shall not apply to officers, agents, or
employees of any winery operating a golf course on the same premises as the
winery.
   (8)   A person who does not hold a valid retail beer, retail wine, or liquor
by the drink license issued under the laws of the state.
   (9)   Any license held by any licensee disqualified under the provisions of
this section from being issued a license, shall forthwith be revoked by the
county clerk.
(b)   The affirmative showing required with respect to qualifications of an
applicant under this section shall be required to be made with respect to each
partner of a partnership applicant and to each incumbent officer, director or
member of the governing board of a corporation or association applicant, and to
each person then employed by an applicant whose duties include the serving or
dispensing of beer, wine or liquor by the drink.
(Ord. No. 12-01, § 1-6-7, 12-12-2011; altered in 2020 codification)
Sec. 4-8. Continuance of qualifications.
A retail license must continue throughout the license period to have all of the
qualifications and none of the disqualifications provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. No. 12-01, § 1-6-8, 12-12-2011)
Sec. 4-9. Location restrictions.
(a)   No license shall be granted unless a certificate of zoning has been
issued by the county zoning department if the establishment is not within an
incorporated city. The zoning certificate shall be filed with the application
for a license; provided, however, that the zoning certificate shall not be
required to renew licenses, unless a zoning certificate was not obtained when
the license was originally issued, in which case a zoning certificate is
required prior to issuance of the license.
(b)   No retailer's license shall be issued to any person to sell beer, wine or
liquor by the drink for consumption on the premises where any part of the room,
or other place, for such sale or consumption is:
   (1)   Within a radius of 300 feet of any part of a public school; or
   (2)   Within a radius of 300 feet of any room within which the regular
religious or Sunday school service of a duly organized and established
religious sect are, or within which a hospital or nursing home is conducted and
were or was so conducted prior to issuance of such license.
(c)   This limitation shall not apply to any duly licensed premises that at the
time of licensing did not come within the restricted area, but subsequent to
licensing came therein.
(Ord. No. 12-01, § 1-6-9, 12-12-2011)
Sec. 4-10. Retailer's license.
(a)   License fees, to be collected by the county clerk, shall be set by
resolution, as amended from time to time, by the county commissioners for the
following:
   (1)   Beer.
      a.   For retail beer, where bottle or canned beer is sold only in closed
containers, with no consumption on the premises where sold.
      b.   For beer by the drink, where bottle or canned beer is sold, for
consumption on the premises where sold.
      c.   For beer by the drink, where draft, bottle or canned beer is sold,
for consumption on the premises where sold.
   (2)   Liquor by the drink. For liquor by the drink, the fee shall be 25
percent of the amount of the license fee collected by the director of the
department of law enforcement of the state pursuant to the provisions of Idaho
Code, § 23-916.
   (3)   Wine.
      a.   For wine by the drink, for consumption on the premises.
      b.   For retail wine, where wine is sold only in closed containers, with
no consumption on the premises where sold.
(b)   If a license is issued prior to July 1 of the year in which issued, the
applicant shall pay the full annual license fee. If a license is issued on or
after July 1 of the year which issued, the applicant shall pay one-half of the
annual license fee.
(Ord. No. 12-01, § 1-6-10, 12-12-2011; altered in 2020 codification)
State law reference(s)-County licenses, Idaho Code, § 23-916.
Sec. 4-11. Expiration, renewal of license.
All licenses issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall expire at
1:00 a.m., October 1 of the year following the year in which the license is
issued. Renewal of the license shall be on forms prescribed and furnished by
the county clerk. Renewal forms shall be submitted together with the required
license fee and an affidavit verifying that the information contained in the
original application is unchanged, or if there are material changes, indicating
such changes. Renewal applications must be received by the board of county
commissioners no sooner than August 1 and not later than the third week of
September of the following year. Any licensee holding a valid license who fails
to file an application for renewal of his current license shall not be
permitted to sell and dispense liquor by the drink at retail until the license
is renewed.
(Ord. No. 12-01, § 1-6-11, 12-12-2011)
Sec. 4-12. Transfer of license.
(a)   No license may be transferred to another person, including an executor,
administrator, or trustee in bankruptcy of the estate of the licensee, until
the transferee shall first have obtained the approval of the board of county
commissioners to such transfer upon application containing substantially the
same information required of an applicant for a license. If the transferee
possesses all of the qualifications and none of the disqualifications for such
a license, the board shall approve the transfer, which approval shall be
attached and made a part of the license. Prior to a decision on a denial or
approval of said transfer by the board of county commissioners, the sheriff of
the county shall review the transfer application and his assessment shall be
considered by the board of county commissioners before they make their
determination. The fee for the transfer of a license shall be ten percent of
the purchase price of the liquor license or the cost of good will, whichever is
greater, which fee shall accompany the application for a transfer.
(b)   No fee shall be collected in the following events:
   (1)   The transfer of a license between husband and wife in the event of a
property division.
   (2)   The transfer of a license to a receiver, trustee in bankruptcy or
similar person or officer.
   (3)   The transfer of a license to the heirs or personal representative of
the estate in the event of the death of the licensee.
   (4)   The transfer of a license arising out of the dissolution of a
partnership where the license is transferred to one or more of the partners.
   (5)   The transfer of a license within a family whether an individual,
partnership, or corporation.
(c)   Application to transfer a license from one location to another shall be
made to the board of county commissioners on forms prescribed and furnished by
the county clerk. Such a transfer shall not be approved unless the application
procedure for a new license has been complied with. In addition, before an
existing license may be transferred to a new location, the applicant must
satisfy all requirements of the county zoning ordinance.
(Ord. No. 12-01, § 1-6-12, 12-12-2011)
Sec. 4-13. Operating hours.
(a)   Beer and wine.
   (1)   It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person in any place
licensed to sell beer and wine or where beer and wine is sold or dispensed to
be consumed on the premises, whether conducted for pleasure or profit, to sell,
dispense or give away between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. of any day;
provided, however, any beer or wine sold after 6:00 a.m. Sunday must be
consumed off the premises where sold except for restaurants provided for in
subsection (a)(3) and (4) of this section. The control and regulation of Sunday
beer and wine sales within any incorporated area of the county shall be
governed by that municipal entity.
   (2)   Any patron present on the licensed premises after the sale of beer or
wine has stopped as provided for in subsection (a)(1) of this section shall
have reasonable time, not to exceed 30 minutes, to consume any beverage already
served.
   (3)   A restaurant licensed to sell beer and wine that derives more than 60
percent of its gross annual revenue from the sale of prepared foods may sell
beer and wine to be consumed on the licensed premises only between 12:00 noon
and 9:00 p.m. Sundays.
   (4)   A non-restaurant business that has as an adjunct for the sale of
prepared food and has a license to sell beer and wine may do so from 12:00 noon
to 9:00 p.m. Sundays, provided such food generates at least 70 percent of gross
revenues on weekdays.
(b)   Liquor.
   (1)   It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person in any place
licensed to sell liquor or where liquor is sold or dispensed to be consumed on
the premises, whether conducted for pleasure or profit, to sell, dispense or
give away between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. Monday through
Saturday.
   (2)   Any patron present on the licensed premises after the sale of liquor
has stopped as provided in subsection (a)(1) of this section shall have a
reasonable time, not to exceed 30 minutes, to consume any beverage already
served.
   (3)   The sale or distribution of liquor on Sundays is prohibited. The
control and regulation of Sunday beer and wine sales within any incorporated
area of the county shall be governed by that municipal entity.
   (4)   No liquor shall be served on Christmas Day from 1:00 a.m. until 10:00
a.m. the following day.
(Ord. No. 12-01, § 1-6-13, 12-12-2011)
State law reference(s)-Hours of sale, Idaho Code, §§ 23-927, 23-1012.
Sec. 4-14. Inspections, access to premises.
The sheriff and all deputy sheriffs of the county shall have the right at any
time to enter in and upon such licensed premises, and it shall be unlawful to
refuse any deputy sheriff admittance to or access to such premises for the
purpose of police patrol, regulation and inspection of such patrol, regulation
and inspection of such premises.
(Ord. No. 12-01, § 1-6-14, 12-12-2011)
Sec. 4-15. Prohibited acts, conditions.
(a)   Prohibited sales. It shall be unlawful and punishable as a misdemeanor
for any person to sell, deliver or give away, or cause or permit to be sold,
delivered or given away, any beer, wine, or liquor to:
   (1)   Any person under the age of 21 years of age. Proof of which shall be a
valid driver's license or identification card issued by the department of law
enforcement of this state.
   (2)   Any person apparently or obviously intoxicated.
   (3)   Any interdicted person as defined by the laws of the state.
(b)   Minors.
   (1)   Any person who shall procure beer, wine, or liquor for any person
under 21 years of age who shall purchase, attempt to purchase, or otherwise
procure, consume or possess beer, wine or liquor shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   (2)   Any person under the age of 21 years who shall by any means represent
to any person licensed to sell beer, wine, or liquor at retail, or to any agent
or employee of such retail license, that he is 21 years or more of age, for the
purpose of inducing such retail licensee, his agent or employee to sell, serve
or dispense to him shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (3)   Any person who shall by any means represent to any person licensed to
sell beer, wine, or liquor at retail or to his agent or employee, that any
other person is 21 years or more of age, when in fact such other person is
under the age of 21 years, for the purpose of inducing such retail licensee,
his agent or employee, to sell, serve, or dispense beer, wine, or liquor to
such other person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (4)   Whenever any person licensed to sell beer, wine, or liquor, or his
agent or employee, shall have reasonable cause to doubt that any person who
attempts to purchase or otherwise procure beer, wine or liquor from or through
such retail licensee, his agent or employee, is 21 years, such retail licensee,
his agent or employee, shall require such person to execute a certificate that
he is 21 years or more, and to exhibit acceptable proof of age and identity.
The form of such certificate, the manner in which it shall be executed, the
record to be kept thereof, shall be the responsibility of the retail licensee,
his agent or employee with respect to the execution of said certificate and a
determination of what shall constitute acceptable proof of the age and identity
shall be in accordance with the provisions of Idaho Code, title 23.
(Ord. No. 12-01, § 1-6-15, 12-12-2011)
State law reference(s)-Alcohol and underage persons, Idaho Code, § 23-603 et
seq.; dispensing alcohol to a drunk, Idaho Code, § 23-605.
Sec. 4-16. Suspension, revocation of license.
If the board of county commissioners shall find that a licensee has made any
false material statement in the application for a license, or did not have, or
has not retained, the qualifications for a retailer, or has acquired a
disqualification for a retailer, or is in violation of any of the prohibitions
of Idaho Code, title 23, the board of county commissioners shall suspend,
revoke or refuse to renew such retailer's license.
   (1)   No pleading shall be necessary, and any hearing before the board of
county commissioners shall be informal.
   (2)   The procedure for notice, hearing, contest and appeal shall be as
provided by Idaho Code, title 23.
   (3)   In addition, the board of county commissioners shall consider a
petition for revocation of a valid existing license submitted by at least 75
percent of the resident owners of property, or if not occupied and inhabited by
a resident owner, the occupant of such property, within a radius of 1,000 feet
of any part of the premises upon which beer, wine or liquor is sold for
consumption.
   (4)   If, after review of said petition for revocation of license, the board
of county commissioners determines that the allegations in said petition are
true and correct, the board may take the appropriate action to revoke that
existing license. The criteria to be used by the board of county commissioners
to revoke pursuant to such a petition shall be the same as provided in this
section.
(Ord. No. 12-01, § 1-6-16, 12-12-2011)
Sec. 4-17. Penalty.
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to the penalty
provisions of section
1-7.
(Ord. No. 12-01, § 1-6-17, 12-12-2011)
Chapter 6
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND EMERGENCY SERVICES
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Secs. 6-1-6-18.   Reserved.
ARTICLE II. EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Sec. 6-19. Purpose.
The declared purposes of this article are to provide for the preparation and
carrying out of plans for the protection of persons and property within the
county in the event of a disaster or emergency, and to provide for the
coordination of the emergency management functions of the county with all other
public agencies and affected private persons, corporations, and organizations.
Any expenditures made in connection with such emergency activities, including
mutual aid activities, shall be deemed conclusively to be for the direct
protection and benefit of the inhabitants and property of the county.
(Ord. of 7-1-2019, § 6-1-1)
Sec. 6-20. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   Disaster means an occurrence or the imminent threat of widespread or severe
damage, injury, or loss of life or property resulting from natural or manmade
cause, including, but not limited to, fire, hazardous material, flood, storm,
windstorm, tornado, landslide, drought, epidemic, explosion, riot, earthquake,
volcanic activity, or hostile military or paramilitary action and including
acts of terrorism.
   Emergency means an occurrence or imminent threat of a disaster or condition
threatening life or property which requires state emergency assistance to
supplement local efforts to save lives and protect property, or to avert or
lessen the threat of a disaster.
   Emergency management means the preparation for and carrying out of all
emergency functions to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage
resulting from a disaster other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible or for search and rescue missions that are the
responsibility of the sheriff. It shall not include, nor does any provision of
this article apply to, any condition relating to a labor controversy.
(Ord. of 7-1-2019, § 6-1-2)
State law reference(s)-Similar provisions, Idaho Code, § 46-1002.
Sec. 6-21. Local emergency planning committee-Membership.
The county local emergency planning committee is hereby created and shall
consist of the following:
   (1)   The board of county commissioners, who shall be co-chairpersons.
   (2)   The director of emergency management, who shall be vice-chairperson.
   (3)   An assistant director may be appointed by the board of county
commissioners, who, under the supervision of the director, shall perform such
duties as outlined by the director pertaining to the administration of the
local emergency planning committee.
   (4)   Such assistants, deputy directors and chiefs of operating emergency
response and disaster-relief departments, services, divisions, or activities as
are provided for, pursuant to this article.
   (5)   Such representatives as may be appointed from civil, business,
professional, or any other official group or organization having an emergency
or disaster-relief responsibility or capability.
(Ord. of 7-1-2019, § 6-1-3)
Sec. 6-22. Local emergency planning committee-Powers and duties.
It shall be the duty of the county local emergency planning committee, and it
is empowered, to review and recommend for adoption by the board of county
commissioners disaster/emergency operations plans, mutual aid agreements, and
such ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations as are necessary to
implement such plans and agreements. The local emergency planning committee
shall meet the requirements of such committee set forth in USC 42-11001(c)
(EPCRA, sections 301-303), as amended. The local emergency planning committee
shall meet upon call of the chairperson or in his absence from the county, or
inability to call such meeting, upon the vice-chairperson.
(Ord. of 7-1-2019, § 6-1-4)
Sec. 6-23. Local emergency response authority designated.
The sheriff of the county is designated as the local emergency response
authority as prescribed in Idaho Code, § 39-7105, for all unincorporated
Jefferson County.
(Ord. of 7-1-2019, § 6-1-5)
Sec. 6-24. Director of emergency management; power and duties.
The term "director of emergency management" means the administrative head of
the county office of emergency management and director of the emergency
operations center (EOC). The director shall be appointed by the board of county
commissioners. His appointment and compensation shall be in accordance with
county personnel policy, as set by the board of county commissioners. The
director will provide primary assistance to that board and to the mayors of
cities and towns in the county. The director is hereby empowered to:
   (1)   Request the board of county commissioners to proclaim the existence or
threatened existence of a disaster and the termination thereof when the board
of county commissioners is in session, or to request the chairman of the board
of county commissioners to issue such proclamation if the board of
commissioners is not in session, subject to the requirements of Idaho Code, §
46-1011;
   (2)   Recommend that the board of county commissioners request the governor
to proclaim a state of disaster emergency when, in the opinion of the director,
the resources of the area or region are inadequate to cope with the disaster;
   (3)   Control and direct the effort of the emergency management
organizations of the county for the accomplishment of the purposes of this
article;
   (4)   Establish and maintain an emergency operations center for coordinating
and supporting emergency operations;
   (5)   Direct coordination and cooperation between divisions, services, and
staff of the emergency management organization of the county, and to resolve
questions of authority and responsibility that may arise between them;
   (6)   Represent the emergency management organization of the county in all
dealings with public or private agencies pertaining to emergency management and
disaster relief;
   (7)   Develop and coordinate the preparation and implementation of plans and
programs for emergency preparedness and response and recovery programs which
are consistent with national and state plans and programs;
   (8)   Provide for updating and testing of the county emergency operations
plan and training of county personnel for damage assessment, damage survey, and
radiological monitoring;
   (9)   Coordinate mutual aid agreements between the county, cities, towns,
and municipalities;
   (10)   Certify licensed amateur radio operators for the radio amateur civil
emergency service, in accordance with 47 CFR 97.407;
   (11)   Provide assistance to the local emergency response authority, as
requested;
   (12)   Perform other duties as may be assigned by the board of county
commissioners, and in all matters be subject to control and supervision by the
board of county commissioners.
(Ord. of 7-1-2019, § 6-1-6)
Sec. 6-25. Disaster and emergency powers of director.
In the event of the proclamation of a disaster by the chairman of the county
commissioners or the proclamation of a state of disaster emergency by the
governor, the director is hereby empowered to:
   (1)   Recommend the issuance of rules and regulations on matters reasonably
related to the protection of life and property as affected by such disaster or
threat of disaster.
   (2)   Coordinate operations of all county agencies during the natural,
manmade, or enemy-caused disaster.
   (3)   To obtain vital supplies, equipment, and such other properties found
lacking and needed for the protection of the life and property of the people,
and bind the county for the fair market value thereof.
   (4)   Coordinate all requests from local government for disaster assistance.
   (5)   Require emergency services of any county officer or employee and in
the event of the proclamation of a state of emergency by the governor in the
region in which the county is located, to command the aid of as many citizens
of this community as he thinks necessary in the execution of his duties. Such
persons shall be entitled to all privileges, benefits, and immunities as are
provided by state law for registered emergency worker-volunteers.
   (6)   Requisition necessary personnel or material of any county department
or agency.
   (7)   Execute all of the special powers conferred upon him by this article
or by resolution adopted pursuant thereto, all powers conferred upon him by any
statute, agreement approved by the board of county commissioners, or by any
other lawful authority.
   (8)   Coordinate use of communications and warning in the county emergency
operations center.
(Ord. of 7-1-2019, § 6-1-7)
Sec. 6-26. Emergency management organization.
All officers and employees of the county, and the EOC staff, together with
those volunteer forces enrolled to aid them during a disaster, and all groups,
organizations and persons who may, by agreement or operation of law, including
persons commandeered under the provisions of section
6-25(e), and charged with duties incident to the protection of life and
property in the county during such disaster, shall constitute the emergency
management organization of the county. Insofar as possible, the form or
organization, title, and terminology shall conform to the Idaho Disaster
Preparedness Act of 1975, amended by the Idaho Homeland Security Act of 2004
(Idaho Code, § 46-1001), and recommendations of the federal government and the
state office of emergency management.
(Ord. of 7-1-2019, § 6-1-8)
Sec. 6-27. Alternates.
In the event that the emergency management director is absent or unable to
function in that capacity (e.g., casualty, illness, etc.), the chairman or a
designated member of the board of county commissioners shall serve as or shall
appoint an alternate as emergency management director. The county sheriff and
the state office of emergency management shall be advised as to who is acting
emergency management director and how the acting director can be contacted in a
disaster/emergency.
(Ord. of 7-1-2019, § 6-1-9)
Sec. 6-28. Overall authority.
Chiefs of city and county government have responsibility and accountability
for, and final authority over, emergency operations as they do day-to-day
government.
(Ord. of 7-1-2019, § 6-1-10)
Sec. 6-29. Reserved.
Sec. 6-30. Reserved.
Sec. 6-31. Repeal of conflicting ordinances.
Any existing emergency management or disaster ordinance or rules, regulations,
or resolution in regard to emergency management in the county is repealed and
superseded by this article, provided that it is the intent of the board of
county commissioners in enacting the ordinance from which this article is
derived that it shall be considered a revision and continuation of the
ordinances repealed by the ordinance from which this article is derived, and
the status of volunteers shall not be affected by such repeal; nor shall
emergency management and disaster mutual aid plans and agreements, rules, and
regulations or resolutions adopted pursuant to such repealed ordinance be
affected by such repeal until amended, modified, or superseded as provided in
this article.
(Ord. of 7-1-2019, § 6-1-13)
Sec. 6-32. Non-discrimination.
The county's program of the non-discrimination in disaster assistance will be
carried out and is in accordance with Idaho Code, § 67-5909, applicable federal
laws, and implementing regulations.
(Ord. of 7-1-2019, § 6-1-15)
Sec. 6-33. Immunity from liability.
Authorized personnel engaged in emergency management or disaster relief
activities and persons, agencies, or any other entity providing building or
premises designated by proper authority as emergency shelters have immunity
from liability for property damage, bodily injury, or death as cited in
sections 46-1016 and 46-1017 of the Idaho Disaster Preparedness Act of 1975,
amended by the Idaho Homeland Security Act of 2004, and where willful
misconduct on the part of the property owner does not exist.
(Ord. of 7-1-2019, § 6-1-16)
Chapter 8
FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Sec. 8-1. International Fire Code.
   (a)   The 2018 International Fire Code, as published by the International
Code Council and as adopted, amended, and approved by the Idaho State Fire
Marshal, excluding any incorporated references to the NEC Electrical Code, the
International Plumbing Code, and the International Zoning Code.
   (b)   Appendix D, Fire Apparatus Roads, of the International Fire Code is
adopted by reference. Appendix D contains more detailed, minimum criteria for
use with the basic access requirements found in Section 503. This is necessary
for providing guidance for establishing access requirements and criteria for
structures built and uses occurring on new or expanding private roads in
Jefferson County. Appendix D, Fire Apparatus Roads, of the International Fire
Code shall correspond with Appendix B of Chapter 112, Zoning.
(Added in 2020 codification; Ord. No. 2024-04, § 2, 4-22-2024)
   State law reference(s)—International Fire Code adopted by state, Idaho Code,
§ 41-253.
Sec. 8-2. Open fire ban and burn permit.
   (a)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply. Any other words and phrases not defined in this
section shall be given their ordinary, commonly understood and accepted
meanings:
      Fire district refers to any fire protection district established and
operating within Jefferson County, Idaho, including but not limited to the
Central Fire District, West Jefferson Fire Control District, Roberts Fire
District, and Hamer Fire Department. This definition also encompasses any
forest protective district established on forest or range lands within
Jefferson County, as well as any future fire districts that may be established
under Idaho Code. Fire districts are responsible for providing fire protection,
emergency medical services, and other related services within their respective
jurisdictions, and they operate in accordance with Idaho Code, including Title
31, Chapter 14, and relevant sections of the Idaho Forestry Act and Fire Hazard
Reduction Laws.
      Implementing agency refers to any one or more of the following entities:
         a.   Board of County Commissioners of Jefferson County: The Board
holds the authority to implement and enforce this section, including the
imposition of open fire bans and the establishment of a burn permit system
within the county.
         b.   Fire districts: Fire districts within Jefferson County have the
authority to manage and enforce the open burning permit system, in accordance
with Idaho Code and local regulations. This includes fire districts established
under Idaho Code Title 31, Chapter 14.
         c.   Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ): The DEQ enforces
restrictions on outdoor burning to prevent wildfires and protect public health,
as outlined in IDAPA 58.01.01.550-562, 600-624. The DEQ coordinates with local
fire districts and other agencies to determine when and where burn bans are
necessary and ensures compliance with air quality regulations.
         d.   The Idaho State Department of Lands, the United States Forest
Service, the Bureau of Land Management, municipalities and other public
agencies that may, by valid legal authority and process to adopt a legal burn
ban. This includes any forest or range lands or fields within a forest
protective district. Specifically, under the Idaho Forestry Act and Fire Hazard
Reduction Laws, Idaho Code § 38-115, it is unlawful to set fires during the
closed season in certain areas without a permit from the fire warden of the
district.
      The implementing agency is responsible for evaluating conditions, issuing
resolutions for open fire bans, and ensuring public awareness and compliance
with all applicable fire safety regulations and burn restrictions within
Jefferson County.
      Implementing resolution means an official decision or statement adopted
by the Board of County Commissioners, a fire district, or the Department of
Environmental Quality (DEQ) that enforces the provisions of this section. An
implementing resolution specifies the conditions and circumstances under which
open fire bans are imposed, defines the scope and limitations of such bans, and
outlines any additional requirements or restrictions necessary to protect
public health, safety, and welfare.
      Open fire means that definition set forth in the implementation
resolution, as defined herein. In the event the implementation resolution does
not contain a definition of open fire, then for all purposes under this section
or the implementation resolution, an open fire shall be: any and all outdoor
fires, including but not limited to, campfires, warming fires, all explosives,
firing of model rockets, discharge of tracer bullets, exploding targets,
welding or operating an acetylene or other torch with open flame (other than in
an area cleared of all flammable materials and with adequate firefighting
equipment immediately available and on hand), the burning of trash and debris
and open burning which is offensive or objectionable because of smoke or odor
emissions or when atmospheric conditions or local circumstances make such fires
hazardous.
      Open fire shall not include or apply to: (i) commercial fireworks within
city limits; (ii) wood burning stoves and fireplaces located within an enclosed
building(s); (iii) roadside emergency flares used for vehicle safety in a safe
and prudent manner with regard to wildfire threat; (iv) recreational fires, as
defined in the International Fire Code, shall be permitted so long as they are
no closer than 25 feet from any structure and the fuel to be burned is no more
than three feet in diameter and no higher than 2 feet in height and contained
within a metal or concrete fire ring, and barbecue grills located on personal
residences when used in a safe and prudent manner with regard to wildfire
threat; (v) the prescribed burning of fence rows, irrigation ditches, fields,
and farmland when done in a safe and prudent manner with adequate firefighting
equipment immediately available and on hand, with the greatest regard and
consideration to the wildfire risks; and (vi) burning in farm burn barrels,
when used in a safe and prudent manner with regard to wildfire threat.
      Unincorporated areas of the county means all public (to the greatest
extent allowed by law) and private lands located in the county which are
outside the city limits of any city within the county.
   (b)   When this section is implemented by one or more resolutions of either
the Board of County Commissioners, the fire districts, or the Department of
Environmental Quality ("DEQ"), which together shall be referred to as
"implementing agency" in accordance with the provisions of this section and
state law ("implementation resolution"), open fires of every kind and type are
prohibited in those areas of the county to the greatest extent permitted by
law, unless such prohibition is specifically limited by the terms of the
implementation resolution. An open fire ban shall be in effect in the county
when an open fire ban is put in place by the implementation resolution and it
shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to violate the terms of the
open fire ban in all areas of the county during the time periods set forth in
the implementation resolution. The implementation resolution may modify the
area of the county where the fire ban would be in effect, or limit burn
restrictions to just certain areas of the county or any other further
limitations set forth in the implementation resolution.
   The open fire ban authorized to be imposed by the terms of this section
shall be implemented by:
      (1)   Adoption of the implementation resolution by the implementing
agency declaring that conditions and circumstances within the county
necessitate the imposition of an open fire ban to protect the health, safety,
and welfare of the public. Such resolution shall specifically state that the
resolution is intended to implement the open fire ban authorized by this
section, Idaho statute, or adopted rulemaking procedure; and
      (2)   That established evaluation criteria then currently in use by
federal, state, and local fire suppression/management agencies for monitoring
fuel moisture, fire dangers class, then-current impacts on suppression
resources, then-current fire cause types, weather forecasts and other
predictive fire dangers may be considered by the implementing agency; and
      (3)   The county may consider and, where deemed appropriate by the
implementing agency, undertake efforts to advertise and publicize each open
fire ban implemented by resolution accordance with this section. Such efforts
may include, but are not limited to, any one or more of the following:
recording of the resolution in the records of the County Clerk/Recorder,
posting of the resolution on the county website, publication of the resolution
and notices in one or more newspapers and publications circulated within the
county, the erection of signs referring to the open fire ban along public
thoroughfares and/or in public places within the county, and/or notification
sent to fire districts, the Idaho State Department of Lands, the United States
Forest Service, the Bureau of Land Management, municipalities and other public
agencies informing such agencies of the county open fire ban. The failure to
undertake any such additional efforts to advertise and publicize the open fire
ban shall not invalidate or preclude the enforcement of this section as
implemented by any such resolution.
   (c)   An open fire ban imposed and implemented in accordance with this
section shall commence upon the date set forth in the resolution and shall
remain in effect until the date identified in such resolution, if any, or the
date of repeal of the resolution by a further resolution of the implementing
agency.
   (d)   All burning and open fires in the county shall at all times be subject
to any and all state and federal laws and regulations, including but not
limited to air quality and health and safety concerns.
(Ord. No. 2024-10, § 3, 7-15-2024)
Sec. 8-3 Permit burning regulations.
   (a)   Prohibition. The burning of household trash, yard waste, and other
debris is prohibited in all areas of the county, except as specifically allowed
by a valid and effective open burning permit issued by the appropriate fire
district or from the county in any unincorporated area of the county that is
not in a fire district.
   (b)   Permit requirements. Any person wishing to burn trash must obtain an
open burning permit from the fire district of the area where the burning will
take place. The permit application must include details about the materials to
be burned, the location and date of the burn, and the safety measures that will
be in place.
   (c)   Further permit requirements. The following requirements shall further
be required by the appropriate agency with jurisdiction.
      (1)   Conditions for permit issuance.
         a.   The fire district may inspect the proposed burn site and approve
the conditions under which the burning will occur.
         b.   Adequate firefighting equipment must be immediately available and
on hand during the burn.
         c.   The burn must be conducted in a safe and prudent manner with
regard to wildfire threat.
      (2)   Safety measures.
         a.   Burning must take place at least 25 feet away from any structures
and combustible materials.
         b.   The burn area must be cleared of all flammable vegetation and
materials.
         c.   Burning must not occur during high wind conditions or when a fire
ban is in effect.
      (3)   Notification.
         a.   The permit holder must notify the fire district and the County
Dispatch prior to starting the burn.
         b.   Contiguous landowners must be informed of the date, time, and
location of the burning.
      (3)   Violations. Any person conducting a burn without a valid permit or
in violation of the permit conditions shall be subject to penalties as provided
in section
8-5 and/or civil liability for costs and damages caused by the fire.
   (d)   The separate fire districts and Fire Marshals of Jefferson County will
implement and manage an "open burning permit system" for the purpose of
permitting individuals to safely burn slash, slash piles, forest management
slash, grasses and debris based on the location where the burning will take
place. In collaboration with Sheriff's Office, the open burning permit system
will provide private property owners education and required procedures for safe
slash and debris burning. The county open burning permit system, and the burn
permit forms, currently being used and managed by the Jefferson County fire
districts, are hereby adopted as the open burning permit system for the county.
The open burning permit system also includes the following additional
provisions:
   (e)   No person shall conduct any open fire or open burning within an area
of the county without obtaining and holding a valid and effective open burning
permit, and notifying the fire district of the area of any proposed open fire,
open burning under the open burning permit, and in all other respects complying
with the open burning permit system, requirements, and the open burning permit,
including but not limited to calling the County Dispatch and where required the
State of Idaho, Department of Lands.
   (f)   The Fire Marshal may, in authorizing a burn under an open burning
permit, require the person who will be conducting the burn to notify contiguous
landowners, of the date, time and location of any burning pursuant to an open
burning permit.
   (g)   Broadcast burns conducted within federal and state guidelines that
have a written prescribed fire plan and agricultural burns are hereby exempted
from the open burning permit system.
   (h)   Nothing in the county open burning permit system infringes upon or
otherwise affects the ability of agricultural producers to conduct burning on
their property.
   (i)   Provisions or procedures of the open burning permit system may be
amended by the fire districts, with the consultation of the Board, by motion or
resolution.
   (j)   The Sheriff and the Sheriff's officers, deputies, designees and agents
are authorized by the Board and fire districts to enforce the prohibition on
open fires implemented by such resolution(s) adopted as provided in this
chapter. The separate fire districts shall be responsible for the
administration of this chapter and the implementation and administration of the
open burning permit system. All inquiries regarding the current status of open
fire restrictions and bans in the county should be directed to the fire
district of the area in which burning will take place.
   (k)   In the event the State of Idaho (the "State"), the Bureau of Land
Management ("BLM") or the United States Forest Service ("Forest Service") have
issued burning regulations pertaining to public lands within their respective
jurisdictions in the county, in conflict with this section, strictest of such
rules, regulations of the state, BLM or the Forest Service shall control.
(Ord. No. 2024-10, § 3, 7-15-2024)
Sec. 8-4 Fireworks.
   (a)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply. Any other words and phrases not defined in this
section shall be given their ordinary, commonly understood and accepted
meanings:
      (1)   Fireworks means any combustible or explosive composition, or any
substance or combination of substances, or article prepared for the purpose of
producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration,
or detonation. Fireworks include items classified as common or special
fireworks by the United States Bureau of Explosives or contained in the
regulations of the United States Department of Transportation and designated as
UN 0335 1.3G or UN 0336 1.4G. The term "fireworks" shall not include any
automotive safety flares, toy guns, toy cannons, caps or other items designed
for use with toy guns or toy cannons, party poppers, pop-its, or other devices
which contain 0.25 of a grain or less of explosive substance.
      (2)   Nonaerial common fireworks means any fireworks such as ground
spinners, fountains, sparklers, smoke devices, or snakes designed to remain on
or near the ground and not to travel outside a 15 foot diameter circle or emit
sparks or other burning material which land outside a 20 foot diameter circle
or above a height of 20 feet. Nonaerial common fireworks do not include
firecrackers, jumping jacks, or similar products.
      (3)   Dangerous fireworks means all remaining "fireworks" as defined in
section 8-4(a)(1) that are not "nonaerial common fireworks" as defined in
section
8-4(a)(2).
      (4)   Permit means an authorization given by the authority having
jurisdiction pursuant to Idaho Code §§ 39-2604 or 39-2605.
      (5)   Public display of fireworks means an entertainment feature where
the public is admitted to or permitted to view the display or discharge of
"fireworks." This provision shall not apply to a group of family members and
friends of fewer than 50 people.
      (6)   Authority having jurisdiction, as defined in the Idaho Code § 39-
2602(1), refers to a city fire department if the area is within a city, a fire
protection district if the area is within a fire protection district, or the
County Commission if the area is not within a city or fire protection district.
   (b)   Permit required for retail sales of nonaerial common fireworks.
      (1)   Application for sale of nonaerial common fireworks. Any person or
entity desiring to sell nonaerial common fireworks shall make application to
the fire district for such a permit. Each applicant shall pay to the fire
district a fee of $25. In the event no permit is issued, the fire district
shall refund the application fee. Each applicant for a permit shall file their
application with the fire district, providing the following information:
         a.   Name and address. Name and address of the applicant (or the names
of all partners, if a partnership; the name of the corporation and the
corporate officers, if a corporation; or the name of the limited liability
company and all of its members, if a limited liability company).
         b.   Primary location. The primary location of the business.
         c.   Storage locations. Each location at which fireworks are to be
stored.
         d.   Sales tax permit. The applicant's Idaho sales tax seller's permit
number, if applicable.
      (2)   Bond or certificate of public liability and property-casualty
insurance. Before an applicant shall be issued a nonaerial common fireworks
permit, the applicant must demonstrate to the fire district that they currently
possess a bond or valid certificate of public liability and property-casualty
insurance providing coverage of up to $100,000 for personal injury and property
damage.
      (3)   Duration of permit. Each nonaerial common fireworks permit issued
shall be valid for 12 months from the date of issuance and shall be
nontransferable.
      (4)   Authorized dates for the sale and use of fireworks. Nonaerial
common fireworks may be sold at retail and used beginning at midnight on June
23 and ending at midnight on July 5, and beginning at midnight on December 26
and ending at midnight on January 1.
      (5)   Display. Each nonaerial common fireworks permit issued shall be
displayed in public view at the location listed on the permit.
      (6)   Violation. This nonaerial common fireworks permit may be revoked if
the permittee violates any provisions of this chapter or Idaho Code Title 39,
Chapter 26. Any permit revocation proceeding shall comply with the provisions
of Idaho Code Title 67, Chapter 52. Additionally, any person who pleads guilty
or is found guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding six
months, or by a fine not exceeding $1,000, or by both.
   (c)   Permit required for public display or other event using fireworks.
      (1)   Application for public display of fireworks. Any person or entity
desiring to publicly display fireworks shall make application to the fire
district for such a permit. Each applicant shall pay to the fire district a fee
of $125. In the event no permit is issued, the fire district shall refund the
application fee. Each applicant for a permit shall file their application with
the fire district, providing the following information:
         a.   Name and address. Name and address of the applicant (or the names
of all partners, if a partnership; the name of the corporation and the
corporate officers, if a corporation; or the name of the limited liability
company and all of its members, if a limited liability company).
         b.   Primary location. The primary location of the business.
         c.   Storage locations. Each location at which fireworks are to be
stored.
      (2)   Issuing a permit. A public display of fireworks permit shall not be
issued unless the Fire Chief of the jurisdiction where the public display is to
occur determines the following:
         a.   The public display will be supervised by a qualified person and
will not constitute an unreasonable hazard to persons or property. Appropriate
national fire protection association or international fire code provisions may
be used as guidance for this determination.
         b.   The sales and use of fireworks outside the normal sales period as
provided in this chapter, or proposing the use of fireworks in addition to
nonaerial common fireworks, will not constitute an unreasonable hazard to
persons or property.
      (3)   Bond or certificate of public liability and property-casualty
insurance. Before an applicant shall be issued a public display of fireworks
permit, the applicant must demonstrate to the fire district that they currently
possess a bond or valid certificate of public liability and property-casualty
insurance providing coverage of up to $1,000,000 for personal injury and
property damage.
      (4)   Duration of permit. Each public display of fireworks permit shall
list the dates for which such permit is valid as well as the types of fireworks
and uses that will be allowed. This permit is nontransferable.
      (5)   Alteration of fireworks. Each person or entity that possesses a
valid public display of fireworks permit may alter fireworks.
      (6)   Violation. This public display of fireworks permit may be revoked
if the permittee violates any provisions of this chapter or Idaho Code Title
39, Chapter 26. Any permit revocation proceeding shall comply with the
provisions of Idaho Code Title 67, Chapter 52. Additionally, any person who
pleads guilty or is found guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, punishable by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding six
months, or by a fine not exceeding $1,000, or by both.
(Ord. No. 2024-10, § 3, 7-15-2024)
Sec. 8-5 Violations.
   (a)   General violations.
      (1)   Violations of this chapter shall be considered infractions or
misdemeanors depending on the frequency and nature of the violation. Each first
violation will be considered an infraction punishable by a fine of $300. Any
subsequent violation within the prior three years will be considered an
infraction punishable by a fine of $500. A third or subsequent violation within
the preceding five years will be considered a misdemeanor subject to up to six
months in jail and a fine up to $1,000.
      (2)   When a person is issued a citation for a violation of this chapter,
the issuing officer shall have the authority, but not be limited to, issuing a
penalty assessment notice pursuant to and authorized by this chapter. The
penalty assessment notice shall be a citation as approved and adopted by the
Board of County Commissioners by Resolution and shall identify the alleged
offender, shall specify the offense and applicable fine, and shall require that
the alleged offender pay the fine or appear to answer the charge at a specified
time and place. A duplicate copy shall be sent to the Clerk of the County
Court. If the person given a penalty assessment notice chooses to acknowledge
guilt, he/she may pay the specified fine in person or by mail at the place and
within the time specified in the notice. If he/she chooses not to acknowledge
his/her guilt, he/she shall appear as required in the notice. Upon trial, if
the alleged offender is found guilty, the fine imposed shall be that specified
in the notice for the offense of which he/she was found guilty. Customary court
costs may be assessed against him/her in addition to the fine.
      (3)   Violations of any provision of this chapter are punishable as
follows:
         a.   First violation. A fine of $300.
         b.   Second violation. A fine of $500.
         c.   Third and subsequent violations. A fine of $1,000 for each
subsequent violation and may include imprisonment in jail for up to six months.
   (b)   Specific violations.
      (1)   Burning in violation of burn ban. It shall be a misdemeanor to burn
any material in violation of an open fire ban implemented by an implementing
resolution as provided in this chapter. Each first violation will be considered
a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of up to $1,000 and/or imprisonment for up
to six months.
      (2)   Negligent burning. Negligent burning is defined as the act of
burning any material without taking appropriate safety measures to prevent the
spread of fire, including but not limited to having adequate firefighting
equipment on hand, ensuring the burn area is cleared of flammable vegetation,
and avoiding burning during high wind conditions. Any person found to be
negligently burning shall be subject to the penalties according to section 8-5
(a).
      (3)   Failure to obtain permit. Any failure to obtain any permit required
by this fire protection chapter shall constitute a violation. Penalties for
failure to obtain any required permit according to section 8-5(a).
      (4)   Failure to follow permit requirements. Any failure to follow the
requirements of a permit issued under this fire protection chapter issued by
any agency with the appropriate jurisdiction shall constitute a violation of
this chapter according to section 8-5(a).
      (5)   Burning trash violation. The burning of household trash, yard
waste, and other debris is strictly prohibited in all areas of Jefferson
County, except as specifically allowed by a valid and effective open burning
permit issued by the appropriate fire district or from the county in any
unincorporated area of the county that is not in a fire district.
      Trash, for the purposes of this chapter, is defined as any solid waste
material discarded as refuse or rubbish, including but not limited to:
         1.   Household waste such as food scraps, paper, cardboard, packaging
materials, and other domestic waste products.
         2.   Yard waste including grass clippings, leaves, branches, and other
plant debris.
         3.   Construction and demolition debris including wood scraps, roofing
materials, insulation, and other building materials.
         4.   Hazardous materials such as chemicals, batteries, paint, motor
oil, and other toxic substances.
         5.   Electronic waste including computers, televisions, and other
electronic devices.
         6.   Any other waste material defined as "solid waste" under the
Jefferson County Solid Waste Ordinance, Chapter 55 of the Jefferson County
Code.
      (6)   Penalties for violations. Each violation of this chapter shall be
deemed separate and distinct from any other violation of this chapter or of any
federal, state, or local law, rule, order, or regulation. Each day during which
a violation of this chapter continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
      (7)   Enforcement. The Sheriff shall have the authority to take a
violator or violators into custody for violations of this chapter. Criminal
prosecution may be brought against a violator under state statutes or under the
penalty provisions provided herein.
   (c)   Civil liability. Any person who willfully or negligently is
responsible for the starting or permitting an open fire in violation of this
chapter shall be liable for the costs incurred by federal, state, or local
agencies or their authorized representatives in controlling or extinguishing
the same, as well as damages to life and property arising from such a violation
of this chapter. The amount of such costs shall be recovered by a civil action
prosecuted in the name of the county, those persons damaged, or the agency
seeking reimbursement. Civil liability provided herein shall be exclusive of,
and in addition to, any criminal penalties provided herein. These costs shall
be calculated using all current federal overtime and FEMA rates.
Chapter 10
LAW ENFORCEMENT
Sec. 10-1. Unlawful communications with or by a prisoner/inmate.
Any person who orally communicates or attempts to orally communicate with any
prisoner and/or inmate of the county jail and/or juvenile holding facilities or
other such buildings used for detention and jail purposes, whether that
prisoner/inmate is within the confines of the facility or outside the building
engaged in assigned duties, without the express permission of a sheriff's
department sworn officer or other person assigned as a guard or supervisor to
the prisoner/inmate, or any prisoner/inmate held in the county who communicates
or attempts to communicate orally with any person not a prisoner/inmate while
within the confines of said jail facilities or other buildings used for such
purposes or on an assigned work detail outside the building, without the
express permission of a sworn officer of the county sheriff's department or
other sworn law enforcement officer or other person placed in charge of the
work detail, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. No. 30(2), 4-23-1984; altered in 2020 codification)
State law reference(s)-County jails, Idaho Code, § 20-601 et seq.
Chapter 12
LICENSES, TAXATION AND MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
Sec. 12-1. Mobile homes; annual reports by owners or buyers to county assessor;
stickers; license to move; determination that taxes have been paid.
(a)   The term "mobile home," for purposes of this section, is defined as a
trailer or structure that:
   (1)   Is designed to be transported or used upon the highways;
   (2)   Is capable of being used for human habitation, business, commercial or
office purposes; and
   (3)   Is over 25 feet in length, eight feet or less in width, and 5'5" or
more in height from floor-to-ceiling.
(b)   The owner or contract buyer of any mobile home shall declare to the
county assessor each year between January 1 and April 1 of that year, the
length, width, kind of make and year of manufacture and location of such mobile
home.
(c)   Any dealer, upon sale of a mobile home and delivery of said mobile home
to a place in the county, shall declare the same to the county assessor upon
delivery to a place in the county, and said dealer shall also state the owner,
length, width, make and year.
(d)   The owner or contract buyer of a mobile home which is located in the
county at the time of the enactment of this chapter or which shall be hereafter
located in the county, shall request the county assessor to place said mobile
home on the assessment and tax roll on application forms obtained from the
county assessor.
(e)   The county assessor, after having assessed a mobile home located in the
county, shall furnish to the owner or occupant of said mobile home an emblem or
sticker, which emblem or sticker shall be printed and furnished at county cost,
to the owner or occupant of said mobile home who shall affix said emblem or
sticker to said mobile home, and said emblem or sticker shall be affixed so
that it shall be visible from the public roadway, and said emblem or sticker
shall designate the said mobile home has been assessed for that year. It shall
be unlawful for any person to occupy or own a mobile home in the county for a
continuous period in excess of 72 hours without having displayed an emblem or
sticker described in this subsection.
(f)   Any owner or occupant of a mobile home desiring to move said mobile home
from a location in the county shall license the same with the county assessor
before moving the same from the county.
(g)   Any dealer moving a mobile home from the county shall determine that the
taxes have been paid before moving the same from the county.
(h)   It shall be unlawful and punishable as a misdemeanor for any person to
violate any provisions of this section.
(Ord. No. 10, §§ 1-8, 1-13-1975; altered in 2020 codification)
Sec. 12-2. Licensing of junk automobile dealers.
(a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of being a
junk automobile dealer within the county without first procuring a license to
conduct such business.
(b)   For the purposes of this chapter, the term "junk automobile dealer" means
any person, partnership or corporation who shall store or keep automobiles or
trucks which have not been licensed and which are not in a running condition
and not being presently repaired and who shall store or keep automobiles or
trucks for the purpose of converting to scrap metal or for the sale of parts
taken from said automobiles or trucks.
(c)   All persons required to be licensed by this section shall make
application in writing for a license to conduct or carry on such business; said
application shall be in writing and addressed to the board of county
commissioners stating the name of the applicant, the kind of business for which
the license is required and place where said business is to be conducted.
(d)   Said application shall be filed with the office of the planning and
zoning coordinator and shall be presented to the planning and zoning committee
at its next regular scheduled meeting or to a special meeting called for that
purpose. If a majority of the members or the committee vote to grant such
license, the license shall then be deemed approved by such committee and
presented to the county commissioners for their approval or denial. An
aggrieved applicant who has submitted an application to the planning and zoning
committee has the option to request a special hearing before such committee at
its next regular scheduled meeting. At such hearing, the aggrieved applicant
can present evidence or other information such party deems pertinent which
should be placed before the committee. The committee, at such point in time,
has the option of granting or denying such license and consenting their
approval, if granted, to the county commissioners. If denied, the aggrieved
applicant then has its option to pursue remedies in a recognized court of law
(e)   Any junk automobile dealer shall procure and pay a license fee to the
county in the sum of $50.00 for an annual license which license shall be on a
calendar year basis and shall not be subject to pro-ration and shall not be
transferrable.
(f)   Said license so issued shall specify the person to whom it is issued and
shall designate the place at which the business is to be carried on.
(Ord. No. 2, §§ 1-6, 11-9-1970)
State law reference(s)-Junkyards, Idaho Code, § 40-1919 et seq.
Sec. 12-3. Minimum investment to qualify for property tax exemption.
(a)   Per Idaho Code, § 63-602NN(2)(g), the minimum investment amount for plant
investment at project sites within the county is set at a minimum threshold of
$500,000.00.
(b)   Those seeking a property tax exemption under Idaho Code, § 63-602NN, must
still meet the other requirements of that section in order to be granted the
property tax exemption.
(Ord. No. 2019-5, 12-9-2019)
Chapter 14
CODE COMPLIANCE AND NUISANCE ENFORCEMENT
   *Editor’s note—Ord. No. 2024-19, § 2, adopted November 4, 2024, repealed the
former Ch. 14., §§ 14-1—14-12, and enacted a new Ch. 14 as set out herein. Ord.
of 11-21-2022, § 3, adopted November 21, 2022, repealed the former Ch. 14., §§
14-1—14-9, and enacted a new Ch. 14. The former Ch. 14 pertained to nuisances
and derived from Ord. 1, §§ 1—9, adopted November 9, 1970; altered in 2020
codification.
ARTICLE I. ADMINISTRATION
Sec. 14-1. Authority and purpose.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to authority conferred by Article 12,
Section 2, Idaho Constitution, and Idaho Code §§ 31-714, 31-801. Its purpose is
to provide for and further the health, safety and welfare of the public by
providing a procedure for abating public nuisances which can create traffic
safety hazards, fire hazards, health hazards including those caused by rodent
infestation, and other problems which may have a harmful effect upon the
health, safety, and welfare of the public. In no way shall this chapter be
interpreted to include objects or activities protected under the Right to Farm
Act of Idaho Code, tit. 22, ch. 45, nor farm vehicles, and implements of
husbandry as defined herein.
(Ord. of 11-21-2022, § 2; Ord. No. 2024-19, § 2, 11-4-2024)
Sec. 14-2. Public nuisance declared unlawful.
   It is unlawful for any person to create, cause, maintain or knowingly allow
to exist a public nuisance on any premises or real property which the person
owns, rents, leases, occupies or has charge or possession of premises
containing a public nuisance in an unincorporated part of Jefferson County.
(Ord. of 11-21-2022, § 2; Ord. No. 2024-19, § 2, 11-4-2024)
Sec. 14-3. Definitions.
   As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section and shall be considered liberally.
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply. Any
words or phrases not defined in this chapter should be given their ordinary,
commonly understood and accepted meanings.
   County official means Jefferson County Compliance Director, Building
Official, Sheriffs Office, or any duly authorized representative of a Jefferson
County Department.
   Farm vehicle means a vehicle or combination of vehicles used to transport
unprocessed agricultural, dairy or livestock products or any farm tractor or
trailer.
   Implements of husbandry means every vehicle or any part thereof, including,
but not limited to, self-propelled units, designed or adapted and used
exclusively in agricultural, horticultural, dairy and livestock growing and
feeding operations. Such implements include, but are not limited to, combines,
discs, dry and liquid fertilizer spreaders, cargo tanks, harrows, hay balers,
harvesting and stacking equipment, pesticide applicators, plows, swathers, mint
tubs and mint wagons, and farm wagons.
   Public nuisance means anything, including a condition or use of property,
which is harmful or injurious to the health or morals, creates a danger of harm
or injury to, the health, safety or welfare of members of the public or is
indecent or offensive to the senses of any reasonable person, or which is so
offensive to the senses or such an obstruction of the free use of property as
to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life and property by the
neighborhood, community or members of the public. The term is further defined
so as to include, but is not limited to, the specific nuisances set forth in
Article II of this chapter. The term "public nuisance" is further defined so as
to include:
      (1)   A condition or use of premises or property which creates a health,
safety, fire hazard or any traffic or safety hazard to members of the public.
      (2)   A condition or use of premises or property which allows the growth
of weeds, grasses, bushes or other plant life to such a condition as to cause,
or reasonably threaten to cause, a fire hazard because of their dried and
unkept condition, or a safety hazard because they obstruct sight at
intersections or other points at which driveways, lanes or highways come
together, or a health hazard because they provide nesting areas for rodents,
vermin and/or insects, or the growth of weeds to such a size or in such
condition as to interfere with the free and comfortable use of adjacent and
neighboring premises and property. See Jefferson County Weed and Public Works
Ordinances.
      (3)   An official public disposal site, landfill or existing transfer
station operated by Jefferson County or its franchisee shall not be a public
nuisance.
(Ord. of 11-21-2022, § 2; Ord. No. 2024-19, § 2, 11-4-2024)
Sec. 14-4. Jurisdiction.
   The jurisdiction of this chapter relating to nuisances shall be upon all
property outside of the incorporated limits of any municipal corporation within
the county limits and is conferred by Article 12, Section 2, Idaho Constitution
and Idaho Code, §§ 31-714, 31-801 and 31-828.
(Ord. of 11-21-2022, § 2; Ord. No. 2024-19, § 2, 11-4-2024)
Secs. 14-5—14-9. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. NUISANCES
Sec. 14-10. Vehicles.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful and shall be a misdemeanor to interfere with any
Jefferson County Sheriff's Deputy, Jefferson County Health Protection Officer,
Jefferson County Code or enforcement officer, Jefferson County Weed Control
Personnel, or fire district personnel or any other county official in the
performance of their duties connected with enforcement of this chapter. Such
interference shall include, but not be limited to, removal of notices posted on
the property pursuant to this chapter prior to the notices having been left in
place for 120 hours.
   (b)   A misdemeanor violation of this section shall be punished as provided
by Jefferson County Ordinance 1-7-1 as it may from time to time be amended and/
or retitled.
(Ord. of 11-21-2022, § 2)
Sec. 14-11. Junk or auto wrecking yards.
   Salvage, junk or auto wrecking yard as defined in Jefferson County Land Use
Ordinances, without proper fence or operating without a permit:
      (1)   Fence required. Any salvage, junk, or auto wrecking yard which does
not have a neat appearance and a screened or solid fence around the entire area
containing salvage or auto wrecking items at a height equal to the height of
storage existing thereon or at a height of eight feet, whichever is greater
shall be declared a nuisance. For fences over seven-foot a building permit
shall be required.
      (2)   Nonconforming use. The use of premises as a salvage, junk or
wrecking yard existing at the time of the enactment of the ordinance codified
in this chapter not in conformance with this section may be continued for a
period of 30 days; after the expiration of a 30-day period from and after the
effective date hereof, the use of premises as a salvage, junk or wrecking yard
not in conformance with this section shall be permitted or allowed only with
the approval of the compliance director, subject to the initiating by the
applicant of an application for a conditional use permit or other more
appropriate permit, with the County Planning and Zoning Department. This
application is to be heard as soon as possible by the County Planning and
Zoning Commission. Requirements for temporary permitting will define such
reasonable conditions and provisions that they may impose to ensure that the
use of said premises will not be offensive at a reasonable distance as
determined by the county official and to a reasonable person residing in the
surrounding area in which said property is located, or injurious to or
otherwise detrimental to public welfare. The temporary 30-day permit may be
extended through a temporary permitting process through the Planning, Zoning,
and Building Administrator.
(Ord. No. 2024-19, § 2, 11-4-2024)
Sec. 14-12. Foul or offensive substances.
   (a)   Depositing of foul or offensive substances. The depositing of any
filth or any foul or offensive, unwholesome, nauseous or injurious substances
upon any public thoroughfare or other place or upon any private property.
(Ord. No. 2024-19, § 2, 11-4-2024)
Sec. 14-13. Cellars, vaults, privies, etc.
   All cellars, vaults, drains, pools, cesspools, privies, sewers, yards,
grounds or premises which for any cause have become foul, nauseous or injurious
to health or a menace to health and safety or which give forth odors which are
offensive from a reasonable distance as determined by the county official and
to a reasonable person residing in the surrounding area in which said property
is located.
(Ord. No. 2024-19, § 2, 11-4-2024)
Sec. 14-14. Exemptions.
   Persons who are engaged in agriculture-related activities, as "agriculture"
is defined under Idaho Code, tit. 22, and who are conducting those activities
outside of a municipality, in accordance with generally accepted agricultural
practices, and in such a manner so as not to have a substantial, adverse effect
on the public health, safety, or welfare, are exempt from Secs.
14-12 and
14-13 above and from any ordinances, resolutions, rules, or other enactments.
(Ord. No. 2024-19, § 2, 11-4-2024)
Sec. 14-15. Hazardous buildings.
   (a)   Burned or unfinished structures. Structures or existing equipment that
are or hereafter become unsafe, unsanitary or deficient because of inadequate
means of egress facilities, inadequate light and ventilation, or that
constitute a fire, safety, or health hazard, or are otherwise dangerous to
human life or the public welfare, that involve illegal or improper occupancy or
inadequate maintenance, shall be deemed an unsafe condition. Unsafe structures
shall be taken down and removed or made safe as the Building Official deems
necessary and as provided for in this section.
(Ord. No. 2024-19, § 2, 11-4-2024)
Sec. 14-16. Buildings materials, garbage and trash.
   (a)   Building materials, garbage and trash. The maintaining, depositing or
unenclosed storing of lumber, metal, building materials, trash, garbage,
debris, rubbish, shrub or tree trimmings, logs or other unused, discarded or
abandoned objects. Neatly, stacked wood, shall not be considered a violation
herein. The materials shall be stored behind a residence and or screened from
public view by privacy or solid fencing.
   (b)   Any violation of Idaho Noxious Weed laws found in Idaho Code, tit. 22,
ch. 24 and this code.
(Ord. No. 2024-19, § 2, 11-4-2024)
Sec. 14-17. Dogs.
   (a)   Excessive dog noise nuisance. This occurs when a dog owner fails to
exercise proper care and control of their animal(s), resulting in loud and
prolonged barking, howling, or other excessive noise that disturbs the peace
and quiet of the neighborhood or adjacent premises. The noise must be audible
beyond the boundaries of the property where the animal is located for an
extended period, day or night, thereby unreasonably disturbing others. For the
purposes of this chapter, an "extended period of time" means either:
      (1)   Persistent noise emitted by one or more animals for ten minutes or
more.
      (2)   Persistent noise emitted by one or more animals directed at
neighbors or persons on adjoining properties or public rights-of-way who are
engaged in normal outdoor day-to-day activities, consistent with typical use of
said properties.
   (b)   Excessive dog noise nuisance exceptions. This chapter shall not apply
to animals that are:
      (1)   Being harassed or provoked to cause such noise;
      (2)   Maintained on land zoned for agricultural purposes;
      (3)   Kept at a properly permitted animal shelter established for the
care and placement of unwanted or stray animals; or
      (4)   Kept at a properly zoned commercial boarding kennel.
   (c)   Proof of excessive dog noise nuisance. The dog owner or custodian may
be cited for excessive dog noise nuisance when a County Sheriff, compliance
officer, or otherwise duly authorized representative:
      (1)   Receives signed complaints alleging a dog noise nuisance from at
least two adult witnesses residing in different residences;
      (2)   Receives a signed complaint alleging a dog noise nuisance from one
adult witness who has an audio or video recording of the alleged violation;
      (3)   Receives a signed complaint alleging a dog noise nuisance from one
adult witness and personally observes noise emission consistent with the
complainant's allegations;
      (4)   Personally witnesses the excessive noise violation as described
under this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2024-19, § 2, 11-4-2024)
Sec. 14-18. Other animal nuisance.
   (a)   Other animal nuisance. This occurs when the owner of a nuisance dog,
vicious dog, or other animal fails to exercise proper care and control of their
animal(s), resulting in any of the following behaviors:
      (1)   The animal threatens, or acts aggressively toward passersby;
      (2)   The animal chases vehicles, individuals on bicycles, scooters or
similar devices, or pedestrians;
      (3)   The animal attacks other animals; or
      (4)   The animal trespasses upon public or private property in such a
manner as to damage the property.
   (b)   Proof of other animal nuisance. The owner or custodian of an animal
may be cited for animal nuisance when a County Sheriff, compliance officer, or
otherwise duly authorized representative:
      (1)   Receives signed complaints alleging an animal noise nuisance from
at least two adult witnesses residing in different residences;
      (2)   Receives a signed complaint alleging an animal noise nuisance from
one adult witness who has an audio or video recording of the alleged violation;
      (3)   Receives a signed complaint alleging an animal noise nuisance from
one adult witness and personally observes noise emission consistent with the
complainant's allegations; and
      (4)   Personally witnesses the excessive noise violation as described
under this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2024-19, § 2, 11-4-2024)
Sec. 14-19. Other violations.
   Any other violations, items, or issues, not specifically listed, that
violate this code or Idaho Code.
(Ord. No. 2024-19, § 2, 11-4-2024)
Secs. 14-20—14-30. Reserved.
ARTICLE III. ENFORCEMENT
Sec. 14-31. Nonconforming uses.
   Any nonconforming use shall follow and adhere to the provisions in this
code.
(Ord. No. 2024-19, § 2, 11-4-2024)
Sec. 14-32. Liability.
   Any person who owns, creates, maintains, or who has actual or implied care
or custody over any nuisance or any person who knowingly permits a nuisance to
be created, maintained or to exist on premises owned by him or under his
control, shall be liable and may be charged with a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2024-19, § 2, 11-4-2024)
Sec. 14-33. Enforcement procedure.
   (a)   When a public nuisance is suspected within the county, excluding those
defined in Secs.
14-17 and
14-18:
      (1)   A written notice that a public nuisance exists shall be served upon
the owner, if known, and the occupant or person in charge of or control in the
possession of the premises or property on which the nuisance is found. Such
service shall be by personal service or by certified mail directed to the last
known address of the owner, occupant or person in charge of possession. If
written notice cannot be served personally or by mail on the owner, occupant or
person in charge of the possession of the premises or property on which the
nuisance is found, the notice shall be posted by being affixed to a building or
other place on the premises or property so conspicuous that any person
occupying, possessing or using the premises or property can be reasonably
expected to see it.
      (2)   The written notice referred to in subsection (a)( l) of this
section shall describe the nuisance, and advise that the nuisance must be
abated within ten days from the date of the notice or other such reasonable
timeframe outlined in the written notice at the discretion of the county
official sending the notice, advise that civil proceedings and/or criminal
proceedings may be initiated if the nuisance is not abated, advise that costs
of court proceedings and the nuisance abatement may be assessed against the
owner, occupant or person in charge of the possession of the premises or
property.
   (b)   Enforcement of Secs.
14-17 and
14-18 may be carried out by:
      (1)   Issuing a uniform citation pursuant to:
         a.   Rule 5 of the Idaho Infraction Criminal Rules; and/or
         b.   Rule 5 of the Idaho Misdemeanor Criminal Rules.
      (2)   A law enforcement officer as defined in:
         a.   Rule 2(g) of the Idaho Infraction Criminal Rules; and/or
         b.   Rule 2(g) of the Idaho Misdemeanor Criminal Rules.
   (c)   For the purposes of this chapter, a law enforcement officer shall
include:
      (1)   Peace officers;
      (2)   The County Sheriff;
      (3)   Sheriff’s deputies; and
      (4)   Sheriff’s compliance officers.
   (d)   A uniform citation for violation of this chapter shall be personally
served upon:
      (1)   The owner, if known, or
      (2)   The occupant or person in charge of the premises or property on
which the nuisance is found.
(Ord. No. 2024-19, § 2, 11-4-2024)
Sec. 14-34. Compliance agreements.
   (a)   The county official may enter into compliance agreements on a case-by-
case basis, subject to the following provisions or conditions:
      (1)   The county official finds that the violations that are the subject
of the compliance agreement do not pose an imminent threat to people or
property.
      (2)   The party responsible for compliance agrees to remedy the violation
(s) in an expeditious manner by a certain date.
      (3)   The county official may require the responsible party to:
         a.   Agree to hold the county official and the county harmless and to
defend against any claims arising through operation of the compliance
agreement; and/or
         b.   Provide evidence of general liability coverage for personal
injury and property damage for the premises subject to the compliance
agreement, with the county named as an additional insured.
      (4)   The responsible party shall pay any costs and/or attorney fees
incurred to enforce a compliance agreement.
      (5)   Any other conditions or requirements required by the county
official based upon the nature of the violation.
(Ord. No. 2024-19, § 2, 11-4-2024)
Sec. 14-35. Vexatious complainants.
   (a)   The county official may find a person to be a vexatious complainant
based on a finding that a person has done any of the following:
      (1)   In the immediately preceding three-year period, the person has made
at least three complaints regarding alleged violations of this title that have
been determined to be unfounded.
      (2)   After a complaint has been finally determined to be unfounded, the
person has repeatedly complained or attempted to complain about either:
         a.   The validity of the determination that the original complaint was
unfounded; or
         b.   The original complaint or the reasons therefore, or any related
issues of fact or law, which had been previously determined to be unfounded.
      (3)   The person has repeatedly submitted unmeritorious complaints or
other papers or engages in tactics that are frivolous or solely intended to
cause unnecessary delay.
   (b)   The county official may decide that county code enforcement staff will
not investigate or take action on any complaint submitted by a vexatious
complainant without first obtaining authorization for such investigation or
action from the Board. A copy of such decision shall be mailed to both the
complainant and to the record owner of any property that is or has been the
subject of complaints submitted by the complainant.
   (c)   The provisions of this section shall not preclude any other legal
remedy available to the Board of County Commissioners, the Compliance Director,
or the prosecuting attorney.
(Ord. No. 2024-19, § 2, 11-4-2024)
Sec. 14-36. Interference with authorized person.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful and shall be a misdemeanor to interfere with any
County Sheriff’s Deputy, County Health Protection Officer, County Code or
Enforcement Officer, County Weed Control Personnel, or fire district personnel
or any other county official in the performance of their duties connected with
enforcement of this chapter. Such interference shall include, but not be
limited to, removal of notices posted on the property pursuant to this chapter
prior to the notices having been left in place for 120 hours.
   (b)   A misdemeanor violation of this section shall be punished as provided
by Jefferson County Ordinance 1-7-1 as it may from time to time be amended and/
or retitled.
(Ord. No. 2024-19, § 2, 11-4-2024)
Sec. 14-37. Abatement of nuisance.
   (a)   Responsibility. It shall be the duty of the owner, tenant, or any
person in actual or constructive possession, control or care of any lot,
building or premises whereon any nuisance exists, or the lessee, manager or
person in charge thereof, to remove, abate or destroy the same without delay.
   (b)   Notice to abate.
      (1)   Written notice; service. The county official, shall notify in
writing the owner of any such lot, place or area within the county, or the
agent of such owner, or the person in possession and control of such lot, to
abate the nuisance indicated in the notice; provided that such written notice
shall be served personally on the owner, lessee, agent, or person in possession
and control, or by certified mail, addressed to said owner or agent of said
owner, or the person in possession and control of such lot at their last known
address. Written notice will be deemed to have been served/received if a
written violation on a duplicate form or other such form authorized by the
county, shall be left at the premises by the authorized county representative
and mailed to the address of the owner of record.
      (2)   Failure to comply. Providing further, that upon failure, neglect or
refusal of any such owner, or agent of such owner, or person in possession and
control to abate the listed nuisance within ten days after the date of such
notice or other such reasonable timeframe outlined in the written notice at the
discretion of the county official sending the notice or in the event that
notice served by certified mail is returned to the county as unable to make
delivery thereof, the county is hereby authorized and empowered to abate the
nuisance and remove it at the expense of the property owner. The initial
timeframe given for abatement shall be based upon the type of violation and may
be given additional time to abate based on the violation 's seriousness and any
other relevant information or constraints concerning the particular situation
and shall be at the sole discretion of the county official sending such notice.
   (c)   Abatement by county. Whenever a nuisance exists which cannot be abated
or removed because the person who is responsible therefore cannot be found, or
when the party who is responsible for the nuisance has, on at least one
occasion failed and/or refused to abate or remove said nuisance, any duly
authorized representative of the county shall be empowered to take steps
necessary to remove, abate or destroy the same, or cause the same to be done.
   (d)   Failure to comply after abatement by county.
      (1)   Costs assessed. Whenever the county has paid for the abatement of
the nuisance or has used its own employees and equipment, or contracted
services, for the abatement of a nuisance as set forth in this chapter, the
actual costs thereof, plus interest at the rate of eight percent per annum from
the date of completion of the work, shall be charged to the owner of such
property.
      (2)   Notice of costs; lien. The owner of the property shall be given 30
days written notice to make such payment, and if not paid, such charges shall
be a lien against such property in the same manner as a mechanics and
materialmen's liens as provided for by Idaho law.
      (3)   Recording of lien or certification of charges. An authorized
representative of the county shall, at their option, either:
         a.   Cause such lien to be recorded in the County Recorder's office in
the manner provided by law for mechanic's and material men's liens; or
         b.   Certify such charges to the proper county officer for collection
in the manner provided by law for the collection of taxes and assessments.
(Ord. No. 2024-19, § 2, 11-4-2024)
Sec. 14-38. Breach of the peace.
   (a)   Any person who maliciously and willfully breaches the peace and quiet
of another or of any neighborhood, family, congregation or other assembly by
causing loud, offensive, repetitive or high pitched noises, flashing lights,
vibrations or by using, operating or controlling sound amplification or
reproduction equipment that emits sound between the hours of 10:00 p.m. one day
and 7:00 a.m. the next day, that is plainly audible within any residence or
business, other than the source of the sound, or upon a public right-of-way or
street at a distance of 100 feet or more from the source of said sound or by
engaging in or by threatening, traducing, quarreling, challenging to fight or
fighting, or fires any gun or pistol, or uses any vulgar, profane or indecent
language within the presence or hearing of children, in a loud and boisterous
manner, or by causing any other annoying or unusual activity, is guilty of an
infraction, with a fine, including court costs of $125.00. Farming and
reasonable construction activities shall not be considered a violation herein.
Due to extreme heat during the summer months of June, July, and August,
landscape maintenance noise may begin at 6:00 a.m.
   (b)   Exemptions and temporary waivers.
      (1)   Exemptions. This clause shall not apply to emergency vehicles,
while acting in response to an emergency; locomotive or other railway
equipment; airplanes and other FAA regulated aircraft; scheduled, organized
sporting events; normal agricultural activities; nor public displays of
fireworks authorized and approved under Idaho Code, tit. 39, ch. 26.
      (2)   Industrial and commercial exemptions. This chapter shall not apply
to industrial or manufacturing activities within commercial or industrial zoned
areas that do not exceed Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) noise
standards for normal operations.
      (3)   Temporary waivers. A person or entity may apply to the Board of
County Commissioners for a temporary waiver from the provisions of this
chapter. Such application shall be submitted to the Board of County
Commissioners at least 30 days in advance of the date of the activity or event
seeking the waiver. As part of the application, the applicant shall notify
property owners within 300 feet of the external boundaries of the lot or parcel
on which the event or activity will be conducted of the event or activity.
(Ord. No. 2024-19, § 2, 11-4-2024)
Sec. 14-39. Penalties.
   (a)   Unless otherwise outlined in this chapter, failure to abate a nuisance
listed in Sec.
14-3 and 14-5, or any violation of this chapter within the county limits after
reasonable notice has been given or attempted as set forth herein, to the
landowner, tenant or person responsible for maintaining or allowing the
nuisance shall be a misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalty as provided in
Ord. 1-7-1 of this code. Failure to abate said nuisance from day to day shall
constitute a separate offense for each day.
   (b)   If the owner, occupant or person in charge or possession of the
premises or property on which the nuisance exists does not abate the nuisance
within the time allowed, they may be proceeded against either civilly or
criminally. The expenses of abatement and abatement proceedings, (including any
expenses arising from contractors hired by the county to perform said abatement
and any investigatory costs), shall be charged to the owner, occupant or person
in charge of or those in possession of the premises or property upon which the
nuisance exists. The prosecuting attorney may seek recovery of those expenses
and costs. Said costs shall attach as a lien upon the subject property if
unpaid.
   (c)   Additionally, any individual violating this chapter may be required to
pay any costs associated with the county having to take action to enforce its
ordinances, including reasonable attorney costs, or take any corrective action
that is a result of the violation, with costs of such action being charged
against the violator and due and owing to the county upon completion of
corrective action, removal of work, or repairs by the county. These costs shall
be calculated using the current rates utilized by the County Public Works
Department, or current private contractor competitive rates.
   (d)   A sheriff or compliance officer, when responding to a nuisance as
defined in Secs.
14-17 or
14-18 and provided with the proofs defined in the same sections and
subparagraphs, will issue citations to the dog owner according to the following
schedule:
      (1)   First violation.
         a.   Declared a nuisance;
         b.   Punishable as an infraction as defined in Idaho Code § 18-111;
and
         c.   Subject to a fine of $75.00.
      (2)   Second violation within a three month period from the date of the
first violation.
         a.   Declared a nuisance;
         b.   Punishable as an infraction as defined in Idaho Code § 18-111;
and
         c.   Subject to a fine of $100.00.
      (3)   Third violation and any subsequent violations within a three month
period from the date of the first violation.
         a.   Declared a nuisance;
         b.   Punishable as a misdemeanor as defined in Idaho Code § 18-111;
and
         c.   Subject to a fine of $1,000.00.
(Ord. No. 2024-19, § 2, 11-4-2024)
Chapter 16
PARKS AND RECREATION
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 16-1. Possession of alcohol at specified boat docks.
(a)   It shall be unlawful for any person at any time to be in possession of an
open container or to consume any alcoholic beverage or beer on or about the
following county boat dock areas:
   (1)   The Mike Walker Boat Dock located at Roberts, Idaho;
   (2)   The Menan Butte Boat Dock located at Menan, Idaho;
   (3)   The Jefferson County Boat Dock located at Ririe, Idaho.
(b)   Said property shall include any and all property belonging to the county
and/or on any location generally known as the Mike Walker Boat Dock, the Menan
Butte Boat Dock or the Jefferson County Boat Dock.
(Ord. No. 32, 11-6-1985; altered in 2020 codification)
Secs. 16-2-16-20. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. LAKE AND RECREATION ORDINANCE
Sec. 16-21. Title and purpose.
This article shall be known as the "Jefferson County Lake and Recreation
Ordinance-Specialized Ordinance Unique to Geography" and is adopted for the
purpose of governing certain geographical areas within the county and to
establish regulations for said areas in the best interest of public health,
safety, and general welfare.
(Ord. of 5-7-2018, § 3-2-1)
Sec. 16-22. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   Bike path; Jefferson County Centennial Path means that section of designated
pathway surrounding the Jefferson County Lake and running, more or less, in a
southerly direction to 375 Farnsworth Way, Rigby, Idaho.
   Camp means to occupy a campsite.
   Campsite means a designated location to camp.
   Caretaker means that person who performs management and services at the
Jefferson County Lake and has been appointed by the county commissioners or
their agents.
   Jefferson County Lake means that recreational lake and manmade improvements
located in portions of lake sections 5, 6, 7, 8; township 4 north, range 38
E.B.M.; Jefferson County, Idaho.
   Large shelters means the large overhead structures located on the easterly
portion, northerly portion, and the westerly portion of the Jefferson County
Lake.
   Motorboat means any flotation device capable of carrying people which is
propelled by a combustion engine.
   Motorized vehicle means any device on wheels or runners for conveying
persons or objects which is propelled by an engine.
   Operator means any person who drives or is in physical control of a
motorized device.
   Small shelter means the small overhead structures located on the easterly
portion, southerly and westerly portion of the Jefferson County Lake.
(Ord. of 5-7-2018, § 3-2-2)
Sec. 16-23. Designation of Annis Buttes as Jefferson County Recreation Area.
That certain part of what is generally known as the Annis Buttes (Northern),
and specifically the southern and western slope of said Buttes, which is owned
by the county legally described as township 5 north, range 39 East, Boise
Meridian, Jefferson County, Idaho: section 35, NE¼ of NE&frac14, east of County
Roadway), is hereby designated, until further order of the board of county
commissioners, as a county recreation area and is subject to the following
regulations:
   (1)   Driving. No driving shall be permitted off the pavement or improved
(graveled) surface. Except as otherwise provided herein, all motorized vehicles
shall be prohibited at all times.
   (2)   Outside item care. No glass containers, or other glass items, shall be
permitted outside any enclosure.
   (3)   Garbage. No littering shall be permitted in any area. All garbage must
be deposited in a garbage bin or garbage container.
   (4)   Campsites. All campsites must be kept neat and clean, and must further
be cleaned by its occupants prior to leaving.
      a.   Fires shall only be permitted in the metal fire rings or grills.
      b.   There shall be a maximum stay of five consecutive days (four
overnights) at the Annis Buttes and any of the property belonging to the county
surrounding the Buttes, and/or any location generally known as the Annis
Buttes.
   (5)   Fees and permits. There shall be a user fee as established from time
to time by resolution of the county commissioners. A park attendant for
collection of the fee and/or an envelope for deposit of the fee and a permit
tab will be used, and the permit must be visibly displayed, indicating the fee
has been paid.
(Ord. of 5-7-2018, § 3-2-3)
Sec. 16-24. Jefferson County Lake.
The county, through various sources of public funding, has established a county
lake and park located just north of the City of Rigby; the investment there is
substantial and valuable, and is intended for the pleasure and benefit of
county citizens and visitors; it is felt that in order to maximize the use of
the park and lake, and at the same time protect and provide for continuous
enjoyment, certain regulations are required. The following rules and
regulations shall apply to the lake and area owned by the county surrounding
the same:
   (1)   Hours of operation. The lake and facilities will be open from 9:00
a.m. to 10:00 p.m. from June to September and from 10:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. in
the months of May and October, except for overnight camping in the spaces
designed for overnight camping, in which case 10:00 p.m. to. 7:30 a.m. will be
the overnight camping quiet hours.
   (2)   Driving. No driving shall be permitted off the pavement surface.
   (3)   Outside item care. No glass containers, or other glass items, shall be
taken on any of the beach areas, boat dock, or playground areas.
   (4)   Garbage. No littering shall be permitted in any area. All garbage must
be deposited in a garbage bin or garbage container.
   (5)   Motorboats. No motorboats shall be permitted in the lake except as
provided hereafter. Motorized boats are only permitted with the following
conditions:
      a.   Motorized boats used by law enforcement for training and/or search
and rescue purposes are permissible on the lake.
      b.   No motorized boating is allowed, whatsoever, on the western portion
of the lake. This western portion is separated by buoy markers and is
customarily used for swimming only.
      c.   Boats with only an electric engine attached are permissible from
sunrise to 10:00 a.m. outside of the western portion of the lake separated by
buoy markers.
      d.   No alcohol will be permitted in or about the boats.
   (6)   Swimming. All swimmers shall do so at their own risk.
   (7)   Campsites. All campsites must be kept neat and clean, and must further
be cleaned by its occupants prior to leaving.
      a.   Fires shall only be permitted in the metal fire rings or grills.
      b.   There shall be a maximum stay of five consecutive days (four
overnights) at the Jefferson County Lake, its shores, any of the property
belonging to the county surrounding the lake, and/or any location generally
known as the Jefferson County Lake and/or Park.
   (8)   Fishing. An Idaho fishing license is required to fish at the location
generally known as the Jefferson County Lake and/or Park.
   (9)   Fees and permits. There shall be a user fee as established from time
to time by resolution of the county commissioners. A park attendant for
collection of the fee and/or an envelope for deposit of the fee and a permit
tab will be used, and the permit must be visibly displayed, indicating the fee
has been paid.
   (10)   Shelters. The large shelters may be reserved. There shall be a
reservation fee for the large shelters as set by the fee schedule as adopted,
from time to time, by resolution of the county commissioners. The reservations
shall not take effect until the monies are received. Unless received, there
shall not be any reservations granted by the duly authorized agent of the
county.
   (11)   Animals. No animals (pets) shall be permitted on the premises,
including, but not limited to, reptiles, birds, cats, horses, mules, or other
hoofed animals. Dogs are only allowed to be off-leash in the areas specifically
designated as off-leash and only if they are tended by their owner at all
times. Otherwise, dogs must be on a leash at all other times and tended by
their owner at all times.
   (12)   Alcohol prohibited. No person shall at any time be in possession of
or consume any alcoholic beverage on the Jefferson County Lake, its shores, any
of the property belonging to the county surrounding the lake, and/or any
location generally known as the Jefferson County Lake and/or Park, unless
possessed or consumed while inside a camper, camp trailer, fifth wheel
recreational vehicle, or motorhome. The consumption of alcohol in tents is
prohibited.
(Ord. of 5-7-2018, § 3-2-4)
Sec. 16-25. Boat docks owned or controlled by the county.
The following provisions shall apply to the following county property,
facilities, and improvements: Mike Walker Boat Dock in Roberts, Idaho, and
Lorenzo Boat Ramp in Rigby, Idaho.
   (1)   Driving: No driving shall be permitted off the pavement or improved
(graveled) surface.
   (2)   Outside item care: No glass containers, or other glass items, shall be
taken on any of the beach areas, boat dock, or playground areas.
   (3)   Garbage: No littering shall be permitted in any area. All garbage must
be deposited in a garbage bin or garbage container.
   (4)   Swimming: All swimmers shall do so at their own risk.
   (5)   Motorboats and other recreational vehicles: All individuals operating
or occupying motorboats and other recreational vehicles shall do so at their
own risk.
   (6)   Campsites: All campsites must be kept neat and clean, and must further
be cleaned by its occupants prior to leaving.
      a.   Fires shall only be permitted in the metal fire rings or grills.
      b.   There shall be a maximum stay of five consecutive days (four
overnights) at the J Mike Walker Boat Dock and Lorenzo Boat Ramp its shores,
any of the property belonging to the county surrounding the ramps, and/or any
location generally known as the Mike Walker Boat Dock and Lorenzo Boat Ramp.
   (7)   Fishing: An Idaho fishing license is required to fish at the location
generally known as Mike Walker Boat Dock in Roberts, Idaho, and Lorenzo Boat
Ramp in Rigby, Idaho.
   (8)   Fees and permits: There shall be a user fee as established from time
to time by resolution of the county commissioners. A park attendant for
collection of the fee and/or an envelope for deposit of the fee and a permit
tab will be used, and the permit must be visibly displayed, indicating the fee
has been paid.
(Ord. of 5-7-2018, § 3-2-5)
Sec. 16-26. Bike path.
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or be in control of any motorized
vehicle on the bike path known as the Jefferson County Centennial Path, other
than to cross said path for ingress and egress to adjoining lands.
(Ord. of 5-7-2018, § 3-2-6)
Sec. 16-27. Limitation on use of public facilities.
(a)   The county has public facilities such as boat ramps, parks, lakes and/or
recreational areas which may or may not permit overnight camping and may or may
not have any sewer facilities. Said areas are for the benefit of the public
generally and are not to be utilized or monopolized by only a few.
(b)   Therefore, no person, family, group of persons, entities, organizations
or friends of the same shall continually occupy any public facility in which
the county has any interest for more than 120 consecutive hours. Further, any
person, family, entity, organization and/or group shall only be permitted 120
consecutive hours in any park or recreational area, even though they may move
from one campsite to another campsite or from one area to another area in said
park or recreational area. However, a person, family, group of persons,
entities, organizations or friends of the same shall be able to reoccupy any
public facility in which the county has any interest upon a 24-hour
abandonment.
(Ord. of 5-7-2018, § 3-2-7)
Sec. 16-28. Parking violation.
Any vehicle found to be parked in an area designated as a no parking area or
tow zone, shall be towed and/or towed at the vehicle owner's expense, and may
also be cited with an infraction, pursuant to pursuant to Idaho Code, §§ 49-102
(2), 49-102(4), and 49-1804.
(Ord. of 5-7-2018, § 3-2-8)
Sec. 16-29. Punishment for violations.
Unless otherwise provided for by law, each violation of any of the provisions
of this article shall be punishable by an infraction. Infraction penalties may
be assessed as follows: $25.00 for the first offense, $50.00 for the second
offense, and $100.00 for a third offense. Caretakers of the aforementioned
facilities, the lake manager, or their agents shall have the authority to:
   (1)   Order the violator to immediately leave the premises;
   (2)   Issue monetary infraction citations for violations of this article;
and/or
   (3)   Contact the county sheriff's office to take the violator into custody
and the prosecutor's office to request misdemeanor charges.
(Ord. of 5-7-2018, § 3-2-9)
State law reference(s)-Penalty for ordinance violations, Idaho Code, § 31-714;
penalty for infractions, Idaho Code, § 18-111.
Chapter 18
TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
Sec. 18-1. Impoundment of unregistered or unlicensed vehicles.
(a)   Any vehicle operated on any public road or street within the boundaries
of the county which is not validly registered, and/or which does not carry
valid license plates issued for use on said vehicle, shall be immediately and
forthwith impounded and held by the county until said vehicle is validly
registered, license plates properly attached, and proof of liability insurance
furnished as set forth in Idaho Code, 49-1232.
(b)   The owner of the vehicle shall have 30 days in which to comply with the
requirements of subsection (a) of this section. In addition, the owner shall be
required to pay all impound fees and/or other costs incurred in connection with
the impounding of the vehicle in order to have it released by the county.
(c)   If the owner does not comply with the requirements of subsections (a) and
(b) of this section within 30 days from the date the vehicle is impounded, the
vehicle shall then be forfeited to the county, who shall then become, by said
forfeiture, the sole and exclusive owner of said vehicle, subject to any
validly perfected liens in favor of bona fide third parties. Upon expiration of
the 30 days and the forfeiture, the county may then dispose of the vehicle by
publishing one time only a notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the
county, that a sale of the vehicle will be held, giving a description thereof,
the date, time and place of the sale. The sale shall be conducted by the
sheriff of the county and/or his authorized representatives.
(d)   The sale shall be without any representation or warranty as to the status
of the title of the vehicle, and the purchaser shall purchase the property
subject to perfected bona fide third party lien claims. All other claims shall
be deemed abolished by the forfeiture proceeding. The county shall cooperate
with the new purchaser in obtaining a new title to the vehicle.
(Ord. No. 23, §§ 1-4, 7-28-1980; altered in 2020 codification)
Sec. 18-2. Fee on vehicle registration.
(a)   There shall be assessed a $2.00 fee or charge for each registration,
whether for the initial purchase or yearly for any vehicle.
(b)   In this section, the term "vehicle" includes cars, motorcycles, all-
terrain vehicles, boats, trailers, snowmobiles or any other conveyance required
to be registered under state law.
(Ord. No. 36, 6-13-1988)
Sec. 18-3. Winter closure period for vehicle traffic on Egin-Hamer Road.
(a)   That certain stretch of roadway which is partially located in Fremont
County, Idaho, and partially located in Jefferson County, Idaho, which is more
commonly known as the Egin-Hamer Road, is hereby closed to all vehicle traffic
during its winter closure period, which is December 1 to March 31 of each year.
No person shall operate a motorized vehicle on such road during such period.
(b)   The definition of the term "vehicle traffic" is any motorized vehicle
driving on the Egin-Hamer Road.
(c)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be punished by
a fine of $100.00.
(Ord. No. 35, §§ I, III, IV, 11-9-1987; Ord. No. 2019-01, 12-10-2018; altered
in 2020 codification)
Sec. 18-4. Air compression brake restrictions.
(a)   Air compression brakes.
   (1)   Use of air compression brakes prohibited. The use of air compression
brakes (also known as "jake brakes") by vehicles or trucks, as defined in Idaho
Code, title 49, chapter 1, is hereby prohibited and shall be unlawful in the
areas within the county identified below, except under emergency circumstances
where the use of air compression brakes is necessary to prevent an accident or
injury to persons or property:
      a.   The approaches to the Menan-Lorenzo Highway intersection from 4000
East to U.S. 20.
      b.   Yellowstone Highway from County Line Road to 200 North.
      c.   Yellowstone Highway from 500 North to 600 North.
      d.   County Line Road, from Yellowstone Highway to 4000 East.
      e.   Lewisville Highway (3400 East) from 400 North to State Highway 48.
      f.   4700 East, from 50 North to 250 North.
      g.   Bassett Road, from County Line Road to 200 North.
   (2)   Penalties. Any person who violates any provision of this section
18-4 shall be deemed guilty of an infraction and punished as provided in
section
1-7 of this Code. Any second violation within a term of five years from a
proceeding violation shall double the fine.
(b)   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby
repealed.
(c)   This section shall take effect and be enforced from and after its
passage, approval, and publication as required by law. In lieu of publication
of the section, a summary thereof in compliance with Idaho Code § 31-715A, may
be published.
(Ord. No. 2022-05, 5-23-2022)
PART II
PUBLIC WORKS ORDINANCES
Chapter 51
GENERAL PROVISIONS AND ADMINISTRATION
Sec. 51-1. Application of chapter 1.
The provisions of chapter 1 apply to this part.
(Added in 2020 codification)
Chapter 53
ROADS AND BRIDGES
   *State law references—Authority to adopt ordinances necessary or proper to
provide for the safety, promote the health and prosperity, improve the morals,
peace and good order, comfort and convenience of the county and the inhabitants
thereof, and for the protection of property therein, Idaho Code § 31-714; Fire
Protection District Law, § 31-1401 et seq.; open burning of crop residue, Idaho
Code § 39-114; fireworks, Idaho Code § 39-2601 et seq.; Hazardous Substance
Emergency Response Act, Idaho Code § 39-7101 et seq.
ARTICLE I. ROAD PROTECTIONS ORDINANCE
Sec. 53-1. Definitions.
   For the purposes of this article, the following definitions shall apply. Any
other words and phrases not defined in this article shall be given their
ordinary, commonly understood, and accepted meanings:
   Abatement means the act of eliminating or reducing the nuisance caused by
sprinkling or diverting water onto a public highway, including the cessation of
irrigation practices or modification of equipment to prevent further
violations.
   Baffle plate means a device attached to a sprinkler head or irrigation
system component designed to deflect water away from certain areas, such as
public highways, to prevent accidental sprinkling or flooding.
   Compliance director means the county official or their designee responsible
for ensuring compliance with county ordinances, regulations, and codes.
   Continuing nuisance means a nuisance that persists or recurs after the
initial abatement notice, including instances where different portions of the
roadway are affected at different times.
   Debris includes any debris, paper, litter, glass bottles, glass, nails,
tacks, hooks, hoops, cans, barbed wire, boards, trash or garbage, lighted
material, or other waste substance.
   End guns on pivots means components of pivot irrigation systems designed to
spray water over a wide area, including those that can potentially direct water
onto public highway.
   Highway infrastructure includes all physical elements of a public highway,
such as the road surface, shoulders, ditches, signs, barriers, and any other
structures or facilities that support the safe use and maintenance of the
highway.
   Public highway means the entire right-of-way of any public road or highway,
including the traveled portion of the roadway, shoulders, ditches, and any
adjacent areas that are maintained for public use or as part of the highway
infrastructure.
   Public right-of-way means any area dedicated for public use for the purpose
of travel, including roads, streets, alleys, sidewalks, and easements.
   Responsible party means the owner, operator, manager, or person in control
of the land or irrigation system that is causing water to be diverted,
sprinkled, or flooded onto a public highway. This includes every natural
person, firm, fiduciary, partnership, association, corporation, trustee,
receiver or assignee for the benefit of creditors, political subdivision, state
or federal governmental department, agency, or instrumentality. The term does
not include employees or hired laborers acting under the direction of a
responsible party.
   Road and Bridge Department means the county department responsible for the
maintenance, repair, and oversight of public highways, roads, bridges, and
associated infrastructure within the county.
   Sprinkler delivery system means any irrigation system or device used to
distribute water to land, including but not limited to lawns or gardens, pivot
sprinklers, lateral move systems, portable sprinklers, and any other apparatus
that delivers water through sprinkling mechanisms. Also referred to as
“irrigation system” or “water delivery system”.
   Sprinkling means the act of willfully or negligently causing water to be
diverted, sprinkled, or flooded onto a public highway, creating a hazard for
the traveling public.
   Traveling public means individuals using the public highways, roads, or
streets for transportation purposes.
(Ord. No. 2024-13, § 3, 9-9-2024)
Sec. 53-2. Prohibitions and requirements.
   (a)   Sprinkling, diverting, or flooding water upon a public highway. Any
sprinkling, diverting, or flooding water onto a public highway by any means,
including but not limited to sprinkler delivery systems and end guns on pivots,
is hereby declared a public nuisance, a danger to the traveling public, and a
violation of this article. Such activities are strictly prohibited.
      (1)   Violation. Any act of sprinkling, diverting, or flooding water onto
a public highway, regardless of the cause (including mechanical failure), is
considered a violation of this article. It is the responsibility of the
responsible party to prevent such occurrences and take corrective actions
immediately.
      (2)   Non-defense. Mechanical failure shall not constitute a defense
against a violation of this article. The responsible party must ensure that
equipment is properly maintained and operated to prevent water from reaching
the public highway.
      (3)   Obligation to act. The responsible party must address and rectify
any situation where water from their irrigation systems is directed onto a
public highway. This includes shutting off the equipment or making necessary
adjustments to prevent further violations.
   (b)   Sprinkler head requirements and violations.
      (1)   Baffle plates. Any sprinkler heads or other parts of a sprinkler
delivery system used for diverting water on land adjacent to a public highway
shall be equipped with baffle plates or other devices to deflect water away
from the highway. Failure to install such baffle plates or devices shall be
prima facie evidence of a violation of this article.
      (2)   Maintenance and functionality. All sprinkler delivery systems,
including end guns on pivots, must be properly maintained to ensure they
function correctly and do not direct water onto public highways. This includes
ensuring that end guns shut off when necessary to prevent water from reaching
the highway.
      (3)   Negligent failure. It shall be a further violation of this article
to negligently fail to install, maintain, or ensure the proper functionality of
the necessary equipment, such as baffle plates and end guns, to protect public
roads. Negligent failure includes, but is not limited to:
         a.   Not installing baffle plates or other deflective devices on
sprinkler heads or as applicable based on the water delivery system being
employed.
         b.   Allowing sprinkler systems to operate with known malfunctions,
such as end guns that do not shut off properly.
         c.   Failing to regularly inspect and repair irrigation equipment to
prevent water from being directed onto public highways.
      (3)   Definition of malfunctional equipment. Any component of a sprinkler
delivery system, including end guns, baffle plates, and any other devices, that
fails to operate as intended to prevent water from reaching public highways is
considered malfunctional. This includes, but is not limited to any irrigation
equipment that does not effectively deflect water away from public highways.
   (c)   Debris or snow on highways.
      (1)   Prohibition. It is prohibited to throw from any vehicle, place,
deposit, or permit to be deposited any debris onto a public highway. This
includes, but is not limited to, large clumps of mud, rocks, construction
materials, agricultural waste, or any other objects that could endanger the
traveling public or damage county equipment. Additionally, it is prohibited to
push snow, large chunks of frozen ice, or trails from pushed snow onto a public
highway, as these can harden and become hazardous to the traveling public and
county equipment.
         a.   Violation. Any act of placing, depositing, or permitting debris
to be deposited onto a public highway, regardless of intent, is considered a
violation of this article. It is the responsibility of the responsible party to
prevent such occurrences and to take corrective actions immediately.
         b.   Non-defense. Mechanical failure, accidental spillage, or natural
occurrences shall not constitute a defense against a violation of this article.
The responsible party must ensure that vehicles and equipment are properly
maintained and operated to prevent debris from reaching the public highway.
         c.   Obligation to act. The responsible party must address and rectify
any situation where debris from their vehicles or activities is directed onto a
public highway. This includes removing the debris immediately and taking
necessary precautions to prevent future occurrences.
         d.   Debris definition. For the purposes of this section, "debris"
includes any material that can obstruct, damage, or pose a hazard to public
highways or the traveling public. This includes, but is not limited to, soil,
rocks, construction materials, agricultural waste, and any other discarded or
spilled material.
   (d)   Parking on a county road.
      (1)   Prohibition. It is prohibited to park or place, or allow to be
parked or placed, any motor vehicle, trailer, or personal property within or
upon any public right-of-way on county roads.
         a.   Violation. Parking, placing, or permitting any motor vehicle,
trailer, or personal property within a public right-of-way on county roads
constitutes a violation of this article, regardless of intent. The responsible
party bears the obligation to prevent such occurrences. Upon notification, the
responsible party must take immediate corrective action to remove the vehicle
or property. During snow events, any vehicles or property left on the street
are subject to immediate ticketing and/or removal at the owner's expense.
         b.   Non-defense. Mechanical failure or other unforeseen circumstances
not corrected within 24 hours shall not constitute a defense against a
violation of this article. Broke down vehicles should be as far off the road as
possible. The responsible party must ensure that vehicles and trailers are
properly maintained and operated to prevent them from being parked or placed on
public rights-of-way.
         c.   Obligation to act. The responsible party must address and rectify
any situation where a vehicle, trailer, or personal property is directed onto a
public right-of-way. This includes removing the vehicle, trailer, or personal
property immediately and taking necessary precautions to prevent future
occurrences.
         d.   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply when a
vehicle or trailer is parked:
            1.   For the purpose of loading or unloading materials or
merchandise, when such materials or merchandise are actually being loaded or
unloaded, and where such vehicle or trailer is parked within 100 feet of the
loading or unloading point.
            2.   For a purpose incident to any ongoing, lawful construction
project, where such construction project is conducted under a valid Jefferson
County building permit and such trailer or vehicle is parked within 100 feet of
such construction project.
            3.   For the purpose of maintenance or response to emergency by a
public utility, public entity, public agency, or the duly authorized agent
thereof, where such vehicle is visibly marked and identified as such; or
            4.   As specifically allowed by the Board or Sheriff who may grant
a temporary waiver.
      (2)   Removal of vehicles and trailers.
         a.   Authority to remove. Any law enforcement officer or employee of
the Road and Bridge Department may remove or cause to be removed any vehicle,
trailer, or personal property parked or placed within or upon a public right-
of-way in violation of this article.
         b.   Cost of removal. The owner and operator of the motor vehicle,
trailer, or personal property shall be responsible for all costs associated
with its removal from a public right-of-way, whether such removal is performed
by the law enforcement agency, an employee of the Road and Bridge Department,
or any private person or company at the request of any law enforcement officer
or Road and Bridge Department employee.
(Ord. No. 2024-13, § 3, 9-9-2024)
Sec. 53-3. Abatement procedure.
   (a)   Immediate citation. Any violation of the requirements of this article
may be immediately cited by the county.
   (b)   Discretionary notification. At the discretion of the county, they may
choose to notify the violator of the issue to abate the issue. If such
notification is chosen, the following steps shall be followed:
      (1)   Notice to abate. Upon discovery of sprinkling, diverting, or
flooding water onto a public highway, the responsible party shall be served a
verbal and/or written notice to abate the nuisance within 24 hours.
      (2)   Continuing nuisance. If the nuisance persists for more than 48
hours, even if a different portion of the roadway is affected, it shall be
construed as a continuing nuisance.
      (3)   County abatement. If the responsible party fails to abate the
nuisance within the specified time, the County Road and Bridge Director,
Compliance Director, or authorized agents may summarily abate the nuisance.
Based on the damage to the road, time, resources, and personnel costs used by
the county to abate the recurring violation, the violator will be assessed a
fee of $250.00 plus actual cost of the abatement. This fee shall be recovered
through civil action if necessary.
(Ord. No. 2024-13, § 3, 9-9-2024)
Sec. 53-4. Penalties and enforcement.
   (a)   General violations.
      (1)   Violations of this article, per each location on the road, shall be
considered infractions or misdemeanors depending on the frequency and nature of
the violation. Penalties are as follows:
         a.   First violation. An infraction punishable by a fine of $100.00.
         b.   Second violation within the prior year. An infraction punishable
by a fine of $300.00.
         c.   Third violation within the prior year. An infraction punishable
by a fine of $500.00.
         d.   Fourth or subsequent violations within the preceding year. A
misdemeanor subject to up to six months in jail and a fine up to $1,000.00.
      (2)   a.   When issuing a citation for a violation of this article, the
issuing officer shall have the authority to issue a penalty assessment notice
as authorized by this article. The penalty assessment notice shall:
            1.   Be a citation approved and adopted by the Board of County
Commissioners by resolution;
            2.   Identify the alleged offender;
            3.   Specify the offense and applicable fine;
            4.   Require that the alleged offender either pay the fine or
appear to answer the charge at a specified time and place; and
            5.   A duplicate copy shall be sent to the Clerk of the County
Court.
         b.   If the person given a penalty assessment notice chooses to
acknowledge guilt, they may pay the specified fine in person or by mail at the
place and within the time specified in the notice. If they choose not to
acknowledge their guilt, they shall appear as required in the notice. Upon
trial, if the alleged offender is found guilty, the fine imposed shall be that
specified in the notice for the offense of which they were found guilty.
Customary court costs may be assessed in addition to the fine.
   (b)   Enforcement authority. The County Compliance Officer, Planning and
Zoning Director, Public Works Director, or their designees, and any law
enforcement officer are hereby vested with the authority to enforce this
article. They may cite individuals under this article using a citation adopted
by resolution of the Board of Commissioners.
   (c)   Law enforcement citations. Law enforcement officers are authorized to
issue citations for violations of this article on the State Uniform Citation,
citing the applicable ordinance and including the specific penalty provisions.
In addition to violations under this article, law enforcement officers may also
cite individuals for any applicable state codes, including but not limited to:
      (1)   Idaho Code § 18-3906: Placing Debris on Highways.
      (2)   Idaho Code § 18-3907: Obstruction of Highways.
      (3)   Idaho Code § 18-3908: Flooding Highways.
(Ord. No. 2024-13, § 3, 9-9-2024)
Sec. 53-5. Civil liability.
   (a)   Liability for damages. Any person who willfully or negligently is
responsible for causing damage to public highways by violating this article
shall be liable for the costs incurred by federal, state, or local agencies or
their authorized representatives in fixing any damage done to the road, as well
as damages to life and property arising from such a violation of this article.
The amount of such costs shall be recovered by a civil action prosecuted in the
name of the county, those persons damaged, or the agency seeking reimbursement.
Civil liability provided herein shall be exclusive of, and in addition to, any
criminal penalties provided herein. These costs shall be calculated using all
current federal overtime and FEMA rates.
(Ord. No. 2024-13, § 3, 9-9-2024)
Secs. 53-6-53-20. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT GENERALLY
Sec. 53-21. Use of public right-of-way.
It shall be a violation of this article for any person to cut, tunnel under,
make any opening in, disturb or place facilities in any public right-of-way
accepted for maintenance by the county without first meeting the requirements
of this article.
(Ord. No. 07-05, § 1, 7-23-2007)
Sec. 53-22. Permit and notification requirements.
(a)   Requirements for permit. No permit shall be issued for any such cut,
tunnel under, make any opening in, disturb or place facilities in any public
right-of-way unless the applicant shall present with the application, or have
on file with the county, a certificate of insurance, from an insurance company
qualified to write contract within the state, certifying that the applicant has
public liability insurance with limits not less than $50,000.00 for property
damage, not less than $1,000,000.00 for property damage, and not less than
$1,000,000.00 per person and $2,000,000 per occurrence for injury to the
person, including, death, all permits of any permittee shall be revoked
immediately upon cancellation or expiration of the insurance.
(b)   Application for permit and notice of project. Application for permit must
be made with the road and bridge not less than 24 hours prior to when the
excavation is to commence. Such request shall be made by tendering the
following:
   (1)   Submission of an application on forms supplied by the county.
   (2)   Payment of the application fee.
   (3)   Surety bond or irrevocable letter of credit.
(c)   Bonding. Upon granting a petition filed under subsection (b) of this
section for a permit to cut, disturb, make an opening in, tunnel under or place
private facilities in a public right-of way, or application by a regulated or
municipal utility for permission to post bond in lieu of payment of fees, the
applicant shall purchase and tender the necessary bond as may be required by
the county or this article. Non-utilities shall also execute a contract with
the county relating to the use of public way by such applicant.
(d)   Construction standards.
   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who cuts, disturbs, makes an opening
in, tunnels under or places any facilities, public or private, in pubic rights-
of-way shall conform to those reasonable construction standards applicable to
public rights-of-way as may be adopted by the county commissioners.
   (2)   Unless special permission is first obtained from the road and bridge
to open cut, pipeline or conduit which crosses under the surfaced portion of
the highway, including shoulders, road or street connections, or road
approaches or driveways shall either be tunneled, jacked or driven, or placed
in a hole bored under the surface for that purpose in accordance with the
following provisions:
      a.   Trenching in connection with any of these methods shall be no nearer
the toe of the fill slope in fill sections or the point where the outer edges
of the surfacing meets the subgrade in other sections than two feet.
      b.   If the tunneling method is used it shall be by an approved method
which supports the surrounding materials so as to caving or settlement. Areas
around the installed pipe or conduit shall be backfilled with moist sand,
granular material or cement grout filling all voids and packed in place with
mechanical tampers or other approved devices. Lagging, bulkheading and
timbering shall be removed as the backfilling progresses.
      c.   When the jacking or driving or boring method is used, it shall be by
approved means which will hold disturbances of surrounding material to a
minimum. Sluicing and jetting is not permitted. Voids or displacement outside
the outside perimeter of the pipe, conduit or cable, where greater than 0.1
foot, shall be filled in with sand or cement grout packed in place.
(e)   Utility certification. Any public or municipal utility may apply to the
county for a certification, waiving the fees set out herein and providing that
such utility may post a bond or an irrevocable letter of credit, on an annual
basis, securing the duty of the utility to restore any public right-of-way
which it may have disturbed under its statutory right to use the way. Granting
any application by a public or municipal utility to post bond in lieu of
payment of fees, as contemplated by the certification procedure, shall be
discretionary with the county commission, is a privilege and not a right, and
shall be based on the record of past performance of the applicant utility in
repairing county rights-of-way.
(Ord. No. 07-05, § 2, 7-23-2007; Ord. No. 2024-06, § 2, 4-22-2024)
Sec. 53-23. Fees.
(a)   Fees for the use of the county right-of-way, where required to be paid,
shall be limited to the direct, actual and reasonably incurred cost incurred in
managing the right-of-way. Such cost includes and is based upon:
   (1)   The cost of registering right-of-way occupants.
   (2)   The cost of inspection of right-of-way interruption and restoration.
   (3)   The cost of restoration of right-of-way improperly restored after
notice of such improper restoration.
   (4)   The cost of administering this article.
(b)   Fees for the use of the right-of-way shall be as follows:
   (1)   Underground construction parallel to, but not in, pavement: $50.00.
   (2)   Facilities in public way below pavement: $1500.00.
   (3)   Boring or pushing under road way: $100.00.
(Ord. No. 07-05, § 3, 7-23-2007)
Sec. 53-24. Bond requirements.
(a)   Unless specifically waived by the county, or as a part of the
certification of a utility under section
53-22(e), each applicant who has been granted a permit shall be required, as
condition of the permit, to tender to and keep in force during the life of any
permit a performance bond, or irrevocable letter of credit drawn on an FDIC
insured financial institution, acceptable to the county in an amount determined
by the county commissioners as necessary to secure the obligations accepted by
an applicant for a permit under this article. In the alternative, a utility or
non-utility applicant shall submit a bond pursuant to the following bond
schedule:
   (1)   Open road: $5,000.00.
   (2)   Underground construction parallel to but not in pavement: $500.00 per
mile or fraction.
   (3)   Push or bore: $1,000.00.
   (4)   A comprehensive bond covering all work on an annual basis: $10,000.00.
(b)   Contracts who intend to apply for multiple permits over the course of a
year, or public utility companies posting bond in lieu of payment of the fees
as contemplated in section
53-22(e), shall provide a bond or letter of credit payable to the county
guaranteeing that the applicant or utility shall restore the public right-of-
way, in the minimum sum of $5,000.00, with the provisions of the bond or letter
requiring that the bond or letter be irrevocable for a period of one year and
requiring that the bond or letter is automatically renewable unless the bonding
company or financial institution gives a minimum of 30 days' notice replaced by
a new bond or letter of credit; such entity shall have no right to cut or use
the public right-of-way until such bond or letter of credit is reestablished.
(Ord. No. 07-05, § 5, 7-23-2007)
Secs. 53-25-53-51. Reserved.
ARTICLE III. ROAD AND BRIDGE STANDARDS; EASEMENTS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Sec. 53-52. Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to establish road specifications as well as
establishing standards and the proper use of county easements and rights-of-way
to ensure a safe traveling environment for the motoring public on roadways in
the county and to prevent a potentially hazardous situation from existing upon
county roads, easements, and rights-of-way that endangers the motoring public
or impedes the county and various utility companies from conducting maintenance
work on roads or in county rights-of-way and easements.
(Ord. No. 09-03, § 1, 9-29-2009)
Sec. 53-53. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   Acceleration lane means a lane that allows for acceleration before entering
the primary flow of traffic to ensure a safe and smooth transition into the
primary flow of traffic.
   Access means an approach that allows the passage to a road, street, highway,
alley, or any other public arterial.
   Compaction test. See section
53-54(a)(5).
   Deceleration lane means a lane that allows for deceleration after exiting
the primary flow of traffic to ensure a safe and smooth transition from the
primary flow of traffic.
   Dedicated means the setting apart of land or interests in land for use by
the public by ordinance, resolution or entry in the official minutes as by the
recording of a plat. Dedicated land becomes public upon the acceptance by the
county.
   Easement means a grant by a property owner to persons or to the public to
use land for specific purposes. Generally measured 15 feet perpendicular from
the edge of the asphalt. Also, a right acquired by prescription.
   Private road means a right-of-way which provides access to two or more
adjacent properties under separate ownership and which is not dedicated to or
officially accepted by a public entity, but not including a driveway.
   Right-of-way means a strip of land dedicated or reserved to person or to the
public for specific purposes and may contain public utilities or other service
areas. Generally measured 15 feet perpendicular from the edge of the asphalt.
   Vision triangle means minimum clear sight distance at all intersections,
including, but not limited to, the intersection of roads, driveways, and
railroads. The boundaries of the vision triangle are defined by measuring from
the intersection of the edges of two adjacent roadways 40 feet along each
roadway and connecting the two points with a straight line.
(Ord. No. 09-03, § 2, 9-29-2009; Ord. No. 2024-06, § 2, 4-22-2024)
Sec. 53-54. Road and bridge standards.
(a)   Roads dedicated to the county as of, or after, the effective date of the
ordinance from which this article is derived must meet the following
requirements:
   (1)   The right-of-way area shall be 60 feet.
   (2)   All roads shall have a 30-foot paved travel width, with two-foot
shoulders for a total of 34-foot top, or eight inches deep 12 inches wide
cement curb for a total of a 32-foot top.
   (3)   Existing ground to be excavated to a depth of 12 inches.
   (4)   Road to consist of at least 18 inches of compacted pit run gravel.
Three inches of compacted state spec three-fourths-inch crushed gravel and two
inches of compacted hot asphalt. Gravel certifications to be on file with road
and bridge before three-fourths is delivered.
   (5)   The pit run and three-fourths inch shall be compacted to at least 95
percent. Compaction tests shall be done every 100 feet. A copy of the
compaction test shall be required to be on file with the county road and bridge
department before the road will be accepted by the county.
   (6)   The hot asphalt shall be compacted between 92 percent and 96 percent.
A copy to the compaction test shall be required to be on file with the road and
bridge department before the road is to be accepted.
   (7)   Centerline to edge of oil shall be a two percent slope. Slope from top
to existing grade shall be 6:1.
   (8)   All cul-de-sacs shall have a right-of-way and 100-foot diameter paved
surface with two-foot shoulders.
   (9)   All approaches and intersections shall intersect the existing road on
or about the same grade and on or about a 90 degree angle with minimum 20-foot
radius.
   (10)   Grade, centerline, and shoulder shall be marked and attested by a
licensed firm, before the road will be accepted by the county.
   (11)   All signage shall be the responsibility of the developer and must be
in place before accepted by the county. The developer shall contact the road
and bridge department for the specific signs for the roads.
   (12)   Dedicated roads become public and shall be maintained by the county
once the road and bridge supervisor or designee has approved and accepted the
road in writing. The road and bridge supervisor or designee shall have 15 days
to notify the developer and various county entities in writing.
(b)   Private roads may be allowed upon compliance with part III, Appendix B,
private roads.
(c)   Any bridge built and dedicated on or after the effective date of the
ordinance from which this article is derived shall meet the following
requirements:
   (1)   General. All design elements in this standard are to be prepared by or
under the direct supervision of a professional engineering, registered in the
state. All design products, reports, and specifications are to be stamped by
the design engineer.
   (2)   Bridge structures. Bridge structures shall be designed in accordance
with AASHTO Standard Specifications for Highway Bridges, latest edition.
      a.   The design loading for bridge design shall be a minimum HS-20 for
residential subdivisions and HS-20 for all other county roads. Generally, the
minimum width of a bridge structure from the face-to-face of curb or face-to-
face of guardrail or bridge rail shall be the full width of the approach
roadway, including shoulder width, plus a two foot shy distance to the face to
curb rail, or barrier on both sides of the roadway. The shy distance width
shall be developed on the roadway approaches using a taper equal to the ration
of the design speed to one (45:1 for example in a 45 mph design speed area).
The county reserves the right to determine the width of bridges under each
separate circumstance.
      b.   The vertical clearance above uncontrolled waterways, i.e., rivers
and streams, shall be two feet above the Q50 (50-year flood) and addition the
Q100 must also pass beneath the bridge without resulting in the backwater
condition. Controlled waterways, i.e., canals, shall maintain a minimum of 18
inches above the Q25 flow. To ensure adequate freeboard and capacity, the
design engineer shall prepare a study with a full hydraulic analysis, including
drawings and calculations.
      c.   The vertical clearance above other roadway surfaces shall be a
minimum of 16 feet.
      d.   Only structures of steel or a combination of steel and concrete
shall be used.
   (3)   Culvert structures. Box culverts, pipes, and pipe arches with an
aggregate span length of 12 feet or more and all stiff leg culverts and open
bottom pipes for uncontrolled flow shall have a minimum of one foot clearance
above the Q50 high water flow (if in a FEMA mapped Flood Hazard Area Q100). For
controlled flow waterways, clearance shall be a minimum of one foot above high
water. To ensure adequate freeboard and capacity, the county will require a
hydraulic analysis, including drawings and calculations, prepared by an Idaho
professional engineer, to accompany the culvert design drawings and
specifications.
   (4)   Retaining walls. Retaining walls shall be reinforced concrete, bin
walls, MSE walls, reinforced earth, concrete crib walls or equivalent. All
retaining wall structures shall be approved by the county prior to their
construction.
   (5)   Scour protection and bank protection. Some structures may require
scour and bank protection, depending on the location of the piers/bents, the
geometry of the waterway, flow characteristics, and foundation type. The
structural design engineer or geotechnical engineer shall prepare and submit a
scour and bank protection analysis and include necessary requirements and
design for the construction of any necessary scour or bank protection.
   (6)   Roadway approaches. Depending on the vertical clearance requirements
and depth of each specific bridge, it may be necessary to modify the vertical
alignment of the approach roadway to ensure adequate stopping sight distance is
met. The design engineer shall prepare, stamp, and submit an analysis which
evaluates the vertical curvatures and stopping sight distance and provides
necessary requirements and design for the reconstruction of approaches as
needed to comply with the latest version of the AASHTO "Green Book" for
vertical curvature and stopping sight distance for given design speed. The
roadway approach analysis shall include preparation of a stamped report and
required design for the use of guardrail or other treatments as deemed
necessary by the design engineer. All guardrails and guardrail to bridge rail
transitions shall be designed and installed per state transportation department
standard specification and drawings and follow length of need requirements as
defined in the most current version of the AASHTO Roadside Design Guide.
   (7)   Signing. The area around the proposed structure, including the roadway
approaches, shall be evaluated for adequate and standard signing. The design
engineer shall be responsible for preparing, stamping, and submitting a signing
plan that complies with the most current version of the Manual on Uniform
Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD) for all permanent signs.
   (8)   Traffic control and staging. The design engineer shall prepare and
submit a traffic control plan that addresses how traffic will be safely
accommodated during construction. The plan shall include at a minimum the
staging and phasing plan for construction, anticipated duration of
construction, temporary signing, temporary detours, and other details needed to
convey a safe plan. The county shall review and approve all traffic control
plans prior to construction beginning.
   (9)   Permits. Prior to construction the applicant shall provide evidence of
all required permits prior to construction. Typically, a U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers 404 permit is required at a minimum prior to working in and around or
provide written evidence to the county that permits are not required.
   (10)   Storm water pollution prevention plan (SWPP). Prior to construction,
the applicant shall provide evidence they have complied with all Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) requirements for notice of intent and permit for the
control of stormwater during construction. It is the responsibility of the
applicant to obtain permits and/or provide written evidence to the county that
permits are not required.
   (11)   Approval process. Prior to construction, all structural plans and
specifications must be approved by the road and bridge department. Plans will
be required for a review at 50 percent complete and both plans and
specifications will be removed for a review at 100 percent complete.
(d)   For more regulations regarding roads, intersections, alleys, street and
related items please review the county subdivision ordinance.
(e)   See attachment A set forth in this subsection (e) for road cross section
and standards.
ATTACHMENT A-ROAD CROSS SECTIONS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/325843b5aeb9be70ae28a66ea37e96d9dc6ad349/
IMAGES/0-0-0-560.png]
(Ord. No. 09-03, § 3, 9-29-2009; Ord. No. 11-04, § 11, 9-12-2011; Ord. No.
2024-06, § 2, 4-22-2024)
Sec. 53-55. Easements and rights-of-way.
(a)   Obstructions in rights-of-way and easements.
   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or place or allow to be
parked or placed anything in the right-of-way or easement, with the exception
of the following:
      a.   Utility companies for the purpose of maintaining, repairing or
installing utility services.
      b.   Emergency vehicles.
      c.   Reflective address markers.
      d.   County/contracted vehicles for the purpose of road repairs and
maintenance.
      e.   Owners or operators of any motor vehicle, trailer, or equipment
which comes to rest upon or within a county easement or right-of-way due to a
medical emergency, collision, or mechanical failure shall remove or cause the
removal of said personal property from county easements and rights-of-way
without unnecessary delays, not to exceed 14 days.
   (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or allow obstructions or
hardscapes in a county easement or right-of-way. Obstructions and hardscapes
include, but are not limited to, decorative or ornamental material, rocks,
boulders, timbers, trees, fencing, sculptures, signs, light poles, retaining
walls, fences, solid waste, vehicles, tractors, irrigation systems, wagons,
implements, fill, dirt, gravel, berms, decorative curbing, or other similar
items. Yard debris including, but not limited to, grass clippings, tree limbs,
and other like materials are also prohibited.
   (3)   Any employees of the county road and bridge, planning and zoning, or
law enforcement officer may remove or cause prohibited items to be removed from
any county right-of-way or easement at the property owner's expense. If an
obstruction in the county right-of-way or easement causes damage to any county
equipment and/or vehicles during snow removal, road maintenance, or any other
scope of county duties, it will be the responsibility of the property owner to
reimburse the county for the above mentioned items. The county will not be
responsible for any items upon or within the county right-of-way that may
become damaged during snow removal, road maintenance, or any other scope of
duties.
   (4)   County rights-of-way and easements shall be designed to or maintained
for the storage of drainage coming from the roads. Fill in the rights-of-way or
easements are prohibited unless otherwise authorized by a county official, to
prevent flood issues.
   (5)   Clear vision triangle shall be observed in regard to all vegetation,
fencing and other obstructions as described in subsection (a)(2) of this
section (vegetation, fencing and other items may be allowed in the vision
triangle if the following standards are met, but not in county rights-of-way or
easements). All trees within vision triangles shall be pruned to a minimum
seven feet above the adjacent ground and 14 feet above the adjacent roadway
surface. Shrubs and ground covers planted within the vision triangle shall not
exceed three feet in height at maturity. The boundaries of the vision triangle
are defined by measuring from the intersection of the edges of two adjacent
roadways 40 feet along each roadway and connecting the two points with a
straight line. The sight distance obstruction is also applicable to railroad-
highway grade crossings with the vision triangle defined by measuring 40 feet
along the railroad property line. In all cases, ITD and county road and bridge
standards shall apply also. When the county determines that a sight obstruction
exists, it shall notify the owner of the property upon which the obstruction is
located and order that the obstruction be removed within 15 days.
   (6)   See attachment B at the end of this section for a diagram of the clear
vision triangle.
(b)   Obstructions upon a county road.
   (1)   Any person, firm, business, or corporation shall be prohibited from
obstructing, injuring or damaging a county road, right-of-way, easement, street
or highway, by moving or causing to be moved, pushed, or plowed across any
county maintained public road, street or highway. Any debris dropped or spilled
on a county road that may cause damages or injuries to other motorists or
pedestrians are also prohibited. Some examples include, but are not limited to,
hay bales, straw bales, rocks, beets, potatoes, excessive manure that may
create a slick surface, snow and hazardous liquids.
   (2)   Notice shall be given to the person, firm, business or corporation
responsible for the obstruction, injury or damage and ordered that the
obstruction be removed within 24 hours.
(c)   Mailboxes.
   (1)   Mailboxes and newspaper delivery boxes (hereafter referred to as
"mailbox") shall be allowed within county rights-of-way and easements and shall
meet the following standards:
      a.   Mailboxes shall be constructed of a breakaway material, light sheet
metal or plastic construction conforming to the requirements of the U.S. Postal
Service. Mailbox supports shall consist of a single four by four inch square or
4.5-inch-diameter round wooden post, metal post with a structural strength no
great than a two-inch-diameter standard strength steel pipe, injection molded
plastic vinyl or like material that will bend, sheer, fracture or otherwise
give way when struck by a vehicle, and be embedded no more than 24 inches into
the ground. A metal post shall not be fitted with a base anchor plate, but it
may have attached an anti-twist device that extends no more than ten inches
below the ground surface. A mailbox support shall not be cemented in the
ground. Mailboxes and mailbox supports shall not be constructed or encased in
or of brick, stone, steel, or other like materials. Mailboxes may not be placed
upon or attached to any ornamental structures including, but not limited to,
pieces or parts of farm equipment, tractors, vehicles, wagons, implements, milk
cans, buckets, drums, wheels, or similar materials likely to result in vehicle
damage, passenger injury or death, as a result of being struck due to its
design or construction. Where multiple (cluster) mailboxes are installed at a
single delivery location, the minimum spacing between the centers of support
shall be three-fourths the height of the posts above the ground line.
      b.   Mailboxes shall meet U.S. Postal Service standards, between 3.5 and
four feet in height, with a 30 foot approach.
MAILBOXES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/325843b5aeb9be70ae28a66ea37e96d9dc6ad349/
IMAGES/0-0-0-562.png]
      c.   Mailboxes shall be placed eight feet from the edge of pavement to
allow the postal carrier to pull his vehicle out of the flow of traffic, as
well as to allow county maintenance vehicles a clear passage when plowing, chip
sealing, and other duties.
   (2)   Any mailbox that is found to violate this article shall be considered
an unauthorized encroachment and shall be removed by the responsible person,
firm, business or corporation upon written or verbal notification by the county
road and bridge supervisor or designee. At the discretion of the road and
bridge supervisor or designee, based on an assessment of the hazard to the
public, the person, firm, business or corporation shall be granted 15 days to
remove an unacceptable mailbox. After specified removal period expires, the
mailbox shall be removed by the road and bridge department at the expense of
the responsible person, firm, business or corporation. If an unacceptable
mailbox is struck by a county maintenance vehicle or any part of (i.e.,
snowplow) and damaged, the responsible person, firm, business or corporation
shall reimburse the county for repairs or replacement.
ATTACHMENT B-VISION TRIANGLE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/325843b5aeb9be70ae28a66ea37e96d9dc6ad349/
IMAGES/0-0-0-564.png]
(Ord. No. 09-03, § 4, 9-29-2009)
Sec. 53-56. Enforcement and administrative procedure.
The county road and bridge supervisor or designee shall notify any person,
firm, business or corporation in violation of this article. The responsible
person shall be given 15 days (or less if the violation poses an immediate
threat to public health or safety, or may delay road or utility work or
maintenance) to bring said violation into compliance.
(Ord. No. 09-03, § 5, 9-29-2009)
Sec. 53-57. Violation and penalty.
A willful violation of any provision of this article shall be a misdemeanor as
described in Idaho Code and amended from time to time. Each day that a
violation occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 09-03, § 7, 9-29-2009)
Secs. 53-58-53-89. Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. ACCESS MANAGEMENT ORDINANCE
Sec. 53-90. Statutory authority.
The county is authorized by Idaho Code, § 31-714 to adopt ordinances and
penalties to promote and maintain public health, safety and protect property
rights and may enforce obedience to such ordinances. Further, the county
commissioners are authorized under Idaho Code, title 31, ch. 8 (Idaho Code, §
31-801 et seq.) to maintain, control and manage public rights-of-way.
Additionally, Idaho Code, title 40, ch. 20 (Idaho Code, § 40-2001 et seq.)
empowers the county to remove encroachments that prevent use or impair public
safety along public rights-of-way.
(Ord. No. 17-02, § 1, 6-26-2017)
Sec. 53-91. Purpose.
The purpose of the access management regulations is to maintain existing or
improve the level of service on all county roads. Access management regulations
promote traffic safety and efficiency by maintaining or improving traffic flow
and proper traffic capacity, prevent or reduce accidents, and minimize future
expenditures while providing necessary and reasonable ingress and egress to
properties along county roads.
(Ord. No. 17-02, § 2, 6-26-2017)
Sec. 53-92. Implementation and administration.
The county public works administrator or his designee is responsible for
implementing and administering these regulations through a permit process, or
as approved through the subdivision platting process by the board of county
commissioners. The provisions of this article are minimum standards. Whenever
standards are required by other applicable local, state or federal regulations,
the more restrictive requirements shall be enforced.
(Ord. No. 17-02, § 3, 6-26-2017)
Sec. 53-93. Applicability.
These regulations shall apply to all access connections to county roads
constructed after the effective date of the ordinance from which this article
is derived. These regulations shall also apply to all existing access
connections whenever a change in the land use or access classification occurs
or whenever an access is relocated, modified, or expanded. These regulations
are applicable to unincorporated areas of the county; however, they shall apply
to properties in incorporated areas accessing a county maintained road until
such time the road is annexed.
(Ord. No. 17-02, § 4, 6-26-2017)
Sec. 53-94. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   Access means any improvement or pathway allowing entry to a public right-of-
way or easement by way of pedestrian or motorized travel, including, but not
limited to, foot traffic, equestrian traffic, bicycle, ATV, motorcycles, cars,
commercial vehicles, agricultural implements and other equipment.
   Access approval means permission has been granted through an access permit
or subdivision platting process to allow access a public or private road at a
permitted location. An access permit fee shall be established by the board of
county commissioners at the recommendation of the public works administrator to
cover cost of permit processing and administering these regulations.
   Appeal means a request from anyone for a review of the interpretation,
administration or enforcement of any provision of this article.
   Board of appeals means board of county commissioners.
   Clear vision triangle means the triangular area within the intersection of
the linear extension of the lateral curb lines, or edges if no curb exists, of
two roadways, or a roadway and a railroad, and extending back from the point of
intersection along each roadway or railroad a distance of 40 feet, except that
where the angle of intersection is less than 30 degrees, a greater distance may
be required as determined by the county road and bridge department.
   Driveway means an access connecting no more than two dwellings, to a public
right-of-way or easement. The term driveway includes the driveway base,
surface, shoulder, curbs, etc., and the culvert under the driveway. A driveway
upgrade includes relocation, modification, or expansion.
   Easement means a grant by a property owner to persons or to the public to
use land for specific purposes. Also, a right acquired by prescription.
   Farm access means an access connecting agricultural land to a road or
street, private or public which permits ingress/egress of agricultural
implements and equipment.
   Private road means a right-of-way which provides access to two or more
adjacent properties under separate ownership and which is not dedicated to or
officially accepted by a public entity, but not including a driveway.
   Right-of-way means a strip of land dedicated or reserved for use as a public
way which normally includes roads, streets, sidewalks and other public
utilities or service areas.
   Roadway classification means the hierarchy of the roadway system
categorizing each road as having a certain desired purpose for handling traffic
in the roadway network, i.e., principal arterial, minor arterial, major
collector, etc. The classification for each road is more specifically defined
in section
53-95.
   Site plan means a detailed drawing that includes but is not limited to,
existing or proposed improvements, utility infrastructure, landscaping and
other geographical and/or topographical features. A site plan shall also
require property lines, dimensions, setback distances, and a north arrow.
   Street means a public or private right-of-way which affords a means of
access to abutting property, usually within a subdivision, residential
neighborhood or commercial park. May also be designated as an avenue,
boulevard, or lane, but does not include driveways to buildings.
(Ord. No. 17-02, § 5, 6-26-2017; Ord. of 8-3-2017; Ord. No. 2024-06, § 2, 4-22-
2024)
Sec. 53-95. Standards.
(a)   Roadway classifications.
   (1)   Collector road. Roads, private or public, within section lines, also
known as local roads, residential roads, subdivision roads or streets.
Collector roads also include cul-de-sacs, half streets and stub roads.
      a.   Stub streets. Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the
arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall be such that said streets
extend to the boundary line of the tract to make provisions for the future
extension of said streets into adjacent areas, and have a temporary cul-de-sac.
A reserve street may be required and held in public ownership. A stub street is
only considered a collector is within the section lines.
      b.   Cul-de-sac streets terminate with an adequate circular turnaround
having a minimum radius of 50 feet of right-of-way. Alternative types of
turnarounds for cul-de-sacs may be permitted by the county if approved by the
fire department and the road and bridge having jurisdiction.
      c.   Subdivision road or street roads, private or public established
within a subdivision, either residential or commercial.
      d.   Private roads shall comply with part III, Appendix B, private road
conditions.
All properties with frontage on a cul-de-sac or a stub street (within the
section lines) shall access the cul-de-sac or stub road regardless of frontage
on another roadway, unless otherwise determined by the public works
administrator due to a potential safety hazard.
   (2)   Main or major arterial. All roads located on or in close proximity of
a section line. The primary function of a main or major arterial is to deliver
traffic from a collector road to a freeway, highway, and urban centers or
municipalities. Main or major arterials have high volumes of traffic and are
generally primary thoroughfares.
   (3)   Minor arterial. Minor arterial streets are generally located on or in
close proximity section lines and deliver traffic from main or major arterials,
collectors and urban centers or municipalities; however, minor arterials do not
usually have the volume of traffic as a main or major arterial. Minor
arterials, include frontage roads. Frontage roads run parallel to main or major
arterials, highways and freeways. Frontage roads are often used to provide
access to collector roads, houses, businesses, or farm accesses.
All properties having frontage on collector roads and main/major arterials or
minor arterials are required to access the collector road unless otherwise
determined by the public works administrator due to a potential safety hazard.
(b)   Residential/agricultural access permits.
   (1)   Prior to the construction or use of a driveway, road/streets (private
or public), farm access, temporary access or change in access use (i.e., farm
access to residential access) or relocation of an access, an access permit
application prescribed by the county must be submitted and approved by the
public works administrator. Unless otherwise authorized in writing by the
public works administrator, each individual lot or parcel shall have no more
than one access to a public right-of-way or easement along the parcel's road
frontage. The county may not grant access through private property. If property
is land locked by private property, a right-of-way or easement must be obtained
from the property owner to gain access to a county road before an access permit
can be approved. No parcel of land or lot may have multiple accesses on a
county road unless the property is separated by geographic features. Semi-
circle driveways or driveways with two access points to a public right-of-way
or easement are prohibited.
   (2)   In cases where a subdivision plat is filed the permit access would be
granted through the subdivision process for proposed roads; however, unless
driveways are recorded on the plat, each individual lot would still be required
to obtain an access permit.
   (3)   An access permit fee shall be established by the board of county
commissioners at the recommendation of the public works administrator to cover
cost of permit processing and administering these regulations. Access permits
shall expire if the access is not established after one year of the date of
access permit issuance, unless approved through subdivision platting process.
Time extensions may be granted by the public works administrator as long as
there are no amendments to these regulations changes to the roadway or access
and the physical surroundings.
(c)   Commercial/industrial access permits.
   (1)   Prior to the construction or use of a driveway, road/streets (private
or public), temporary access or change in access use or relocation of an
access, an access permit application prescribed by the county must be submitted
and approved by the public works administrator. The application shall require:
      a.   Site plan. A site plan showing the proposed access point(s),
existing infrastructure, nearby roads, driveways, and any proposed
improvements. The site plan should be drawn to scale and include relevant
dimensions.
      b.   Traffic impact analysis (TIA). For larger commercial developments or
projects expected to generate significant traffic, a traffic impact analysis
may be required. This analysis assesses the potential impact of the project on
traffic flow, intersection operations, and safety.
      c.   Engineering design. Provide engineering designs for any proposed
access improvements, such as turn lanes, acceleration/deceleration lanes,
traffic signals, or signage. These designs should comply with applicable
standards and guidelines.
      d.   Environmental assessment. Depending on the project's scope and
location, an environmental assessment may be required to evaluate potential
impacts on natural resources, wetlands, or sensitive habitats.
      e.   Regulatory compliance. Ensure compliance with all relevant local,
state, and federal regulations, including zoning ordinances, land use
regulations, and the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).
      f.   Inspections and compliance. After the permit is issued and
construction is completed, the public works department may conduct inspections
to verify that the access improvements were built according to the approved
plans and meet all applicable standards.
      g.   Maintenance agreements. In some cases, the permit applicant may be
required to enter into a maintenance agreement with the public works department
outlining responsibilities for ongoing maintenance and repair of access
improvements.
      h.   Exception. The public works administrator may vary the requirements
of this section based on a review of the property, use requested and previous
history of the property limiting the property to one access as necessary or
allowing a second as prescribed by the above standards.
   (2)   An access permit fee shall be established by the board of county
commissioners at the recommendation of the public works administrator to cover
cost of permit processing and administering these regulations. Access permits
shall expire if the access is not established after one year of the date of
access permit issuance, unless approved through subdivision platting process.
Time extensions may be granted by the public works administrator as long as
there are no amendments to these regulations changes to the roadway or access
and the physical surroundings.
(d)   Clear vision triangle and sight obstructions.
   (1)   A clear vision area shall be maintained on the corners of all public
and private property within the intersection of roadways, or of a roadway and
railroad. The clear vision area shall contain no trees, shrubs or other
plantings, fences, walls, signs or other temporary or permanent sight
obstructions of any nature exceeding 30 inches in height above the existing
centerline elevation of the adjacent roadway, except that trees exceeding 30
inches in height may be permitted if all branches and foliage are removed to a
height of nine feet above the existing centerline elevation of the adjacent
roadway.
   (2)   The location of any driveway from a public road shall require approval
by the public works administrator. The minimum distance between any two
driveway-road intersections shall be 200 feet. No driveway shall be located
closer than 200 feet to the intersection of the pavement of the two public
roads in order to preserve visibility at the intersection, allowing a vehicle
that is leaving the approach to enter the desired traffic lane before entering
the intersection, and to permit a vehicle crossing the intersection to enter
the approach in an orderly, safe manner with a minimum of interference to
through traffic.
   (3)   Exceptions to the minimum distance requirement may be granted by the
public works administrator upon a finding that:
      a.   The access has been an active farm or similar access prior to the
adoption of this chapter;
      b.   The distance between accesses meets the intent of the subsection
53-95 (c)(1) clear vision triangle and sight obstructions; or
      c.   If a single parcel has multiple access points, the one access point
most in compliance with this section may be chosen as the main access point and
the remaining access points removed or closed to meet the requirements of this
section.
(e)   Construction of access.
   (1)   Standard approach widths.
MINIMUM AND MAXIMUM APPROACH WIDTHS
 
Access type            Minimum Maximum
Residential driveway   12 feet 30 feet
Agricultural access    15 feet 40 feet
Commercial driveway    20 feet 40 feet
Private road           20 feet 30 feet
Dedicated right-of-way 60 feet 120 feet
 
Multiple accesses to county roads will be discouraged and shared access will be
encouraged under these policies.
   (2)   Drainage. In order to preserve drainage along county roads and prevent
flooding, culverts shall be required when constructing accesses to a county
road.
   (3)   Material. Private driveways, agricultural accesses, and private road
approaches (the area within the road right-of-way or easement) shall be
construction of compacted three-fourths-inch crushed gravel to create a solid
road base. Proposed dedicated roads shall be constructed according to the
adopted road and bridge standards.
   (4)   Proposed dedicated roads shall be constructed according to the adopted
road and bridge standards. Development on private roads shall only be permitted
if such private roads meet the safety standards of part III, Appendix B,
private road conditions.
(Ord. No. 17-02, § 6, 6-26-2017; Ord. No. 2024-06, § 2, 4-22-2024)
Sec. 53-96. Variances and appeals.
(a)   Variances.
   (1)   Variances may be granted for all classes of accesses. Variances may be
appropriate if the proposed variance will cause no added threat to the health
and safety of those affected and when an unreasonable hardship will occur in
the absence of the grant. A variance requires a public hearing with the board
of county commissioners, and shall be processed in accordance with division 4,
article II of chapter 112, and section 112-28. In determining whether to grant
a variance, the board of county commissioners may consider all relevant
matters. Examples of factors that may be considered, include, but not limited
to, the following:
      a.   Whether the variance is permitted by state law.
      b.   Whether failure to grant the variance would deny reasonable access
by applicant to the property.
      c.   Whether the hardship was self-created.
      d.   The effect of the variance on the adjacent properties and
surrounding area.
      e.   The effect the variance would have on traffic safety.
      f.   The effect the variance would have on the proper operation of the
public road.
      g.   Whether the justice requires a departure from strict enforcement of
the regulations due to a special condition creating an undue hardship.
      h.   Whether the variance is consistent with the purpose of these
regulations and/or other relevant regulations.
      i.   Whether physical constraints are present such as existing driveway
spacing and legal or advisory speed limits.
   (2)   The county public works administrator may require applicants for
variances to provide evidence of unique or special conditions that make the
strict application of these regulations impractical or impossible. Such
evidence may include:
      a.   Indirect or restricted access cannot be obtained.
      b.   No engineering or construction solutions can be applied to mitigate
the condition.
      c.   No alternative access is available.
An application fee shall be established and adopted by the board of county
commissioners to cover the publication and notice requirements of the public
hearing.
(b)   Appeals. The board of county commissioners shall serve as the board of
appeals for access management regulations. The board of appeals may hear
appeals of administrative decisions within 30 days of a formal decision by the
public works administrator. Appeals to the requirements of this article may be
initiated by any person adversely effected. A public hearing shall be conducted
pursuant to the requirements of article II of chapter 112. A fee shall be
established and adopted by the board of county commissioners to cover
publication and notice requirements of the public hearing.
(Ord. No. 17-02, § 7, 6-26-2017)
Sec. 53-97. Enforcement.
(a)   The county public works administrator or designee may notify the property
owner of any access that has been installed contrary to these regulations or
without going through the permitting process. The notification shall establish
a 15-day period to be brought into compliance. If the problem is not corrected
within the established time period the county reserves the right to remove and/
or block that portion of the access from the county right-of-way or easement.
(b)   A violation of any provision of this article may be enforced by the
imposition of infraction penalties and/or declared a misdemeanor as described
in Idaho Code and amended from time to time. Each day that a violation occurs
shall constitute a separate offense.
(c)   Because these standards cannot cover every possible scenario that may
arise, the public works administrator is authorized to make determinations on
applications that may vary from the written standards so long as the
determination fits within the purpose of this article.
(Ord. No. 17-02, § 8, 6-26-2017; altered in 2020 codification)
Secs. 53-98-53-110. Reserved.
ARTICLE V. STREET NAMING AND ADDRESSING
Sec. 53-111. General provisions.
(a)   Objectives.
   (1)   Addressing in the county over the last 30 years or so has been
performed by various agencies including engineers, utility companies,
developers, various county departments, and has even been self-assigned
unbeknown to county assessor, and emergency and delivery services. With the
variety of agencies, has come a variety of standards. Streets have come into
existence without being screened for redundancy, nor displayed appropriately.
Independent address grids have been ripening for conflict as cities have grown.
The once unique grid system has had a new curvilinear common road system
introduced resulting in a complex and confusing environment.
   (2)   Simply put, addressing in the county is complicated. Without proper
control, addressing becomes a major health, safety and welfare issue. It is the
responsibility of the county to implement policy and code that will serve the
public's best interest. The purpose of this article is to create a fair and
uniform standard for address assignment; to establish an address grid; to
create standards for the posting of road signage and structure identification;
to formalize a process for the correction of erroneously assigned structures
and roads; and to establish compliance procedures and processes to bring non-
conforming situations into compliance. As city annexations occur, the addresses
of the properties annexed become the responsibility of that city.
   (3)   Jefferson County reserves the right as it sees necessary, to revise or
rescind any portion of this article. Any change to this article shall be
communicated to the public appropriately.
(b)   Addressing responsibility. This article, all procedures and regulations
contained herein shall apply to and govern every parcel, lot, or tract of land
and improvement thereon, within the county, including the Cities of Lewisville,
Menan, Mud Lake, and Roberts, but not including the Cities of Rigby and Ririe.
(c)   Jefferson address grid.
   (1)   The Jefferson address grid consists of all that property within the
county outside of the Rigby and Ririe address grids, including the Cities of
Lewisville, Menan, Mud Lake, and Roberts. In such cases where a city may choose
not to address portions of their grid which are in the county, the county will
assume the responsibility for addressing according to the county address grid.
The county addresser or his designee is responsible for addressing in the
county address grid.
   (2)   The preliminary assignment of new addresses shall be the
responsibility of the county addresser or his designee. New or changed
addresses shall follow this article except as determined by the county
addresser. In order to facilitate emergency and delivery services, assessors,
and building officials, addresses shall be clearly visible during all phases of
construction.
   (3)   Building officials shall not issue a building permit until an official
property address has been approved.
(d)   Address committee. The county address advisory committee shall be
comprised of the following agencies: two representatives from the county
planning and zoning, one representative from the county building department,
one representative from the county GIS, one representative from the county
assessor, one representative from the county sheriff, three representatives
from the county road and bridge, one representative from county emergency
management, one representative from central fire district, and one
representative from the Rigby Postal Service. This committee will meet as
required with the purpose of making recommendations to the county board of
commissioners concerning public health and safety as it relates to addressing.
(Ord. No. 10-02, § 2.1.1, 8-23-2010; Ord. No. 2024-06, § 2, 4-22-2024)
Sec. 53-112. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   Apartment building means a single building comprised of three or more
dwelling units used as rental property.
   Condominium means a building in which each individual unit is held in
separate private ownership and all floor space, facilities and outdoor areas
used in common by all tenants are owned, administered and maintained by a
corporation created pursuant to the provisions of the appropriate statute. The
term "condominium" also means an individual dwelling unit under individual
ownership in a multiple unit development with common elements which are owned
on a proportional, undivided basis by all owners.
   County addresser means county personnel responsible for assigning addresses
designated by the county commissioners to the planning and zoning department.
   Duplex residence means a building that is divided into two dwelling units
each of which has an independent entrance either directly or through a common
vestibule.
   Grid road means a road that runs a straight line east to west or north to
south and follows the format of prefix, base name, and suffix (i.e., N 4200
East). Roads that meander or curve do not typically have a grid number.
   Mobile home/manufactured home means a detached residential dwelling unit
designed, after fabrication, for transportation on streets or highways on its
own wheels or on flatbed or other trailers, and arriving at the site where it
is to be occupied as a dwelling, complete and ready for occupancy except for
minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on jacks or
other temporary or permanent foundations.
   Office complex means a single building comprised of three or more office
units used as individual businesses. Also, the term "office complex" means a
single building with multiple accesses that is leased by square footage and
allows interior businesses to vary in size.
   Road database means the official road database maintained by the county
assessor GIS office.
   Single-family residence means a dwelling meant for occupation by a single
family.
   Townhouse means a building that is comprised of more than one unit. Each
unit being a narrow, two story with its own entrance. A townhouse may be part
of an apartment building or a condominium.
(Ord. No. 10-02, § 2.1.2, 8-23-2010)
Sec. 53-113. Numeric assignment.
   (a)   Frontage interval/address style. The county address grid follows the
public land survey system (PLSS); the origin being at the southwest corner of
township 4 north, range 32 east of the Boise Meridian, section 34. As the grid
follows section lines, every mile shall consist of 1,000 address numbers, or a
new number every ten plus feet, and following parity rules as outlined in this
article. Address numbers are to be assigned according to the driveway entrance,
not the front of the structure.
   (b)   Odd/even number location (parity). Even numbers shall be assigned
along the southerly and easterly sides of the roads. Odd numbers shall be
assigned along the westerly and northerly sides of the roads. Parity will be
followed for apartment's townhomes, condominiums, and mobile home parks/
manufactured home communities.
   (c)   Fractional, alphanumeric, hyphenated addresses. Fractional,
alphanumeric, and hyphenated addresses are prohibited. This also applies to
apartment and suite numbers.
   (d)   Component order. Components of a street address shall always be in the
following order: address number, directional prefix (if any), street number,
directional suffix (if any), and street type and secondary number designation
(i.e., 204 for fourth apartment on the second floor).
   (e)   Diagonal streets. Diagonal streets shall be treated as either north-
south, or east-west streets. Once orientation is established it shall be used
throughout the entire length of the road. The numbering system will not change
even if the road changes direction. Roads in developments should consider the
initial orientation of a road from an access road as the orientation, even if a
majority of the addresses follow another orientation. There are some instances
where a road will need to be named by the address committee.
   (f)   Circular streets. A circular road is one that returns to the same
origin point or to the same originating road. Circular streets shall be
numbered at a set interval beginning at the point that is closest to the
origin, and continue on the outside to the other end of the road. The numbers
on the inside should correspond closely with those on the outside.
   (g)   Cul-de-sacs. Parity rules shall be followed in cul-de-sacs with the
midpoint of the arc as the dividing line between odd and even numbers.
Mailboxes shall be at the inlet to the cul-de-sacs for all homes in the cul-de-
sac.
   (h)   Corner lots. Corner lots shall be addressed according to the side of
driveway access. As mailboxes are required to have a physical address, they
should be placed on the approach side of the drive way or as sets of mailboxes
on or near the property line with an adjacent landowner. The address will be
determined at the time the building permit is requested and after the first
inspection.
   (i)   Private drives/easements. Private driveways/easements shall be
numbered when providing access to two residential structures. Structures shall
be assigned addresses according to that driveway/easement. Mail cannot be
delivered down private lanes, so a cluster of boxes will be required on the
approach side of the private drive.
   (j)   Private roads. Private roads that meet the safety standards given in
part III, Appendix B, private road conditions, shall be assigned addresses
according to the numbered private road.
   (k)   Single-family residences. A single-family residence shall receive its
own individual address determined by the basic rules for distance and
direction. Whenever possible, delivery points should be shared on the property
line between neighbors.
   (l)   Duplex residences. A duplex shall be addressed with each unit
receiving its own individual address determined by the basic rules for distance
and direction.
   (m)   Apartment buildings, townhouses and condominiums. Apartments shall be
numbered with the main building receiving one address and each individual
apartment being assigned apartment numbers as sub-addresses. The apartment
number assigned should indicate the floor location (e.g., 204 is the fourth
apartment on the second floor). Alphanumerical numbers are not to be used.
Apartment buildings with multiple entrances, where each entrance provides
access to a limited number of apartments, shall require an address for each
individual entrance.
   (n)   Mobile/manufactured home parks. A mobile/manufactured home park is one
where the dwelling parcel is rented for the specific purpose of occupancy by
the owner of the dwelling. Each individual mobile or manufactured home park
shall be assigned an address with rented parcels being issued a unit number
that follows parity (i.e., even numbered units will be on the south and east
side of the road while odd numbered units will be on the north and west side of
the road.
   (o)   Mobile/manufactured home communities. A mobile/manufactured home
community is one where each parcel of ground is owned by the owner of the
dwelling. Each individual mobile or manufactured home shall be assigned its own
individual address following the basic rules for distance and direction. Only
current addresses shall be displayed. It shall be a violation of this article
to display incorrect addresses.
   (p)   Office buildings/strip commercial building. Office buildings shall be
numbered with the main building receiving one address and each individual
office being assigned numbers as secondary location indicators. The suite
number assigned should indicate the floor location (e.g., 204 is the fourth
office on the second floor). Alphanumerical numbers are not to be used. Office
buildings with multiple entrances, where each entrance provides access to a
limited number of offices, shall require an address for each individual
entrance. Where there are offices on the main floor of a commercial structure
and apartments on the second floor of a commercial structure (or vice versa),
the business shall be addressed as a suite and the apartments shall be
addressed as apartments (e.g., 104 or 204) with the first number designating
the floor and the remainder designating floor location.
   (q)   Miscellaneous structure. Outbuildings and/or utilities requiring
metering that are required to have an address shall be given their own
individual address. Outbuildings having their own access drive shall be
assigned an address following the basic rules for distance and direction.
   (r)   Communication towers. A communication tower shall be assigned one
address determined by the basic rules for distance and direction. When
additional carriers are added all carriers will be assigned a number with the
address including the first carrier.
Note: The county addresser or his designee maintains the right to alter the
above numeric assignments in such cases where there may be an exception or
special circumstance.
(Ord. No. 10-02, § 2.1.3, 8-23-2010; Ord. No. 2024-06, § 2, 4-22-2024)
Sec. 53-114. Display of addresses.
(a)   All principal buildings shall be required to display an address number in
the manner prescribed in this article.
   (1)   Responsibility for display of address numbers. It shall be the
responsibility of each and every property owner, trustee, lessee, agent and
occupant of each residence, apartment building, business or industry to post
and maintain, at all times, address numbers as required under this policy. All
addresses shall be displayed in such a way that they are unobstructed and
legible from the traveled roadway. Construction sites shall be required to post
the address as indicated on the building application from the time construction
begins and is to be posted in such a way that it is unobstructed and legible
from the traveled roadway.
   (2)   Placement of address numbers. When a cluster box is used, it will only
be required for the address to be displayed on the residential structure.
      a.   Structures including mobile or manufactured homes that are within 80
feet from the center of the road or 100 feet from the center of a cul-de-sac
shall be displayed as follows:
         1.   Display the assigned number on the structure in such a manner
that it is visible from the road. The address shall be composed of numbers that
are not less than three inches in height and contrasting in color with the
background on which they are affixed and illuminated at night.
         2.   The property owner shall display the address on the approach side
of the mailbox as well as on a post near the access point. The post should be
installed in a manner that does not pose a danger to vehicles entering or
leaving the driveway and not in the county right-of-way. In lieu of displaying
the address on a post, the property owner shall have the option of displaying
the address on both sides of the mailbox, provided that neither side of the
mailbox is obstructed and the mailbox is not in a cluster of boxes.
         3.   The numbers shall be reflective numbers on a contrasting
background.
         4.   The address shall not be obstructed in any way by any form of
landscape, other mailboxes or newspaper delivery boxes.
         5.   When the address is obstructed, it will be required that an
address sign be displayed nearer the road but outside of the county right-of-
way, following the standards listed for structures located more than 80 feet
from the centerline of the road or 100 feet from the center of the cul-de-sac.
If there are extenuating circumstances preventing appropriate placement, please
contact road and bridge at 208-745-9224 for an inspection of your property and
appropriate resolution for all parties.
      b.   Structures located more than 80 feet from the centerline of the road
or 100 feet from the center of the cul-de-sac, in addition to the requirements
listed above, shall meet the following requirements:
         1.   Display the assigned address number on a post, fence, wall, or
other permanent structure in such a way as to be visible during all seasons of
the year.
         2.   The address shall be composed of numbers that are not less than
three inches in height.
         3.   The numbers shall be composed of reflective numbers on a
contrasting background.
         4.   The numbers shall not be less than four feet and not more than
seven feet above the ground.
Note: As there may be unique circumstances or exceptions to the guidelines
listed above, it shall be required that address markers are plainly visible
from the access road, as determined by the building official or his appointed
designee.
(b)   In compliance with the building code, it is required to have an address
posted from the beginning of construction, as described in the current adopted
International Residential Code. Failure to post address may result in the delay
of issuance of a certificate of occupancy (CO).
(Ord. No. 10-02, § 2.1.4, 8-23-2010)
Sec. 53-115. Address corrections.
(a)   Whenever an error in a numeric address or street number comes to the
attention of the county addresser or its designee, proceedings shall be
initiated to correct the error.
(b)   Address changes become effective within 30 days of receipt of notice of
address correction. A resident who does not put a change of address in with
their post office and who does not display the new correct address within the
30-day period will be in violation of this article and subject to penalty as
provided by this article.
   (1)   Numeric correction.
      a.   It shall be the intent of this article to discourage the practice of
making any change in addresses. Address corrections shall be at the discretion
of the address committee. The following are some examples of some cases where
address corrections shall be considered. However, the address committee shall
not be limited to these examples.
         1.   If the existing address number is not in sequence and/or does not
run consecutively in the same direction as the county address system.
         2.   If the existing number is such that the assignment of address
numbers for new buildings is not practical and in keeping with the requirements
of this article. Addresses that do not fall within the range of the property
they belong to shall be changed as needed to correct range and to accommodate
new growth.
         3.   When an address is in violation of parity rules as outlined by
this article.
         4.   When an easement becomes a numbered private drive and the
structures must reflect the new road number using correct numerical range for
the new road.
         5.   When an address is duplicated or otherwise violates this article.
      b.   In the case of a numeric address change, the following procedure
shall be followed:
         1.   The reason for the numeric address change shall be documented
with the date and reporting party.
         2.   A new numeric address shall be determined using county address
standards.
         3.   The property owner or owners shall be contacted by the county
addresser in written form using the governing assessor's information to
identify ownership.
         4.   Notification may also be provided by the county addresser to
government agencies that may be negatively affected, at the discretion of the
county addresser.
         5.   The residents shall be responsible for supplying their individual
utility companies with a copy of the official change of address form, post
office and other correspondence.
   (2)   Street number changes.
      a.   Street number changes shall only be allowed when the number is a
duplicate of another street within the county or cities within the county.
      b.   In the case of a street number change, the following procedure will
be followed:
         1.   The reason for street number change shall be documented with date
and reporting party.
         2.   The property owner will be contacted in written form using the
governing assessor's information to identify ownership.
         3.   The proposed street number will be screened with the official
county road database, and one will be assigned. If submitted street numbers are
not available, the county addresser will work with the central contact of the
owner group to discuss alternatives.
         4.   Notification of new street numbers will be sent by the county
addresser to:
            (i)   Property owners;
            (ii)   Dispatch;
            (iii)   U.S. post office;
            (iv)   Affected government's assessor and clerk;
            (v)   Affected school district;
            (vi)   County clerk; and
            (vii)   Utility companies.
(Ord. No. 10-02, § 2.1.5, 8-23-2010)
Sec. 53-116. Street number requirements.
(a)   Street/road designation. Every existing, proposed, or constructed public
road, private road or drive that provides, or will provide access to two or
more build-able lots or at the discretion of the county addresser shall have a
street number assigned regardless of the length.
(b)   Street numbering responsibility. The county street numbering shall be the
responsibility of road and bridge. The naming (e.g., Current Lane, White Pine
Road, Oak Street, etc.) of roads is discouraged. In the event that a road will
need to be named, the naming of the road will be at the discretion of the
address committee and only for roads that begin and end at different points on
the address grids.
(c)   Numbering new roads. Street numbers may be reserved for two years. All
street numbers will conform to the standards set in this policy.
(d)   Street number selection. The following guidelines will be used by the
address committee when naming or numbering roads:
   (1)   "Old" and "New" may not be used.
   (2)   Abbreviations of words or names and initials are prohibited.
   (3)   References to a number are prohibited such as Ten, First, Sixth,
excepting such cases where a recognized address grid is established.
   (4)   Only whole numbers will be used (i.e., 135½ will not be used).
   (5)   A single alphabetical character cannot be used (i.e., 4175A E 300 N).
   (6)   Duplicate street numbers are prohibited.
   (7)   Street names will be easy to pronounce and easily recognizable in
emergency situations. Street names will only be used when the road does not
meet the grid requirements.
   (8)   No street name may duplicate, in sound or pronunciation, any other
roadway already in use within the county such as: Jerdan-Jordan, Gem-Jim,
Queensboro-Queensbury.
   (9)   Streets that are an extension of an already existing street shall
maintain that street number.
   (10)   No street name shall contain more than two words, excluding a suffix.
   (11)   No special characters in road names such as hyphens, apostrophes, or
dashes will be allowed.
   (12)   Use of frivolous or complicated words or unconventional spellings
will not be allowed.
   (13)   Names that may be construed as obscene, offensive, spiteful, or
indicate societal bigotry will not be allowed.
   (14)   Names with the same theme are suggested for naming streets in an
entire subdivision as a means of general identification and only if it does not
meet the grid requirements.
   (15)   Vanity street names that do not conform to the county address style
will not be allowed.
   (16)   No street name shall contain the words north, south, east, west, or
any combination thereof unless it is used as a prefix or suffix, where it is
divided by a line of origin, or in cases where the directional relates to well-
known geography such as "South Leigh Rd."
(e)   Prefixes. Directional prefixes will only be used in conjunction with grid
roads. (i.e., East 400 North) No more than one directional prefix will be
allowed. Acceptable prefixes are North and East.
(f)   Suffixes. Each approved street number shall require a street suffix. Only
one street suffix will be allowed per street name. Directional suffixes may
only be allowed in conjunction with grid roads. All street suffixes will be
abbreviated in compliance with the United States Postal Addressing Standards.
(See USPS Publication 28, http://pe.usps.gov/cpim/ftp/pubs/Pub28/Pub28.pdf.)
The street suffixes listed below will carry the following designations:
   (1)   Circle means a thoroughfare that returns to the same origin point or
to the same originating road. (Cr)
   (2)   Court means a permanently closed road such as a cul-de-sac. (Ct)
      a.   When there is an extension of a cul-de-sac to join another portion
of a development it shall be required that the extension continues with the
existing number.
      b.   New developments should avoid using the suffix "court" for any cul-
de-sac that has the future potential for being extended.
   (3)   Loop means a secondary thoroughfare that returns to the same
originating road (the suffix "circle" may also be used in this situation). (Lp)
   (4)   Road means a secondary thoroughfare that is accessible from both its
origin and terminus. The suffix "road" is predominately used for public county
and state roads. (Rd)
   (5)   Street means a major thoroughfare that is accessible from both its
origin and terminus. The suffix "street" is predominantly used within city
limits. (St)
(Ord. No. 10-02, § 2.1.6, 8-23-2010)
Sec. 53-117. Street number and/or name signs.
(a)   Guidelines for signs shall be dictated by the Manual of Uniform Traffic
Control Devices (MUTCD) prepared by the Federal Highway Administration with the
state department of transportation exceptions incorporated. Road and bridge are
the only authorized entity to install signs in the county right-of-way.
(b)   In the case of private roads, if a sign needs to be added or changes, the
applicable public agency will be responsible for the installation of all street
signs. The developer/property owners shall be responsible for all costs
determined by the applicable public agency.
(Ord. No. 10-02, § 2.1.7, 8-23-2010)
Sec. 53-118. Penalties.
Violations of any of the provisions of this article or failure to comply with
any of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Each day the violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. The landowner, tenant,
subdivider, builder, public official or any other person who commits,
participates in, assists in or maintains such violation may each be found
guilty of a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the county
commissioners or any other public official or private citizen from taking such
lawful action as is necessary to restrain or prevent any violation of this
article or of the Idaho Code.
(Ord. No. 10-02, § 2.1.8, 8-23-2010)
Sec. 53-119. Appeals process.
(a)   The county address committee shall act to hear petitions for relief from
administrative actions taken by the county addresser pursuant to the authority
granted by this article.
(b)   The county address committee shall have the power to affirm, reverse
wholly or partly, or modify the decision of the county addresser after
conducting a public hearing at which the aggrieved party or parties and the
county addresser are permitted to speak.
(c)   If the county address committee decides that no error has occurred, but
an unnecessary hardship has been created by the county addresser, an extension
of time may be allowed, not to exceed 90 days, to comply with the
administrative order.
(d)   The county address committee may reverse the decision of the county
addresser, provided that a factual error has occurred. The county address
committee may remand the matter back to the county addresser with instructions
for corrective action.
(e)   An appeal will be heard only in cases where the aggrieved party's address
is being corrected because it is out of range, or when the aggrieved party can
prove a factual error occurred in assigning the address. No appeal will be
heard in the cases where the aggrieved party's address is out of sequence with
surrounding addresses, or is on the wrong side of the road, or is being
renumbered due to the fact that the dwelling should be addressed to the nearest
road providing access to the structure, whether public or private, right-of-way
or easement
(f)   Appeals shall be filed by the aggrieved party within 28 days of receiving
their address or correction thereto. The appeal shall be in written form and
filed with the county addresser for review. If the county addresser cannot
resolve the issue, the appeal will be forwarded to the county address
committee. Within 28 days, the aggrieved party will be contacted in writing by
the county address committee of a scheduled meeting date and time. The
aggrieved party will be notified of the decision of the county address
committee in writing within a period not to exceed 28 days of postmark.
(g)   A party aggrieved by a decision of the county address committee may file
a further appeal to the county commissioners within 28 days of the postmark of
an adverse decision.
(h)   A party aggrieved by a decision of the county commissioners may file a
further appeal to the district court within 28 days of an adverse decision. The
district court shall affirm all such appeals except upon a determination that
the county commissioner's decision is based upon fraud, abuse of discretion,
error of law, or where the decision is not based upon competent, material and
substantial evidence.
(Ord. No. 10-02, § 2.1.10, 8-23-2010)
Sec. 53-120. Address grid map.
The county's address grid map below, as now or hereafter amended, is on file in
the county offices.
ADDRESS GRID MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/325843b5aeb9be70ae28a66ea37e96d9dc6ad349/
IMAGES/0-0-0-566.png]
(Ord. No. 10-02, § 2.1.11, 8-23-2010; altered in 2020 codification)
Chapter 55
SOLID WASTE
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 55-1. Purpose.
(a)   The expense of creating, maintaining, and/or operating the dumpster
system used in the county is paid for and borne by county residents. Therefore,
it shall be a misdemeanor for anyone other than a bona fide resident of the
county to make any use of the dumpsters.
(b)   In an effort to inform nonresidents, the county may place a sign on each
container which states in substance: "This container is paid for and provided
for the use of the county residents only. Anyone else using it shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor." The signs may be attached to the dumpster, or placed in any
location deemed appropriate by county officials. The signing and/or posting is
not mandatory, and this chapter shall be effective whether or not a sign is
used.
(Ord. No. 27, §§ 1, 2, 1-12-1981; altered in 2020 codification)
Secs. 55-2-55-20. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
Sec. 55-21. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   Garbage means and includes all putrescible waste including waste accumulated
of animal food or vegetable matter, and including waste that attends the
preparation, use, cooking, dealing in or storing meat, fish, fowl, fruit and
vegetables, and shall include all such wastes or accumulations of vegetable
matter of residences, restaurants, hotels, and places where food is prepared
for human consumption. The term "garbage" shall not include recognized
industrial byproducts.
   Owner and occupant, wherever herein, may be used interchangeably and means
every person in possession, charge or in control of any dwelling, flat, rooming
house, or any eating place, shop, place of business, manufacturing or business
establishments where garbage or other refuse is created or accumulated.
   Refuse means solid wastes, including garbage and rubbish.
   Solid waste coordinator or inspector means the authorized employee or
employees of the county or some individual designated by the commissioners as
having the duty of the enforcement of this article.
   Waste means unwanted solid, liquid or gaseous materials. All hazardous waste
shall be the prime responsibility of those who generate such waste and shall
not be disposed of at the county solid waste disposal site unless provisions
have been made for the safe handling and disposal of the hazardous materials
and express written permission is first obtained from the authorized county
officer. Nothing in this article contained shall be construed so as to require
accepting dead animals or car bodies at any solid waste disposal site within
the county.
(Ord. No. 6, § 1, 6-11-1973)
Sec. 55-22. Responsible authority.
County commissioners, with the assistance of the county sheriff, may appoint a
solid waste coordinator, who shall be responsible for the enforcement of the
provision of this article, and other duties as the commissioners may prescribe.
(Ord. No. 6, § 2, 6-11-1973)
Sec. 55-23. Refuse collection service for hire.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a refuse collection service for
hire in the county, unless that person has a valid permit or contract issued by
the county. Every permit or contract shall contain terms, conditions and
specifications covering the range of service for which it is intended.
(Ord. No. 6, § 3, 6-11-1973)
Sec. 55-24. Compulsory use of the system.
Every owner and occupant of premises within the prescribed limits of the county
shall cause to be deposited his garbage, refuse and rubbish in an approved
county solid waste system. Every owner of land who disposes of solid waste on
his own land shall obtain a written permit from the board of county
commissioners for such disposal.
(Ord. No. 6, § 4, 6-11-1973)
Sec. 55-25. Refuse accumulation unlawful.
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or to suffer to accumulate in or
about any yard, lot, place or premises, or upon any street, alley or sidewalk
adjacent to such lot, yard, place or premises, owned or occupied by such
person, any garbage or refuse so as to cause such yard, lot, premises, owned or
occupied by such person, to be or remain in such condition as to cause or
create a nuisance or offensive odor or atmosphere or rodent harborage, or
thereby to be or to become, or cause or create, a public or private nuisance.
(Ord. No. 6, § 5, 6-11-1973)
Sec. 55-26. Burning; dumping.
(a)   No person shall bury, dump, collect, remove or in any way or manner
dispose of rubbish, or garbage except as hereinafter provided.
(b)   No person shall throw, discard or deposit any rubbish, garbage or refuse
in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk or vacant ground or in or upon any
canal, irrigation ditch, drainage ditch or other watercourse.
(Ord. No. 6, § 6, 6-11-1973)
State law reference(s)-Littering generally, Idaho Code, § 18-7031.
Sec. 55-27. Refuse containers.
It shall be the duty of every owner or occupant of any place where garbage or
rubbish is created or accumulated to at all times keep or cause to be kept
portable approved metal or plastic containers for the deposit therein of
rubbish and garbage and, except as otherwise provided, to deposit or cause to
be deposited all rubbish and garbage therein. Plastic bags will be allowed for
depositing refuse. The requirements for the plastic bags, including size and
gauge, will be set by the solid waste coordinator. The plastic bags must be
tied or scaled at the top so as to be completely self-contained. All garbage
shall, before deposited in such can, be wrapped in paper or other material so
as to prevent the escape of liquids therefrom. All such containers shall be
watertight and not easily corrodible, rodentproof and flyproof. Such containers
shall be kept in sanitary condition, with the inside and outside thereof washed
at such times as to keep the same free and clean of all accumulating grease and
decomposing material and so that no odor nuisance shall exist.
(Ord. No. 6, § 7, 6-11-1973)
Sec. 55-28. Rubbish; special handling.
Rubbish consisting only of paper, cardboard or wooden boxes, brush, leaves,
weeds, and cuttings from trees, lawns, shrubs and gardens may be kept
separately without depositing in such containers. Such rubbish shall be
transported to the sanitary landfill site, in a covered container that will not
permit said rubbish to blow from the container or vehicle.
(Ord. No. 6, § 8, 6-11-1973)
Sec. 55-29. Inspection.
The county sheriff or such persons as may be designated as solid waste
coordinator, or any other person concerned with the enforcement of laws, shall
have the right of ingress or egress to any premises for the purpose of
inspecting all places and containers where rubbish and garbage is accumulated
or kept.
(Ord. No. 6, § 9, 6-11-1973)
Sec. 55-30. Penalty.
It shall be a misdemeanor, except at sanitary landfill disposal systems
located, maintained, and operated as provided by this article, for any person
to throw away, dump or discard any type or nature of refuse on any public
lands, rights-of-way of any kind, or private land of another.
(Ord. No. 6, § 10, 6-11-1973; altered in 2020 codification)
Sec. 55-31. Municipalities excepted.
The provisions of this article shall not apply to any municipality providing a
regular garbage collection service for its inhabitants.
(Ord. No. 6, § 13, 6-11-1973)
Sec. 55-32. State rules.
By reference the board of county commissioners of the county adopts all Idaho
Solid Waste Management Regulations and Standards. In the event of any
inconsistency between this article and Idaho Solid Waste Management Regulations
and Standards, the regulations and standards set forth in the Idaho Solid Waste
Management Regulations and Standards shall prevail.
(Ord. No. 6, § 15, 6-11-1973)
Secs. 55-33-55-54. Reserved.
ARTICLE III. WASTE TIRES
Sec. 55-55. Title.
This article shall be known and cited as the "Jefferson County Waste Tire
Ordinance," or the "Waste Tire Ordinance."
(Ord. No. 8-1-1, § 8-1-1, 8-3-1995)
Sec. 55-56. Purpose; compliancer.
These regulations shall apply to all lands within the unincorporated territory
of the county, and it shall be unlawful hereafter to keep, collect, haul,
transport, or dispose of waste tires except as herein provided.
(Ord. No. 8-1-1, § 8-1-2, 8-3-1995)
Sec. 55-57. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   Altered waste tire means a waste tire that is no longer whole, including
waste tires that have been chopped or shredded.
   Board means the board of county commissioners.
   Conditional use permit means a written authorization issued by the county,
or its designated agency, which, by its conditions, may authorize the permittee
to constrict, install or operate facilities and conduct specific activities in
accordance with specified limitations.
   Facility approval means a written authorization issued by the county or its
designated agency, authorizing a person or entity to construct, install, or
operate facilities and conduct specific activities subject to conditions.
   Illegal tire pile means the storing, stockpiling, accumulation, or disposing
of 500 or more waste tires at one location without facility approval or
exemption by the county, or its designated agency.
   Passenger and light truck tire means any motor vehicle tire with a rim
diameter of 12 inches through 16 inches.
   Recyclable tire means tire that is not a new tire, but which is free of
permanent physical damage and maintains sufficient material to permit its use
through retreading, repairing, or reconditioning for resale.
   Registered tire pile means a location where 100 to 500 waste tires are
stored, dumped, disposed or have otherwise accumulated and has registered with
the county, or its designated agency, stating long-term plans for the pile.
   Retreader means a person who accepts passenger, light truck, and truck tires
and retreads such tires and is registered with the county, or its designated
agency.
   Waste tire means a tire that is not on the wheel of a vehicle and is not
suitable for its original intended use due to wear, damage, or defect,
including all used tires, altered waste tires, recappable casings and scrap
tires.
   Waste tire collection site means a site where 500 or more waste tires are
collected before being offered for recycling or reuse.
   Waste tire dump means a location where 100 to 500 waste tires are stored,
dumped, disposed, or have otherwise accumulated and have not been handled for a
period of time in excess of 90 days.
   Waste tire facility means a site which collects, accepts, obtains, receives,
stores, accumulates, processes, or alters waste tires.
   Waste tire generator means any person whose act or process produces more
than 500 waste tires in a 12-month period.
   Waste tire hauler means any person transporting more than 50 waste tires.
(Ord. No. 8-1-1, § 8-1-3, 8-3-1995)
Sec. 55-58. Use of waste tires.
(a)   The disposal of waste tires shall be in conformance with Idaho Code, §
39-6505. A person shall not dispose of waste tires unless they are disposed of
at an approved waste tire collection site.
(b)   The following are acceptable methods of waste tire disposal:
   (1)   Retreading.
   (2)   Incinerating for use as fuel, as permitted by state law.
   (3)   Chopping or shredding prior to reuse.
   (4)   Grinding for use in asphalt or as a raw material for other products.
   (5)   Retaining walls.
   (6)   Using as playground equipment and gravel.
   (7)   Mats for use in dwellings, horse trailer, playgrounds, etc.
   (8)   Landfill cover (shredded tires only).
   (9)   Construction of collision barriers.
   (10)   Soil drainage
   (11)   Soil additive
(c)   The county may authorize other methods of management and/or disposal of
waste tires.
(Ord. No. 8-1-1, § 8-1-4, 8-3-1995; altered in 2020 codification)
Sec. 55-59. Illegal tire piles.
(a)   Owners of property and/or operators of facilities on which unapproved or
unauthorized tire piles are located are responsible for cleanup of the site,
prior to and during the cleanup of the site. Upon notification by the county
all owners/operators shall clean up the site with in an acceptable time frame
established by the county.
(b)   Owners of property and/or operators of facilities on which unapproved or
unauthorized tire piles are located are responsible for providing disease
vector control measures adequate to protect the safety and health of the
public, and shall keep the site free of excess grass, underbrush, or other
harborage.
(c)   Owners of property and/or operators of facilities on which unapproved or
unauthorized tire piles are located must limit access to these tire piles to
prevent further disposal of tires or other waste.
(Ord. No. 8-1-1, § 8-1-5, 8-3-1995)
Sec. 55-60. Approval requirement.
(a)   Waste tire facility approval. Storing, stockpiling, accumulating,
processing, or producing a commodity from waste tires is prohibited without a
facility approval from the county.
   (1)   Waste tire facilities shall obtain approval from the county unless:
      a.   The facility is either an agricultural operation or is not an end-
user of waste tires and is storing 500 or less waste tires in which case only a
registration would be obtained.
      b.   The waste tires are stored in fully enclosed movable containers.
   (2)   Persons seeking exemption from waste tire facility approval shall
submit a copy of their exemption application for waste tire facility approval
to the county.
   (3)   Persons storing 100 to 500 tires must obtain a registration from the
county. The registration must include a statement as to the long-term plans for
the pile and end-use of the waste tires.
   (4)   Any person proposing to make a substantial change in the design or
operation of the waste tire facility, shall apply for a revision of the
facility approval.
   (5)   The facility approval is issued to the applicant and is not
transferrable.
(b)   Application requirements for facility approval.
   (1)   Applications for facility approval shall contain at least the
following information:
      a.   Name, address, telephone number, of applicant's business.
      b.   Name, address, and telephone number of the owners of the property
and documentation demonstrating owner approval to use the property.
      c.   The name, address, and telephone number of the person responsible
for operation and maintenance of the site.
      d.   The common address of the site.
      e.   The legal description of the property on which the site is located.
      f.   Names and address of adjacent property owners.
      g.   Documentation as required by subsection (c) of this section for site
requirements, subsection (d) of this section for facility closure, and
subsection (e) of this section.
(c)   Site requirements for facility approval.
   (1)   Waste tire facilities shall not be constructed, maintained or operated
in or within 200 feet of any public waters or in any wetlands area.
   (2)   Surface water drainage shall be directed around and away waste tires.
   (3)   Waste tire facilities shall not be located in a 100-year floodplain
unless the operator demonstrates that the facility will be designed and
operated to prevent waste tires from migrating off-site.
   (4)   Waste tire facilities shall not be located where grades or other
physical features will interfere with firefighting equipment or personnel.
   (5)   The facility shall be designed and constructed to provide protection
from runoff of pyrolytic oil resulting from fire.
   (6)   The proposed design submitted with application for facility approval,
shall include a diagram, drawn to scale of the facility layout.
(d)   Waste tire facility closure.
   (1)   All approvals issued shall include a closure plan. The closure plan
shall include:
      a.   A detailed description of how the closure requirements will be met.
      b.   A closure schedule, including an estimated time period for
completion.
      c.   A description of post-closure physical status of the site including
remediation and intended use for the site. Details of changes shall be included
on a topographic map showing features that will remain on-site.
         1.   The site shall be graded to prevent ponding of water and to
conform to surface features of adjacent properties.
         2.   Seeding and revegetation to stabilize the soil surface shall be
done when conditions are suitable. Reseeding is mandatory until adequate
vegetative cover is established to prevent erosion or re-establish native
vegetation.
      d.   Documentation of financial assurance required by subsection (e) of
this section.
   (2)   In closing any waste tire facility, the owner or operator shall:
      a.   Stop public access to the site.
      b.   Post a notice indicating the site is closed and the location of the
nearest site where waste tires can be deposited.
      c.   Notify, by certified letter, to the department and county of the
closing.
      d.   Remove all waste tires, and residuals to a processing facility or
solid waste management facility authorized to accept waste tires, or a
legitimate user of processed tires.
      e.   Remove any solid waste to a permitted solid waste management
facility.
      f.   Notify the county by certified letter the date closure is completed.
   (3)   A waste tire site which does not meet these regulations or which will
no longer accept, collect, or process tires shall close as directed by the
county.
(e)   Financial assurance for tire facilities.
   (1)   The applicant shall provide a written cost estimate of hiring a third
party to close the waste tire facility. This estimate shall be based on the
maximum quantity of waste tires that the operator intends to store at the
facility at any one given time. The total closure cost estimate shall include:
      a.   Transportation cost. This represents the total cost for mileage for
transporting all waste tire equivalents from the facility to an approved end-
use or disposal facility.
      b.   Destination charge. This represents the total cost of disposal for
all waste tire equivalents from the facility being closed to destination
facilities.
      c.   Loading cost. This represents the total cost of loading waste tire
equivalents and unloading the vehicles at the destination facilities.
      d.   Administrative cost. This represents the total cost of
administrative activities for the closure operation. This cost shall include
wages for personnel overseeing the cleanup activities.
      e.   Security cost. This represents the total cost of security of the
closure operation. This cost includes installation of site fence, installations
and operation costs of lighting, and wages for security guards.
      f.   Total closure cost estimate is derived by totaling the
transportation cost, destination charge, loading cost, administrative cost, and
security cost and then multiplying by a contingency factor of 1.2.
   (2)   The applicant shall provide financial assurance equal to the estimated
total closure cost for the waste tire facility to the board of county
commissioners of the county where the facility is located.
      a.   The financial assurance mechanism shall meet all requirements of
these regulations and shall not be canceled, revoked, disbursed, released, or
allowed to terminate without the approval of the jurisdictional board of county
commissioners and the department.
      b.   Financial assurance may include cash or surety bond, a letter of
credit, or a secured trust form.
      c.   If the owner or operator of a waste tire facility provides financial
assurance in the form of a surety bond, the bond shall be executed by a surety
company authorized to do business in the state. The bond shall continue until
canceled by the surety.
      d.   The jurisdictional boards of county commissioners have primacy in
approving proposals for financial assurance.
(f)   Denial or suspension of facility approval. The county may suspend,
revoke, or deny the renewal of any facility approval if any of the following
conditions exist:
   (1)   Failure to comply with conditions set forth in initial waste tire
facility approval.
   (2)   Failure to maintain financial assurance as set forth in subsection (e)
of this section.
   (3)   The operation endangers public health, safety, or the environment.
   (4)   The facility is no longer being operated by the owner named in the
waste tire facility approval.
(Ord. No. 8-1-1, § 8-1-6, 8-3-1995)
Sec. 55-61. Waste tire hauler registration.
(a)   Every person who transports waste tires shall obtain waste tire hauler
registration from the county, unless otherwise exempted.
(b)   Exemptions. Persons are exempted from waste tire hauler license if:
   (1)   The person is transporting fewer than 50 waste tires at one time.
   (2)   The person is a local, state, or federal government.
   (3)   The person is a tire retailer transporting waste tires to a location
for repair or exchange.
   (4)   The person is transporting waste tires from another state, traveling
through the state, without loading or unloading waste tires within the state.
   (5)   The person is a permitted solid waste operator transporting tires as
part of solid waste handing activities.
   (6)   The person is an agricultural operation using tires for an
agricultural purpose.
   (7)   The person is a tire retreading facility who uses company owned
vehicles to transport waste tires for the purpose of retreading.
(c)   Registration requirements for hauler registration shall include:
   (1)   Name, address, telephone number of applicant's business.
   (2)   Name, address, telephone number of tire facilities to which they haul.
   (3)   Haulers shall register annually with the county.
(d)   Waste tire haulers transporting to facilities in the state shall
transport waste tires to an authorized facility.
(e)   Persons or facilities shall accept waste tires only from registered waste
tire haulers or exempt individuals.
(Ord. No. 8-1-1, § 8-1-7, 8-3-1995)
Sec. 55-62. Enforcement.
The county commissioners, or their duly authorized agents, are hereby
authorized to enforce and carry out the terms contained herein.
(Ord. No. 8-1-1, § 8-1-8, 8-3-1995)
Sec. 55-63. Prohibited activity.
It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to violate any of the foregoing
provisions contained herein.
(Ord. No. 8-1-1, § 8-1-9, 8-3-1995)
PART III
LAND DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCES
Chapter 101
GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
Sec. 101-1. Application of chapter 1.
The provisions of chapter 1 of this Code apply to this part.
Chapter 102
AIRPORT ZONING
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Secs. 102-1-102-18. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. CITY OF RIGBY AIRPORT
Sec. 102-19. Title.
(a)   This article is titled the "City of Rigby Airport Ordinance."
(b)   This article is based upon rules and regulations promulgated and
effective by the Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR 77 and the state
department of transportation, division of aeronautics, and the Airport Zoning
Act (Idaho Code, § 21-501 et seq.).
(c)   The overall property of the City of Rigby Airport lies within the county
and as such is subject to land use zoning, which, as of January 1, 2016, is
zoned Commercial Two (C-2).
(Ord. No. 2016-06, § 3-7-1, 2-27-2017)
Sec. 102-20. Purpose.
(a)   This article is adopted pursuant to the authority conferred by Idaho
Code, title 21. It is hereby stated that certain constructions or structures
may constitute hazards to aerial operation and navigation, and such hazards may
endanger the lives and/or property of users of the City of Rigby Airport.
Additionally, if the construction or structure in effect reduces the size of
the area available for taking off, maneuvering, and landing of aircraft, the
construction and/or structure destroys or impairs the utility of federal
airspace, the airport and the public investment therein.
(b)   It is further found that certain activities and uses of land in the
immediate vicinity of the airport are not compatible with normal airport
operations, and may, if not regulated, also endanger the lives of the
participants, adversely affect their health, or otherwise limit the
accomplishment of normal activities. Accordingly, it is declared that:
   (1)   The creation or establishment of an airport hazard is a public
nuisance and injury to the region served by the City of Rigby Airport;
   (2)   It is necessary in the interest of the public health, public safety,
and general welfare that the creation or establishment hazards to the airport
be prevented;
   (3)   The prevention of these hazards should be accomplished, to the extent
legally possible, by the exercise of the police powers without compensation;
   (4)   Appropriate notice be given to property owners, buyers, or sellers
within a reasonable operating radius of the airport, informing them that the
airport exists. That airport operations may occur at all hours of the day or
night throughout the calendar year, and persons within that operating radius
should not expect relief from reasonable airport operation. The City of Rigby
airport board subscribes to the following fair disclosure statement; the
statement means a notification to prospective buyers of property near or
adjacent to the airport that they may be exposed to potentially impactive
levels of aircraft overflights. These statements in no way abrogate an
individual's right to take later action against the airport, but rather give
the buyer a fair notice. Use of a fair disclosure statement is not meant to
provide pilots, crews, owners of aircraft, or any other person protection from
liability for negligence committed on their part.
(c)   It is further declared that both:
   (1)   The prevention of creating or establishing airport hazards;
   (2)   The elimination, removal, alteration, mitigation, or marking and
lighting of existing airport hazards;
are public purposes for which political subdivisions may raise and expend
public funds and acquire land or interest in land.
(Ord. No. 2016-06, § 3-7-2, 2-27-2017)
Sec. 102-21. Summary of effect.
The provisions of this article may be summarized as follows:
   (1)   For structures and trees on the airport property, heights may be
restricted as determined by the airport board (section
102-24(2)).
   (2)   For structures and trees off the airport property, heights of less
than 30 feet above airport elevation are exempted from the requirements of this
article (section
102-24(3)) except that structures and trees in the primary zones (section
102-23(2)) and visual approach zones (
102-23(a)(1)) immediately off the ends of each airport runway may be prohibited
or restricted in height.
   (3)   For structures and trees off the airport property which may exceed 30
feet above airport elevation, certain zones are established in section
102-23(a). These zones provide sloping criteria based on location from the
active runway at the airport. The zones are more restrictive to the ends of the
takeoff and landing runway than to the sides of the runway.
(Ord. No. 2016-06, § 3-7-3, 2-27-2017)
Sec. 102-22. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   Airport means the City of Rigby Airport (U56).
   Airport board means a board of volunteers serving by appointment and
pleasure of the Rigby city council to act on matters involving the airport.
   Airport elevation means the established elevation as per the National
Geodetic Survey designation N-227 as the highest point of the usable landing
area.
   Airport hazard means any structure, tree, tower or use of land which
obstructs the airspace required for, or is otherwise hazardous to, the taxiing,
taking off, maneuvering, or landing of aircraft at the airport.
   Avigation means aerial navigation.
   Datum means any level surface, line, or point used as a reference, in
measuring elevations. A basis for horizontal surveys, consisting of the
longitude and latitude of a certain point.
   Director means the director of the division of aeronautics.
   Division of aeronautics means a division within the department of
transportation of the state as defined in Idaho Code, title 21.
   Elevation. The elevation of the City of Rigby Airport has been established
by the NGS designation N227 as 4845 feet above sea level.
   FAA means the Federal Aviation Administration, 14 CFR 77.
   Height means for the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones
set forth in this article and shown on zoning maps. The datum shall mean at
runway 1/19 above sea level elevation, unless otherwise specified.
   Instrument approach zone means the area encompassed by FAA terminal approach
procedures defined distances from any runway having an FAA-approved instrument
approach.
   Land use planning means as established by the county as part of each
entity's comprehensive land use guidelines, and made a part of this article by
reference.
   Landing area means the area of the airport used for taxiing, take off,
maneuvering, or landing of aircraft.
   Nonconforming use means any pre-existing structure, tower, tree, or natural
growth or use of land which is inconsistent with the provisions of this article
or an amendment thereto.
   Permit means to grant permission or to allow.
   Runway/taxiway structure means the paved surface of an airport landing area
or taxing area. An object constructed or installed by man.
   Tree means any object of natural growth.
   Utility runway means a runway that is constructed for and intended to be
used by aircraft of 12,500 pounds maximum gross weight or less.
   Variance means official permission to do something normally forbidden by
regulation, especially by building in a way or for a purpose normally forbidden
by a zoning law or building code.
   Visual runway means a runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft
using visual approach procedures, with no existing instrument procedures and no
instrument designation indicated on an FAA or military service-approved airport
layout plan or by any other FAA or military planning document. The visual
runway may, however, have runway and taxiway lighting as activated by pilots
upon take-offs and landings.
(Ord. No. 2016-06, § 3-7-4, 2-27-2017)
Sec. 102-23. Zones.
(a)   In order to carry out the provisions of this article, there are hereby
created and established certain zones which include all of the land and
airspace within instrument approach zones, visual approach zones, transitional
zones, horizontal zones, and conical zones. Such areas and zones are shown in
approximation on the City of Rigby airport zoning map. The various zones are
hereby established and defined as follows:
   (1)   Primary zone. A primary zone is centered longitudinally on a runway.
When the runway has a specially prepared surface, the primary zone extends 200
feet beyond each end of that runway; but when the runway has no specially
prepared hard surface, the primary zone ends at each end of the runway. The
elevation of any point on the primary zone coincides with the elevation of the
nearest point on the runway centerline. The width of a primary zone is 250 feet
for utility runways having non-precision instrument approach. The width of the
primary zone of a runway will be that width prescribed in this subsection for
the most precise approach existing or planned for either end of that runway.
Effect. The primary zone has the effect of limiting the heights of structures
or trees off the ends of active hard surface runways for a distance of 200
feet.
   (2)   Approach zone. An approach zone is longitudinally centered on the
extended runway centerline and extends outward and upward from each end of the
primary zone. An approach zone is applied to each end of each runway based upon
type of approach available or planned for that runway end.
      a.   The inner edge of the approach zone is the same width as the primary
zone and it expands uniformly to a width of:
         1.   1,250 feet for that end of a utility runway with only visual
approach;
         2.   2,000 feet for that end of a utility runway with an instrument
approach.
      b.   The approach zone for utility runways with a non-precision
instrument approach and/or visual approach extends for a horizontal distance of
5,000 feet at a slope of 20:1.
      c.   The outer width of an approach zone to an end of a runway will be
that width prescribed in this subsection (2) for the most precise approach
existing or planned for that runway.
Effect. The effect of the approach zone at the City of Rigby Airport is to
further extend the 20:1 slope and height limitations of visual and non-
precision zones to a distance of 5,000 feet from the active runways.
   (3)   Visual approach zone. A visual approach zone is established at each of
all visual runways. The visual approach zone shall have a width of 250 feet at
a distance of 200 feet beyond each end of the runway, widening thereafter
uniformly to a width of 450 feet at a distance of 1,000 feet beyond each end of
the runway, the zone centerline being the continuation of the centerline of the
runway, and the zone slope will be 20:1.
Effect. The visual zone has the effect of limiting the heights of structures or
trees off the ends of visual approach runways for a distance of 1,000 feet from
the height of zero on the airport property (section
102-24) to approximately 50 feet in height at a distance of 1,000 feet from the
end of the active runways.
   (4)   Non-precision approach zone. A non-precision approach zone is
established at each end of all non-precision runways for non-instrument
landings and takeoffs. The non-precision approach zone shall have a width of
250 feet at a distance of 200 feet beyond each end of the runway, widening
thereafter uniformly to a width of 450 feet at a distance of 1,000 feet beyond
each end of the runway, the zone centerline will be the continuation of the
centerline of the runway, and the zone slope will be 20:1.
Effect. The effect of the non-precision approach zone is identical to that of
the visual approach zone, above.
   (5)   Transitional zone. Transitional zones extend outwards and upwards at
right angles to the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at a
slope of 7:1 from the sides of the primary zone and from the sides of the
approach zones. Transitional zones for those portions of the precision approach
zone which project through and beyond the limits of the conical zone extend a
distance of 5,000 feet measured horizontally from the edge of the approach zone
and at right angles to the runway centerline.
Effect. The effect of the transitional zone is to limit heights of structures
or trees from zero at the edge of the active runway (section
102-24) to approximately 150 feet above airport elevation at a horizontal
distance of 5,000 feet from the edge of the primary zone, on a slope of 7:1.
   (6)   Horizontal zone. A horizontal zone is established, consisting of a
plane 150 feet above the established airport elevation, the perimeter of the
horizontal zone being established by swinging arcs of specified radius from the
center of each end of the primary zone of each runway and connecting the
adjacent arcs by line tangent to those arcs. The radius of each arc is:
      a.   5,000 feet for all runways designated as utility or visual; and
      b.   10,000 feet for all runways other than utility designated as
instrument runways.
The radius of the arc specified for each end of a runway will have the same
arithmetical value. That value will be the highest determined for either end of
the runway. When a 5,000-foot arc is encompassed by tangents connected to
adjacent 10,000-foot, the 5,000-foot arc shall be disregarded on the
construction of the perimeter of the horizontal zone.
Effect. The effect of the horizontal zone is to limit the height of structures
or trees to less than 150 feet above airport elevation for a distance of
approximately 5,000 feet horizontally from the active runway.
   (7)   Conical zone. A conical zone extends outwards and upwards from the
periphery of the horizontal zone at a slope of 20:1 for a horizontal distance
of 4,000 feet.
Effect. The effect of the conical zone is to provide additional height
limitations for structures or trees a distance greater than 5,000 feet
horizontally from the active runway.
(b)   As of January 1, 2016, the City of Rigby Airport has no approved or
planned instrument approaches. The runways are open for visual approaches at
all hours of the day and night, weather permitting. However, nothing in this
article shall be construed as prohibiting or discouraging future development of
instrument approaches at the airport. FAA regulations for such approaches may
require future modifications of this article. Runway/taxiway lighting can be
activated by pilot prior to a visual takeoff or landing and may remain active
for a period of time following such activities.
(Ord. No. 2016-06, § 3-7-5, 2-27-2017)
Sec. 102-24. Height limitations.
Except as otherwise provided in this article, no structure, tower, or tree
shall be erected, altered, allowed to grow, or maintained in any surface
created by the article to a height in excess of the height limit herein
established for such a zone. Such height limitations are hereby established for
each of the zones in question as follows:
   (1)   Conflict. Where an area is covered by more than one height limitation,
the more restrictive limitation shall prevail.
   (2)   On the airport property, as established by the airport board in
accordance with FAA guidelines.
   (3)   Excepted height limitations. Nothing in this article shall be
construed as prohibiting growth, construction, or maintenance of any tree or
structure off the airport property to a height up to 30 feet above of the
airport, except as provided for primary and visual approach zones in section
102-23(1) and (2).
   (4)   No tree or structure may penetrate the non-precision instrument or
visual approach zone for any utility runway.
   (5)   No tree or structure may penetrate the transitional zone for any
runway.
   (6)   No tree or structure may penetrate the horizontal zone for any runway.
   (7)   No tree or structure may penetrate the conical zone for any runway.
(Ord. No. 2016-06, § 3-7-6, 2-27-2017)
Sec. 102-25. Use restrictions.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of the article, no use may be made of land
within any zone established by this article in such a manner as to:
   (1)   Create electrical interference with radio communication between the
airport and aircraft;
   (2)   Make it difficult for aviators to distinguish between airport lights
and other lights;
   (3)   Result in glare, coherent light beams or other visual distractions to
aviators using the airport;
   (4)   Impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport; or
   (5)   Otherwise endanger the taxiing off, maneuvering or landing of aircraft
at the airport.
(Ord. No. 2016-06, § 3-7-7, 2-27-2017)
Sec. 102-26. Nonconforming uses.
(a)   Regulations are not retroactive. The regulations prescribed by this
article shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering, or other
changes or alterations of any structure or tree not in conformance with this
article as of January 1. 2016, or otherwise interfere with the continuance of
any nonconforming use reasonably established prior to that date. Nothing in
this article shall require any change in the construction alteration or
intended use of any structure, the construction or alteration of which began
prior to January 1. 2016, and which has been diligently prosecuted.
(b)   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this section, the
owner of any nonconforming structure or tree is hereby required to permit the
installation, operation, and maintenance thereon of such markers and lights as
shall be deemed necessary by the airport board, to indicate the presence of
such hazards to aviators in the vicinity of the airport. Such markers and
lights shall be installed, operated and maintained by the airport.
(Ord. No. 2016-06, § 3-7-8, 2-27-2017)
Sec. 102-27. Giving of notice.
(a)   The county encourages any person or entity selling, leasing, or otherwise
providing for use of a property within the transition zone of the City of Rigby
Airport to provide written notice to the buyer, renter, leasing entity, or the
property user of the existence of the City of Rigby Airport for the reason that
the property may be subject to some of the annoyances and inconveniences
associated with proximity to airport operations (for example: noise,
vibrations, and odors). The transition zone is defined as a one-mile radius of
the City of Rigby Airport.
(b)   The county encourages any person or entity who is providing written
disclosure to a buyer, renter, leasing entity, or other property user to use
the model Idaho Fair Disclosure Statement as set forth below:
FAIR DISCLOSURE STATEMENT
FAIR DISCLOSURE STATEMENT DISCLOSURES BY (OWNER) (BUYER) OF REAL PROPERTY IN
JEFFERSON COUNTY, IDAHO
This is a notification, disclosure, and acknowledgement by (Owner) (Buyer) of
real property located in the vicinity of the City of Rigby Municipal Airport in
the City of Rigby, Idaho. (Owner) (Buyer) hereby acknowledges the following:
AIRPORT
   a.   Proximity to the airport.
      The subject parcel, located in section _____ township _____ range _____,
is located within the City of Rigby Municipal Airport Transition Area which is
defined being located within a one-mile radius of the airport. As result, the
subject property is located in the airport's Federal Aviation Regulation part
77 airspace and one of seven land use zones airplanes may fly at low elevations
over the parcel as they operate to, from, or at the airport. The airport is
operational 24 hours per day. Flights may occur at all hours of the day or
night.
   b.   Airspace.
      The subject parcel property lies under the airport's FAR part 77 airspace
and is subject to federal law and all state and local laws. As such, it may be
necessary to clear and keep clear the airspace of any portions of buildings,
structures, or improvements of any and all kinds, and of trees, vegetation, or
other objects. This includes reserving the right of the city or county to;
remove or demolish those portions of such buildings, structures, improvements,
trees or any other objects which extend into the airspace; cut to the ground
level and remove any trees which extend into the airspace; the right to mark
and light, or cause or require to be marked or lighted, as obstructions to air
navigation, any and all buildings, structures, or other improvements, and trees
or other objects now upon, or that in the future may be upon, said Parcel, and
which extend into the airspace.
   c.   Future improvements and aircraft operations.
      The airport may wish to expand its facilities and operations in the
future. Expansion plans include, but are not limited to, those shown on the
approved airport layout plan (ALP). These improvements may result in increased
aircraft operations, operations by larger aircraft, and increased nighttime
operations which could increase the noise levels within the vicinity of the
airport.
   d.   Disclosure of airport impacts.
      Due to the proximity of the parcel to the City of Rigby Municipal Airport
and the airport's transition area; owner(s)/buyer(s) should expect frequent
overflight and varying degrees of noise and other impacts from these overflying
aircraft, which some persons may find intrusive. Further, owner(s)/buyer(s)
should expect varying degrees of vibration, fumes, dust, fuel, fuel particles,
or other effects that may be caused by the operation of aircraft landing at,
taking off from, or operating on or at public airport facilities.
CERTIFICATION
This undersigned owner(s)/purchaser(s) of said parcel of land certify(ies) that
(he/she/they) (has/have) read the above disclosure statement and acknowledge(s)
the pre or planned existence of the airport named above and the noise and other
exposure due to the operation of said airport.
 

(SIGNED)

Date
 
(Ord. No. 2016-06, § 3-7-9, 2-27-2017)
Sec. 102-28. Permits.
(a)   Existing uses. No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an airport hazard, or that would allow a
nonconforming use, structure, or tree to be made higher or to become higher, or
become a greater hazard to aerial navigation, than it was on January 1, 2016.
(b)   Future uses.
   (1)   Except as specifically provided in this subsection (b), no material
change shall be made in the use of land and no structure or tree shall be
erected, altered, planted or otherwise established in any zone hereby created
unless a permit for such tree or structure has been applied for and granted.
Each application for such permit shall indicate the purpose for which the
structure or tree is desired, with sufficient particularity to allow
determination as to whether the resulting use, structure or tree would conform
to the regulations contained in this article. If such determination indicates
conformity with this article, the permit shall be granted.
   (2)   Permit application shall be made via the county planning and zoning
office. The City of Rigby airport board will be given the chance to give input
or recommendation regarding permit application.
   (3)   In the area lying within the limits of the horizontal zone and the
conical zone, airport concurrence is not required for any tree or structure
whose highest point is less than 75 feet in vertical height above airport
elevation, unless any point of such structure would extend above the height
limits prescribed for such zone.
   (4)   In the area lying within the limits of the transition zone beyond the
perimeter of the horizontal zone, airport concurrence is not required for any
tree or structure whose highest point is less than 75 feet of vertical height
above airport elevation, unless any point of such structure would extend above
the height limits prescribed for such zone.
   (5)   No part of the subsection (b) shall be construed as permitting or
intending to permit any construction, alteration, or growth of any structure or
tree in excess of any of the height limits established in this article except
as set forth in section
102-24.
(c)   Nonconforming uses abandoned or destroyed.
   (1)   Whenever the county planning and zoning commission determines, and
with notification to the City of Rigby airport board, that a nonconforming
structure or tree has been abandoned or more than 80 percent torn down,
deteriorated or decayed, no permit shall be granted that would allow such
structure or tree to exceed the applicable height limits or otherwise deviate
from this article.
   (2)   Variances permissible under this subsection (c) may be allowed where
literal application or enforcement of this article would result in practical
difficulty or unnecessary hardship, and where the relief granted by variance
will not be contrary to the public interest, or will not create undue hazard to
aerial navigation.
   (3)   Variances may be allowed subject to such reasonable conditions as the
county planning and zoning commission and the City of Rigby airport board may
deem necessary to effect the intent of this article, including, but not limited
to, the condition that the owner of such structure or tree install, operate and
maintain at owner's expense such markers and lights as may be necessary to
indicate to aviators the presence of a flight hazard.
(Ord. No. 2016-06, § 3-7-10, 2-27-2017)
Sec. 102-29. Enforcement.
(a)   The county planning and zoning administrator shall enforce and regulate
the prescribed regulations and provision of this article in consultation with
the input of the City of Rigby airport board, acting for and on behalf of the
City of Rigby, mayor and city council.
(b)   Application for permits and variances within and outside of the actual
airport boundaries shall be made to the county planning and zoning office.
(Ord. No. 2016-06, § 3-7-11, 2-27-2017)
Sec. 102-30. Appeals.
(a)   Any party aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision enacted
under this article may appeal such decision to the county commissioners.
(b)   The City of Rigby airport board reserves the right to provide input to
the county planning and zoning commission regarding decisions in such appeals,
including right of appearance and testimony at any meeting or hearing regarding
such appeal.
(Ord. No. 2016-06, § 3-7-12, 2-27-2017)
Sec. 102-31. Penalties.
(a)   The county shall consider any violation of this article, and shall render
a decision on such matter. An appeal may be made before the county
commissioners as to the decision of the planning and zoning commission.
(b)   Any violation of this article outside of airport property shall be
considered a violation of county planning and zoning rules and regulations, and
may be punished or corrected by such mechanisms as are provided in the county
ordinances regarding planning and zoning violations.
(c)   Notwithstanding other provisions of this article, nothing in this article
supersedes the state, department of transportation, division of aeronautics
and/or FAA rules and regulations, regarding the height of any tree and/or
structure as noted in section
102-23 zones.
(Ord. No. 2016-06, § 3-7-13, 2-27-2017)
Sec. 102-32. Conflicting regulation.
Where there arises a conflict between any of the regulations or limitations
prescribed in this article and any other regulations of laws, including the
City of Rigby, the county, or federal government (FAA) laws and regulations,
applicable to the same area, whether the conflict is with respect to height of
structure or tree, or the use of land, or any other matter, the most stringent
limitation or requirement shall govern and prevail.
(Ord. No. 2016-06, § 3-7-14, 2-27-2017)
Sec. 102-33. Maps.
Official map drawings of the City of Rigby Airport are attached to Ordinance
No. 2016-06 and made a part of this article. These drawings will give location
of each zone described on section
102-23.
   (1)   Map of airport layout.
   (2)   Map of zones.
(Ord. No. 2016-06, § 3-7-16, 2-27-2017)
Chapter 104
BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 104-1. Agricultural building exemption from building codes and impact
fees.
(a)   This section has been written pursuant to Idaho Code, §§ 39-4116(5) and
63-604. The purpose of this section is to relieve farmers In Jefferson County
of meeting adopted building requirements. For purposes of this section, the
term "agricultural building" means a structure designed and constructed to
house farm implements, hay, grain, poultry, livestock, or other horticultural
products, including, but not limited to, the following:
   (1)   Livestock shelters or buildings, including shade structures and
milking barns for personal consumption.
   (2)   Poultry buildings or shelters.
   (3)   Barns, storage of equipment and machinery used exclusively in
agriculture.
   (4)   Horticultural structures, including detached production greenhouses
and crop production shelters.
   (5)   Sheds.
   (6)   Grain silos.
   (7)   Stables (Not used to board outside animals for a profit).
The above structures shall not be used for a place of human habitation or a
place of employment where agricultural products are processed, treated or
packaged, nor shall it be a place used by the public.
(b)   The parcel upon which the exemption is sought must be an agricultural
unit of land of five acres or more. Aggregation of acreage may be allowed
(several things grouped together or considered a whole).
(c)   The agriculturally exempt structure must be utilized for a qualified
agricultural use and shall not be converted to any alternate uses unless a
conversion permit is issued and the structure is brought into compliance with
the current building code before an occupancy permit could be issued. The
structure shall not be rented out or used for commercial purposes
(d)   No RVs (Boats, campers, motor homes, etc.) will be stored in the
structure.
(e)   The structure will require a zoning permit and must comply with all
required setbacks. The structure shall receive a layout inspection and a final
inspection to verify setbacks and completion of the project.
(f)   An agricultural structure shall be allowed in Residential-5 (R-5) and all
agricultural zones unless the agricultural use is established October 25, 2010.
(g)   The structure must be physically located on the agriculturally used
property.
(h)   Ag exempt structures may be exempt from adopted building standards;
however, they shall be constructed with viable building materials.
(i)   All agriculturally exempt structures shall also be exempt from impact
fees.
(j)   The cost of an agricultural exempt/zoning permit shall be no more than
$250.00 total.
(k)   The owner shall sign a statement acknowledging the above requirements,
agreeing that the structure will remain in compliance with the same. If the
agricultural exempt property is being leased or rented an affidavit from the
property owner shall be turned into the planning and zoning office before an ag
exempt application will be accepted.
(l)   Any person in violation of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. No. 10-03, §§ 1-13, 10-25-2010; altered in 2020 codification)
Sec. 104-2. Building permit prerequisite to electrical power connection.
(a)   It shall be unlawful for any individual, person, corporation, or other
entity to request or demand from any utility, private, or public, the
connection of power to any structure, house, building, installation, including
mobile homes, for which a building permit is required by the ordinances of the
county, without first displaying to said utility or other company a valid
building permit issued by the county.
(b)   Any utility whether public or private shall be required to notify the
county zoning office responsible for the issuance of said building permits when
any individual, person, corporation, or other entity fails to display such
permit or is not in compliance with the terms of this chapter.
(c)   It shall be a misdemeanor to violate this section. It shall be a
misdemeanor to mislead the utility or other company by showing a permit which
is not duly and regularly issued, or which does not cover the structure or
installation for which power is sought, or to represent falsely that no such
permit is required by the ordinances of the county.
(Ord. No. 30(1), 2-14-1983)
Secs. 104-3-104-22. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. BUILDING CODES
Sec. 104-23. Adoption of the 2018 International Building Codes.
That certain documents, two copies of which are on file and are open for
inspection to the public, one in the office of the county clerk of and one in
the office of the county building official, being marked and designated as the
following:
The 2018 edition of the International Building Code, promulgated by the
International Code Council, and amendments adopted herewith together with
standards incorporated into the International Building Code by reference,
including but not limited to the 2018 edition of the International Residential
Code promulgated by the International Code Council save and except such
portions of the above mentioned codes as a deleted, modified, or amended by
provisions of this article; shall be and the same are hereby adopted as the
Code of Jefferson County for regulating the erection, construction,
enlargement, alteration, repair, moving, removal, demolition, conversion,
occupancy, equipment, use, height, area, and maintenance of all buildings or
structures in Jefferson County; for issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefore; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions, and
terms of such International Building Code, 2018 edition published by the
International Code Council, and the secondary publications referenced above,
all of which are on file in the office of the county clerk or building official
are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set out in
this article.
(Ord. No. 2022-12, § 1, 10-3-2022)
Sec. 104-24. Deletions, modifications or amendments.
(a)   2018 International Building Code.
   (1)   Deletions.
      a.   Sections 101.4.1 gas, 101.4.2 mechanical, and 101.4.3 plumbing shall
be deleted, thus solely regulated under the state division of building safety.
      b.   Section 109.3 shall be deleted.
      c.   Appendices A,F,K,L,M, and N of the 2018 IBC edition, are hereby
deleted.
   (2)   Modifications or amendments.
      a.   Section 1403.2 water-resistive barriers shall be amended as to leave
installation at the sole discretion of the builder and such installation will
not be enforced by the county building department.
(b)   2018 International Residential Code.
   (1)   Deletions.
      a.   All electrical, plumbing, and HVAC requirements of chapters 12
through 41 shall be deleted, thus solely regulated under the state division of
building safety.
      b.   Appendices A,B,C,D,F,G,H,I,K,N,O, and P of the 2018 IRC edition, are
hereby deleted.
      c.   Section R3l3 is hereby deleted as per state revisions.
   (2)   Modifications or amendments.
      a.   Table 301.2(1) shall be amended to read as follows:
         Live Snow Load =35 PSF, ground snow load =45 PSF, wind speed - 90 MPH,
seismic design category - D-1, weathering - severe, frost line depth - 30",
termite - slight/moderate, winter design temp - -4 degrees, flood hazards -
FIRM.
         Jefferson County has a maximum building height restriction. See
chapter 112 Zoning.
(Ord. No. 2022-12, § 2, 10-3-2022)
Sec. 104-25. Installation of manufactured homes.
Manufactured homes as defined by Idaho state law and inspected by the
department of housing and urban development, shall not be subject to the
enforcement provisions of the aforesaid Uniform Building Code, but shall be
regulated and inspected as prescribed in Idaho Code, title 44, chapter 22. The
owner, or an agent of the owner, must apply for and receive, a Jefferson County
building permit prior to placing any manufactured home on their property. No
structural modifications may be made to any manufactured home unless a written
site-specific structural analysis from a State of Idaho certified engineer or
architect has been approved, verifying the modifications compatibility with the
manufactured home. All additions or alterations to any manufactured home must
comply with all building code requirements. The building official or appointed
representative is hereby authorized to permit, inspect and collect fees as
established by the governing body, for manufactured homes placed in Jefferson
County. Mobile or manufactured homes not bearing a HUD certificate label shall
not be allowed except as provided for by Idaho Code, title 44 chapter 25.
(Ord. No. 2022-12, § 3, 10-3-2022)
Sec. 104-26. Exemptions.
Agricultural buildings are exempt from building codes adopted herein when
county planning, zoning, and building department have verified that such
structure qualifies for the agriculture exemption under state law, but shall
remain subject to placement requirements established by county zoning
regulations.
(Ord. No. 2022-12, § 4, 10-3-2022)
Sec. 104-27. General.
Fees shall be assessed in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (1)   Permit fees. The determination of value or valuation under any of the
provisions of this Code shall be made by the building official. The value(s) to
be used in calculating the valuation of the building permit is listed in the
section
104-30 Valuation Table. The valuation will be applied to the county building
permit fee schedule.
   (2)   Plan review fees. Building plans are required by the building
official. A plan review fee shall be paid at the time the building permit
application is submitted.
The plan review fees specified in this section are separate fees from the
permit fees and are in addition to the permit fees.
When submittal documents are incomplete or changed, requiring additional plan
review, or when the project involves deferred submittal items, an additional
plan review fee shall be charged at the rate shown in the county building
permit fee schedule.
   (3)   Expiration of plan review. Applications for which no permit is issued
within 180 days following the date of the application shall expire by
limitation, and plans and other data submitted for review may thereafter be
destroyed by the building official. The building official may extend the time
for action by the applicant for a period not exceeding 180 days upon
application by the applicant showing that circumstances beyond the control of
the applicant have prevented action from being taken. In order to renew action
on an application after expiration, the applicant shall resubmit plans and pay
a new plan review fee.
   (4)   GIS/addressing review fee. A GIS/addressing review fee is required by
the building permit fee schedule. The GIS/addressing review fee shall be paid
at the time the building permit application is submitted.
   (5)   Investigation fees. Work without a permit.
   (6)   Whenever any work for which a permit is required by this Code has been
commenced without first obtaining said permit, a special investigation shall be
made before a permit may be issued for such work.
   (7)   An investigation fee, in addition to the permit fee, shall be
collected whether or not a permit is then or subsequently issued. The
investigation fee is contained in the building permit official fee schedule.
The payment of such investigation fee shall not exempt any person from
compliance with all other provisions of this Code nor from any penalty
prescribed by law.
   (8)   Technology fee. A technology fee is required by the building permit
fee schedule. The technology fee shall be paid at the time the building permit
application is submitted.
(Ord. No. 2022-12, § 5, 10-3-2022)
Sec. 104-28. Building board of appeals.
The board of county commissioners hereby establishes the building board of
appeals, to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions or determinations made
by the county building official.
Members of the building board of appeals shall serve without salary or wage.
   (1)   Membership.
       a.   The building board of appeals shall consist of five members
appointed by the board of county commissioners for a term of four years.
      b.   The board of county commissioners shall appoint two alternate
members who shall be called upon by the building board of appeals chairperson
to hear appeals during the absence of or disqualification of a member.
Alternate members shall possess the qualifications required for building board
of appeals membership and shall be appointed for a term of four years.
      c.   The qualifications of members shall be as follows:
         1.   Three of the members shall be registered design professionals
with civil engineering, structural engineering, mechanical engineering,
geotechnical engineering or architectural experience; provided, however, that
no more than two members will be chosen from the same profession.
         2.   One member shall be a general contractor with at least five
years' experience, three years of which shall have been in responsible charge
of work.
         3.   One member of the building board of appeals shall have one of the
following qualifications: studying for a degree in construction management plus
two years practical construction experience; passed the fundamentals of
engineering (FE) examination in civil or mechanical engineering plus two years
practical civil, structural, geotechnical, or mechanical engineering
experience; or possess an architectural associate (AA) degree plus two years
practical architectural experience.
         4.   All subsequent vacancies will be filled by appointments for the
remainder of the terms.
         5.   A member must reside in Jefferson County during the entire term.
         6.   Members shall relinquish all voting rights upon the expiration of
their terms unless reappointed by the board.
         7.   The building official shall be a nonvoting, ex officio member and
act as secretary of the building board of appeals.
   (2)   Continuation of existing membership. The membership of the building
board of appeals shall continue to be those members in office immediately
preceding the enactment of this chapter. The terms of such members shall
continue until their previously designated time. The enactment of this chapter
shall have no effect on the business or membership of the building board of
appeals.
   (3)   Disqualification. Members may be recommended for removal to the board
of county commissioners by a majority vote of the building board of appeals.
Cause may include, but is not limited to:
      a.   Excessive conflicts of interest or continued conflicts of interest
which interfere with the member's ability to perform his duties as interpreted
by the board of county commissioners.
      b.   False or misrepresenting statements by a member at the time of
application and appointment.
      c.   In the event that a member of the building board of appeals does not
attend three consecutive meetings, that person must submit an explanation of
the absences to both the building board of appeals and the board of county
commissioners. The building board of appeals or the board of county
commissioners, upon examination of the explanation, may require the immediate
resignation of that member for a high or inexcusable absentee rate.
   (4)   Procedures.
       a.   Application for appeal. Appeals of an order, decision or
determination made by the county building official shall be filed with the
building official of the planning and zoning and building department within 15
days after the date of the order, decision or determination of the county
building official, or it shall not be accepted. An application and fees, shall
be submitted to the building official on forms provided by the county planning,
zoning and building department.
      b.   Hearings. Hearings before the building board of appeals shall be
public and shall be conducted in accordance with the requirements set forth in
chapter 112-28 of this Code.
      c.   Findings. The building board of appeals shall make findings of fact
and conclusions of law in writing, stating the decision and the reasons for the
decision. The building board of appeals shall sign and render all decisions and
findings in writing to the appropriate enforcement official and agency, the
appellant, and the building official within 15 days of the hearing.
      d.   Rules of order. The building board of appeals shall adopt rules of
order that are consistent with the laws of the State of Idaho and this Code.
The building board of appeals shall file its rules with the county clerk and
the board of county commissioners.
      e.   Minutes. The building board of appeals shall keep minutes of its
proceedings and keep a record of its examinations, findings, decisions and all
other official actions.
      f.   Quorum. A simple majority of the voting members shall be necessary
to constitute a quorum. The concurring vote of a majority of a quorum present
shall be necessary in order to make a decision on any issue before the building
board of appeals.
(Ord. No. 2022-12, § 6, 10-3-2022)
Sec. 104-29. Penalties.
Any permit applicant or contractor who is not in compliance with the county
building regulations, flood plain regulations, and other ordinances enforced by
the county planning, zoning and building department shall not be issued any
permits or certificates until the violations are corrected.
Violation of the provisions of this article shall constitute a misdemeanor as
defined by Idaho Code, § 18-113, as amended from time to time by the state
legislature. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense.
Any permit holder or contractor who occupies or allows occupancy of the
permitted structure before the final inspection has passed and certificate of
occupancy issued, shall be subject to a fine in accordance with the fee
schedule.
(Ord. No. 2022-12, § 7, 10-3-2022)
Sec. 104-30. Adopting 2018 Building Code Valuation Table.
Valuation Table
Structure Type
Additional Living Space           $92.10
Attached garage finished          52.48
Attached garage unfinished        33.25
Carport                           23.60
Closed Shop Finished              52.48
Closed Shop Unfinished            33.25
Cold Storage                      48.98
Commercial                        157.30
Commercial Addition               157.30
Commercial Office Space           157.30
Commercial Remodel                78.65
Commercial Storage                39.33
Corridor Commercial               157.30
Crawlspace Foundation             7.87
Fence                             17.30
Finish Basement Decided During    28.31
Construction
Finished Basement after CO Issued 28.31
Finished Basement at Construction 77.30
Finished Bonus Room               92.10
In Ground Pool                    Building Official will review Valuation
                                  from Contractor
Living Space                      92.10
Loafing Shed                      23.60
Low Hazard Storage                55.06
Modular Home Living Space         92.10
Multi-Family Dwelling             117.98
Patio (need to add /Deck)         33.25
Pole Barn Finished                44.67
Pole Barn Unfinished              28.31
Pre-Built Shed                    23.60
Residential Remodel               46.48
Signs                             Building Official will review Valuation
                                  from Contractor
Solar                             Building Official will review Valuation
                                  from Contractor
Tower                             Building Official will review Valuation
                                  from Contractor
Unfinished Basement               48.98
Wind Generator                    Building Official will review Valuation
                                  from Contractor
 
(Ord. No. 2022-12, Att., 10-3-2022)
Chapter 106
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Sec. 106-1. Statutory authorization, findings of fact, purpose, and objectives.
(a)   Statutory authority. The legislature of the state, in Idaho Code, §§ 46-
1020—46-1024, authorized local government units to adopt a floodplain map and
floodplain management ordinance that identifies floodplains and that sets forth
minimum development requirements in floodplains that are designed to promote
the public health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the
board of county commissioners does hereby order as follows:
(b)   Findings of fact.
   (1)   The flood hazard areas of the county are subject to periodic
inundation that result in the loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood relief and protection, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (2)   These flood losses are caused by structures in flood hazard areas,
which are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or otherwise unprotected from
flood damages, and by the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains
causing increases in flood heights and velocities.
   (3)   Local government units have the primary responsibility for planning,
adoption and enforcement of land use regulations to accomplish proper
floodplain management.
(c)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote public
health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private losses
due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (1)   Protect human life, health and property;
   (2)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
purification and sewage treatment plants, water and gas mains, electric,
telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in floodplains;
   (3)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of floodprone areas;
   (4)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (5)   Minimize the need for rescue and emergency services associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (6)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (7)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an area
of special flood hazard; and
   (8)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions.
(d)   Objectives and methods of reducing flood losses. In order to accomplish
its purpose, this chapter includes methods and provisions to:
   (1)   Require that development that is vulnerable to floods, including
structures and facilities necessary for the general health, safety and welfare
of citizens, to be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction.
   (2)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or which increase flood heights,
velocities, or erosion;
   (3)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage or erosion;
   (4)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or that may increase flood hazards to other
lands;
   (5)   Preserve and restore natural floodplains, stream channels, and natural
protective barriers which carry and store floodwaters.
(Ord. No. 16-03, § 1, 1-25-2016)
Sec. 106-2. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   Accessory structure means a structure on the same lot or parcel as a
principal structure, the use of which is incidental and subordinate to the
principal structure. An insurable building should not be classified as an
accessory or appurtenant structure.
   Appeal means a request for review of the floodplain administrator's
interpretation of provisions of this chapter or request for a variance.
   Area of shallow flooding means a designated AO or AH Zone on a community's
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet,
and/or where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of
flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be
evident.
   Area of special flood hazard means the land in the floodplain within a
community subject to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given
year. Zone designation on FIRMs include the letters A, AE, V. Also known as the
special flood hazard areas (SFHA).
   Base flood means the flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded each year, known as the regulatory flood.
   Base flood elevation (BFE) means the computed elevation to which floodwater
is anticipated to rise during the base flood. The base flood elevation (BFE) is
depicted on the FIRM to the nearest foot and in the FIS to the nearest 0.1
foot.
   Basement means any area of the building having its floor sub grade (below
ground level) on all sides. This means that if the floor is 12 inches below
grade on all sides, seven feet on all sides, or seven feet on three sides and
12 inches on the fourth side, it is a basement. If the area is at or above
grade on any side, that area is not a basement. Some people are surprised to
learn their "walk-out basement" isn't classified as a basement. The lowest
floor of a residential building including basement must be above the base flood
elevation (BFE). Basements below the BFE are only allowed in communities that
have obtained a basement exception from FEMA. Floodproofed nonresidential
basements are allowed.
   Building. See Structure.
   Conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) means FEMA's comment on a
proposed project that would, upon construction, affect the hydrologic or
hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and thus result in the
modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the effective base flood
elevations (BFEs), or the special flood hazard area (SFHA). The letter does not
revise an effective NFIP map, it indicates whether the project, if built as
proposed, would be recognized by FEMA. FEMA charges a fee for processing a
CLOMR. Building permits cannot be issued based on a CLOMR, because a CLOMR does
not change the NFIP map.
   Crawlspace means an area of limited height under a floor. The height of the
below-grade crawlspace, measured from the interior grade of the crawlspace to
the top of the crawlspace foundation wall, must not exceed four feet at any
point. The height limitation is the maximum allowable unsupported wall height
according to the engineering analyses and building code requirements for flood
hazard areas. This limitation will also prevent these crawlspaces from being
converted into habitable spaces.
   Critical facility means a facility that is critical for the health and
welfare of the population and is especially important following hazard events.
Critical facilities include, but are not limited to, hospitals, fire stations,
police stations, storage of critical records, schools, nursing homes,
transportation systems, and hazardous material facilities. If at all possible,
critical facilities should not be located in a floodplain.
   Datum means the vertical datum is a base measurement point (or set of
points) from which all elevations are determined. Historically, that common set
of points has been the National Geodetic Vertical datum of 1927 (NGVD29). The
vertical datum currently adopted by the federal government as a basis for
measuring heights is the North American Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD88).
   Development means any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, the construction of buildings, structures or
accessory structures, the placement of a mobile, modular, or manufactured
homes; mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling
operations; and storage of equipment, material or the deposition or extraction
of materials, specifically the construction of dikes, berms, and levees. The
term "development" does not include the cleaning, maintenance or repair of any
ditch, canal, lateral, drain, diversion structure or other irrigation or
drainage works that is performed or authorized by the owner thereof pursuant to
lawful rights and obligations.
   Digital FIRM (DFIRM). The digital flood insurance rate map is a digital
version of FEMA's flood insurance rate map (FIRM) that is used to help
determine the flood zone, base flood elevation and or floodway status for a
particular location.
   Elevated building means, for insurance purposes, a non-basement building
that has its lowest elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation
walls, shear walls, posts, piers, pilings, or columns.
   Elevation certificate means an official form used to track development,
provide elevation information necessary to ensure compliance with community
floodplain management ordinances, and determine the proper insurance premium
rate.
   Existing construction/structures mean development (see definition of the
term "development" in this section) for which the start of construction
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975.
   Existing manufactured home park or subdivision means a manufactured home
park or subdivision where construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum,
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and final site grading
or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date of
February 9, 1976.
   Expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision means the
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and final site grading
or the pouring of concrete pads).
   Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) means the agency with the overall
responsibility for administering the National Flood Insurance Program.
   Flood or flooding means a general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters;
   (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source;
   (3)   Mudflow; or
   (4)   Collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or similar
body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents
of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels that result in a flood as
defined above.
   Note: The National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) claims process requires
that two acres of the insured property or two or more properties (parcels of
land or lots), one of which may be a public roadway, must be inundated for
coverage.
   Flood fringe means the portion of the floodplain outside of the floodway
covered by the floodwaters during the regulatory flood.
   Flood hazard boundary map (FHBM) means an official map of a community,
issued by the Federal Insurance Administration or U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development where the boundaries of areas of special flood hazard
have been designated as Zone A. The FHBM usually is the initial flood hazard
map.
   Flood insurance rate map (FIRM) means an official map of a community, issued
by the Federal Insurance Administration, delineating the areas of special flood
hazard and risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   Flood insurance study (FIS) means a compilation and presentation of flood
risk data for specific watercourses, lakes, and coastal flood hazard areas
within a community. The FIS report contains detailed flood elevation data in
flood profiles and data tables.
   Flood protection elevation (FPE) means, as defined in Idaho Code, § 46-1021
(7), an elevation that shall correspond to the elevation of the one percent
chance annual flood (base flood elevation or BFE), plus any increased flood
elevation due to floodway encroachment, plus any required freeboard. The flood
protection elevation for the county is equal to BFE plus one feet of freeboard;
the freeboard accounts for any flood elevation increases due to floodway
encroachment as shown in the community's flood insurance study (FIS).
   Floodplain means the land that has been or may be covered by floodwaters, or
is surrounded by floodwater and inaccessible, during the occurrence of the
regulatory flood. The riverine floodplain includes the floodway and the flood
fringe.
   Floodplain management means the operation of an overall program of
corrective and preventive measures for reducing flood damage.
   Floodproofing means any combination of structural and nonstructural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate
flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary
facilities, structures and their contents.
   Floodway. See Regulatory floodway.
   Freeboard means a factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood
level for the purposes of floodplain management. Freeboard tends to compensate
for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater
than the height calculated for a selected size of flood and floodway
conditions, such as wave action, obstructed bridge openings, debris and ice
jams and the hydrologic effects of urbanization in a watershed.
   Functionally dependent use means a facility that cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to
water, such as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and
unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair facilities. The
term "functionally dependent use" does not include long-term storage,
manufacture, sales or service facilities.
   Highest adjacent grade (HAG) means the highest natural elevation of the
ground surfaces prior to construction, adjacent to the proposed walls of a
structure. Refer to the FEMA elevation certificate for HAG related to building
elevation information.
   Historic structure means a structure that is:
   (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing of maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register.
   (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or to a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify
as a registered historic district.
   (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places and
determined as eligible by states with historic preservation programs which have
been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or
   (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places and
determined as eligible by communities with historic preservation programs that
have been certified either:
      a.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior; or
      b.   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved
programs.
   Letter of map change (LOMC) means a general term used to refer to the
several types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished
by letter. They include: letter of map amendment (LOMA), letter of map revision
(LOMR), and letter of map revision based on fill (LOMR-F).
   (1)   Letter of map amendment (LOMA) means an official amendment, by letter,
to an effective National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) map. A LOMA establishes
a property's location in relation to the special flood hazard area (SFHA).
LOMAs are usually issued because a property has been inadvertently mapped as
being in the floodplain, but is actually on natural high ground above the base
flood elevation.
   (2)   Letter of map revision (LOMR) means FEMA's modification to an
effective flood insurance rate map (FIRM), or flood boundary and floodway map
(FBFM) or both, LOMRs are generally based on the implementation of physical
measures that affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding
source and thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway,
the effective base flood elevations (BFEs), or the special flood hazard areas
(SFHA). The LOMR officially revises the flood insurance rate map (FIRM) or
flood boundary and floodway map (FBFM), and sometimes the flood insurance study
(FIS) report, and when appropriate includes a description of the modifications.
The LOMR is generally accompanied by an annotated copy of the affected portions
of the FIRM, FBFM, or FIS report.
   (3)   Letter of map revision based on fill (LOMR-F) means FEMA's
modification of the special flood hazard area (SFHA) shown on the flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) based on the placement of fill outside the existing
regulatory floodway. The LOMR-F does not change the FIRM, FBFM, or FIS report.
   Levee means a manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed according to sound engineering practices, to contain, control, or
divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary flooding.
   Levee system means a flood protection system that consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   Lowest adjacent grade (LAG) means the lowest point of the ground level next
to the structure. Refer to the FEMA elevation certificate for LAG related to
building elevation information.
   Lowest floor means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area used for
living purposes, which includes working, storage, cooking, and eating, or
recreation, or any combination thereof. This includes any floor that could be
converted to such a use including a basement or crawl space. An unfinished or
flood resistant enclosure, used solely for parking of vehicles, building
access, or storage, in an area other than a basement, is not considered a
structure's lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is not built so as to
render the structure in violation of the applicable non-elevation design
requirements section 60.3 of NFIP regulations. The lowest floor is a
determinate for the flood insurance premium for a building, home or business.
   Manufactured home means a structure, transportable in one or more sections,
built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a recreational vehicle.
   Mean sea level means, for purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program,
the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum (such as
NAVD88, North America Vertical Datum of 1988), to which base flood elevations
shown on a community's FIRM are referenced.
   New construction means structures for which the start of construction
commenced on or after the effective start date of this floodplain management
chapter and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. Any
construction started after February 9, 1978, and before the effective start
date of this floodplain management chapter is subject to the ordinance in
effect at the time the permit was issued, provided the start of construction
was within 180 days of permit issuance.
   New manufactured home park or subdivision means a place where the
construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured
homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and final site grading or pouring of
concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective date of February 9, 1978
(adoption of floodplain management regulations by the county).
   Recreational vehicle (RV) means a vehicle that is:
   (1)   Built on a single chassis;
   (2)   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projection;
   (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towed by a light duty
truck; and
   (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   Regulatory floodway means the channel of a river or other watercourse and
the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designed height.
   Repetitive loss structure means an NFIP-insured structure that has had it
least two paid flood losses of more than $1,000.00 each year in any ten-year
period since 1978.
   Start of construction means and includes substantial improvement and means
the date the development permit was issued, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the
permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not the alteration affects the external dimensions of a building.
   Structure means a walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid
storage tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   Substantial damage means damage of any origin sustained by a structure
whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition
would equal or exceed 50 percent of its market value before the damage
occurred.
   Substantial improvement.
   (1)   The term "substantial improvement" means reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of
which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure before
the start of construction of the improvement. This term includes structures
which have incurred substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work
performed. The market should be:
   a.   The appraised value of the structure prior to the start of the initial
repair or improvement; or
   b.   In the case of damage, the appraised value of the structure prior to
the damage occurring. This term includes structures which have incurred
substantial damage, regardless of the actual amount of repair work performed.
   (2)   The term "substantial improvement" does not include either:
      a.   A project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety codes specifications,
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to ensure safe living conditions; or
      b.   Alteration of a historic structure, provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic
structure.
   Variance means a grant of relief by the governing body from a requirement of
this chapter.
   Violation means the failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required by the community's floodplain management
ordinance is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation
is provided.
   Water surface elevation means the height, in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other specific datum) of floods of various
magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of costal or riverine areas.
(Ord. No. 16-03, § 2, 1-25-2016)
Sec. 106-3. General provisions.
(a)   Lands to which this chapter applies. This chapter shall apply to all
special flood hazard areas within the jurisdiction of the county. Nothing in
this chapter is intended to allow uses or structures that are otherwise
prohibited by the zoning ordinance.
(b)   Basis for area of special flood hazard. The special flood hazard areas
identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in its flood
insurance study (FIS) for the county, dated September 26, 2008, with
accompanying digital flood insurance rate maps (DFIRM), and other supporting
data, are adopted by reference and declared a part of this chapter. The FIS and
the FIRM are on file at the office of the county.
(c)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
   (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the board of county commissioners; and
   (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(d)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and
will occur. Flood heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This
chapter does not imply that land outside the special flood hazard areas or
natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land outside the special flood
hazard areas or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or
flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the
county or by any officer or employee thereof for flood damages that result from
reliance on this chapter or an administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. No. 16-03, § 3, 1-25-2016)
Sec. 106-4. Administration.
(a)   Designation of floodplain administrator. The planning and zoning
administrator is hereby appointed as the floodplain administrator and is
responsible for administering and implementing the provisions of this chapter.
(b)   Duties and responsibilities of the administrator. Duties of the
floodplain administrator shall include, but shall not be limited to:
   (1)   Review all floodplain development permit applications to ensure that
the permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
   (2)   Before issuing a floodplain development permit, review proposed
development to ensure that all necessary permits have been received from
governmental agencies from which approval is required by federal or state law,
including section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of
1972, 33 USC 1344; the Endangered Species Act of 1973, 16 USC 1531-1544; and
State of Idaho Stream Channel Alteration permits, Idaho Code, title 42, chapter
38 require that copies of such permits be provided and maintained on file.
   (3)   When base flood elevation data or floodway data are not available,
then the floodplain administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize
base flood elevation and floodway data available from the federal, state or
other source in order to administer this chapter.
   (4)   When base flood elevations or other current engineering data are not
available, the floodplain administrator shall take into account the flood
hazards, to the extent they are known to determine whether a proposed building
site will be reasonably safe from flooding.
   (5)   Obtain and record the actual elevation in relation to the vertical
datum on the effective FIRM, or highest adjacent grade:
      a.   Where base flood elevation data is provided through the flood
insurance study, FIRM, or as required as in subsection (b)(3) and (b)(4) of
this section, obtain and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all substantially improved
structures and new construction, and whether or not the structure contains a
basement; or
      b.   For all new substantially improved floodproofed structures where
base flood elevation data is provided through the flood insurance study, FIRM,
or as required in subsection (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this section.
         1.   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level); and
         2.   Maintain the required floodproofing certifications.
   (6)   When floodproofing is utilized for a structure, the floodplain
administrator shall obtain certification of design criteria from a registered
professional engineer or architect.
   (7)   Where interpretation is needed of the exact location of boundaries of
the areas of special flood hazard including regulatory floodway (for example,
where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions) the floodplain administrator shall make the interpretation. Any
person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in this chapter.
   (8)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall be
maintained in the office of the county clerk or his designee and shall be open
for public inspection.
(c)   Establishment of floodplain development permit. A floodplain development
permit shall be required prior to development activities in special flood
hazard areas established in section
106-3(b).
(d)   Permit procedures. Application for a floodplain development permit shall
be made to the floodplain administrator on forms furnished by the administrator
or the administrator's designee prior to starting development activities.
Specifically, the following information is required:
   (1)   Application stage.
      a.   Plans in duplicate drawn to scale with elevations of the project
area and the nature, location, dimensions of existing and proposed structures,
earthen fill placement, storage of materials or equipment and drainage
facilities.
      b.   Existing and proposed elevation in relation to the vertical datum on
the effective FIRM, including highest adjacent grade, lowest adjacent grade,
lowest floor level, including crawlspaces or basement of all proposed
structures, and the flood protection elevation;
      c.   Elevation to which any nonresidential structure will be
floodproofed;
      d.   Design certification from a registered professional engineer or
architect that any proposed nonresidential floodproofed structure will meet the
floodproofing criteria in section
106-5(f)(2);
      e.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
      f.   If the community does not have the expertise to evaluate the
technical data that is part of the application, the community may contract for
an independent engineering review or require a review by FEMA through the CLOMR
process. The applicant shall pay the cost of an independent technical review.
   (2)   Construction stage.
      a.   For all new construction and substantial improvements, the permit
holder shall provide to the floodplain administrator an as-built certification
of the floor elevation or floodproofing level, using appropriate FEMA elevation
or floodproofing certificate, immediately after the lowest floor or
floodproofing is completed. When floodproofing is utilized for nonresidential
structures the certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a licensed surveyor, professional engineer or architect and
certified by same.
      b.   Certificate deficiencies identified by the floodplain administrator
shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to work
proceeding. Failure to submit certification or failure to make the corrections
shall be cause for the floodplain administrator to issue a stop-work order for
the project.
   (3)   Post-construction stage.
      a.   For all new construction and substantial improvements, the permit
holder shall provide to the floodplain administrator an as-built certification
of the floor elevation or floodproofing level, using appropriate FEMA elevation
and/or floodproofing certificate, immediately after the lowest floor or
floodproofing certificate, immediately after the lowest floor or floodproofing
is completed.
         1.   Elevation certificate (OMB No. 1600-0008 or revised version) with
sections A-F completed, (C1-building elevations should be based on finished
construction).
         2.   Floodproofing certificate completed. (Elevations should be based
on finished construction). In addition to floodproofing certificates the
following shall be provided and maintained:
            (i)   Emergency operations plan; and
            (ii)   Inspection and maintenance plan (as stated in TB3).
      b.   Deficiencies identified by the flood administrator through the
certification shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately. Failure to
submit certification or failure to make the corrections shall be cause for the
floodplain administrator to issue a stop-work order for the project,
certificate of occupancy to be withheld, or other remedies found in chapter 1.
   (4)   Expiration of floodplain development permit. All floodplain
development permits shall be conditional upon the start of construction of work
within 180 days. A floodplain development permit shall expire 180 days after
issuance unless the permitted activity has begun as per the start of
construction definition.
(Ord. No. 16-03, § 4, 1-25-2016)
Sec. 106-5. Provisions for flood hazard reduction.
(a)   Subdivision standards.
   (1)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (2)   All subdivision preliminary plats/development plans shall include the
mapped flood hazard zones from the effective FIRM.
   (3)   Base flood elevation data shall be generated and/or provided for
subdivision proposals and all other proposed development, including
manufactured home parks and subdivisions, greater than 50 lots or five acres,
whichever is less.
   (4)   All subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electric and water systems located and constructed to minimize
flood damage.
   (5)   All subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce
exposure to flood hazards.
(b)   Construction standards.
   (1)   New construction and substantial improvements of an existing
structure, including a structure that has been substantially damaged, shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (2)   New construction and substantial improvements of an existing
structure, including a structure that has been substantially damaged, shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (3)   New construction or substantial improvements of an existing structure,
including a structure that has been substantially damaged, shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (4)   Enclosed spaces/crawlspaces: all new construction or substantial
improvements of an existing structure, including a structure that has been
substantially damaged, that includes a fully enclosed area located below that
lowest floor formed by the foundation and other exterior walls shall be
designed to equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for
the automatic entry and exit of floodwater. Design for complying with this
requirement must be certified by a licensed professional engineer or architect
and meet the following minimum criteria:
      a.   Provide a minimum of two openings with a total new area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding:
         1.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
the higher of the exterior or interior grade or floor immediately below the
opening;
         2.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, values or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwater in
both directions without manual intervention.
      b.   To comply with the lowest floor criteria of this chapter, the
unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure shall only be used for parking of
vehicles, limited storage of maintenance equipment used in connection with the
premises, or entry to the elevated area.
      c.   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be partitioned
or finished into separate rooms.
      d.   For crawlspace foundation types, construction must follow the
guidelines in FEMATB 11-01, Crawlspace Construction for Structures Located in
Special Flood Hazard Areas: National Flood Insurance Program Interim Guidance,
specifically:
         1.   Below grade crawlspaces are prohibited or sites where the
velocity of floodwaters exceed 5 feet per second;
         2.   Interior grade of the crawlspace below the BFE must not be more
than two feet below the lowest adjacent exterior grade (LAG);
         3.   Height of the below grade crawlspace, measured from the lowest
interior grade of the crawlspace to the bottom of the floor joist must not
exceed four feet at any point;
         4.   Contain an adequate drainage system that removes floodwaters from
the interior area of the crawlspace.
   (5)   All heating and air conditioning equipment and components, all
electrical, ventilation, plumbing, and other facilities shall be designed and/
or elevated to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during flooding.
   (6)   All new construction shall have utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, and water systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (7)   The development proposal shall be consistent with the need to minimize
flood damage within floodprone areas.
   (8)   All new construction shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce
exposure to flood hazards.
(c)   Manufactured home standards.
   (1)   In all special flood hazard areas where the base flood elevation is
established, manufactured homes placed, substantially improved, or which have
incurred substantial damage must be elevated on a permanent foundation such
that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated to the flood
protection elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored
foundation system to resist floatation, collapse and lateral movement.
   (2)   In all special flood hazard areas where the base flood elevation has
not been established, manufactured homes placed, substantially improved, or
have incurred substantial damage must be elevated on a permanent foundation
such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated two feet above
the highest adjacent grade and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored
foundation system to resist floatation, collapse and lateral movement.
   (3)   Manufactured homes placed on solid perimeter walls shall meet the
flood vent requirements in subsection (b)(4) of this section, except when the
first floor, including enclosed areas and crawlspace is located above the base
flood elevation.
(d)   Accessory structures. Relief from the elevation or dry floodproofing
standards may be granted for an accessory structure containing no more than 200
square feet. Such a structure must meet the following standards:
   (1)   It shall not be used for human habitation;
   (2)   It shall be constructed of flood resistant materials;
   (3)   It shall be constructed and place on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
   (4)   It shall be firmly anchored to prevent floatation;
   (5)   Services such as electrical and heating equipment shall be elevated or
floodproofed to or above the flood protection elevation (FPE).
   (6)   It shall meet the opening requirement of subsection (b)(4) of this
section
(e)   Recreational vehicle standards. In all special flood hazard areas,
recreational vehicles must either:
   (1)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
   (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, on its wheels or jacking
system attached to the site only by quick-disconnect type utilities and
security devices, and have no permanently attached structures or addition; or
   (3)   Meet all requirements for new construction, including the anchoring
and elevation requirements.
(f)   Critical facility.
   (1)   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent
possible, located outside the limits of the regulatory floodplain. If a lot has
a buildable site out of the special flood hazard area, all critical facilities
shall be located in that area. If it is not possible to place the structure
outside of the SFHA, a variance is required.
   (2)   If a lot does not have a buildable site out of the regulatory
floodplain and a variance is granted the following standards shall apply:
      a.   Critical facilities shall have the lowest floor elevated three feet
above the BFE or to the height of the 500-year flood, whichever is higher. If
there is no available data on the 500-year flood, the permit applicants shall
develop the needed data in accordance with FEMA mapping guidelines.
      b.   If the only access to and from the critical facility crosses through
or is in the SFHA, it shall be elevated to the elevation of the 500-year flood.
(g)   Floodway standards. The following provisions shall apply in a floodway:
   (1)   A project in the regulatory floodway must undergo an encroachment
review to determine its effect on flood flows. An encroachment analysis must
include:
      a.   Determination and documentation that the filing, grading or
construction of a structure will not obstruct flood flows and will not cause an
increase in flood heights upstream or adjacent to the project site;
      b.   Determination and documentation that grading, excavation, channel
improvements, bridge and culvert replacements that remove an obstruction, do
not cause increase in downstream flood flows;
      c.   Certification and documentation by a licensed professional engineer
that the project will not result in a rise in flood heights.
      d.   The administrator may make the encroachment determination for minor
projects, such as projects that do not increase the natural grade (i.e., paving
a driveway or parking lot at existing grade, open fences and small isolated
obstructions such as a mailbox or telephone pole.
   (2)   Upon demonstrating that there are no alternatives, the applicant may
propose an encroachment in the floodway that will cause an increase in the BFE
in excess of the allowable level, provided that the applicant obtain a
conditional letter of map revision from FEMA before the development can be
approved and permitted.
(h)   Standards for zone with base flood elevations. In special flood hazard
areas designated AE, A (with estimated BFE), the following provisions are
required:
   (1)   New residential construction and substantial improvements. New
construction or substantial improvement of any residential structure or
manufactured home shall have the lowest floor, including basement, constructed
at or above the community's flood protection elevation. If solid foundation
perimeter walls are used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to
facilitate the unimpeded movement of floodwaters shall be provided in
accordance with the construction standards in subsection (b)(4) of this
section. 
   (2)   Nonresidential construction. New construction or the substantial
improvement of any nonresidential structure shall be elevated to the flood
protection elevation or must be floodproofed. The structure and all attendant
utilities shall be elevated or floodproofed to the flood protection elevation,
with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, and structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and the effect of buoyancy. A licensed professional engineer or architect
must certify that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with
accepted standards of practice for meeting these provisions, and shall provide
certification to the administrator.
   (3)   Where the floodway has not been determined, no new construction,
substantial improvements, or other development (including fill) shall be
permitted in an AE Zone on the effective FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that
the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point within the
community. Certification and documentation by a licensed professional engineer
shall be submitted to demonstrate compliance with this section.
      a.   Applicants of proposed projects that increase the base flood
elevation more than one foot are required to obtain and submit to the
floodplain administrator, a conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR
preconstruction).
      b.   Post construction, the applicant must apply to FEMA for a letter of
map revision for changes to the flood hazard map proposed in the CLOMR.
(i)   Standards for zones without base flood elevations and/or floodway (A
Zones). These standards apply in special flood hazard areas where streams exist
but no flood elevation data has been provided (A Zones), or where base flood
data have been provided but a floodway has not been delineated.
   (1)   When base flood elevation or floodway data have not been identified by
FEMA in a flood insurance study and/or flood insurance rate maps, then the
floodplain administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably utilize
scientific or historic base flood elevation and floodway data available from a
federal, state, or other source, in order to administer this chapter. If data
is not available from any source, only then subsections (i)(2) and (3) of this
section shall apply. Where the floodplain administrator has obtained base flood
elevation data, applicants of proposed projects that increase the base flood
elevation data more than one foot shall obtain a conditional letter of map
revision (CLOMR) preconstruction and a letter of map revision (LOMR) post
construction.
   (2)   No encroachments, including structure or fill, shall be located within
an area equal to the width of the stream or 50 feet, whichever is greater,
measured from the ordinary high water mark, unless certification by a licensed
professional engineer documents that the encroachment will not result in any
increase in flood levels during the base flood.
   (3)   In special flood hazard areas without base flood elevation data, all
new construction and substantial improvements of existing structures shall have
the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area elevated no less than two feet
above the highest adjacent grade at the building site. Openings sufficient to
facilitate the unimpeded movement of floodwaters shall be provided in
accordance with the construction standards in subsection (b) and (c) of this
section.
(j)   Alteration of a watercourse. A watercourse is considered altered when any
change occurs within its banks.
   (1)   The bankfull flood-carrying capacity of the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse shall not be diminished. Prior to issuance of a
floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a description of the
extent to which any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of the
proposed development and submit certification by a registered professional
engineer that the bankfull flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse will not
be diminished.
   (2)   Adjacent communities, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the state
department of water resources stream channel alteration program must be
notified prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse. Evidence of
notification must be submitted to the floodplain administrator and to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (3)   The applicant shall be responsible for providing the necessary
maintenance for the altered or relocated portion of the watercourse that the
flood-carrying capacity will not be diminished.
   (4)   The applicant shall meet the requirements to submit technical data
when an alteration of a watercourse results in the relocation or elimination of
the special flood hazard area, including the placement of culverts.
(k)   Requirement to submit new technical data.
   (1)   For all development proposals that impact floodway delineations or
base flood elevations, the community shall ensure that technical data
reflection such changes be submitted to FEMA within six months of the data such
information becomes available. Those development proposals include:
      a.   Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevations or alter floodway boundaries;
      b.   Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed structures where
the applicant desires to remove the site from the special flood hazard area in
accordance with subsection (a)(3) of this section;
      c.   Alteration of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts;
      d.   Subdivision or large-scale development proposals requiring
establishment of base flood elevations according to subsection (a)(3) of this
section.
   (2)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to have technical data
prepared in a format required for a conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR)
or letter of map revision (LOMR) and submitted to FEMA. Submittal and
processing fees for these map revisions shall be the responsibility of the
applicant.
(Ord. No. 16-03, § 5, 1-25-2016)
Sec. 106-6. Variance and appeal procedures.
(a)   Variance.
   (1)   An applicant for a variance must be submitted to the county planning
and zoning office on the form provided by the county and include at minimum the
same information required for a development permit and an explanation for the
basis for the variance request.
   (2)   Upon receipt of a completed application for a variance, the variance
request will be set for public hearing at the next county planning and zoning
commission meeting in which time is available for the matter to be heard.
   (3)   Prior to the public hearing, notice of the hearing will be published
in the official newspaper of the county at least 15 days prior to the hearing.
In addition to the newspaper publication, written notice shall be provided to
all adjoining property owners, and the property shall be posted with the public
hearing notice.
   (4)   The burden to show that the variance is warranted and meets the
criteria set out herein is on the applicant.
(b)   Criteria for variances.
   (1)   Generally, the only condition under which a variance from the
elevation standard may be issued is for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a small or irregularly shaped parcel/lot
contiguous to and surrounded by parcels/lots with existing structures
constructed below the base flood level. As the parcel/lot size increases the
technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (2)   Variances shall not be issued within a designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variances
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (4)   Variances may be issued upon;
      a.   A showing by the applicant of good sufficient cause;
      b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws and ordinances.
      c.   Limited circumstances, where functionally dependent users are
needed, provided that the structure is protected by methods that minimize flood
damages during the base flood and there are no additional threats to public
safety.
   (5)   Variances pertain to a physical piece of property; they are not
personal in nature and do not pertain to the structure, its inhabitants,
economic or financial circumstances. They primarily address small lots in
densely populated residential neighborhoods.
(c)   Variance decision. The decision to either grant or deny a variance shall
be in writing and shall set forth the reasons for such approval and denial. If
the variance is granted, the property owner shall be put on notice along with
the written decision that the permitted building will have its lowest floor
below the flood protection elevation and that the cost of flood insurance
likely will be commensurate with the increased flood damage risk
(d)   Appeals. An applicant for an appeal must be submitted to the county
clerk's office on the form provided by the county. The board of county
commissioners shall hear and decide appeals from the interpretation of the
floodplain administrator.
   (1)   An appeal must be filed with the county clerk within 14 days of the
date of any permit denial or interpretation of the floodplain administrator.
Failure to timely file an appeal shall be considered a failure to exhaust the
administrative remedies. The appeal must set out the interpretation of the
floodplain administrator and a narrative setting forth the facts relied upon by
the appellant and the appellant's claim regarding the error in the
interpretation.
   (2)   Upon receipt of a completed appeal, the appeal will be scheduled for
the next available board of county commissioners meeting to be heard. The board
of county commissioners shall consider the following in ruling on an appeal:
All technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specific in other
sections of this chapter, including:
      a.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      b.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      c.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effects of such damage on the individual landowner;
      d.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      e.   The necessity of the facility to a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      f.   The availability for alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      g.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      h.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      i.   The safety of access to the property in times of flooding for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
      j.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
      k.   The cost of providing government services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, and water systems, and streets and bridges.
   (3)   Decision. The board of county commissioners' decision on appeal shall
be in writing and set out the facts, technical information and the legal basis
for the decision.
(Ord. No. 16-03, § 6, 1-25-2016)
Sec. 106-7. Penalties for violation.
(a)   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or
altered unless in full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
(b)   Violation of the provision of this chapter or failure to comply to comply
with any of its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or special exceptions shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the county
from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation.
(Ord. No. 16-03, § 7, 1-25-2016; altered in 2020 codification)
Chapter 108
IMPACT FEES
ARTICLE I. JEFFERSON COUNTY DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES
Sec. 108-1. Short title, applicability, exceptions and purpose.
(a)   Short title. This chapter 108 article I shall be known and may be cited
as the Jefferson County Development Impact Fee Ordinance.
(b)   Findings. The Board of Jefferson County Commissioners finds that:
   (1)   Within unincorporated Jefferson County, the county is experiencing
considerable growth and development.
   (2)   The new growth and development occurring within unincorporated
Jefferson County will place ever-increasing demands on the county to provide,
improve and expand existing public facilities to serve that new growth and
development and the tax revenues generated from that new growth and development
often does not generate sufficient funds to provide the necessary improvements
and expansion of the public facilities to protect the public health, safety and
welfare. Those users that create the increased demand should bear their
proportionate share of the cost of public facilities needed to serve the new
growth and development.
(c)   Authority. This title is enacted pursuant to the county's general police
powers, its authority to enact ordinances, and its authority as provided by the
act and other applicable laws of the State of Idaho to impose and collect
development impact fees when affected by growth and development for the purpose
of agreeing to impose, collect and expend development impact fees in order for
new growth and development to pay their proportionate share of the cost of
public facilities to serve that new growth and development.
(d)   Applicability. This article shall apply to the development of property
located within the boundaries of unincorporated Jefferson County.
(e)   Purpose. The intent of this article is to ensure that new residential and
nonresidential development bears a proportionate share of the cost of system
improvements; to ensure that such proportionate share does not exceed the cost
of such system improvements required to accommodate new development; and to
ensure that funds collected from new development are actually used for system
improvements in accordance with the act.
(Ord. No. 2023-14, § 2, 10-2-2023)
Sec. 108-2. Definitions.
As used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the following
meanings, unless another meaning is plainly intended and words and terms
appearing in the singular number includes the plural and the plural the
singular:
   Account means the interest-bearing account within the impact fee capital
projects fund as established in this article.
   Advisory committee means the county's development impact fee advisory
committee ("advisory committee") formed and staffed by the county pursuant to
Idaho Code, § 67-8205 to prepare and recommend the capital improvements plan
and any amendments, revisions or updates of the same.
   Appropriate means to legally obligate by contract or otherwise commit to the
expenditure of funds by appropriation or other official act of the board of
commissioners.
   Building permit means the permit required for foundations, new construction
and additions pursuant to chapter 104 buildings and building regulations.
   Capital facilities means all land, buildings, roadway, intersection and
bridge improvements, apparatus, vehicles and equipment as identified in section
V, VI, and VII of the county's capital improvements plan as adopted by the
county, and specifically including those related costs including system
improvement costs, but not including maintenance, operations, or improvements
that do not expand their capacity.
   Capital improvements means improvements with a useful life of ten years or
more, by new construction or other action, which increases the service capacity
of the county's public facilities.
   Capital improvements element means a component of the capital improvements
plan adopted by the county pursuant to Idaho Code, tit. 67, chs. 65 and 82 as
they may be amended, which component meets the requirements of the capital
improvements plan required by the act.
   Capital improvements plan means the impact fee study and capital
improvements plan recommended by the development Impact fee advisory committee
and adopted by the county that identifies the capital facilities for which the
county's impact fees may be used as a funding source as found in the
comprehensive plan appendix.
   Capital projects fund (the "capital projects fund") shall mean and refer to
the county's development impact fee capital projects fund established by action
of the county board of commissioners pursuant to section
108-11 of this article and Idaho Code, § 67-8210(1).
   County means Jefferson County, Idaho.
   County board of commissioners means the board of commissioners of Jefferson
County.
   Developer means any person or legal entity undertaking development and/or
the subdivision of property pursuant to Idaho Code, §§ 50-1301—50-1334, as may
be amended.
   Development means any construction or installation of a building or
structure, or any change in use of a building or structure, or any change in
the use, character or appearance of land, which creates additional demand and
need for public facilities and/or subdivision of property that would permit any
change in the use, character or appearance of land.
   Development approval means any written duly authorized document from the
county which authorizes the commencement of a development.
   Development requirement means a requirement attached to a developmental
approval or other county governmental action approving or authorizing a
particular development project including, but not limited to, a rezoning, which
requirement compels the payment, dedication or contribution of goods, services,
land or money as condition of approval.
   Dwelling i.e. dwelling unit means any building or structure with facilities
for cooking, sleeping and sanitation designed as a shelter or enclosure for
persons, conventionally built, modular constructed, mobile home or portion
thereof, remodeled for residential occupancy.
   (1)   Accessory dwelling means a dwelling unit located on the same lot as a
single family dwelling, either within the same building as the single family
dwelling or in a detached building consistent with section 112-358.
   (2)   Multi-family dwelling means a building or portion thereof which
contains more than two dwelling units.
   (3)   Single family dwelling means a building which contains one dwelling
unit or which meets the definition of a "group home."
   Extraordinary costs means those costs incurred as result of an extraordinary
impact.
   Extraordinary impact means an impact which is reasonably determined by the
county to:
   (1)   Result in the need for system improvements, the cost of which will
significantly exceed the sum of the development impact fees to be generated
from the project or the sum agreed to be paid pursuant to a development
agreement as allowed by Idaho Code, § 67-8214(2), as it may be amended; or
   (2)   Result in the need for system improvements which are not identified in
the capital improvements plan.
   Family shall mean:
   (1)   A person living alone or two or more persons related by blood or
marriage.
   (2)   A group of not more than ten persons who need not be related by blood
or marriage living together in a dwelling unit.
   (3)   Eight or fewer unrelated mentally and/or physically handicapped or
elderly persons residing in a dwelling unit who are supervised at the dwelling
in connection with their handicap or age related infirmity, provided that no
more than two staff members reside in the dwelling unit at any one time.
(Resident staff shall not be counted toward the "eight or fewer" criterion.)
   Fee payer means the person who pays or is required to pay the county's
impact fee. A fee payer may include a developer.
   Impact fee means a payment of money imposed as condition of development
approval to pay for a proportionate share of the costs of system improvements
needed to serve the development. The term does not include the following:
   (1)   A charge or fee to pay the administrative plan review, or inspection
cost associated with permits required for development;
   (2)   Connection or hookup charges;
   (3)   Availability charges for drainage, sewer, water or transportation
charges for services provided directly to the development; or
   (4)   Amounts collected from a developer in a transaction in which the
county has incurred expenses in constructing capital improvements for the
development if the owner or developer has agreed to be financially responsible
for the construction or installation of those capital improvements, unless a
written agreement is made, pursuant to Idaho Code, § 67-8209(3) as it may be
amended, for credit or reimbursement.
   Joint advisory committee means the county and each of the participating fire
districts joint development impact fee advisory committee formed and staffed
pursuant to Idaho Code, § 67-8205 to recommend capital improvement plans and
any amendments, revisions or updates of the same.
   Land use assumptions means a description of the service area and projections
of land uses, densities, intensities and population in the service area over at
least a ten year period.
   Level of service means a measure of the relationship between service
capacity and service demand for public facilities.
   Manufactured/mobile home means a structure, constructed according to HUD/FHA
mobile home construction and safety standards, transportable in one or more
sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight feet or more in width or is 40
body feet or more in length, or when erected on site, is 320 or more square
feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a
dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to required
utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
systems contained in such structure, except that such term shall include any
structure which meets all the requirements of this subsection except the size
requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a
certification required by the secretary of housing and urban development and
complies with the standards established under 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.
   Modular building means any building or building component other than a
manufactured/mobile home, which is constructed according to the International
Building Code, as adopted or any amendments thereto, which is of closed
construction and is either entirely or substantially prefabricated or assembled
at a place other than the building site.
   Present value means the total current monetary value of past, present or
future payments, contributions or dedications of goods, services, materials,
construction or money.
   Project means a particular development on an identified parcel of land.
   Project improvements means in contrast to system improvements, shall mean
site improvements and facilities that are planned and designed to provide
service for a particular development project and that are necessary for the use
and convenience of the occupants or users of the project.
   Proportionate share shall mean that portion of system improvement costs
determined pursuant to Idaho Code, § 67-8207 which reasonably relates to the
service demands and needs of the project.
   Public facilities means land, buildings and equipment used for roads,
streets and bridges, including rights-of-way, traffic signals, landscaping and
any local component of state or federal highways; parks, open space and
recreation areas, including all related capital improvements; and public safety
facilities, including law enforcement which have a useful life of ten years or
more.
   Recreational vehicle means a vehicular type unit primarily designed as
temporary quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, which either has
its own motive power or is mounted on or drawn by another vehicle.
   Service area means land within the boundaries of the unincorporated county
as established pursuant to Idaho Code, tit. 31, ch. 14 in which specific public
facilities provide service to development on the basis of sound planning or
engineering principles or both as identified in the county's capital
improvements plan.
   Service unit means a standardized measure of consumption, use, generation or
discharge attributable to an individual unit of development calculated in
accordance with generally accepted engineering or planning standards for a
particular category of capital improvements. As specifically used in this
title, service units include all dwelling units as defined herein and includes,
on the square foot basis, nonresidential development.
   System improvements means in contrast to project improvements, shall mean
capital improvements to public facilities which are designed to provide service
to a service area.
   System improvement costs means costs incurred for construction or
reconstruction of system improvements, including design, acquisition,
engineering and other costs, and also including, without limitation, the type
of costs described in Idaho Code, § 50-1702(h), as it may be amended, to
provide additional public facilities needed to service new growth and
development. For clarification, system improvement costs do not include:
   (1)   Construction, acquisition or expansion of public facilities other than
capital improvements identified in the capital improvements plan;
   (2)   Improvements, repair, operation or maintenance of existing or new
capital;
   (3)   Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing capital
improvements to serve existing development in order to meet stricter safety,
efficiency, environmental or regulatory standards;
   (4)   Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing capital
improvements to provide better service to existing development;
   (5)   Administrative and operating costs of the county unless such costs are
attributable to development of the capital improvements plan, as provided in
Idaho Code, § 67-8208, as it may be amended; and
   (6)   Principal payments and interest or other finance charges on bonds or
other indebtedness except financial obligations issued by or on behalf of the
county to finance capital improvements identified in the capital improvements
plan.
(Ord. No. 2023-14, § 2, 10-2-2023)
Sec. 108-3. Establishment of service areas; imposition of impact fee; fee
schedule; exemptions.
(a)   Establishment of service areas. There is hereby established a service
area which service area includes all land in unincorporated Jefferson County.
(b)   Imposition of impact fees. Impact fees for the county are hereby imposed
on all new development located within unincorporated Jefferson County.
(c)   Fee schedule. Impact fees shall be calculated in accordance with the fee
schedule set forth below providing for standard fees based on the total number
of dwelling units or square feet of nonresidential space in the development,
unless:
   (1)   The fee payer requests an individual assessment pursuant to section
108-06 of this article; or
   (2)   The county finds the development will have an extraordinary impact
pursuant to section 108-09 of this article.
(d)   The methodology for determining the costs per service unit provided for
in the fee schedule is set forth in the county's capital improvements plan as
adopted by the county pursuant to Idaho Code, § 67-8208, as it may be amended.
Impact fee schedule:
   (1)   Sheriff:
      a.   Residential (per residential dwelling unit)$46.80
      b.   Nonresidential (per square foot)$0.01
   (2)   Roads and bridges:
      a.   Residential (per residential dwelling unit)$720.90
      b.   Nonresidential (per retail square foot)$0.50
   (3)   Parks and recreation:
      a.   Residential (per residential dwelling unit)$138.30
(e)   Developer's election. A developer shall have the right to elect to pay a
project's proportionate share of system improvements costs by payment of impact
fee according to the fee schedule as full and complete payment of the
development project's proportionate share of system improvements costs, except
as provided in Idaho Code, § 67-8214(3), as it may be amended.
(f)   Procedures.
   (1)   Building permit. Upon submittal of complete building permit plans or
manufactured home installation permit for the development to the county, the
county shall calculate the impact fee for the development within 30 days of
submittal unless:
      a.   The fee payer had previously requested and been granted an
individual assessment pursuant to this article; or
      b.   The county has previously determined the development may have an
extraordinary impact pursuant to this article.
(g)   Exemptions. The provisions of this article shall not apply to the
following:
   (1)   Rebuilding the same amount of floor space of a structure which is
destroyed by fire or other catastrophe, provided the structure is rebuilt and
ready for occupancy within two years of its destruction;
   (2)   Remodeling or repairing a structure which does not increase the number
of service units;
   (3)   Replacing a residential unit, including a manufactured/mobile home,
with another residential unit on the same lot; provided that, the number of
service units does not increase;
   (4)   Placing a temporary construction trailer, office or an RV used as
living quarters per Jefferson County Code on a lot;
   (5)   Constructing an addition on a residential structure which does not
increase the number of service units;
   (6)   Adding uses that are typically accessory to residential uses, such as
tennis court or a clubhouse, unless it can be clearly demonstrated that the use
creates a significant impact on the capacity of system improvements; or
   (7)   The installation of a modular building, manufactured/mobile home or
recreational vehicle if the fee payer can demonstrate by documentation such as
utility bills and tax records that either:
      a.   A modular building, manufactured/mobile home or recreational vehicle
was legally in place on the lot or space prior to the effective date of this
article; or
      b.   An impact fee has been paid previously for the modular building,
manufactured/mobile home or recreational vehicle on that same lot or space.
   (8)   Exemption claim process. A fee payer shall claim an exempt development
activity upon application of a building permit or manufactured/mobile home
installation permit, or if no building permit or manufactured/mobile home
installation permit required, prior to the time construction commences. Any
exemption not so claimed shall be deemed waived by the fee payer. Claims for
exemption shall be determined by the county within 15 days of receipt of the
claim for exemption.
(Ord. No. 2023-14, § 2, 10-2-2023)
Sec. 108-4. Collection of impact fees; enforcement.
(a)   Payment of fees. The impact fee shall be paid to the county at the
following times:
   (1)   If a building permit or manufactured/mobile home installation permit
is required, then before or at the time the permit is issued;
   (2)   If no building permit or manufactured/mobile home installation permit
is required, then at the time that construction commences; or
   (3)   At such other time as the fee payer or developer and the county have
agreed upon in writing with notice to the county.
(b)   Enforcement. When any impact fee is due pursuant to this article, or
pursuant to the terms of any written agreement between a fee payer and the
county, and such impact fee has not been paid in a timely manner, the county
may exercise any or all of the following powers as applicable to its authority,
in any combination, to enforce the collection of the impact fee:
   (1)   Withhold building permits, manufactured home installation permits, or
other county development approval related to the development for which the
impact fee is due until all impact fees due have been paid, and issue stop work
orders, and revoke or suspend a building permit;
   (2)   Withhold utility services from the development for which the impact
fee is due until all impact fees due have been paid;
   (3)   Add interest to the impact fee not paid in full at the legal rate
provided for in Idaho Code, § 28-22-104, as it may be amended, plus five
percent beginning on the date at which the payment of the impact fee was due
until paid in full;
   (4)   Impose a penalty of five percent of the total impact fee (not merely
the portion dishonored, late or not paid in full) per month beginning on the
date at which the payment of the impact fee was due until paid in full; and
   (5)   Impose a lien pursuant to the authority of Idaho Code, § 67-8213(4)
for failure to timely pay an impact fee following the procedures contained in
Idaho Code, tit. 45, ch. 5.
(Ord. No. 2023-14, § 2, 10-2-2023)
Sec. 108-5. Certification.
(a)   A fee payer may request a written certification of the impact fee
schedule or individual assessment which shall establish the impact fee for that
development. Such certification shall establish the impact fee so long as there
is no material change to the particular development as identified in the
individual assessment application, or the impact fee schedule. A certification
may be applied for in the following manner.
(b)   Requests for certification shall be in writing and made to the county.
Within 30 days after receiving such request, the county shall issue a written
certification of the amount of the impact fee due for the proposed development.
The certification shall include an explanation of the calculation of the impact
fee including an explanation of factors considered under Idaho Code, § 67-8207
and shall also specify the system improvement(s) for which the impact fee is
intended to be used. The county shall provide the certification to the fee
payer.
(Ord. No. 2023-14, § 2, 10-2-2023)
Sec. 108-6. Individual assessment.
(a)   In lieu of calculating the amount of the impact fee using the impact fee
schedules in section 108-03 of this article, an individual assessment of impact
fees is permitted when the fee payer demonstrates by clear and convincing
evidence that the established impact fee is inappropriate.
   (1)   Individual assessment process. A fee payer may file a written request
for an individual assessment of the development by the county with the county
prior to the receipt of a building permit or other necessary approvals or
entitlements from the county. A request for an individual assessment process
shall involve consideration of studies, data, and any other relevant
information submitted by the fee payer to adjust the amount of the impact fee.
If a fee payer files a request for the use of an individual assessment, the fee
payer shall be responsible for retaining a qualified professional to prepare
the individual assessment that complies with the requirements of this article,
at the fee payer's expense. The fee payer shall bear the burden of proving by
clear and convincing evidence that the resulting individual assessment is a
more accurate measure of its proportionate share of the cost of system
improvements, based on the county's adopted level of service, than the
development impact fees that would otherwise be due pursuant to the fee
schedule.
   (2)   Each individual assessment request and supporting documentation
submitted by the fee payer shall be based on the same level of service
standards and unit costs for system improvements used in the county's capital
improvements plan, shall use an average cost (not a marginal cost) methodology,
and shall document the relevant methodologies and assumptions used.
   (3)   Each individual assessment request delivered to the county may then be
accepted, rejected, or accepted with modifications by the county as the basis
for calculating the impact fee. The criteria for acceptance, rejection or
acceptance with modifications shall be whether the individual assessment is a
more accurate measure of demand for system improvements element(s) created by
the proposed development, or the costs of those facilities, than the applicable
fee shown in the fee schedule.
   (4)   The county shall issue a written decision within 30 days following
receipt of a completed request for individual assessment together with all
supporting information from the fee payer, so as not to unreasonably delay the
developer's (fee payer's) subsequent applications to the county for building
permits.
   (5)   The decision by the county on an application for an individual
assessment shall include an explanation of the calculation of the impact fee,
shall specify the system improvement(s) for which the impact fee is intended to
be used, and shall include an explanation of those factors identified in Idaho
Code, § 67-8207.
   (6)   If an individual assessment is accepted or accepted with modifications
by the county then the impact fee due under this article for such development
shall be calculated according to such individual assessment.
(Ord. No. 2023-14, § 2, 10-2-2023)
Sec. 108-7. Developer credits and reimbursement.
(a)   When a developer or their predecessor in title or interest has
constructed system improvements of the same category as a capital improvements
element, or contributed or dedicated land or money towards the completion of
system improvements of the same category as the capital improvements element,
and the county has accepted such construction, contribution or dedication, the
county shall issue a credit against the impact fees otherwise due for the same
capital improvements element in connection with the proposed development, as
set forth in this section, credit shall be issued regardless of whether the
contribution or dedication to system improvements was required by the county as
a condition of development approval or was offered by the developer and
accepted by the county in writing, and regardless of whether the contribution
or dedication was contributed by the developer or by a local improvement
district controlled by the developer.
(b)   Credits against an impact fee shall not be given for:
   (1)   Project improvements; or
   (2)   Any construction, contribution or dedication not agreed to in writing
by the county prior to commencement of the construction, contribution, or
dedication.
Credits issued for one capital improvements element may not be used to reduce
impact fees due for a different capital improvement. No credits shall be issued
for system improvements contributed or dedicated prior to the effective date of
this article.
(c)   Valuation of credit at present value.
   (1)   Land. Credit for qualifying land dedications shall, at the fee payer's
option, be valued at the present value of 100 percent of the most recent
assessed value for such land as shown in the records of the county assessor.
   (2)   Improvements. Credit for qualifying acquisition or construction of
system improvements shall be valued by the county at the present value of such
improvements based on complete engineering drawings, specifications, and
construction cost estimates submitted by the fee payer to the county. The
county shall determine the amount of credit due based on the information
submitted, or, if it determines that such information is inaccurate or
unreliable, then on alternative engineering or construction costs acceptable to
the county as a more accurate measure of the value of the offered system
improvements to the county.
(d)   When credits become effective.
   (1)   Land. Approved credits for land dedications shall become effective
when the land has been conveyed to the county in a form acceptable to the
county, at no cost to the county, and has been accepted by the county. Upon
request of the fee payer, the county shall issue a letter stating the amount of
credit available.
   (2)   Improvements. Approved credits for acquisition or construction of
system improvements shall generally become effective when:
      a.   All required construction has been completed and has been accepted
by the county;
      b.   A suitable maintenance and warranty bond has been received and
approved by the county; and
      c.   All design, construction, inspection, testing, bonding, and
acceptance procedures have been completed in compliance with all applicable
requirements of the county and the State of Idaho. Upon request of the fee
payer, the county shall issue a letter stating the amount of credit available.
(e)   Credit request process.
   (1)   Request. In order to obtain a credit against an impact fee otherwise
due, a fee payer shall submit to the county a written offer of request to
dedicate to the county specific parcels of qualifying land or a written offer
to contribute or construct specific system improvements to the capital
facilities in accordance with all applicable state or county design and
construction standards, and shall specifically request a credit against the
type of impact fee for which the land dedication or system improvements is
offered.
   (2)   Review. After receipt of the written offer of request for credit, the
county shall review the request and determine whether the land or system
improvements offered for credit will reduce the costs of providing capital
facilities by an amount at least equal to the value of the credit. If the
county determines that the offered credit satisfies that criteria and will be
acceptable to the county board of commissioners, then the credit shall be
issued. The county shall complete its review and determination of an
application within 30 days after receipt of an application for credit.
   (3)   Credits exceeding fee amounts due. If the credit due to a fee payer
pursuant to subsection C exceeds the impact fee that would otherwise be due
from the fee payer pursuant to the article (whether calculated through the
impact fee schedule in section 108-03 of this article or through an individual
assessment), the fee payer may choose to receive such credit in the form of
either:
      a.   A credit against future impact fee due for the same system
improvements; or
      b.   A reimbursement from impact fees paid by future development that
impacts the system improvements contributed or dedicated by the fee payer.
   Unless otherwise stated in an agreement with the fee payer, the county shall
be under no obligation to use any of the county funds — other than impact fees
paid by other development for the same system improvements — to reimburse the
fee payer for any credit in excess impact fees that are due.
   (4)   Written agreement required. If credit or reimbursement is due to the
fee payer pursuant to this section, the county shall enter into a written
agreement with the fee payer, negotiated in good faith, prior to the
contribution, dedication, or funding of the system improvements giving rise to
the credit. The agreement shall provide for the amount of credit or the amount,
time and form of reimbursement, and shall have a term not exceeding ten years.
   (5)   The county's determination on the written offer of request for credit
shall be provided to the fee payer.
(Ord. No. 2023-14, § 2, 10-2-2023)
Sec. 108-8. Methodology for the calculation of fire district impact fees.
(a)   General provisions.
   (1)   Accounting principles. The calculation of the impact fee shall be in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A development impact
fee shall not be deemed invalid because payment of the fee may result in an
incidental benefit to owners or developers within the service area other than
the fee payer.
   (2)   Levels of service. The impact fee shall be calculated on the basis of
levels of service for public facilities in the adopted capital improvement plan
that are applicable to existing development as well as new growth and
development. The construction, improvement, expansion or enlargement of new or
existing public facilities for which the impact fee is imposed must be
attributable to the capacity demands generated by the new development.
(b)   Methodology; proportionate methodology. The impact fee shall not exceed a
proportionate share of the cost of the system improvements determined in
accordance with Idaho Code, § 67-8207, as it may be amended. Impact fees shall
be based on actual system improvements costs or reasonable estimates of such
costs. The amount of the impact fee shall be calculated using the methodology
contained in the adopted capital improvements plan.
(c)   Proportionate share determination.
   (1)   The impact fee shall be based on a reasonable and fair formula or
method under which the impact fee imposed does not exceed a proportionate share
of the costs incurred or to be incurred by the county in the provision of
system improvements to serve the new development. The proportionate share is
the costs attributable to the new development after the county considers the
following:
      a.   Any appropriate credit, offset or contribution of money, dedication
of land or construction of system improvements;
      b.   Payments reasonably anticipated to be made by or as a result of a
new development in the form of user fees and debt service payments;
      c.   That portion of general tax or other revenues allocated by the
county to system improvements; and
      d.   All other available sources of funding such system improvements.
   (2)   In determining the proportionate share of the cost of system
improvements to be paid by the developer, the following factors shall be
considered by the county and accounted for in the calculation of the impact
fee:
      a.   The costs of existing system improvements within the service area;
      b.   The means by which existing system improvements have been financed;
      c.   The extent to which the new development will contribute to system
improvements costs through taxation, assessments, or developer or landowner
contributions, or has previously contributed to system improvements costs
through developer or landowner contributions;
      d.   The extent to which the new development is required to contribute to
the cost of existing system improvements in the future;
      e.   The extent to which the new development should be credited for
providing system improvements, without charge to other properties within the
service area;
      f.   Extraordinary costs, if any, incurred in serving the new
development;
      g.   The time and price differential inherent in a fair comparison of
fees paid at different times; and
      h.   The availability of other sources of funding system improvements
including, but not limited to, user charges, general tax levies,
intergovernmental transfers and special taxation.
(Ord. No. 2023-14, § 2, 10-2-2023)
Sec. 108-9. Extraordinary impact.
(a)   The county may make an initial determination that development may impose
an extraordinary impact due to a review of a development application
transmitted to the county pursuant to the county's zoning authority under the
Local Land Use Planning Act, Idaho Code, tit. 67, ch. 65.
(b)   Process.
   (1)   Within 30 days after county's receipt of the development application,
the county will notify the fee payer of the county's initial determination that
the development may impose an extraordinary impact. Such notice shall include
that a supplemental study, at the fee payer's expense will be required.
   (2)   Within 30 days following the designation of a development with
extraordinary impact, the county shall meet with the fee payer to discuss
whether the fee payer wants to:
      a.   Pay for the supplemental study necessary to determine the system
improvements costs related to the proposed development;
      b.   Modify the proposal to avoid generating extraordinary impact; or
      c.   Withdraw the application for certification, or development approval.
   (3)   If the fee payer agrees to pay for the supplemental study required to
document the proposed development's proportionate share of system improvements
costs, then the county and the fee payer shall jointly select an individual or
organization acceptable to both to perform such study. The fee payer shall
enter into a written agreement with such individual or organization to pay the
costs of such study. Such agreement shall require the supplemental study to be
completed within 30 days of such written agreement, unless the fee payer agrees
to a longer time.
   (4)   Once the study has been completed, the fee payer may choose to:
      a.   Pay the proportionate share of system improvements costs documented
by the supplemental study; or
      b.   Modify the proposed development to reduce such costs; or
      c.   Withdraw the application.
   (5)   If the fee payer agrees to pay the system improvements costs
documented in the supplemental study, that agreement shall be reduced to
writing between the county and the fee payer prior to review and consideration
of any application for any development approval or building permit related to
the proposed development.
   (6)   Notwithstanding any agreement by the fee payer to pay the
proportionate share of system improvements costs documented by the supplemental
study, nothing in this article shall obligate the county to approve development
that results in an extraordinary impact to the county.
(Ord. No. 2023-14, § 2, 10-2-2023)
Sec. 108-10. Fee payer refunds.
(a)   Duty to refund.
   (1)   An impact fee shall be refunded to a fee payer, or successor in
interest, or a property owner in the following circumstances:
      a.   Service is available but never provided;
      b.   A building permit, or permit for installation of a manufactured
home, is denied or abandoned;
      c.   The fee payer pays an impact fee under protest and a subsequent
review of the fee paid or the completion of an individual assessment determines
that the fee paid exceeded the proportionate share to which the county was
entitled to receive;
      d.   The county has collected an impact fee and the county has failed to
appropriate or expend the collected fees pursuant to subsection
108-110(a)(2) below; or
      e.   Failure of the county to commence construction or encumber the funds
in the capital projects fund.
   (2)   Any impact fee paid shall be refunded if the county has failed to
commence construction of system improvements in accordance with this article,
or to appropriate funds for such construction, within eight years after the
date on which such fee was collected by the county. Any refund due shall be
paid to the owner of record of the parcel for which the county's impact fee was
paid. The county may hold impact fees for longer than eight years but in no
event longer than 11 years from the date collected if the county identifies in
writing:
      a.   A reasonable cause why the fees should be held longer than eight
years; and
      b.   An anticipated date by which the fees will be expended.
If the county complies with the previous sentence, then any impact fees so
identified shall be refunded to the fee payer if the county has failed to
commence construction of system improvements in accordance with the written
notice, or to appropriate funds for such construction on or before the date
identified in such writing.
   (3)   After an impact fee has been paid pursuant to this article and after a
certificate of occupancy has been issued by the county, no refund of any part
of such fee shall be made if the project for which the fee was paid is later
demolished, destroyed, or is altered, reconstructed, or reconfigured so as to
reduce the size of the project or the number of units in the project.
   (4)   Each refund shall include a refund of interest at one-half the legal
rate provided for in Idaho Code, § 28-22-104 from the date on which the fee was
originally paid.
(c)   Process. The county shall make a determination of whether a refund is due
within 30 days after receipt of a written request for a refund from the fee
payer, successor in interest, or an owner of record of the property for which
the fee was paid. When the right to a refund exists, the county shall send the
refund within 90 days after the county determines that a refund is due.
(Ord. No. 2023-14, § 2, 10-2-2023)
Sec. 108-11. Establishment of capital projects fund; trust accounts.
(a)   Capital projects funds established. The capital projects fund will be
maintained by the county for the purpose of ensuring that all impact fees
collected, pursuant to this article, are used to address impacts reasonably
attributable to new development for which the impact fees are paid. The capital
projects fund shall have its own interest-bearing account. The interest earned
on the account pursuant to Idaho Code, § 67-8210(1) shall not be governed by
Idaho Code, § 57-127, as it may be amended, but shall be considered funds of
the capital projects fund and shall be subject to the same restrictions on uses
of funds as the impact fees on which the interest is generated.
(b)   Deposit of impact fees. All monies paid by a fee payer, pursuant to this
article, shall be identified as impact fees and upon receipt by the county
shall be promptly deposited in the capital projects fund account.
   (1)   Monies in the capital projects fund account shall be spent in the
order collected, on a first-in/first-out basis.
   (2)   The county shall maintain and keep accurate financial records for the
account which records shall:
      a.   Show the source and disbursement of all revenues;
      b.   Account for all monies received;
      c.   Ensure that the disbursement of funds from the account shall be used
solely and exclusively for the provisions of projects specified in the capital
improvements plan; and
      d.   Provide an annual accounting for the impact fee capital projects
fund account showing the source and amount of all funds collected and the
projects that were funded, which annual accounting shall be provided to the
county as part of the annual audit process of this article.
(Ord. No. 2023-14, § 2, 10-2-2023)
Sec. 108-12. Expenditure of impact fees.
(a)   Expenditures. Expenditures of impact fees collected and deposited in the
capital projects fund shall be made only for system improvements within the
service area for which the impact fee was collected in accordance with the
capital improvements plan.
(b)   Capital improvements plan reimbursement; surcharge. A portion of each
impact fee collected may be designated as a surcharge for reimbursement for the
cost of preparing the capital improvements plan in accordance with Idaho Code,
§ 67-8208. The surcharge shall not exceed the development's proportionate share
of the cost of preparing the capital improvements plan.
(Ord. No. 2023-14, § 2, 10-2-2023)
Sec. 108-13. Appeals, protest and mediation.
(a)   Appeals. Any fee payer that is or may be obligated to pay an impact fee,
individual assessment or an extraordinary impact, or that claims a right to
receive a refund, reimbursement, exemption or credit under this article, and
who is dissatisfied with a decision made either by the county in applying this
article, may appeal such decision. The fee payer shall have the burden on
appeal of proving by clear and convincing evidence that the decision was in
error.
(b)   Appeal process.
   (1)   Appeals of denials of an exemption from impact fees under section
108-3 of this article:
      a.   A fee payer shall file a written notice of the appeal with the
county development services department within 30 days after the date of a
denial of an exemption. Such notice of appeal shall include a statement
describing why the fee payer believes that the appealed decision was in error,
together with copies of any documents that the fee payer believes support the
claim.
      b.   The county development services department shall schedule a hearing
in front of the county board of commissioners within 30 days of receiving the
appeal. The fee payer or its representative shall have a right to be present
and to present evidence in support of the appeal. The county personnel who made
the decision under appeal or their representatives shall likewise have the
right to be present and to present evidence in support of the decision.
      c.   The county board of commissioners shall consider the decision
denying the exemption and also consider any additional evidence that may be
offered by the fee payer and county staff. The county board of commissioners
may affirm, reverse, or modify in whole or in part the decision appealed from
and issue a written decision within 30 days.
      d.   A final decision of the county board of commissioners may be
judicially reviewed pursuant to Idaho Code, § 31-1506.
   (2)   Appeals of impact fee schedule assessments, refunds, reimbursements,
credits, individual assessments, or extraordinary impacts under this article:
      a.   The fee payer shall file a written notice of the appeal with the
county within 30 days after the date of the county's decision, or the date on
which the fee payer submitted a payment of the impact fee under protest,
whichever is later. Such written application shall include a statement
describing why the fee payer believes that the appealed decision was in error,
together with copies of any documents that the fee payer believes support the
claim.
      b.   The county's board of commissioners, shall hear the appeal within 60
days after receipt of a written notice of appeal. The fee payer or its
representative shall have a right to be present and to present evidence in
support of the appeal. The county personnel who made the decision under appeal
or their representatives shall likewise have the right to be present and to
present evidence in support of the decision. The criteria to be used by the
county's board of commissioners in considering the appeal shall be whether:
         1.   The decision or interpretation made by the county; or
         2.   The alternative decision or interpretation offered by the fee
payer, more accurately reflects the intent of this article that new development
in the service area pay its proportionate share of the costs of system
improvements to public facilities necessary to serve new development and
whether the article has been correctly applied.
The county's board of commissioners shall issue a decision upholding,
reversing, or modifying the decision being appealed within 30 days after
hearing the appeal.
(c)   Payment under protest. A fee payer may pay an impact fee under protest in
order not to delay in the issuance of a building permit by the county. A fee
payer making a payment under protest shall not be estopped from exercising the
right to appeal provided herein, nor shall such fee payer be estopped from
receiving a refund of any amount deemed to have been illegally collected.
(d)   Mediation.
   (1)   Any fee payer that has a disagreement with a decision made by the
county regarding an impact fee determination that is or may be due for a
proposed development pursuant to this article, may enter into a voluntary
agreement with the county as the case may be, to subject the disagreement to
mediation by a qualified independent party acceptable to both parties to the
mediation.
   (2)   Mediation may take place at any time following the filing of a timely
appeal, or as an alternative to such appeal, provided that the request for
mediation is filed no later than the last date on which a timely appeal could
be filed pursuant to this section.
   (3)   Participation in mediation does not preclude the fee payer from
pursuing other remedies provided for in this section.
   (4)   If mediation is requested, any related mediation costs shall be shared
equally by the parties to the mediation, and a written agreement regarding the
payment of such costs shall be executed prior to the commencement of mediation.
   (5)   In the event that mediation does not resolve the issues, the fee payer
retains all rights of appeal as set forth in this section.
(Ord. No. 2023-14, § 2, 10-2-2023)
Sec. 108-14. Periodic reviews; annual budget.
(a)   Review and modification of capital improvements plan. Unless the county
board of commissioners deems some other period is appropriate, the county
shall, at least once every five years, commencing from the date of the original
adoption of the capital improvements plan, review the development potential and
update the capital improvements plan in accordance with the procedures set
forth in Idaho Code, § 67-8206, as it may be amended. Each update shall be
prepared by the county in consultation with the advisory committee.
(b)   Annual budget. The county shall annually adopt a capital budget.
(Ord. No. 2023-14, § 2, 10-2-2023)
Sec. 108-15. Audit.
As part of its annual audit process, the county shall prepare an annual report:
   (1)   Describing the amount of all impact fees collected, appropriated or
spent during the preceding year; and
   (2)   Describing the percentage of taxes and revenues from sources other
than the impact fees collected, appropriated or spent for system improvements
during the preceding year.
(Ord. No. 2023-14, § 2, 10-2-2023)
Sec. 108-16. Impact fee advisory committee.
(a)   Establishment and purpose. Pursuant to Idaho Code, § 67-8205, there is
hereby established development impact fee advisory committee (advisory
committee), whose purpose is to carry out the duties as set forth in Idaho
Code, § 67-8205(3), as it may be amended.
(b)   Membership. The advisory committee shall be composed of not fewer than
five members, all of whom must reside within the county. Two or more members
shall be active in the business of development, building or real estate. Two or
more members shall not be in the business of development, building or real
estate.
(c)   Meetings. Meetings may be called by the advisory committee by giving
reasonable notice of the time and place of the meeting in accordance with the
Open Meetings Law, Idaho Code, §§ 74-201 et seq., as may be amended. The
advisory committee shall adopt reasonable rules as are necessary to carry out
the duties and responsibilities of the committee subject to the approval of the
county, and elect such officers as deemed necessary.
(d)   Continuation of existing committees. Each development impact fee advisory
committee established as part of the preparation of the respective capital
improvements plans shall become the joint development impact fee advisory
committee and shall continue in existence.
(Ord. No. 2023-14, § 2, 10-2-2023)
Sec. 108-17. Miscellaneous provisions.
(a)   Nothing in this article shall prevent the county from requiring a
developer to construct reasonable project improvements, as are required by the
fire codes and other rules that are adopted by the state fire marshal, in
conjunction with a development.
(b)   Nothing in this article shall be construed to prevent or prohibit private
agreements between property owners or developers, the Idaho Transportation
Department and governmental entities in regard to the construction or
installation of system improvements or providing for credits or reimbursements
for system improvements costs incurred by a developer including inter-project
transfers of credits or providing for reimbursement for project improvements
which are used or shared by more than one development project.
(c)   Nothing in this article shall obligate the county to approve development
which results in an extraordinary impact.
(d)   Nothing in this article shall obligate the county to approve any
development request which may reasonably be expected to reduce levels of
service below minimum acceptable levels established in this article.
(e)   Nothing in this article shall be construed to create any additional right
to develop real property or diminish the county in regulating the orderly
development of real property within its boundaries
(f)   Nothing in this article shall work to limit the use by the county of the
power of eminent domain or supersede or conflict with requirements or
procedures authorized in the Idaho Code for local improvement district or
general obligation bond issues.
(g)   The county shall develop a plan for alternative sources of revenue, which
shall include but not necessarily be limited to plans generated during the
annual budget process, lobbying efforts, tax increment financing, and
implementation of user fees, administrative and regulatory fees and other forms
of revenue.
(h)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, that portion of a
project for which a complete application for a building permit has been
received by the county, prior to the effective date of this article, shall not
be subject to the impact fee imposed by this article. If the resulting building
permit is later revised or replaced after the effective date of the ordinance
codified in this article, and the new building permit(s) reflects a development
density, intensity, development size or number of service units more than ten
percent higher than that reflected in the original building permit, then the
impact fee may be charged on the difference in density, intensity, development
size or number of service units between the original and the revised or
replacement building permit.
(i)   Any monies, including any accrued interest not assigned to specific
system improvements within such capital improvements plan and not expended or
refunded pursuant to this article shall be retained in the same account until
the next fiscal year.
(j)   If the county discovers an error in the capital improvements plan that
results in assessment or payment of more than a proportionate share of system
improvement costs on any proposed development, the county shall:
   (1)   Adjust the impact fee to collect no more than a proportionate share;
or
   (2)   Discontinue the collection of any impact fees until the error is
corrected by ordinance.
(k)   If impact fees are calculated and paid based on a mistake or
misrepresentation, they shall be recalculated. Any amounts overpaid by a fee
payer shall be refunded by the county within 30 days after the acceptance of
the recalculated amount, with interest at the legal rate provided for in Idaho
Code, § 28-22-104 from the date on which the fee was paid. Any amounts
underpaid by the fee payer shall be paid to the county within 30 days after the
acceptance of the recalculated amount, with interest at the legal rate provided
for in Idaho Code, § 28-22-104 from the date on which the fee was paid.
(Ord. No. 2023-14, § 2, 10-2-2023)
Sec. 108-18. Rules of construction.
All provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this article shall
be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the act and
the Jefferson County Board of Commissioners may be fully carried out.
(Ord. No. 2023-14, § 2, 10-2-2023)
Secs. 108-19-108-100. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. FIRE DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES
Sec. 108-101. Short title, applicability, exceptions and purpose.
(a)   Short title. This chapter 108 article II shall be known and may be cited
as the Jefferson County Fire District Development Impact Fee Ordinance.
(b)   Findings. The Board of Jefferson County Commissioners finds that:
   (1)   Within unincorporated Jefferson County, the county is experiencing
considerable growth and development.
   (2)   The new growth and development occurring within unincorporated
Jefferson County will place ever-increasing demands on any fire district whose
boundaries include land in unincorporated Jefferson County to provide, improve
and expand existing public safety facilities to serve that new growth and
development and the tax revenues generated from that new growth and development
often does not generate sufficient funds to provide the necessary improvements
and expansion of the public safety facilities to protect the public health,
safety and welfare. Those users that create the increased demand should bear
their proportionate share of the cost of public safety facilities needed to
serve the new growth and development.
   (3)   Fire districts organized pursuant to Idaho Code, § 31-1401 et seq. do
not have authority to make and adopt ordinances as a method of carrying out
their statutory duties.
   (4)   The Idaho Development Impact Fee Act (act) at Idaho Code, § 67-8201 et
seq. requires an entity to adopt an ordinance in order to impose and collect
development impact fees.
   (5)   The act does provide, pursuant to Idaho Code, § 67-8204A, in
circumstances where the county and the fire district are both affected by the
considerable growth and development as is occurring within the county, that the
county and the fire district may enter into an intergovernmental agreement for
the purpose of agreeing to collect and expend development impact fees for
system improvements which provides for a new funding mechanism for those system
improvements costs incurred by the fire district to meet the demand and growth
occurring within the county and which promotes and accommodates orderly growth
and development and protects the public health, safety and general welfare of
the people, residential and nonresidential establishments within the boundaries
of the county.
   (6)   The county has statutory authority to make and adopt ordinances
pursuant to Idaho Code, § 31-714.
(c)   Authority. This chapter 108 article II is enacted pursuant to the
county's general police powers, its authority to enact ordinances, and its
authority as provided by the act and other applicable laws of the State of
Idaho to impose and collect development impact fees on behalf of the fire
district; and the county's and the fire district's authority to enter into an
intergovernmental agreement as provided for in Idaho Code, § 67-8204A when
jointly affected by growth and development for the purpose of agreeing to
impose, collect and expend development impact fees in order for new growth and
development to pay their proportionate share of the cost of public facilities
to serve that new growth and development.
(d)   Applicability. This article shall apply to the development of property
located within the boundaries of the Roberts Fire District and the Central Fire
District in unincorporated Jefferson County.
(e)   Purpose. The intent of this chapter 108 article II is to ensure that new
residential and nonresidential development bears a proportionate share of the
cost of system improvements; to ensure that such proportionate share does not
exceed the cost of such system improvements required to accommodate new
development; and to ensure that funds collected from new development are
actually used for system improvements in accordance with the act.
(Ord. No. 2023-14, § 2, 10-2-2023)
Sec. 108-102. Definitions.
As used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the following
meanings, unless another meaning is plainly intended and words and terms
appearing in the singular number includes the plural and the plural the
singular:
   Appropriate means to legally obligate by contract or otherwise commit to the
expenditure of funds by appropriation or other official act of the board of
commissioners of any fire district.
   Board of commissioners means the board of commissioners of the fire
district, which is its governing board.
   Building permit means the permit required for foundations, new construction
and additions pursuant to chapter 104 buildings and building regulations.
   Capital improvements means improvements with a useful life of ten years or
more, by new construction or other action, which increases the service capacity
of the fire district's capital facilities.
   Capital improvements element means a component of the capital improvements
plan adopted by the fire district and the county pursuant to Idaho Code, tit.
67, chs. 65 and 82 as they may be amended, which component meets the
requirements of the capital improvements plan required by the act.
   Capital improvements plan means the impact fee study and capital
improvements plan recommended by the impact fee advisory committee and adopted
by the fire district and the county that identifies the fire district capital
facilities for which the fire district's impact fees may be used as a funding
source.
   Capital projects fund (the "capital projects fund") shall mean and refer to
the fire district's development impact fee capital projects fund established by
action of the board of commissioners of the fire district as set forth
respectively in the board of commissioners' resolutions and pursuant to section
108-111 and Idaho Code, § 67-8210(1) is the respective capital projects fund
into which the fire district's impact fees shall be deposited and maintained by
the fire district.
   County means Jefferson County, Idaho.
   County board of commissioners means the board of commissioners of Jefferson
County.
   Developer means any person or legal entity undertaking development and/or
the subdivision of property pursuant to Idaho Code, §§ 50-1301—50-1334, as may
be amended.
   Development means any construction or installation of a building or
structure, or any change in use of a building or structure, or any change in
the use, character or appearance of land, which creates additional demand and
need for public facilities and/or subdivision of property that would permit any
change in the use, character or appearance of land.
   Development approval means any written duly authorized document from the
county which authorizes the commencement of a development.
   Development requirements means a requirement attached to a developmental
approval or other county governmental action approving or authorizing a
particular development project including, but not limited to, a rezoning, which
requirement compels the payment, dedication or contribution of goods, services,
land or money as condition of approval.
   Dwelling i.e. dwelling unit means any building or structure with facilities
for cooking, sleeping and sanitation designed as a shelter or enclosure for
persons, conventionally built, modular constructed, mobile home or portion
thereof, remodeled for residential occupancy.
   (1)   Accessory dwelling means a dwelling unit located on the same lot as a
single-family dwelling, either within the same building as the single-family
dwelling or in a detached building consistent with section 112-358.
   (2)   Multi-family dwelling means a building or portion thereof which
contains more than two dwelling units.
   (3)   Single family dwelling means a building which contains one dwelling
unit or which meets the definition of a "group home."
   Extraordinary costs means those costs incurred as result of an extraordinary
impact.
   Extraordinary impact means an impact which is reasonably determined by the
fire district to:
   (1)   Result in the need for fire district system improvements, the cost of
which will significantly exceed the sum of the development impact fees to be
generated from the project or the sum agreed to be paid pursuant to a
development agreement as allowed by Idaho Code, § 67- 8214(2), as it may be
amended; or
   (2)   Result in the need for fire district system improvements which are not
identified in the capital improvements plan.
   Family shall mean:
   (1)   A person living alone or two or more persons related by blood or
marriage.
   (2)   A group of not more than ten persons who need not be related by blood
or marriage living together in a dwelling unit.
   (3)   Eight or fewer unrelated mentally and/or physically handicapped or
elderly persons residing in a dwelling unit who are supervised at the dwelling
in connection with their handicap or age-related infirmity, provided that no
more than two staff members reside in the dwelling unit at any one time.
(Resident staff shall not be counted toward the "eight or fewer" criterion.)
   Fee payer means the person who pays or is required to pay the fire
district's impact fee. A fee payer may include a developer.
   Fire district shall mean and refer to a fire district organized and existing
by virtue of the Fire District Law, Idaho Code, tit. 31, ch. 14, and which has
entered into an intergovernmental agreement with the county for the collection
and expenditure of development impact fees.
   Fire district administrator means the fire district administrator of the
fire district, and their designee.
   Fire district capital facilities shall mean stations, apparatus, vehicles
and equipment of the fire district which is identified in Exhibit III-2 of the
fire district's capital improvements plan as adopted by the county, and
specifically including those related costs including system improvement costs,
but not including maintenance, operations, or improvements that do not expand
their capacity.
   Fire district impact fee means a payment of money imposed as condition of
development approval to pay for a proportionate share of the costs of system
improvements needed to serve the development. The term does not include the
following:
   (1)   A charge or fee to pay the administrative plan review, or inspection
cost associated with permits required for development;
   (2)   Connection or hookup charges;
   (3)   Availability charges for drainage, sewer, water or transportation
charges for services provided directly to the development; or
   (4)   Amounts collected from a developer in a transaction in which the fire
district has incurred expenses in constructing capital improvements for the
development if the owner or developer has agreed to be financially responsible
for the construction or installation of those capital improvements, unless a
written agreement is made, pursuant to Idaho Code, § 67-8209(3) as it may be
amended, for credit or reimbursement.
   Intergovernmental agreement shall mean and refer to the fire district's
intergovernmental agreement with the county pursuant to Idaho Code, § 67-8204A
for the collection and expenditure of fire district impact fees established
pursuant to this article.
   Impact fee advisory committee means the fire district's joint development
impact fee advisory committee ("impact fee advisory committee") formed and
staffed by the fire district pursuant to Idaho Code, § 67-8205 to prepare and
recommend the fire district's capital improvements plan and any amendments,
revisions or updates of the same.
   Land use assumptions means a description of the service area and projections
of land uses, densities, intensities and population in the service area over at
least a ten year period.
   Level of service means a measure of the relationship between service
capacity and service demand for public facilities.
   Manufactured/mobile home means a structure, constructed according to HUD/FHA
mobile home construction and safety standards, transportable in one or more
sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight feet or more in width or is 40
body feet or more in length, or when erected on site, is 320 or more square
feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a
dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to required
utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
systems contained in such structure, except that such term shall include any
structure which meets all the requirements of this definition except the size
requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a
certification required by the secretary of housing and urban development and
complies with the standards established under 42 U.S.C. § 5401 et seq.
   Modular building means any building or building component other than a
manufactured/mobile home, which is constructed according to the International
Building Code, as adopted or any amendments thereto, which is of closed
construction and is either entirely or substantially prefabricated or assembled
at a place other than the building site.
   Present value means the total current monetary value of past, present or
future payments, contributions or dedications of goods, services, materials,
construction or money.
   Project means a particular development on an identified parcel of land.
   Project improvements, in contrast to system improvements, shall mean site
improvements and facilities that are planned and designed to provide service
for a particular development project and that are necessary for the use and
convenience of the occupants or users of the project.
   Proportionate share means that portion of system improvement costs
determined pursuant to Idaho Code, § 67-8207 which reasonably relates to the
service demands and needs of the project.
   Public facilities means land, buildings, apparatus, vehicles and equipment
used for fire, emergency medical and rescue, and water supply production,
storage and distribution facilities which have a useful life of ten years or
more.
   Recreational vehicle means a vehicular type unit primarily designed as
temporary quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, which either has
its own motive power or is mounted on or drawn by another vehicle.
   Service area means land within the boundaries of the fire district within
unincorporated Jefferson County as established pursuant Idaho Code, tit. 31,
ch. 14 in which specific public facilities provide service to Development on
the basis of sound planning or engineering principles or both as identified in
the fire district's capital improvements plan.
   Service unit means a standardized measure of consumption, use, generation or
discharge attributable to an individual unit of development calculated in
accordance with generally accepted engineering or planning standards for a
particular category of capital improvements. As specifically used in this
chapter 108 article II, service units include all dwelling units as defined
herein and includes, on the square foot basis, nonresidential development.
   System improvements means in contrast to project improvements, shall mean
capital improvements to public facilities which are designed to provide service
to a service area. For the purpose of this article, system improvements are for
fire district capital facilities designed to provide both fire protection and
emergency medical services.
   System improvement costs shall mean costs incurred for construction or
reconstruction of system improvements, including design, acquisition,
engineering and other costs, and also including, without limitation, the type
of costs described in Idaho Code, § 50-1702(h), as it may be amended, to
provide additional public facilities needed to service new growth and
development.
   For clarification, system improvement costs do not include:
   (1)   Construction, acquisition or expansion of public facilities other than
capital improvements identified in the capital improvements plan;
   (2)   Improvements, repair, operation or maintenance of existing or new
capital;
   (3)   Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing capital
improvements to serve existing development in order to meet stricter safety,
efficiency, environmental or regulatory standards;
   (4)   Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing capital
improvements to provide better service to existing development;
   (5)   Administrative and operating costs of the fire district and/or the
county unless such costs are attributable to development of the capital
improvements plan, as provided in Idaho Code, § 67-8208, as it may be amended;
and
   (6)   Principal payments and interest or other finance charges on bonds or
other indebtedness except financial obligations issued by or on behalf of the
fire district to finance capital improvements identified in the capital
improvements plan.
   Trust account means the interest-bearing account within the fire district's
impact fee capital projects fund as established in this article.
(Ord. No. 2023-14, § 2, 10-2-2023)
Sec. 108-103. Establishment of fire district service areas; imposition of fire
district impact fee; fee schedule; exemptions.
(a)   Establishment of fire district service areas. There is hereby established
a service area for the fire district which includes all land in unincorporated
Jefferson County within the boundaries of the fire district as established
pursuant to Idaho Code, tit. 31, ch. 14.
(b)   Imposition of fire district impact fees. Fire district impact fees for
the fire district are hereby imposed on all new development located within the
boundaries of the fire district in unincorporated Jefferson County.
(c)   Fee schedule. Fire district's impact fees shall be calculated in
accordance with the fee schedule set forth below providing for standard fees
based on the total number of dwelling units or square feet of nonresidential
space in the development, unless:
   (1)   The fee payer requests an individual assessment pursuant to section
108-106 of the article; or
   (2)   The fire district finds the development will have an extraordinary
impact pursuant to section
108-109 of this article.
(d)   The methodology for determining the costs per service unit provided for
in the fee schedule is set forth in the fire district's capital improvements
plan as adopted by the county pursuant to Idaho Code, § 67-8208, as it may be
amended.
   (1)   Roberts Fire District impact fee schedule:
      Residential (per dwelling unit)   $500.00
      Nonresidential (per square foot)   $0.05
   (2)   Central Fire District impact fee schedule:
      Residential (per dwelling unit)   $200.00
      Nonresidential (per square foot)   $0.04
(e)   Developer's election. A developer shall have the right to elect to pay a
project's proportionate share of system improvement costs by payment of impact
fee according to the fee schedule as full and complete payment of the
development project's proportionate share of system improvements costs, except
as provided in Idaho Code, § 67-8214(3), as it may be amended.
(f)   Procedures.
   (1)   Building permit. Upon submittal of complete building permit plans for
the development to the county, the county shall calculate the fire district
impact fee for the development within 30 days of submittal unless:
      a.   The fee payer had previously requested and been granted an
individual assessment pursuant to this article; or
      B.   The fire district has previously determined the development may have
an extraordinary impact pursuant to this article.
(g)   Exemptions. The provisions of this article shall not apply to the
following:
   (1)   Rebuilding the same amount of floor space of a structure which is
destroyed by fire or other catastrophe, provided the structure is rebuilt and
ready for occupancy within two years of its destruction;
   (2)   Remodeling or repairing a structure which does not increase the number
of service units;
   (3)   Replacing a residential unit, including a manufactured/mobile home,
with another residential unit on the same lot; provided that, the number of
service units does not increase;
   (4)   Placing a temporary construction trailer or office on a lot;
   (5)   Constructing an addition on a residential structure which does not
increase the number of service units;
   (6)   Adding uses that are typically accessory to residential uses, such as
tennis court or a clubhouse, unless it can be clearly demonstrated that the use
creates a significant impact on the capacity of system improvements; or
   (7)   The installation of a modular building, manufactured/mobile home or
recreational vehicle if the fee payer can demonstrate by documentation such as
utility bills and tax records that either:
      a.   A modular building, manufactured/mobile home or recreational vehicle
was legally in place on the lot or space prior to the effective date of this
article; or
      b.   A fire district impact fee has been paid previously for the modular
building, manufactured/mobile home or recreational vehicle on that same lot or
space.
(h)   Exemption claim process. A fee payer shall claim an exempt development
activity upon application of a building permit or manufactured/mobile home
installation permit, or if no building permit or manufactured/mobile home
installation permit required, prior to the time construction commences. Any
exemption not so claimed shall be deemed waived by the fee payer. Claims for
exemption shall be determined by the county within 15 days of receipt of the
claim for exemption.
(Ord. No. 2023-14, § 2, 10-2-2023)
Sec. 108-104. Collection of fire district impact fees; enforcement.
(a)   Payment of fees. The fire district impact fee shall be paid to the county
at the following times:
   (1)   If a building permit is required, then before or at the time the
permit is issued;
   (2)   If no building permit is required, then at the time that construction
commences; or
   (3)   At such other time as the fee payer or developer and the fire district
have agreed upon in writing with notice to the county.
(b)   Enforcement. When any fire district impact fee is due pursuant to this
article, or pursuant to the terms of any written agreement between a fee payer
and the fire district, and such fire district impact fee has not been paid in a
timely manner, the county may exercise any or all of the following powers as
applicable to its authority, in any combination, to enforce the collection of
the fire district impact fee:
   (1)   Withhold building permits, manufactured home installation permits, or
other county development approval related to the development for which the fire
district impact fee is due until all fire district impact fees due have been
paid, and issue stop work orders, and revoke or suspend a building permit;
   (2)   Withhold utility services from the development for which the fire
district impact fee is due until all fire district impact fees due have been
paid;
   (3)   Add interest to the fire district impact fee not paid in full at the
legal rate provided for in Idaho Code, § 28-22-104, as it may be amended, plus
five percent beginning on the date at which the payment of the fire district
impact fee was due until paid in full;
   (4)   Impose a penalty of five percent of the total fire district impact fee
(not merely the portion dishonored, late or not paid in full) per month
beginning on the date at which the payment of the fire district impact fee was
due until paid in full; and
   (5)   Impose a lien pursuant to the authority of Idaho Code, § 67-8213(4)
for failure to timely pay a fire district impact fee following the procedures
contained in Idaho Code, tit. 45, ch. 5.
(c)   Fee paid to fire district. In the event a fire district impact fee is
paid to the fire district, then the fire district administrator shall
immediately notify the county of said payment.
(d)   Fee paid to county. All fire district impact fees paid to the county
shall be transferred to the fire district administrator on a once-a-month
basis.
(Ord. No. 2023-14, § 2, 10-2-2023)
Sec. 108-105. Certification.
(a)   Request for written certification. A fee payer may request a written
certification of the impact fee schedule or individual assessment which shall
establish the impact fee for that development. Such certification shall
establish the fire district impact fee so long as there is no material change
to the particular development as identified in the individual assessment
application, or the impact fee schedule. A certification may be applied for in
the manner established in section
108-105 (b).
(b)   Request for certification requirements. Requests for certification shall
be in writing and made to the fire district administrator. Within 30 days after
receiving such request, the fire district administrator shall issue a written
certification of the amount of the fire district impact fee due for the
proposed development. The certification shall include an explanation of the
calculation of the fire district impact fee including an explanation of factors
considered under Idaho Code, § 67-8207 and shall also specify the system
improvement(s) for which the fire district impact fee is intended to be used.
The fire district administrator shall provide the certification to the fee
payer and the county.
(Ord. No. 2023-14, § 2, 10-2-2023)
Sec. 108-106. Individual assessment.
(a)   Individual assessment. In lieu of calculating the amount of the fire
district impact fee using the impact fee schedule in section
108-103 of this article, an individual assessment of impact fees is permitted
when the fee payer demonstrates by clear and convincing evidence that the
established impact fee is inappropriate.
   (1)   Individual assessment process. A fee payer may file a written request
for an individual assessment of the development by the fire district with the
fire district administrator prior to the receipt of a building permit or other
necessary approvals or entitlements from Jefferson County. A request for an
individual assessment process shall involve consideration of studies, data, and
any other relevant information submitted by the fee payer to adjust the amount
of the fire district impact fee. If a fee payer files a request for the use of
an individual assessment, the fee payer shall be responsible for retaining a
qualified professional to prepare the individual assessment that complies with
the requirements of chapter 108 article II, at the fee payer's expense. The fee
payer shall bear the burden of proving by clear and convincing evidence that
the resulting individual assessment is a more accurate measure of its
proportionate share of the cost of system improvements, based on the fire
district's adopted level of service, than the development impact fees that
would otherwise be due pursuant to the fee schedule.
   (2)   Each individual assessment request and supporting documentation
submitted by the fee payer shall be based on the same level of service
standards and unit costs for system improvements used in the fire district's
capital improvements plan, shall use an average cost (not a marginal cost)
methodology, and shall document the relevant methodologies and assumptions
used.
   (3)   Each individual assessment request delivered to the fire district
administrator may then be accepted, rejected, or accepted with modifications by
the fire district administrator as the basis for calculating the fire district
impact fee. The criteria for acceptance, rejection or acceptance with
modifications shall be whether the individual assessment is a more accurate
measure of demand for system improvements element(s) created by the proposed
development, or the costs of those facilities, than the applicable fee shown in
the fee schedule.
   (4)   The fire district administrator shall issue a written decision within
30 days following receipt of a completed request for individual assessment
together with all supporting information from the fee payer, so as not to
unreasonably delay the developer's (fee payer's) subsequent applications to the
county for building permits.
   (5)   The decision by the fire district administrator on an application for
an individual assessment shall include an explanation of the calculation of the
fire district impact fee, shall specify the system improvement(s) for which the
fire district impact fee is intended to be used, and shall include an
explanation of those factors identified in Idaho Code, § 67-8207.
   (6)   If an individual assessment is accepted or accepted with modifications
by the fire district administrator then the fire district impact fee due under
chapter 108 article II for such development shall be calculated according to
such individual assessment.
   (7)   The fire district administrator shall provide notice of final
determination of an individual assessment to the fee payer and Jefferson
County.
(Ord. No. 2023-14, § 2, 10-2-2023)
Sec. 108-107. Developer credits and reimbursement..
(a)   Conflict of interest. When a developer or their predecessor in title or
interest has constructed system improvements of the same category as a fire
district's capital improvements element, or contributed or dedicated land or
money towards the completion of system improvements of the same category as the
fire district's capital improvements element, and the fire district has
accepted such construction, contribution or dedication, the fire district shall
issue a credit against the fire district's impact fees otherwise due for the
same fire district's capital improvements element in connection with the
proposed development, as set forth in this section
108-107, credit shall be issued regardless of whether the contribution or
dedication to system improvements was required by the fire district as a
condition of development approval or was offered by the developer and accepted
by the fire district in writing, and regardless of whether the contribution or
dedication was contributed by the developer or by a local improvement district
controlled by the developer.
(b)   Credits against fee. Credits against a fire district impact fee shall not
be given for:
   (1)   Project improvements; or
   (2)   Any construction, contribution or dedication not agreed to in writing
by the fire district prior to commencement of the construction, contribution,
or dedication.
   Credits issued for one fire district capital improvements element may not be
used to reduce fire district impact fees due for a different capital
improvement. No credits shall be issued for system improvements contributed or
dedicated prior to the effective date of this chapter 108, article II.
(c)   Valuation of credit at present value.
   (1)   Land. Credit for qualifying land dedications shall, at the fee payer's
option, be valued at the present value of:
      a.   100 percent of the most recent assessed value for such land as shown
in the records of the county assessor; or
      b.   that fair market value established by a private appraiser acceptable
to the fire district in an appraisal paid for by the fee payer.
   (2)   Improvements. Credit for qualifying acquisition or construction of
system improvements shall be valued by the fire district at the present value
of such improvements based on complete engineering drawings, specifications,
and construction cost estimates submitted by the fee payer to the fire
district. The fire district administrator shall determine the amount of credit
due based on the information submitted, or, if it determines that such
information is inaccurate or unreliable, then on alternative engineering or
construction costs acceptable to the fire district as a more accurate measure
of the value of the offered system improvements to the fire district.
(d)   When credits become effective.
   (1)   Land. Approved credits for land dedications shall become effective
when the land has been conveyed to the fire district in a form acceptable to
the fire district, at no cost to the fire district, and has been accepted by
the fire district. Upon request of the fee payer, the fire district shall issue
a letter stating the amount of credit available.
   (2)   Improvements. Approved credits for acquisition or construction of
system improvements shall generally become effective when:
      a.   All required construction has been completed and has been accepted
by the fire district,
      b.   A suitable maintenance and warranty bond has been received and
approved by the fire district, and
      c.   All design, construction, inspection, testing, bonding, and
acceptance procedures have been completed in compliance with all applicable
requirements of the fire district and the State of Idaho. Upon request of the
fee payer, the fire district shall issue a letter stating the amount of credit
available.
(e)   Credit request process.
   (1)   Request. In order to obtain a credit against a fire district impact
fee otherwise due, a fee payer shall submit to the fire district administrator
a written offer of request to dedicate to the fire district specific parcels of
qualifying land or a written offer to contribute or construct specific system
improvements to the fire district capital facilities in accordance with all
applicable state or county design and construction standards, and shall
specifically request a credit against the type of fire district impact fee for
which the land dedication or system improvements is offered.
   (2)   Review. After receipt of the written offer of request for credit, the
fire district administrator shall review the request and determine whether the
land or system improvements offered for credit will reduce the costs of
providing fire district capital facilities by an amount at least equal to the
value of the credit. If the fire district administrator determines that the
offered credit satisfies those criteria and will be acceptable to the fire
district's board of commissioners, then the credit shall be issued. The fire
district shall complete its review and determination of an application within
30 days after receipt of an application for credit.
   (3)   Credits exceeding fee amounts due. If the credit due to a fee payer
pursuant to subsection
108-107
(c) exceeds the fire district impact fee that would otherwise be due from the
fee payer pursuant to the chapter 108, article II (whether calculated through
the impact fee schedule in section
108-103 or through an individual assessment), the fee payer may choose to
receive such credit in the form of either:
      a.   A credit against future fire district impact fee due for the same
system improvements; or
      b.   A reimbursement from fire district impact fees paid by future
development that impacts the system improvements contributed or dedicated by
the fee payer.
   Unless otherwise stated in an agreement with the fee payer, the fire
district shall be under no obligation to use any of the fire district funds —
other than fire district impact fees paid by other development for the same
system improvements — to reimburse the fee payer for any credit in excess of
fire district impact fees that are due.
   (4)   Written agreement required. If credit or reimbursement is due to the
fee payer pursuant to this section
108-107, the fire district shall enter into a written agreement with the fee
payer, negotiated in good faith, prior to the contribution, dedication, or
funding of the system improvements giving rise to the credit. The agreement
shall provide for the amount of credit or the amount, time and form of
reimbursement, and shall have a term not exceeding ten years.
   (5)   The fire district administrator's determination on the written offer
of request for credit shall be provided to the fee payer and the county.
(Ord. No. 2023-14, § 2, 10-2-2023)
Sec. 108-108. Methodology for the calculation of fire district impact fees.
(a)   General provisions.
   (1)   Accounting principles. The calculation of the fire district impact fee
shall be in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
development impact fee shall not be deemed invalid because payment of the fee
may result in an incidental benefit to owners or developers within the service
area other than the fee payer.
   (2)   Levels of service. The fire district impact fee shall be calculated on
the basis of levels of service for public facilities in the adopted capital
improvement plan that are applicable to existing development as well as new
growth and development. The construction, improvement, expansion or enlargement
of new or existing public facilities for which the fire district impact fee is
imposed must be attributable to the capacity demands generated by the new
development.
(b)   Methodology; proportionate methodology. The fire district impact fee
shall not exceed a proportionate share of the cost of the system improvements
determined in accordance with Idaho Code, § 67-8207, as it may be amended. Fire
district impact fees shall be based on actual system improvements costs or
reasonable estimates of such costs. The amount of the fire district impact fee
shall be calculated using the methodology contained in the adopted capital
improvements plan.
(c)   Proportionate share determination.
   (1)   The fire district impact fee shall be based on a reasonable and fair
formula or method under which the fire district impact fee imposed does not
exceed a proportionate share of the costs incurred or to be incurred by the
fire district in the provision of system improvements to serve the new
development. The proportionate share is the costs attributable to the new
development after the fire district considers the following:
      a.   Any appropriate credit, offset or contribution of money, dedication
of land or construction of system improvements;
      b.   Payments reasonably anticipated to be made by or as a result of a
new Development in the form of user fees and debt service payments;
      c.   That portion of general tax or other revenues allocated by the fire
district to system improvements; and
      d.   All other available sources of funding such system improvements.
   (2)   In determining the proportionate share of the cost of system
improvements to be paid by the developer, the following factors shall be
considered by the fire district and accounted for in the calculation of the
fire district's impact fee:
      a.   The costs of existing system improvements within the service area;
      b.   The means by which existing system improvements have been financed;
      c.   The extent to which the new development will contribute to system
improvements costs through taxation, assessments, or developer or landowner
contributions, or has previously contributed to system improvements costs
through developer or landowner contributions;
      d.   The extent to which the new development is required to contribute to
the cost of existing system improvements in the future;
      e.   The extent to which the new development should be credited for
providing system improvements, without charge to other properties within the
service area;
      f.   Extraordinary costs, if any, incurred in serving the new
development;
      g.   The time and price differential inherent in a fair comparison of
fees paid at different times; and
      h.   The availability of other sources of funding system improvements
including, but not limited to, user charges, general tax levies,
intergovernmental transfers and special taxation.
(Ord. No. 2023-14, § 2, 10-2-2023)
Sec. 108-109. Extraordinary impact.
(a)   Initial determination. A fire district may make an initial determination
that development may impose an extraordinary impact due to a review of a
development application transmitted by the county to a fire district pursuant
to the county's zoning authority under the Local Land Use Planning Act, Idaho
Code, tit. 67, ch. 65.
(b)   Process.
   (1)   Within 30 days after fire district administrator's receipt from the
county of the development application, the fire district administrator will
notify the fee payer and the county of the fire district administrator's
initial determination that the development may impose an extraordinary impact.
Such notice shall include that a supplemental study, at the fee payer's expense
will be required.
   (2)   Within 30 days following the designation of a development with
extraordinary impact, the fire district administrator shall meet with the fee
payer to discuss whether the fee payer wants to:
      a.   Pay for the supplemental study necessary to determine the system
improvements costs related to the proposed development;
      b.   Modify the proposal to avoid generating extraordinary impact; or
      c.   Withdraw the application for certification, or development approval.
   (3)   If the fee payer agrees to pay for the supplemental study required to
document the proposed development's proportionate share of system improvements
costs, then the fire district and the fee payer shall jointly select an
individual or organization acceptable to both to perform such study. The fee
payer shall enter into a written agreement with such individual or organization
to pay the costs of such study. Such agreement shall require the supplemental
study to be completed within 30 days of such written agreement, unless the fee
payer agrees to a longer time.
   (4)   Once the study has been completed, the fee payer may choose to:
      a.   Pay the proportionate share of system improvements costs documented
by the supplemental study; or
      b.   Modify the proposed development to reduce such costs; or
      c.   Withdraw the application.
The fire district administrator shall notify the county of the fee payer's
choice within 15 days of the fee payer's decision.
   (5)   If the fee payer agrees to pay the system improvements costs
documented in the supplemental study, that agreement shall be reduced to
writing between the fire district and the fee payer prior to review and
consideration of any application for any development approval or building
permits related to the proposed development. The fire district administrator
shall provide a copy of the agreement to the county within 15 days after the
agreement has been signed by both parties.
   (6)   Notwithstanding any agreement by the fee payer to pay the
proportionate share of system improvements costs documented by the supplemental
study, nothing in this chapter 108, article II shall obligate the county to
approve development that results in an extraordinary impact to the fire
district.
(Ord. No. 2023-14, § 2, 10-2-2023)
Sec. 108-110. Fee payer refunds.
(a)   Duty to refund.
   (1)   A fire district's impact fee shall be refunded to a fee payer, or
successor in interest, or a property owner in the following circumstances:
      a.   Service is available but never provided;
      b.   A building permit, or permit for installation of a manufactured
home, is denied or abandoned;
      c.   The fee payer pays a fire district impact fee under protest and a
subsequent review of the fee paid or the completion of an individual assessment
determines that the fee paid exceeded the proportionate share to which the fire
district was entitled to receive;
      d.   The fire district has collected a fire district impact fee and the
fire district has failed to appropriate or expend the collected fees pursuant
to subsection
108-110(a)(2) below; or
      e.   Failure of the fire district to commence construction or encumber
the fund in the fire district's development impact fee capital projects fund.
   (2)   Any fire district impact fee paid shall be refunded if the fire
district has failed to commence construction of system improvements in
accordance with this chapter 108, article II or to appropriate funds for such
construction, within eight years after the date on which such fee was collected
by the fire district. Any refund due shall be paid to the owner of record of
the parcel for which the fire district's impact fee was paid. The fire district
may hold fire district impact fees for longer than eight years but in no event
longer than 11 years from the date collected if the fire district identifies in
writing:
      a.   A reasonable cause why the fees should be held longer than eight
years; and
      b.   An anticipated date by which the fees will be expended. If the fire
district complies with the previous sentence, then any fire district impact
fees so identified shall be refunded to the fee payer if the fire district has
failed to commence construction of system improvements in accordance with the
written notice, or to appropriate funds for such construction on or before the
date identified in such writing.
   (3)   After a fire district impact fee has been paid pursuant to this
article and after a notice of completion has been issued by the county, no
refund of any part of such fee shall be made if the project for which the fee
was paid is later demolished, destroyed, or is altered, reconstructed, or
reconfigured so as to reduce the size of the project or the number of units in
the project.
   (4)   Each refund shall include a refund of interest at one-half the legal
rate provided for in Idaho Code, § 28-22-104 from the date on which the fee was
originally paid.
(b)   Process. The fire district shall make a determination of whether a refund
is due within 30 days after receipt of a written request for a refund from the
fee payer, successor in interest, or an owner of record of the property for
which the fee was paid. When the right to a refund exists, the fire district
shall send the refund within 90 days after the fire district determines that a
refund is due.
(Ord. No. 2023-14, § 2, 10-2-2023)
Sec. 108-111. Establishment of fire district capital projects fund; trust
accounts.
(a)   Capital projects funds established. The capital projects fund established
by the fire district will be maintained by the fire district for the purpose of
ensuring that all fire district impact fees collected, pursuant to this chapter
108, article II are used to address impacts reasonably attributable to new
development for which the fire district impact fees are paid. The capital
projects fund shall have its own interest-bearing account. The interest earned
on the account pursuant to Idaho Code, § 67-8210(1) shall not be governed by
Idaho Code, § 57-127, as it may be amended, but shall be considered funds of
the capital projects fund and shall be subject to the same restrictions on uses
of funds as the fire district impact fees on which the interest is generated.
(b)   Deposit of fire district impact fees. All monies paid by a fee payer,
pursuant to this chapter 108, article II shall be identified as fire district
impact fees and upon receipt by the fire district shall be promptly deposited
by the fire district administrator in the capital projects fund account.
   (1)   Monies in the capital projects fund account shall be spent in the
order collected, on a first-in/first-out basis.
   (2)   The fire district shall maintain and keep accurate financial records
for the account which records shall:
      a.   Show the source and disbursement of all revenues;
      b.   Account for all monies received;
      c.   Ensure that the disbursement of funds from the account shall be used
solely and exclusively for the provisions of projects specified in the capital
improvements plan; and
      d.   Provide an annual accounting for the fire district impact fee
capital projects fund account showing the source and amount of all funds
collected and the projects that were funded, which annual accounting shall be
provided to the county as part of the annual audit process of this chapter 108,
article II.
(Ord. No. 2023-14, § 2, 10-2-2023)
Sec. 108-112. Expenditure of fire district impact fees.
(a)   Expenditures. Expenditures of fire district impact fees collected and
deposited in the capital projects fund shall be made only for system
improvements within the service area for which the impact fee was collected in
accordance with the capital improvements plan.
(b)   Capital improvements plan reimbursement; surcharge. A portion of each
impact fee collected may be designated as a surcharge for reimbursement of the
fire district for the cost of preparing the capital improvements plan in
accordance with Idaho Code, § 67-8208. The surcharge shall not exceed the
development's proportionate share of the cost of preparing the capital
improvements plan.
(Ord. No. 2023-14, § 2, 10-2-2023)
Sec. 108-113. Appeals, protest and mediation.
(a)   Appeals. Any fee payer that is or may be obligated to pay a fire district
impact fee, individual assessment or an extraordinary impact, or that claims a
right to receive a refund, reimbursement, exemption or credit under this
chapter 108, article II and who is dissatisfied with a decision made either by
the county or by the fire district administrator in applying this article, may
appeal such decision. The fee payer shall have the burden on appeal of proving
by clear and convincing evidence that the decision was in error.
(b)   Appeal process.
   (1)   Appeals of denials of an exemption from impact fees under section
108-103.
      a.   A fee payer shall file a written notice of the appeal with the
Jefferson County Planning Department within 30 days after the date of a denial
of an exemption. Such notice of appeal shall include a statement describing why
the fee payer believes that the appealed decision was in error, together with
copies of any documents that the fee payer believes support the claim.
      b.   The Jefferson County Planning Department shall schedule a hearing in
front of the county board of commissioners within 30 days of receiving the
appeal. The fee payer or its representative shall have a right to be present
and to present evidence in support of the appeal. The county personnel who made
the decision under appeal or their representatives shall likewise have the
right to be present and to present evidence in support of the decision.
      c.   The county board of commissioners shall consider the decision
denying the exemption and also consider any additional evidence that may be
offered by the fee payer and county staff. The county board of commissioners
may affirm, reverse, or modify in whole or in part the decision appealed from
and issue a written decision within 30 days.
      d.   A final decision of the county board of commissioners may be
judicially reviewed pursuant to Idaho Code, § 31-1506.
   (2)   Appeals of impact fee schedule assessments, refunds, reimbursements,
credits, individual assessments, or extraordinary impacts under this article.
      a.   The fee payer shall file a written notice of the appeal with the
fire district administrator within 30 days after the date of the fire district
administrator's decision, or the date on which the fee payer submitted a
payment of the fire district impact fee under protest, whichever is later. Such
written application shall include a statement describing why the fee payer
believes that the appealed decision was in error, together with copies of any
documents that the fee payer believes support the claim.
      b.   The fire district's board of commissioners, shall hear the appeal
within 60 days after receipt of a written notice of appeal. The fee payer or
its representative shall have a right to be present and to present evidence in
support of the appeal. The fire district administrator who made the decision
under appeal or its representatives shall likewise have the right to be present
and to present evidence in support of the decision. The criteria to be used by
the fire district's board of commissioners in considering the appeal shall be
whether:
         1.   The decision or interpretation made by the fire district
administrator; or
         2.   The alternative decision or interpretation offered by the fee
payer, more accurately reflects the intent of this chapter 108, article II that
new development in the service area pay its proportionate share of the costs of
system improvements to fire district facilities necessary to serve new
development and whether the article has been correctly applied.
The fire district's board of commissioners shall issue a decision upholding,
reversing, or modifying the decision being appealed within 30 days after
hearing the appeal.
(c)   Payment under protest. A fee payer may pay a fire district impact fee
under protest in order not to delay in the issuance of a building permit by the
county. A fee payer making a payment under protest shall not be estopped from
exercising the right to appeal provided herein, nor shall such fee payer be
estopped from receiving a refund of any amount deemed to have been illegally
collected.
(d)   Mediation.
   (1)   Any fee payer that has a disagreement with a decision made by the
county or a decision made by the fire district administrator regarding a fire
district impact fee determination that is or may be due for a proposed
development pursuant to this chapter 108, may enter into a voluntary agreement
with the county, or the fire district, as the case may be, to subject the
disagreement to mediation by a qualified independent party acceptable to both
parties to the mediation.
   (2)   Mediation may take place at any time following the filing of a timely
appeal, or as an alternative to such appeal, provided that the request for
mediation is filed no later than the last date on which a timely appeal could
be filed pursuant to this article II.
   (3)   Participation in mediation does not preclude the fee payer from
pursuing other remedies provided for in this section
108-113.
   (4)   If mediation is requested, any related mediation costs shall be shared
equally by the parties to the mediation, the fire district, or the county, and
a written agreement regarding the payment of such costs shall be executed prior
to the commencement of mediation.
   (5)   In the event that mediation does not resolve the issues, the fee payer
retains all rights of appeal as set forth in this section
108-113.
(Ord. No. 2023-14, § 2, 10-2-2023)
Sec. 108-114. Periodic reviews; annual budget.
(a)   Review and modification of capital improvements plan. Unless the board of
commissioners of a fire district deems some other period is appropriate, the
board of commissioners of a fire district shall, at least once every five
years, commencing from the date of the original adoption of the capital
improvements plan, review the development potential and update the capital
improvements plan in cooperation with the county and in accordance with the
procedures set forth in Idaho Code, § 67-8206, as it may be amended. Each
update shall be prepared by the fire district administrator in consultation
with the impact fee advisory committee.
(b)   Annual budget. The fire district shall annually adopt a capital budget
and deliver a copy to the county within 30 days of adoption.
(Ord. No. 2023-14, § 2, 10-2-2023)
Sec. 108-115. Audit.
(a)   Audit. As part of its annual audit process, the fire district shall
prepare and forward to the county an annual report:
   (1)   Describing the amount of all fire district impact fees collected,
appropriated or spent during the preceding year; and
   (2)   Describing the percentage of taxes and revenues from sources other
than the fire district impact fees collected, appropriated or spent for system
improvements during the preceding year.
(Ord. No. 2023-14, § 2, 10-2-2023)
Sec. 108-116. Impact fee advisory committee.
(a)   Purpose. Pursuant to Idaho Code, § 67-8205, there is an impact fee
advisory committee whose purpose is to carry out the duties as set forth in
Idaho Code, § 67-8205(3), as it may be amended.
(b)   Membership. The impact fee advisory committee shall be composed of not
fewer than five members. Two or more members shall be active in the business of
development, building or real estate.
(c)   Meetings. Meetings may be called by the impact fee advisory committee by
giving reasonable notice of the time and place of the meeting in accordance
with the Open Meetings Law, Idaho Code, § 74-201 et seq., as may be amended.
The impact fee advisory committee shall adopt reasonable rules as are necessary
to carry out the duties and responsibilities of the committee subject to the
joint approval of the fire district and county, and elect such officers as
deemed necessary.
(d)   Continuation of existing committees. Any impact fee advisory committee
established as part of the preparation of the respective capital improvements
plans shall become the impact fee advisory committee and shall continue in
existence.
(Ord. No. 2023-14, § 2, 10-2-2023)
Sec. 108-117. Miscellaneous provisions.
(a)   Miscellaneous provisions.
   (1)   Nothing in this article shall prevent the fire district from requiring
a developer to construct reasonable project improvements, as are required by
the fire codes and other rules that are adopted by the state fire marshal, in
conjunction with a development.
   (2)   Nothing in this article shall be construed to prevent or prohibit
private agreements between property owners or developers, the Idaho
Transportation Department and governmental entities in regard to the
construction or installation of system improvements or providing for credits or
reimbursements for system improvements costs incurred by a developer including
inter-project transfers of credits or providing for reimbursement for project
improvements which are used or shared by more than one development project.
   (3)   Nothing in this article shall obligate the county to approve
development which results in an extraordinary impact.
   (4)   Nothing in this article shall obligate the fire district to approve
any Development request which may reasonably be expected to reduce levels of
service below minimum acceptable levels established in this article.
   (5)   Nothing in this article shall be construed to create any additional
right to develop real property or diminish the county in regulating the orderly
development of real property within its boundaries.
   (6)   Nothing in this article shall work to limit the use by the county of
the power of eminent domain or supersede or conflict with requirements or
procedures authorized in the Idaho Code for local improvement district or
general obligation bond issues.
   (7)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, that portion of a
project for which a complete application for a building permit has been
received by the county, prior to the effective date of this article, shall not
be subject to the fire district impact fee imposed by this article. If the
resulting building permit is later revised or replaced after the effective date
of the ordinance codified in this article, and the new building permit(s)
reflects a development density, intensity, development size or number of
service units more than ten percent higher than that reflected in the original
building permit, then the fire district impact fee may be charged on the
difference in density, intensity, development size or number of service units
between the original and the revised or replacement building permit.
   (8)   Any monies, including any accrued interest not assigned to specific
system improvements within such capital improvements plan and not expended or
refunded pursuant to this article shall be retained in the same account until
the next fire district fiscal year.
   (9)   If the fire district discovers an error in the capital improvements
plan that results in assessment or payment of more than a proportionate share
of system improvement costs on any proposed development, the fire district
administrator shall:
      a.   Adjust the fire district impact fee to collect no more than a
proportionate share; or
      b.   Discontinue the collection of any fire district impact fees until
the error is corrected by ordinance.
   (10)   If fire district impact fees are calculated and paid based on a
mistake or misrepresentation, they shall be recalculated. Any amounts overpaid
by a fee payer shall be refunded by the fire district within 30 days after the
fire district's acceptance of the recalculated amount, with interest at the
legal rate provided for in Idaho Code, § 28-22-104 from the date on which the
fee was paid. Any amounts underpaid by the fee payer shall be paid to the fire
district within 30 days after the fire district administrator's acceptance of
the recalculated amount, with interest at the legal rate provided for in Idaho
Code, § 28-22-104 from the date on which the fee was paid. In the case of an
underpayment to the fire district, the fire district administrator may request
the county and the county may withhold issuance of the building permit or
development approval for the project for which the fire district impact fee was
paid until such underpayment is corrected, and if amounts owed to the fire
district are not paid within such 30-day period, the fire district
administrator may also ask the county to and the county may revoke any building
permit or development approval issued in reliance on the previous payment of
such fire district impact fee and refund such fee to the fee payer.
(Ord. No. 2023-14, § 2, 10-2-2023)
Sec. 108-118. Rules of construction.
(a)   Rules of construction. All provisions, terms, phrases and expressions
contained in this article shall be liberally construed in order that the true
intent and meaning of the act and the Jefferson County Board of Commissioners
and the board of commissioners of the fire district may be fully carried out.
(Ord. No. 2023-14, § 2, 10-2-2023)
Chapter 110
SUBDIVISIONS
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Secs. 110-1—110-5. Reserved.
Sec. 110-6. Rules and definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning. The present tense includes the past or future
tense; the singular includes the plural; the plural includes the singular; the
masculine shall include the feminine; the word "shall" is mandatory; the word
"may" is permissive; and the word "should" is preferred.
   Administrative land division (lot/parcel split) means the division or
partition of an original parcel of land into not more than three separate
parcels or sites for the purpose of the transferring of ownership or
development rights associated with that parcel.
   Administrator means the Jefferson County Planning and Zoning Administrator
of Jefferson County who shall be an official having knowledge in the principles
and practices of subdividing and who is appointed by the Jefferson County
Commissioners to administer this chapter.
   Alley means a private road providing secondary access at the back or side of
a property otherwise abutting a public street.
   Arterial street means a street designated for the purpose of carrying fast
and/or heavy traffic.
   Block means a group of lots within well-defined boundaries, usually streets.
   Board means the county commissioners.
   Boundary line adjustment means a change in location of the property line
between two or more existing adjacent parcels, where the land taken from one
parcel is added to an adjacent parcel. Further defined as a combining of one or
more parcels to create fewer parcels and where no greater number of parcels
than originally existed is thereby created. No boundary adjusted parcel may be
reduced below the minimum parcel size for the zoning district in which the
parcel is located, except that if a parcel is already below the minimum parcel
size, the boundary line adjustment shall not create any parcels that are
smaller than the smallest original parcel in the subject configuration.
   Building means any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering
any use or occupancy.
   Building setback line means a designated distance established by a zoning
ordinance that requires all buildings to be set back from lot lines.
   Building site means an area proposed or provided and improved by grading,
filling, excavation or other means for erecting pads for buildings.
   Cemetery means a lot that has been platted for the selling of sites for the
burial of animal or human remains.
   City means incorporated areas within Jefferson County, Idaho in accordance
with Idaho Code, title 50.
   Central septic system means any system which receives blackwaste or
wastewater in volumes exceeding 2,500 gallons per day; any system which
receives blackwaste or wastewater from more than two dwelling units or more
than two buildings under separate ownership.
   Channel means a natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible extent,
with definite bed and banks to confine and conduct continuously or periodically
flowing water.
   Clustering means a technique which allows lots to be reduced in size and
buildings sited closer together, provided the total development density does
not exceed that which could be constructed on the site under conventional
zoning and the remaining land is utilized for open space or public purpose.
   Collector street means a street designated for the purpose of carrying
traffic from minor streets to other collector streets and/or arterial streets.
   Commission means the county planning and zoning commission including any
applicable commission for an AOI.
   Community well means a collective system providing potable water and septic
water services to multiple housing units.
   Comprehensive plan means a documented plan adopted by the board in
accordance with Idaho Code, § 67-6509, that herein may be referred to as a
comprehensive plan or comprehensive development plan.
   Conceptual plan review means a review of a conceptual plan consisting of a
sketch plat and all other pertinent or required information related to the
proposed development.
   Condominium means a building or complex of buildings containing a number of
individually owned apartments or houses.
   Construction plan means the maps or drawings accompanying a subdivision plat
and showing the specific location and design of improvements to be installed in
the subdivision in accordance with the requirements of the planning commission
as a condition of the approval of the plat.
   County commissioners or the board means the county commissioners, the
governing body.
   County recorder means the office of the Jefferson County Recorder (Jefferson
County Clerk).
   Covenant means a written promise or pledge binding upon the subdivision or
property.
   Cul-de-sac means a street connected to another street at one end only and
provided with a turnaround space at its terminus.
   Culvert means a drain that channels water under a bridge, street, road or
driveway.
   Dead-end street means a street connecting to another street at one end only
and not having provision for vehicular turn around at its terminus.
   Dedication means the setting apart of land or interests in land for use by
the public by ordinance, resolution or entry in the official minutes as by the
recording of a plat; dedicated land becomes public upon the acceptance by the
board.
   Developer means authorized agent of a subdivider or the subdivider himself.
   Ditch means an open channel artificially constructed.
   Drainage means water that runs off the surfaces of a site or development;
the term "drainage" is synonymous with the term "runoff," as used herein.
   Drainage channel means a natural channel, ditch, pipe or other conduit for
liquid, naturally or artificially situated to receive storm drainage at an
inlet point or multiple inlet points and then convey such storm drainage to an
outlet point.
   Drainage facility means an artificially constructed or naturally occurring
drainage channel, or a retention facility, or partial retention facility.
   Drainage receiver means a government entity, canal company or special taxing
district which maintains a drainage facility adjacent to the development and
agrees, as evidenced by a signed and dated public document, to accept a defined
quantity of storm drainage from the development. The term "drainage receiver"
also applies to the county, with regard to any runoff from any development to
any street. Notice is particularly given that the presence of a natural
drainage channel does not relieve the developer from the requirement that any
drainage must be retained unless it is formally accepted by a drainage
receiver.
   Drainageway means a drainage channel or drainage ditch.
   Driveway means a private access road, the use of which is limited to persons
residing, employed, or otherwise using or visiting the parcel which it is
located.
   Dwelling unit means any building or other structure proposed or built for
occupancy by people.
   Easement means a grant by a property owner to persons or to the public to
use land for specific purposes. Also, a right acquired by prescription.
   Engineer means any person who is licensed in Idaho to practice professional
engineering.
   Expenditure means a sum of money paid out in return for some benefit or to
fulfill some obligation. This includes binding contractual commitments, whether
by development agreement or otherwise to make future expenditures as well as
any other substantial change in position.
   Flexible zoning means zoning which permits uses of land and density of
buildings and structures different from those which are allowed as of right
within the zoning district in which the land is situated; flexible zoning
applications shall include, but not be limited to, all special permit and
special uses, planned unit developments, group housing projects, community unit
projects, and average density or density zoning projects.
   Flood means the temporary inundation of land adjacent to and inundated by
overflow from a river, stream, lake drainage, or other source of water.
   Flood of 100-year frequency means a flood magnitude which has a one percent
chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   Floodplain means the relatively flat area or low land adjoining the channel
of a river, stream, lake or other body of water which has been or may be
covered by water of a flood of 100-year frequency. The floodplain includes the
channel, floodway or floodway fringe, as established pursuant to engineering
practices of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
   Floodway means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   Floodway fringe means that part of the floodplain which is beyond the
floodway. Such areas include those portions of the floodplain which will be
inundated by a flood of 100-year frequency.
   Frontage street means a minor street, parallel to and adjacent to an
arterial street, to provide access to abutting properties.
   Governing body means the elected county commissioners or the board.
   Highway means a street designated as a highway by an appropriate state or
federal agency.
   Improvement means any alteration to the land or other physical construction
associated with subdivision and building site developments.
   Landscaping means acting with the purpose of meeting specific criteria
regarding uses of outside space, including ground cover, buffers, and shade
trees.
   Local Land Use Planning Act (LLUPA) is a reference to Idaho Code, title 67,
chapter 65.
   Loop means a minor street in which both terminal points are on the same
street of origin.
   Lot means any parcel of real property of suitable size as required in these
regulations and existing zoning ordinance, identified on a recorded subdivision
plat.
   Lot area means the area of any lot shall be determined exclusive of street,
highway, alley, road, or right-of-way of record.
   Lot line adjustment means a property line adjustment or correction which
does not create an additional parcel of land, is adopted by the Board of
Jefferson County Commissioners, and is recorded.
   Lot measurements means:
   (1)   The depth of a lot, parcel, or tract shall be a measurement of the
distance between the furthest two points along the boundary of the lot, parcel,
or tract.
   (2)   Width of a lot, parcel or tract shall be calculated in feet by
dividing the area of the lot, parcel or tract measured in square feet by the
depth of the lot, parcel or tract, as measured according to the depth
calculation instructions above.
   Lot split means the division or partition of an original parcel of land into
not more than three separate parcels or sites for the purpose of the
transferring of ownership or development rights associated with that parcel.
   Lot types are as follows:
   (1)   Corner lot means a lot located at the intersections of two or more
streets.
   (2)   Interior lot means a lot other than a corner lot with frontage on only
one street other than a corner lot.
   (3)   Through lot means a lot with frontage on more than one street other
than a corner lot.
   Manufactured or mobile home means a structure, transportable in one or more
sections, which in the traveling mode is eight body feet (2,438 body mm) or
more in width of 40 body feet (12,192 body mm) or more in length, or, when
erected on site, is 320 square feet (30 m²) or more, and which is built on a
permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the
plumbing, heating, air-conditioning and electrical systems contained therein;
except that such term shall include any structure that meets all of the
requirements of this paragraph except the size requirements and with respect to
which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and complies with the
standards established under this title. For mobile homes built prior to June
15, 1976, a label certifying compliance to the Standard for Mobile Homes, NFPA
501, in effect at the time of manufacture is required. For the purpose of these
provisions, a mobile home shall be considered a manufactured home.
   Manufactured or mobile home subdivision means a subdivision or park designed
and intended for exclusive manufactured home residential use.
   Minor street means a street which has the primary purpose of providing
access to abutting properties.
   Mobile home. See "manufactured or mobile home."
   Money in lieu of land means payment of money into a municipally earmarked
fund to provide for acquisition of facilities off-site in place of dedicating
land or providing such facility on site.
   Monument means any permanent marker either of concrete, galvanized iron pipe
or iron or steel rods, used to identify any tract, parcel, lot or street lines,
as specified in Idaho Code, § 50-1303.
   Notice of land division (parcel split) means the division or partition of an
original parcel of land into not more than four separate parcels or sites for
the purpose of the transferring of ownership or development rights associated
with that parcel.
   Open space means a common area platted as a separate lot, or an area
dedicated to and accepted by the county, substantially open to the sky,
exclusive of streets, buildings, and other covered structures.
   Original parcel of land means an original parcel or tract as recorded on any
plat of record on file in the office of the county recorder or any unplatted
contiguous parcel of land held in one ownership as of 2008.
   Owner means an individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership,
corporation, or other legal entity having any interest, legal or equitable, in
the land to be subdivided.
   Parcel means a plot or tract of land with a metes and bounds legal
description (unplatted).
   Parcel split/notice of land division means the division or partition of an
original parcel of land into not more than four separate parcels or sites for
the purpose of the transferring of ownership or development rights associated
with that parcel.
   Partial right-of-way means a dedicated right-of-way providing only a portion
of the required street width, usually along the edge of a subdivision or tract
of land.
   Performance bond means an amount of money or other negotiable security paid
by the developer or his surety to the planning and zoning administrator which
guarantees that the developer will perform all actions required by the
governing body regarding an approved plat, and provides that if the developer
defaults and fails to comply with the provisions of an approved plat, the
developer or his surety will pay damages up to the limit of the bond, or the
surety will itself complete the requirements of the approved plat.
   Planned unit development ("PUD") means a subdivision designed as a
combination of residential, commercial and industrial uses or any combination
thereof planned for a tract of land to be developed as a unit under single
ownership or control, which is developed for the purpose of selling individual
lots or estates, fronting on dedicated streets, which may include two or more
principal buildings.
   Plat means the drawing, mapping or planning of a subdivision, cemetery, town
site or other tract of land or a replatting of such including certifications,
descriptions and approvals including the following:
   (1)   Preliminary plat means the first formal presentation by drawings of a
proposed subdivision.
   (2)   Final plat means the final and formal presentation by drawings of an
approved subdivision development, the original and one copy of which is filed
with the county clerk and recorder.
   (3)   Plat amendment means the modification or change to an already approved
and recorded plat.
   (4)   Administrative plat means any division of land into three or fewer
lots.
   (5)   Short plat means any division of land into nine or fewer lots.
   Predevelopment runoff means the runoff quantity that would have been
produced during the design storm from the site in its original native soil
condition prior to any construction of buildings or of modified surfaces.
   Private road means a right-of-way which provides access to two or more
adjacent properties under separate ownership and which is not dedicated to or
officially accepted by a public entity, but not including a driveway.
   Reserve strip means a strip of land between a partial street and an adjacent
property which is reserved or held in public ownership for future street
extension or widening.
   Retention facility means a constructed basin or constructed underground
storage vessel built to retain all of the storm drainage it receives until it
is absorbed into the soil strata.
   Right-of-way means a strip of land dedicated or reserved for use as a public
way which normally includes streets, sidewalks and other public utilities or
service areas.
   Screening means either:
   (1)   A strip at least ten feet wide of densely planted (or having
equivalent natural growth) shrubs or trees at least four feet high at the time
of planning, or a type that will form a year-round dense screen at least six
feet high; or
   (2)   An opaque wall or barrier or uniformly painted fence at least six feet
high.
   Sketch plat means a preparatory plat to the preliminary plat to enable the
subdivider to save time and expense in reaching general agreement with the
planning and zoning administrator or designee, as to the form of the plat and
the objectives of these regulations.
   Standard specifications means the specifications as specified in this
chapter or as officially adopted by the county.
   State means the State of Idaho.
   Storage vessel means an earthen basin or tank or vault structure employed to
store liquid; earthen basins used to store storm drainage may be filled with
porous media (usually gravel) to attain structural stability, in which case the
volume of available storage is taken as the volume of the interstitial voids of
the porous media.
   Storm drainage means the water running off the surfaces of a site as a
result of precipitation on the site (including rain, hail melt water and snow
melt water).
   Street means a right-of-way which provides access to adjacent properties,
the dedication of which has been officially accepted. The term "street" also
includes the terms "highway," "thoroughfare," "parkway," "road," "avenue,"
"boulevard," "land," "place," and other such terms, but does not include
private roads or driveways.
   Subdivider means the individual, firm, corporation, partnership,
association, syndicate, trust, or other legal entity that executes the
application and initiates proceedings for the subdivision of land in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter. The subdivider need not be the owner of
the property; however, he shall be an agent of the owner or have sufficient
proprietary rights in the property to represent the owner.
   Subdivision means any division of land into ten or more lots or divisions of
those parcels that do not qualify for an administrative plat or short plat.
which shall also include the dedication of a public street and the addition to,
or creation of, a cemetery.
   (1)   Commercial subdivision means the division of a lot or parcel of land
into two or more lots, sites, or other divisions of land for the purpose of
creating a development for commercial or business related purposes with a
building(s) constructed on the land or lot. This includes resubdivision and,
when appropriate to the context, relates to the process of subdividing or to
the land or territory subdivided. This applies to but not limited to: business
parks, office buildings, retail parks, shopping malls/districts,
municipalities, private businesses, and warehouse districts.
   (2)   The term "subdivision" shall not apply to any of the following:
      a.   A lot line adjustment, boundary line adjustment or minor notational
change.
      b.   An allocation of land in the settlement of an estate of a decedent
or a court decree for the distribution of property;
      c.   The unwilling sale of land as a result of legal condemnation as
defined and allowed in the Idaho Code;
      d.   Widening of existing streets to conform to the comprehensive plan or
the requirements of an area of impact agreement;
      e.   Acquisition of street rights-of-way by a public agency in
conformance with the comprehensive plan;
      f.   The exchange of land for the purpose of straightening property
boundaries which does not result in the change of present land usage;
      g.   The lease or conveyance of land to a governmental agency, quasi-
public or public entity, political subdivision, or private or public utility.
The portion conveyed to the previously mentioned entities need not meet minimum
acreage standards, however, any other portion or remainder that remains in
private ownership shall meet minimum acreage standards; and
      h.   Any administrative plat or short plat.
   Surveyor means any person who is licensed in the state as a public land
surveyor to do professional surveying.
   Townhouse means a single-family house of no more than two stories that is
connected to a similar house by a common sidewall, not to exceed four single
family units.
   Utilities means installations for conducting water, sewage, gas,
electricity, television, stormwater, and similar facilities providing service
to and used by the public.
   Variance means a modification of the bulk and placement requirements of this
chapter as to lot size, lot coverage, width, depth, front yard, side yard, rear
yard, setbacks, parking space, height of buildings, or other ordinance
provisions affecting the size or shape of a structure or the placement of the
structure upon lots, or the size of lots. A variance is not a right or special
privilege, but may be granted to an applicant only upon a showing of undue
hardship due to characteristics of the site provided the variance does not in
conflict with the public interest nor is authorization otherwise prohibited by
law.
   Vicinity map means a means a small-scale map showing the location of a tract
of land in relation to a larger area.
(Ord. of 4-24-2006, § 1(3-1-6); Ord. No. 08-03, 7-28-2008; Ord. No. 2014-05, §
I, 10-14-2014; altered in 2020 codification; Ord. of 12-21-2020; Ord. of 5-21-
2021; Ord. No. 2022-11, § 1, 9-6-2022; Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1, 1-23-2023; Ord.
No. 2024-05, § 2, 4-22-2024; Ord. No. 2024-07, § 2, 5-6-2024)
Secs. 110-7-110-30. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
Sec. 110-31. Title.
   These regulations shall be known as cited as the Jefferson County
Subdivision Regulations hereafter referred to as “these regulations.”
(Ord. No. 2023-07, § 2, 8-7-2023)
Sec. 110-32. Vacations and dedications.
   These regulations are authorized by Idaho Code title 31, ch. 7; title 50,
ch. 13; title 67, ch. 65 and Article 12, Section 2 of the Idaho Constitution,
as amended or subsequently codified.
(Ord. No. 2023-07, § 2, 8-7-2023)
Sec. 110-33. Purposes.
   The purposes of these regulations are to promote the public comfort,
welfare, and safety and to provide for:
   (a)   The harmonious development of the county.
   (b)   The coordination of streets and roads within the subdivision with
other existing or planned roads or with the state or regional plan.
   (c)   Adequate open spaces for travel, light, air and recreation.
   (d)   The conservation of or provision of adequate transportation, water,
drainage, and sanitary facilities.
   (e)   The avoidance of population congestion and of scattered subdivision of
land so as to:
      (1)   Ensure adequate water supply, drainage, sanitary facilities,
transportation, or other public services; and
      (2)   Ensure the subdivision would not necessitate an expenditure of
public funds for the supply of such services.
   (f)   The requirements as to extent and the manner in which:
      (1)   Roads shall be created and improved; and
      (2)   Water and sewer and other utility mains, piping connections, or
other facilities shall be installed as a condition prior to the approval of a
plat.
   (g)   The manner and form of making and filing of any plat of subdivided
lands.
   (h)   The administration of these regulations by:
      (1)   Defining the powers and duties of approval authorities including
procedures for the equitable review of all plats of subdivisions covered by
these provisions.
   (i)   Ensuring that development is in conformance with Idaho Code, with the
goals and policies of the county comprehensive plan, with the requirements of
the county ordinances and with the requirements of other applicable agencies.
   (j)   Ensuring that development mitigates negative environmental, social,
and economic impacts.
(Ord. No. 2023-07, § 2, 8-7-2023)
Sec. 110-34. Applicability and jurisdiction.
   (a)   These regulations shall apply to the creation of subdivisions, as
defined by this chapter, within the unincorporated territory of the county.
These regulations shall apply within each city's area of impact, complying with
the specific city's area of impact agreement.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to create a subdivision without
first complying with the provisions of this chapter and any other applicable
provisions of this code.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for a person or group of persons acting in
concert to attempt to avoid this article by acting in concert to divide a
parcel of land or sell subdivision lots by using a series of owners or
conveyances or by any other method that ultimately results in the division of
the lands into a subdivision or the sale of subdivided land.
   (d)   It shall be unlawful for any person to transfer ownership of lots
created by the subdivision of land before a plat has been prepared and recorded
pursuant to Idaho Code, title 50, ch. 13. No plat shall be recorded until all
improvements required by the provisions of this chapter and this code have been
constructed and accepted by the county or have been suitably guaranteed in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (e)   No subdivision permit application shall be accepted by the department
when the property sought to be subdivided is not in compliance with all
applicable local land use ordinances or is the subject of unresolved local land
use ordinance violations.
   (f)   The Administrator may waive the requirements of this chapter for land
divisions where all resulting parcels are greater than or equal to 40 acres or
can be described as one sixteenth aliquote part description or larger. This
waiver may be granted upon review and a “waiver of land division” shall be
affixed to the proposed legal description prior to recording.
(Ord. No. 2023-07, § 2, 8-7-2023; Ord. No. 2024-07, § 2, 5-6-2024; Ord. No.
2025- 02, § 2, 6-16-2025)
Sec. 110-35. Amendments.
   When necessary to further its purposes, this chapter may be amended
following the procedures in Chapter 112, Article III, Division 1.
(Ord. No. 2023-07, § 2, 8-7-2023)
Sec. 110-36. Fees.
   (a)   Jefferson County may charge reasonable fees sufficient to recover
costs incurred by the county in administering this chapter. Such fees shall be
set forth by resolution adopted by the board.
   (b)   Jefferson County may, as a condition of approval of a subdivision,
require mitigation of the effects of the proposed subdivision on the ability of
Jefferson County, and other political subdivisions, to deliver services without
compromising quality or imposing substantial additional costs to current
residents. Such conditions may not exceed the impact of the proposed
subdivision unless the applicant agrees to such conditions. In lieu of such
mitigation or as a complement thereto, the applicant may agree in writing to
pay fees that will be used by Jefferson County to mitigate such impacts.
(Ord. No. 2023-07, § 2, 8-7-2023)
Sec. 110-37. Enforcement and penalties.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of the administrator or his/her designees to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (b)   No owner or agent of the owner of any parcel of land located in a
proposed subdivision shall transfer or sell any part of the parcel before a
final plat of the subdivision has been approved by the Board and filed with the
Jefferson County Recorder in accordance with this chapter and Idaho Code title
50, ch. 13.
   (c)   No building permit shall be issued for the construction of any
building or structure on a lot or plat that has been created or sold in
violation of the provisions of this chapter, nor shall Jefferson County have
any obligation to issue certificates of occupancy to any parcel created or
established in violation of this chapter.
   (d)   Violations of the provisions of this chapter shall be enforced through
the procedures listed at Sec. 112-30 Enforcement/penalty.
(Ord. No. 2023-07, § 2, 8-7-2023)
Sec. 110-38. Interpretation, relation to other ordinances.
   (a)   Minimum requirements. In interpretation and application, the
provisions of this chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare of the
citizens of the county. Whenever the requirements of this chapter conflict with
the requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules, regulations, ordinances
or resolutions, the most restrictive or that imposing the higher standards
shall govern.
   (b)   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed,
located, extended, converted or altered without full compliance with the terms
of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
   (c)   Severability clause. Should any section or provision of this chapter
be declared by the courts to be invalid or unconstitutional, such decision
shall not affect the validity of the chapter as a whole or any part thereof,
other than the part so declared to be invalid or unconstitutional.
   (d)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and any other ordinance, easement,
covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlay, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. No. 2023-07, § 2, 8-7-2023)
   *Editor’s note—Ord. No. 2023-07, § 2, adopted August 7, 2023, repealed the
former Art. II, §§ 110-31—110-36, and enacted a new Art. II as set out herein.
The former Art. II pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. of
12-21-2020 and Ord. of 5-21-2021.
Sec. 110-39. Variances/appeals.
   (a)   Any request to vary from the requirements of this chapter shall file a
variance following the process in Chapter 112, Article III, Division 3
Variances.
   (b)   Any appeal of an application in this chapter shall follow the appeal
procedures listed in Sec. 112-33 Appeals/Reconsideration.
(Ord. No. 2023-07, § 2, 8-7-2023)
Sec. 110-40. Road/plat vacation.
   All road and/or plat vacations shall follow the appropriate procedures in
Idaho Code title 40, chs. 203 or 203A or Idaho Code title 50, ch. 13.
(Ord. No. 2023-07, § 2, 8-7-2023)
Secs. 110-41—110-58. Reserved.
ARTICLE III. PLATS
Sec. 110-59. Applicability, qualifications.
   (a)   The provision of this article shall apply to all land divisions,
subdivisions, lot line adjustments and all other applications authorized by
this article. No person shall subdivide any tract or parcel of land located
wholly or in part in the county except in compliance with the provisions of
this article.
   (b)   Parcels or lots created in conformance with the provisions of this
article which are uniquely described on any recorded plat or other legal
instrument of conveyance shall retain individual status and eligibility for
sale, lease, financing, gift, building construction, or transfer of ownership
as so described.
   (c)   Fees. At the time of submission of an application for a plat, a fee,
as established in the official fee schedule of the county, shall be paid. There
shall be no additional fee for the combining of the preliminary and final plats
and there shall be no fee for a preapplication or a conceptual plan review. No
application shall be approved or approval deemed effective until the applicant
has paid the applicable fee in full.
   (d)   Record of lot, plat approval. No final plat shall be filed with the
county recorder until the plat has been approved by the board.
   (e)   Sale of lot, plat to be recorded.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1, 1-23-2023)
Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1, adopted January 23, 2023, repealed the former § 110-59,
and enacted a new § 110-59 as set out herein. The former § 110-59 pertained to
application for subdivision approval generally and derived from Ord. of 4-24-
2006, § 2(3-2-1), adopted April 24, 2006; Ord. of 12-21-2020, adopted December
21, 2020; Ord. of 5-21-2021, adopted May 21, 2021.
Sec. 110-60. Administrative plat.
   (a)   Purpose. To ensure that land divisions comply with the applicable
zoning regulations expediting the process for those small divisions of land
that conform to the zoning and subdivision regulations.
   (b)   Required. An administrative plat shall be required for the following:
      (1)   A division into three lots or less and access to an existing county
road. It does not include the extension of municipal facilities, or the
creation of any public improvements; and not adversely affecting the remainder
of the parcel or adjoining property; and not in conflict with any provision or
portion of the official zone map, or this title.
   (c) Application requirements. An administrative plat shall be filed as a
final plat and shall include the following:
      (1)   Each application shall be submitted on a form provided by the
department with the appropriate fees.
      (2)   All plats shall have the sanitary restriction lift as provided by
the East Idaho Health District.
      (3)   If the plat is located in the floodplain, the floodplain standards
of Chapter 106 shall apply.
      (4)   The lot size minimum shall be appropriate for the zone in which the
division is located.
      (5)   Resulting lots shall not be divided by boundary of any city,
county, zoning designation railroad or public right of way.
      (6)   A copy of the plat certificate or preliminary title report.
      (7)   The plat. The legal description and plat shall be prepared by an
Idaho State registered land surveyor and shall include the plat certifications,
descriptions, approvals and comments as set forth in Sec.
110-66(b) of this chapter.
   (d)   Procedure for approval of an administrative plat. Upon receipt and
review of completeness the Planning Department shall:
      (1)   Review the administrative plat and supplemental information to
determine compliance with this chapter and prepare its report.
      (2)   Distribute the application to the County Surveyor, the Assessor,
the Road and Bridge Department, GIS and Floodplain Administrator for review.
      (3)   Based on the findings of the review, the Planning Administrator
shall approve, conditionally approve or deny the application.
      (4)   The Administrator shall cause the decision letter to be prepared
with any recommended corrections and returned to the applicant.
      (5)   Once the corrections have been made, the applicant may submit the
final plat for recording for review.
      (6)   All guarantee of improvements shall follow Sec.
110-129 for review and approval.
      (7)   Once all appropriate endorsements have been signed, any guarantee
of improvements have been reviewed, the administrator shall transmit the final
plat and any guarantee of improvements to the Board at the next possible
business meeting for review and final decision.
      (8)   Upon approval by the Board, the Planning Department shall cause the
final plat to be recorded.
   (e)   Appeal. Any determination made by the Planning Administrator in the
administration of this section may be appealed to the Board by notifying the
Planning Administrator in writing of the intent to appeal within ten calendar
days from the date of the determination. Upon receipt of the appeal, the
Planning Administrator shall schedule the application for a public hearing
before the Board, allowing sufficient time for notice. The Board shall conduct
a public hearing and consider the application, in accord with the procedures
set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1, 1-23-2023; Ord. No. 2023-07, § 28-7-2023)
   Editor’s note—Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1, adopted January 23, 2023, repealed the
former § 110-60, and enacted a new § 110-60 as set out herein. The former 110-
60 pertained to pre-application procedure and derived from Ord. of 4-24-2006, §
2(3-2-2), adopted April 24, 2006; Ord. No. 08-03, adopted July 28, 2008; Ord.
of 12-21-2020, adopted December 21, 2020; Ord. of 5-21-2021, adopted May 21,
2021.
Sec. 110-61. Notice of land division (parcel splits).
   (a)   Purpose.
      (1)   The notice of land division is intended for areas in the
Agricultural Zones where large acreage is used for farming or other
agricultural purposes and a division is the result of a pivot corner or similar
land division.
      (2)   The notice of land division may also be used where the division is
specifically for a single gift or sale to the land owner's spouse, parent,
child, sibling, grandparent or grandchild. An individual may only receive one
parcel by gift or sale created pursuant to this process.
   (b)   Limitations. The notice of land division is limited to the division of
an original parcel of land into not more than four parcels.
   (c)   Evasion of requirements. Notice of land divisions shall not be used on
contiguous properties as a means to evade the requirements of this chapter for
other subdivision types.
   (d)   Permitted use accommodated. Any parcel created, pursuant to this
section, shall be capable of accommodating a permitted use allowed by Part III,
Land Development Ordinances.
   (e)   Compliance with standards. Notice of land divisions shall comply with
all other applicable standards of this Part III, Land Development Ordinances.
   (f)   Access to parcel. The provision of access to the parcel created,
including any necessary extension of roads, public or private shall be the
responsibility of the owner and/or developer.
   (g)   Clustering. Notice of land divisions may be applied for in conjunction
with a cluster permit limited to the number of parcels allowed in the specific
zone.
   (h)   Deed restriction. All notice of land divisions shall require deed
restrictions on the parent parcel and the parcel split off to track the number
of times the parcel has been divided.
   (i)   Application. On an approved form to the Administrator, the applicant
shall provide, at a minimum, the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, and telephone number of the applicant;
      (2)   Legal description of property and proof of ownership or agency,
most recent recorded deed;
      (3)   A record of survey;
      (4)   Description of existing use;
      (5)   Zoning district;
      (6)   Legal description of each resulting parcel for the proposed land
division;
      (7)   The deeds to be recorded creating the proposed land division;
      (8)   Description of proposed use;
      (9)   Documentation of the permission of the owner of the parcel to be
split; and
      (10)   Appropriate fees for processing and recording.
   (j)   Process. Upon receipt and review to determine completeness, the
Administrator shall:
      (1)   Review the notice of land division and supplemental information to
determine compliance with this section and prepare its report.
      (2)   Distribute the application to the Assessor, the Road and Bridge
Department, GIS and Floodplain Administrator for review; and
      (3)   Based on the findings of the review, the Administrator shall
approve, conditionally approve or deny the application.
   (k)   Recording. Once the approval has been finalized the Administrator
shall:
      (1)   Affix the "Notice of Land Division" to each legal description for
the applicant to include when recording the deeds;
      (2)   Cause a notice of land division to be recorded in accordance with
the provisions set forth for all parcels and the remainder parcel created
indicating the available divisions allowed on the remaining parcel;
      (3)   Record the deeds and legal descriptions; and
      (4)   Return the recorded deeds and approval to the applicant.
(Ord. No. 2024-07, § 2, 5-6-2024)
   Editor’s note—Ord. No. 2024-07, § 2, adopted May 6, 2024 replaced the former
§ 110-61, and enacted a new § 110-61 as set out herein. Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1,
adopted January 23, 2023, repealed the former § 110-61, and enacted a new §
110-61. The former § 110-61 pertained to preliminary plat and derived from Ord.
of 4-24-2006, § 2(3-2-3), adopted April 24, 2006; Ord. of 12-21-2020, adopted
December 21, 2020; Ord. of 5-21-2021, adopted May 21, 2021; Ord. No. 2022-11, §
1, adopted September 6, 2022
Sec. 110-62. Short plat.
(a)   Purpose. To define the procedures for which an administrative approval
may be granted for the development of up to nine lots; to encourage and
expedite small scale development which conforms to the intent and scope of the
county comprehensive plan and this chapter.
(b)   Application. Applications for a short plat which contains up to nine lots
may be submitted on a form provided by the department with the appropriate
fees.
   (1)   The plat. The legal description and plat shall be prepared by an Idaho
state registered land surveyor and shall include the plat certifications,
descriptions, approvals and comments as set forth in subsections
110-65(b) and
110-66(a) and (b) of this article.
   (2)   A copy of the plat certificate or preliminary title report.
   (3)   All plats shall have the sanitary restriction lift as provided by the
East Idaho Health District. If the resulting lots are five acres or larger, the
NP 1 evaluation may be considered per
Appendix A.
   (4)   If the plat is located in the floodplain, the floodplain standards of
chapter 106 shall apply.
   (5)   The lot size minimum shall be appropriate for the zone in which the
division is located.
   (6)   Resulting lots shall not be divided by boundary of any city, county,
zoning designation railroad or public right-of-way.
   (7)   Design standards.
      a.   If the resulting lots are less than five acres, the NP 1 evaluation
may be considered per Appendix A.
      b.   The application shall include the appropriate studies and plans
required at article IV, Design Standards and article V, Required Improvements.
   (8)   The application shall include a project plan for completion of the
design standards and required improvements prior to final plat or shall provide
an engineer cost estimate and guarantee of improvements prior to final plat.
(c)   Procedure for approval of a short plat. Upon receipt and review of
completeness the planning department shall:
   (1)   Review the short plat and supplemental information to determine
compliance with this chapter and prepare its report.
   (2)   Distribute the application to the county surveyor, the assessor, the
road and bridge department, GIS and floodplain administrator for review.
   (3)   Based on the findings of the review, the planning administrator shall
approve, conditionally approve or deny the application.
   (4)   The administrator shall cause the decision letter to be prepared with
any recommended corrections and returned to the applicant.
   (5)   The planning administrator's approval of a short plat shall be valid
for a period not to exceed two calendar years from the date of approval. At any
time prior to the expiration date of the decision letter, an applicant may make
a written request to the planning administrator for an extension of the
approval of the short plat for a period up to two years, finding that
conditions or applicable regulations have not changed so substantially as to
warrant reconsideration of the proposed subdivision with respect to the public
health, safety, and general welfare. The extension request must be approved or
denied prior to the expiration date of the decision letter.
   (6)   Once the corrections have been made, the applicant may submit the
final plat for recording for review.
   (7)   All guarantee of improvements shall follow section
110-129 for review and approval.
   (8)   Once all appropriate endorsements have been signed, any guarantee of
improvements have been reviewed, the administrator shall transit the final plat
and any guarantee of improvements to the board at the next possible business
meeting for review and final decision.
   (9)   Upon approval by the board, the planning department shall cause the
final plat to be recorded.
(d)   Appeal. Any determination made by the planning administrator in the
administration of this section may be appealed to the board by notifying the
planning administrator in writing of the intent to appeal within ten calendar
days from the date of the determination. Upon receipt of the appeal, the
planning administrator shall schedule the application for a public hearing
before the board, allowing sufficient time for notice. The board shall conduct
a public hearing and consider the application, in accord with the procedures
set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1, 1-23-2023)
Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1, adopted January 23, 2023, repealed the former § 110-62,
and enacted a new § 110-62 as set out herein. The former § 110-62 pertained to
final plat and derived from Ord. of 4-24-2006, § 2(3-2-4), adopted April 24,
2006; Ord. of 12-21-2020, adopted December 21, 2020; Ord. of 5-21-2021, adopted
May 21, 2021; Ord. No. 2022-11, § 1, adopted September 6, 2022; Ord. No. 2025-
02, § 2, 6-16- 2025
Sec. 110-63. Subdivisions.
The requirements and procedures for processing applications of subdivisions of
land into ten or more lots.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1, 1-23-2023)
Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1, adopted January 23, 2023, repealed the former § 110-63,
and enacted a new § 110-63 as set out herein. The former § 110-63 pertained to
plat amendment and derived from Ord. of 12-21-2020, adopted December 21, 2020;
Ord. of 5-21-2021, adopted May 21, 2021; Ord. No. 2022-11, § 1, adopted
September 6, 2022
Sec. 110-64. Preapplication procedure.
(a)   Submission of preapplication. The subdivider may submit a preapplication
to enable the administrator to review and comment on the proposed subdivision.
Time limit between phases will start at the point the preliminary plat
application is formally accepted and a preliminary plat fee is paid in full.
(b)   Sketch plan. The preapplication shall include at least one copy of a
sketch plan. The sketch plan shall include the entire developmental scheme of
the proposed subdivision, in schematic form, and including the following:
   (1)   The general layout and approximate dimension of streets, blocks and
lots in sketch form;
   (2)   The existing conditions and characteristics of the land on and
adjacent to the proposed subdivision site; and
   (3)   The areas set aside for schools, parks and other public facilities.
(b)   Action by administrator. The administrator shall notify the subdivider as
to the general conformance of the proposal with this article, provide necessary
forms and checklists, and comment on the following:
   (1)   Compliance of the proposed development with existing local or state
governmental goals and objectives or comprehensive plans;
   (2)   Determination if additional special permits or ordinance conflicts
such as rezone, special development permit, or variance, are needed and the
manner of coordinating such permits;
   (3)   Determination of need for studies to verify impacts on infrastructure,
traffic, and any other items that may have an impact within the county;
   (4)   Consideration of any unique environmental features or hazardous
concerns that may be directly or indirectly associated with the subject
property such as areas that have been designated by the state as areas of
critical environmental concern, unique plant or animal life, floodplain,
airport flight pattern, and the like;
   (5)   Consideration of other local, state, and/or federal governmental
agencies that the subdivider should contact before preparing a preliminary
plat; and
   (6)   The advisability of scheduling an informal conceptual plan review
meeting with the applicant and/or developer.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1, 1-23-2023)
Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1, adopted January 23, 2023, repealed the former § 110-64,
and enacted a new § 110-64 as set out herein. The former § 110-64 pertained to
administrative plat and derived from Ord. of 12-21-2020, adopted December 21,
2020; Ord. of 5-21-2021, adopted May 21, 2021; Ord. No. 2022-11, § 1, adopted
September 6, 2022
Sec. 110-65. Preliminary plat.
(a)   Application. The subdivider shall file with the administrator a complete
subdivision application form and preliminary plat data as required in this
article.
(b)   Required information and data.
   (1)   The contents of the preliminary plat and related information shall be
in such a form as stipulated by the board; however, any additional maps or data
deemed necessary by the administrator may also be required on a case-by-case
basis if requested by the administrator for good cause.
   (2)   Plat requirements. The subdivider shall submit to the administrator a
proposed plat that contains at least the following:
      a.   The name of the proposed subdivision, which must not conflict with,
or duplicate existing subdivision names;
      b.   The legal description of the subdivision;
      c.   Lot lines and blocks showing the dimensions and numbers of each;
      d.   Streets, street names, rights-of-way and roadway widths, including
adjoining streets or roadways;
      e.   As required by the appropriate health district, a site report
identifying where individual wells or septic tanks are proposed;
      f.   Any dedications to the public and/or easements, together with a
statement of location, dimensions, and purpose of such;
      g.   Appropriate information that sufficiently details the proposed
development within any special development area such as a hillside, planned
unit development, floodplain in accord with chapter 106, cemetery,
manufactured/mobile home, hazardous and/or unique areas of development; and
      h.   Any other specifications or requirements of local, state, or federal
law, including, but not limited to, Idaho Code, § 50-1301 et. seq.
   (3)   Additional requirements. The subdivider shall also submit the
following to the administrator with the proposed plat:
      a.   A written application requesting approval of the preliminary plan;
      b.   The applicable fees;
      c.   Proof of current ownership of the real property included in the
proposed plat;
      d.   A digital and ten paper copies of the proposed subdivision which
shall have the dimensions of 11 inches by 17 inches of the preliminary plat of
the proposed subdivision, drawn in accordance with the requirements hereinafter
stated. Each copy of the preliminary plat shall be on good quality paper. Three
copies shall have the dimensions of not less than 24 inches by 36 inches, and
seven copies shall have the dimensions of not less than 11 inches by 17 inches.
Each shall be drawn to a scale of not less than one inch to 100 feet, shall
show the drafting date, and shall indicate thereon, by arrow, the generally
northerly direction; a digital copy is also required;
      e.   Ten sets of preliminary engineering plans (not meant to be cross
sections or detailed designs) for streets, water, sewers, sidewalks and other
required public improvements; however, such engineering plans shall contain
sufficient information and detail to make a determination as to conformance of
the proposed improvements to applicable regulations, ordinances and standards;
      f.   A proposed development agreement wherein the subdivider/developer
agrees that it and any of its successors in interest shall conform with the
development standards of this article, any applicable standards of an AOI
agreement, and any additional conditions for approval;
      g.   The name, address, and telephone numbers of the subdivider or
subdividers and the engineer or surveyor who prepared the plat;
      h.   The name and address of all adjoining owners of property and
residents within 1,000 feet of the external boundaries of the land being
considered, whether or not bisected by a public right-of-way as shown on record
in the county assessor's office;
      i.   The statement of the intended use of the proposed subdivision, such
as residential single-family, commercial, industrial, recreational or
agricultural, and a designation of any sites proposed for parks, playgrounds,
schools, churches or other public uses;
      j.   A map of the entire area scheduled for development if the proposed
subdivision is a portion of a larger holding intended for subsequent
development. A map shall be submitted showing the location of existing
buildings, water bodies or courses and the location of currently dedicated
streets at the point where they adjoin and/or are immediately adjacent,
provided that actual measured distances shall not be required;
      k.   A vicinity map showing the relationship of the proposed plat to the
surrounding area (one-half-mile radius, scale option);
      l.   The land use and existing zoning of the proposed subdivision and the
adjacent land;
      m.   Any proposed or existing utilities, including, but not limited to,
storm and sanitary sewers, irrigation laterals, ditches, drainages, bridges,
culverts, water mains, fire hydrants and their respective profiles;
      n.   Any additional required information for special developments;
      o.   Plans for compliance with applicable AOI requirements such as
lighting districts, future utility connections, and corresponding easements;
      p.   A statement as to whether or not a variance will be requested with
respect to any provision of this article or other applicable county ordinance
describing the particular provision, the variance requested and the reasons
therefore;
      q.   The location, dimensions and tentative names of proposed streets and
roads to include:
         1.   Preliminary subdivision road design demonstrating ability to
comply with the minimum applicable road standards for all new or reconstructed
roads proposed to serve the subdivision.
      r.   The proposed method of water supply, sewage disposal and solid waste
disposal.
(c)   Procedure for approval of the preliminary plat. Once an application is
determined to be complete, the preliminary plat, together with improvement
plans and other supplementary material shall be submitted to the planning
commission.
   (1)   Agency review. The planning department shall forward the application
to other agencies with relevant jurisdiction or expertise with a request for
review and comment within 30 days of sending. Agency responses should explain
whether the proposal appears feasible and will meet the agency's requirements,
any negative effects that may result from the subdivision and any actions which
may be needed to mitigate those effects and ensure that the development does
not compromise the quality, or increase the cost, of public services and
facilities, any additional information that may be needed, and what is required
or recommended prior to final approval.
   (2)   Public hearing.
      a.   Agenda notice. Upon the determination that the final plat is in
compliance with the preliminary plat and all conditional requirements have been
met, the administrator shall place the final plat on the commission agenda for
public hearing and consideration of the subdivision application.
      b.   Written notice and publication. The administrator shall provide the
required written and published notice of the hearing in accordance with local
and state law.
   (3)   Commission findings.
      a.   In making a recommendation to the board on an application, the
commission shall only consider the application materials which have been
submitted and the relevant testimony and evidence in the record. The applicant
shall bear the burden of proof (including both the burden of going forward with
evidence and the burden of persuasion) that the application complies with the
applicable requirements of this chapter.
      b.   To recommend preliminary approval of an application, the commission
must make all of the following findings:
         1.   The applicant has provided information sufficient to determine
whether the application complies with the relevant requirements of this
chapter.
         2.   The application complies with, or is capable of complying with,
the requirements of this article and all other relevant requirements of this
chapter.
         3.   The plan, project and proposed lots are capable of complying with
the requirements of other agencies with jurisdiction or providing services.
         4.   The proposal will contribute to orderly development of the area.
Proposed uses, design and density are compatible with existing homes,
businesses, neighborhoods, and with the natural characteristics of the area.
The subdivision will create lots of reasonable utility and livability, which
are capable of being built upon without imposing an unreasonable burden on
future owners. Areas not suited for development are designated as open space.
         5.   Road construction and disturbance of the terrain, vegetation and
drainageways will be minimized and will not result in soil erosion upon
completion. The design adequately addresses site constraints or hazards and
will adequately mitigate any negative environmental, social or economic
impacts.
         6.   Services and facilities such as schools, electricity, water,
sewer, stormwater management, garbage disposal, EMS, police and fire protection
are feasible, available and adequate. The proposal includes on and off site
improvements, or payments in lieu of such improvements, to mitigate the impacts
of the subdivision so that it does not unduly compromise the quality, or
increase the cost, of public services. Any request by an agency for actions to
be taken, or fees to be paid, to mitigate impacts of a subdivision shall not be
recommended as a condition of preliminary approval unless the proposed actions
or fees are roughly proportional, both in nature and extent, to the impact of
the proposed development.
         7.   Proposed roads, sidewalks and trails establish or adequately
contribute to a transportation system for vehicles, bicycles and pedestrians
that is safe, efficient and that minimizes traffic congestion.
         8.   The proposal is not anticipated to result in significant
degradation of surface or ground water quantity or quality.
         9.   Public notice and an opportunity for interested parties to be
heard on the application have been given in accordance with the applicable
provisions of Idaho Code and this title.
   (4)   Commission recommendation. The commission shall consider the
application for the preliminary plat, any comments received, agency comments
and shall recommend to the board:
      a.   Approval of the preliminary plat as submitted, or
      b.   Approval of the preliminary plat with conditions, or
      c.   Continue the public hearing on the preliminary plat pending changes
to be made or receipt of additional information, or
      d.   Denial of the preliminary plat.
   (5)   Board action. The board, at their next meeting following receipt of
the administrator's report, receipt of the commission written recommendation,
shall consider the commission's findings, the public and agency comments in
order to arrive at a decision on the preliminary plat. The board may have such
additional hearings as it may deem necessary or advisable, which shall be
subject to proper notice and publication. The board may:
      a.   Approve as recommended, or
      b.   Approve with conditions, or
      c.   Send the preliminary plat back to the commission for further review,
or
      d.   Deny the preliminary plat.
   (6)   Board decision. The board shall set forth its decision in writing
explaining the reasons for its decision, and citing the ordinance standards and
comprehensive plan provisions used in making its decision and findings of fact
and conclusions in support of its decision. If the board denies the application
for preliminary plat, the board shall also set forth in writing the actions (if
any) the applicant could take to obtain approval.
   (7)   Required improvements. As a part of its decision approving an
application for a preliminary plat, the board may require the completion of
improvements (such as roads, utilities or stormwater management controls) prior
to final plat approval. Improvements not completed prior to final plat approval
are subject to the guarantee of improvements pursuant to section
110-129 of this chapter. In addition to the standards set forth in this
chapter, the Board may stipulate conditions to be placed on the final plat,
provided evidence of record is sufficient to so warrant, which may include:
      a.   Minimizing adverse impacts on adjacent properties;
      b.   Designating the exact location and nature of development;
      c.   Requiring the provision of on or off site public facilities or
services;
      d.   Assuring the development is maintained properly;
      e.   Provisions for setbacks that are greater than the minimum standards
set forth in this title to mitigate effects of the development on wildlife,
fisheries, wetlands, adjoining properties, or to reduce hazards due to
floodplain, floodways, steep slopes or other physical constraints of the land,
provided evidence is deemed sufficient to warrant greater setbacks;
      f.   Safeguards to protect adjoining properties.
   (8)   Validity. The preliminary plat shall be valid for a period not to
exceed two years from the date of approval. At any time prior to the expiration
date of the preliminary plat, an applicant may make a written request to the
planning administrator for a single extension of the preliminary plat for a
period up to two years. The board may consider such request for extension at
any regular business meeting. The extension request must be approved or denied
prior to the expiration date of the preliminary plat.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1, 1-23-2023)
Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1, adopted January 23, 2023, repealed the former § 110-65,
and enacted a new § 110-65 as set out herein. The former § 110-65 pertained to
fees and derived from Ord. of 4-24-2006, § 2(3-2-5), adopted April 24, 2006;
Ord. of 12-21-2020, adopted December 21, 2020; Ord. of 5-21-2021, adopted May
21, 2021.
Sec. 110-66. Final plat.
(a)   Final plat contents. The final plat shall conform with the following
items:
   (1)   A distinct subdivision name, consistent with the provisions of Idaho
Code, § 50-1307. For the purposes of this section, the subdivision name shall
be considered distinct if the exact name, either pronounced the same or
similarly spelled, has not been used previously.
   (2)   Names of the subdivider and the engineer or surveyor.
   (3)   The "initial point" and description thereof, shall be indicated on the
drawing and the location and description in conformance with Idaho Code.
   (4)   Street lines of all existing or recorded streets, principal property
lines, patent lines, township lines or section lines, intersecting, crossing or
contiguous to the subdivision (which should be mathematically tied to the lines
of the subdivision by distances and bearings) and the status of adjoining
property shall be indicated (name of subdivision or unplatted area).
   (5)   The accurate location and description and filing of all monuments
shall be in accordance with the Corner Perpetuation and Filing Act, Idaho Code,
title 55, chapter 16.
   (6)   The length and bearings of the lines of all lots, streets, alleys and
easements as laid out, length of arc, points of curvature, radii and tangent
bearings in the case of curved lines (the system of lengths and bearings of the
boundary lines).
   (7)   All lots shall be numbered consecutively in each block, and each block
lettered or numbered as set forth at Idaho Code, § 50-1304. Unique block
numbers shall be assigned for lots separated by streets, public land, railroad
rights- of-way, waterways or any other barriers to the continuity of the
development. All streets shall bear the street or road name as it appears on
the official road name list.
   (8)   The accurate outline of all property that is offered for dedication
for public use, with the purpose indicated thereon and all property owners in
the subdivision and conform to Idaho Code.
   (9)   Private restrictions, if any.
   (10)   North point, graphic scale and date.
   (11)   A certificate of a licensed engineer or surveyor of the state to the
effect that the plat represents a survey made by him that all of the monuments,
shown thereon, actually exist and that their positions are as shown.
   (12)   Location of all watercourses, base flood elevations, the elevations
derived from flood insurance rate maps, and approximate areas subject to
inundation of stormwater overflow.
   (13)   Wetland boundaries and any proposed easements or easements of record
for drainage, channels, overhead and underground utility lines, sanitary sewers
and water systems within the tract.
   (14)   A recorded instrument number for the approved development agreement.
(b)   Endorsements to be shown on the final plat. The final plat shall also
contain the following information:
   (1)   Owner's certificate. A notarized description of the property
encompassed by the plat, dedications and restrictions.
   (2)   A place for the planning director's approval.
   (3)   A place for the county surveyor's approval.
   (4)   A place for Eastern Idaho Health District approval as required by
Idaho Code, § 50-1326.
   (5)   A place for county public works director.
   (6)   A place for board approval.
   (7)   A place for the county treasurer's approval.
   (8)   A place for the recorder's signature.
   (9)   A place for city approval if within an area of city impact.
(c)   Application. The applicant shall submit the following for final plat
approval:
   (1)   A copy of the current preliminary title report.
   (2)   A copy of the proposed final plat.
   (3)   A copy of the development agreement and associated guarantee of
improvements if required (section
110-129).
   (4)   The appropriate fees for final plat review.
   (5)   The final plan and profile of all proposed roads (section
110-93).
   (6)   A traffic study reviewed and approved by county road and bridge.
   (7)   A nutrient pathogen (NP) study reviewed and approved by DEQ
   (8)   An irrigation plan that provides at least the following:
      a.   Statement or evidence of any applicable surface water rights;
      b.   Any corresponding points of diversion;
      c.   Location of applicable right-of-ways;
      d.   Any recorded canal easements; and
      e.   Any intended surface water irrigation supply or delivery system.
   (9)   The stormwater management plan and all required improvements (section
110-127).
   (10)   A landscaping plan (section
110-100).
   (11)   A fire protection plan reviewed by the appropriate fire district.
   (12)   A written agreement with the affected canal company showing approval
of the following:
      a.   County canal setback depicted on the final plat;
      b.   A plat note stating purpose of canal easement for purpose of
reasonable access to allow for maintenance and cleaning of the canal;
      c.   A plat note indicating setback line may be changed through a minor
notational change application only with approval of a variance by the County
with agreement from the canal company; and
      d.   Addition to CC and R's, if applicable, for canal easement
management.
(d)   Building permits. With an approved development agreement, a building
permit may be issued prior to final plat approval while public improvements are
being completed. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until the final
plat has been approved and recorded. Lots shall not be sold until the final
plat is approved.
(e)   Final plat review. Upon receipt of the final plat and associated fees,
the planning administrator shall:
   (1)   Review the application and supplemental information to determine
compliance with the approved preliminary plat.
   (2)   Distribute the application to the county surveyor, the assessor, the
road and bridge department, and GIS for review.
   (3)   Notify the applicant of any corrections required and inform the
applicant to prepare the final plat for recording for final approval.
(f)   Board action.
   (1)   Upon receipt of the final plat containing all appropriate endorsements
and signatures, except those of the board, recorder and planning administrator,
the planning administrator shall place the request for final plat approval on
the agenda for the next available meeting of the board.
   (2)   The board shall approve the final plat when:
       a.   The final plat conforms with the approved preliminary plat; and
      b.   The final plat conforms to the requirements of Idaho Code and this
chapter; and
      c.   The conditions of the preliminary and final plat approval have been
completed or financially guaranteed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   (3)   The board may continue consideration of the final plat to allow
receipt of additional information regarding any aspect of the final plat or its
conditions of approval.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1, 1-23-2023; Ord. No. 2023-07, § 2, 8-7-2023)
   Editor’s note—Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1, adopted January 23, 2023, repealed the
former § 110-66, and enacted a new § 110-66 as set out herein. The former §
110-66 pertained to record of lot, plat approval and derived from Ord. of 4-24-
2006, § 2(3-2-6), adopted April 24, 2006; Ord. of 12-21-2020, adopted December
21, 2020; Ord. of 5-21-2021, adopted May 21, 2021; Ord. No. 2022-11, § 1,
adopted September 6, 2022.
Sec. 110-67. Commercial and industrial subdivisions.
(a)   The purpose of this section is to permit the development of
nonresidential subdivisions devoted exclusively to commercial or industrial
activities, and to establish separate requirements for those subdivisions based
upon their characteristics such as high vehicular traffic volumes, heavy truck
traffic, rail access and increased sewage, waste disposal and drainage needs.
All commercial and industrial subdivisions shall be subject to the
requirements, restrictions and regulations of this article, unless otherwise
specified in this section.
(b)   Process.
   (1)   The applicant may submit a preapplication, per section
110-60 to enable the administrator to review the proposed subdivision and
provide comment regarding conformance with the comprehensive plan and the
zoning code.
   (2)   Based on the final number of lots to be created, the applicant may
file the appropriate land division application following the requirements of
that division.
   (3)   Master plan. When there are more than ten lots to be created and where
an applicant owns or controls more land than he wishes to develop immediately,
the applicant shall submit a master plan of the whole area. The applicant shall
indicate by letter and on the preliminary plat accompanied by the master plan
the portion to be held for future development. The master plan may be submitted
along with the first phase of the development following the subdivision
approval process in section
110-63 of this chapter.
   (4)   Generally, the procedure requirements shall be for the owner to follow
the regular procedure outlined herein, however, the applicant need show only
two lots along with the street and block layout. Then, from time to time, as
prospective buyers or users express interest in lots sized to their required
specifications, the owner shall submit, based on the number of proposed lots,
an administrative plat, short plat or regular subdivision as a phase to the
approved recorded subdivision plat for consideration. Regular procedural
requirements following the receipt of a final subdivision plat shall then
apply, except those streets that have been built by following an approved set
of plans on the previously approved final plat shall not have to be rebuilt
because of adoption of new criteria. This shall also apply to storm drainage
facilities within the subdivision unless run-off characteristics have been
changed by newly proposed improvements or unauthorized existing improvements.
   (5)   If the applicant chooses to develop the entire subdivision and lines
must be changed to accommodate users interest after final plat approval, this
shall be accomplished through the lot line adjustment process in section
110-69.
(c)   Development standards for commercial and industrial subdivisions. The
standards and improvements of article IV and article V of this chapter shall
apply considering the following:
   (1)   In commercial and industrial subdivisions, the nearest street
extending parallel or approximately equal to a railroad shall, whenever
practical, be at a sufficient distance from the railroad right-of-way to ensure
suitable depth for commercial or industrial lots.
   (2)   Buffer measures. The applicant shall make reasonable provision to
protect contiguous residential areas from the proposed commercial or industrial
subdivisions. These provisions include constructing vegetative or other
suitable buffers which screen the residential areas from commercial and
industrial subdivisions, and extra lot depth on lots backing up to residential
property. Roads which carry truck traffic shall not be built adjacent to the
boundaries of residential areas. The commercial and industrial subdivision
shall not have direct vehicular access to a local residential street.
   (3)   Sidewalks. When required, sidewalks shall be installed prior to the
final inspection for building occupancy.
   (4)   Utilities. For areas zoned or used for an industrial or manufacturing
purpose or its equivalent, a sanitary sewerage system is considered available
if it exists within one-fourth mile of the nearest property line of the
development or measured and accessed via existing easements or rights-of-ways.
Unless all lots are one-half acre or greater in size, underground utility
installations are required in commercial subdivisions. Industrial subdivisions
do not require underground utility installations.
   (5)   Design of blocks. Nonresidential blocks shall have sufficient length
to serve the intended use without adversely affecting traffic circulation on
existing or proposed streets. The width of the block shall be sufficient to
provide adequate service areas and parking without requiring vehicular
maneuvering on public road right-of-way. Lots within such blocks shall require
a common vehicular access alley dedicated to the use, maintenance and benefit
of all lots within the block, or marginal access street shall be provided to
reduce the number of ingress and egress points onto the abutting street.
   (6)   If private roadways (alleys) are utilized in a commercial or
industrial subdivision, the face of the plat must include a notation
identifying the maintenance entity. (This notation is an addition to the
dedication block).
   (7)   Streets. Notwithstanding the other provisions of these regulations,
the minimum width of streets adjacent to areas designed, proposed or zoned for
commercial or industrial use may be increased by the commission to such extent
as may be deemed necessary to assure the free flow of through traffic without
interference from parked or parking motor vehicles.
   (8)   Blocks and lots intended for commercial or industrial use shall be
designed specifically for such purpose with adequate space set aside for off-
street parking and loading.
   (9)   Marginal access street. When lots or blocks in a proposed commercial
or industrial subdivision front on any limited access highway or arterial
street, the applicant may be required to dedicate and improve a marginal access
street to provide ingress and egress to and from such lots or blocks.
   (10)   Building permits. With an approved development agreement, a building
permit may be issued prior to final plat approval while public improvements are
being completed. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until the final
plat has been approved and recorded. Lots shall not be sold until the final
plat is approved.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1, 1-23-2023; Ord. No. 2023-07, § 2, 8-7-2023)
Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1, adopted January 23, 2023, repealed the former § 110-67,
and enacted a new § 110-67 as set out herein. The former § 110-67 pertained to
sale of lot, plat to be recorded and derived from Ord. of 4-24-2006, § 2(3-2-
7), adopted April 24, 2006; Ord. of 12-21-2020, adopted December 21, 2020; Ord.
of 5-21-2021, adopted May 21, 2021.
Sec. 110-68. Plat amendment.
(a)   Purpose. Substantial changes to a plat must be approved via the
administrative plat, short plat, or regular subdivision process as appropriate.
With the exception of parcels created by court order, substantial changes
include the following:
   (1)   Changes that would affect the location of private roads, common
driveways, driveway approaches, septic systems, building sites, easements or
utilities, unless all affected property owners have consented to the changes
proposed, in which case the provisions of section
110-69 of this article shall apply;
   (2)   Changes that would affect the location of public roads;
   (3)   Changes that would create additional lots; or
   (4)   Other significant changes in wording that may affect vested rights of
any owners of property, or of any legal interest in property, located within
the subdivision.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1, 1-23-2023)
Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1, adopted January 23, 2023, repealed the former § 110-68,
and enacted a new § 110-68 as set out herein. The former § 110-68 pertained to
lot (parcel) splits and derived from Ord. of 4-24-2006, § 2(3-2-8), adopted
April 24, 2006; Ord. No. 2014-05, § II, adopted October 14, 2014; Ord. of 12-
21-2020, adopted December 21, 2020; Ord. of 5-21-2021, adopted May 21, 2021.
Sec. 110-69. Lot line adjustment.
(a)   Purpose. The procedures in this division shall be used to process
applications for changes to platted subdivisions:
   (1)   Minor notational changes. A type of note change for the purpose of
entering corrections, endorsements, dedications, easements and similar minor
changes to an existing recorded plat. A new map shall not be required if the
proposed changes do not affect lines on the map.
   (2)   Lot line adjustments includes the following:
      a.   The combining of two or more lots.
      b.   The adjustments of lines between two or more lots where no lot is
reduced below the minimum lot size for the zone district in which the lot is
located, except that if the lot is already below the minimum lot size, the lot
shall not be further reduced in size and none of the reconfigured lots shall be
smaller than the smallest original lot.
      c.   The removal or adjustment of easements as set forth in Idaho Code, §
50-1306A (5).
(b)   Application.
   (1)   Application for minor notational change shall be on a form provided by
the planning department, with appropriate fees and shall include the following:
      a.   Subdivision name.
      b.   Proof of ownership and consent of property owners involved or
affected by the proposed change.
      c.   Any other such information as may be deemed necessary by the
planning administrator.
   (2)   Application for a lot line adjustment shall be on a form provided by
the planning department with appropriate fees and shall include the following:
      a.   Paper copies of the final plat prepared by an Idaho licensed
professional land surveyor containing the minimum information required at
section
110-64(b) of this chapter and the requirements for plats set forth in Idaho
Code, title 50, chapter 13.
      b.   Additional information reasonably required for a thorough review of
the application as may be requested by the planning administrator.
      c.   A copy of the current preliminary title report for those lots
affected by this application.
      d.   Applications shall additionally include one copy of the plat
currently recorded marked to clearly indicate the proposed changes to the plat.
      e.   Applications for lot line adjustments shall conform to the design
criteria for subdivisions as set forth in article IV of this chapter.
(c)   Procedure for approval of a lot line adjustment or a minor notational
change. Upon receipt and review of completeness the planning department shall:
   (1)   Review the application and supplemental information to determine
compliance with this chapter and prepare its report.
   (2)   Distribute the application to the county surveyor, the assessor, the
road and bridge department, GIS and floodplain administrator for review.
   (3)   Based on the findings of the review, the planning administrator shall
approve, conditionally approve or deny the application.
   (4)   Once the administrator has made a recommendation, the decision letter
with any recommended corrections shall be returned to the applicant.
   (5)   Once the corrections have been made, the applicant may submit the
final plat for recording, if required, for review.
   (6)   All guarantee of improvements shall follow section
110-129 for review and approval.
   (7)   Upon approval of the paper copy of the final plat, the applicant shall
cause a final plat to be drawn, suitable for recording and in compliance with
the requirements for plats set forth at Idaho Code, title 50, chapter 13, and
the requirements for final plats set forth in this chapter. The chairperson of
the board shall be authorized to sign the final plat upon the receipt of a
statement from the planning director confirming that:
      a.   The final plat conforms to the requirements of Idaho Code and this
Code; and
      b.   The final plat conforms with the approved application; and
      c.   The conditions of approval have been completed or financially
guaranteed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   (8)   If a plat is not required for the amendment, meaning property lines or
right-of-way lines are not affected, the administrator shall cause a document
to be drawn up showing the proposed changes or corrections to the wording on
the plat. The chairperson of the board shall be authorized to sign said
document attested to by the clerk indicating that this change is regarding a
specific plat and is correcting or amending wording on the plat. The document
shall then be recorded in the recorder's office linked to the plat.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1, 1-23-2023)
Sec. 110-70 Boundary line adjustments.
(a)   Purpose. A change in location of the property line between two or more
existing adjacent parcels, where the land taken from one parcel is added to an
adjacent parcel. Further defined as a combining of one or more parcels to
create fewer parcels and where no greater number of parcels than originally
existed is thereby created. No boundary adjusted parcel may be reduced below
the minimum parcel size for the zoning district in which the parcel is located,
except that if a parcel is already below the minimum parcel size, the boundary
line adjustment shall not allow for the adjustment of any parcels that are
smaller than the smallest original parcel in the subject configuration.
(b)   Application procedures.
   (1)   The applicant shall file an application for boundary line adjustment
with the planning department, along with the supporting documents. The
application shall contain the legal descriptions of the parcels created and any
other information deemed necessary for consideration of the application.
   (2)   The planning director or designee shall examine application and the
supporting documents for compliance with the applicable provisions of sections
12-621, 12-622, 12-624 A, C & D of this subchapter. Upon a determination that
the application is in compliance, the planning director is authorized to sign
the notice of land division or affix the notice of land division to deeds
prepared for recording. A copy of the recorded notice or deed shall be retained
by the planning department.
   (3)   No application submitted pursuant to this subsection shall be deemed
complete nor any deed recorded, until all fees set forth at section 12-265 of
this title have been paid, unless waived by the board.
Secs. 110-71-110-90. Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. DESIGN STANDARDS
Sec. 110-91. Minimum standards required.
All plats submitted pursuant to the provisions of this article, and all
subdivisions, improvements and facilities done, constructed or made in
accordance with said provisions, shall comply with the minimum design standards
set forth in this section; provided, however, that any higher standards adopted
by the Jefferson County Public Works Department, the Idaho Transportation
Department (if subdivision accesses a road maintained by the State of Idaho),
health agency, or other agency governing health, water, or land use shall
prevail over those set forth herein.
(Ord. of 4-24-2006, § 3-3-1; Ord. of 12-21-2020; Ord. of 5-21-2021)
Sec. 110-92. Community well and septic requirements.
(a)   For the protection of the public health, safety, and welfare, if any (1)
proposed subdivision, or (2) previously approved subdivision whose main
electric or gas distribution lines were not yet completely installed as of
December 22, 2020, consists of ten or more lots, then it shall be connected to
either a central septic system or a municipal wastewater treatment system,
unless the owner or applicant proves beyond a reasonable doubt with verifiable
and replicable nutrient pathogen studies, or other performance-based studies,
that the effluent from the proposed or previously approved subdivision will not
adversely impact the waters of the state and the waters of the United States.
(b)   The evidence to satisfy the owner or applicant's burden of proof under
any subpart of this section must include a comprehensive, scientifically-based
evaluation of soils, geologic conditions, and water resources in and around the
area of the proposed or previously approved subdivision. No nutrient pathogen
studies or other performance-based studies may be accepted as evidence to
satisfy the owner's or applicant's burden of proof unless they were performed
within the last five years by an Idaho state licensed professional with
experience in subsurface resource evaluation practices, geology, hydrogeology,
soil science, geochemistry, or related engineering disciplines. The
professional(s) performing the studies must certify that the results and any
recommendations on design or placement of on-site wastewater treatment systems
satisfy the Approval Criteria and Nutrient-Pathogen Evaluation Elements
contained in the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality's "Nutrient-Pathogen
Evaluation Program for On-Site Wastewater Treatment System (Revised May 6,
2002)" (Appendix A [attached to Ordinance of 5-21-2021]).
(c)   For the protection of the public health, safety, and welfare, if any (1)
proposed subdivision, or (2) previously approved subdivision whose main
electric or gas distribution lines were not yet completely installed as of
December 22, 2020, consists of any number of lots, and any lot line thereof
shall be or is within 1,320 feet of a lot line of another subdivision that
consists of any number of lots, then the proposed or previously approved
subdivision shall be connected to either a central septic system or a municipal
wastewater treatment system, unless the owner or applicant proves beyond a
reasonable doubt with verifiable and replicable nutrient pathogen studies, or
other performance-based studies, that the effluent from the proposed or
previously approved subdivision will not adversely impact the waters of the
state and the waters of the United States.
(d)   Subdivisions approved under this section shall not be amended to remove
any requirements of this section.
(e)   Any subdivision, any part of which is or shall be located within an area
of impact after December 22, 2020, shall locate and design its community well
(s) and central septic system(s) to connect to any future municipal potable
water and wastewater treatment services.
(f)   Any subdivision, any part of which is or shall be located within an area
of impact after December 22, 2020, that is not required to have a community
well or central septic system, shall require each lot to locate and design its
potable water and wastewater treatment systems in a manner that will allow
future connection to municipal potable water and wastewater treatment services.
(g)   When performance-based studies are submitted as part of any application,
Jefferson County shall review the procedures and protocols used in the
submitted studies, using the criteria set forth in Appendix A, [attached to
Ordinance of 5-21-2021], and may-at its discretion-accept the results, reject
the results, request that additional studies be completed, and/or conduct its
own independent studies to find whether the submitted studies are verifiable
and replicable, as required by this chapter. Any costs for additional studies,
including any independent studies conducted by the county, shall be assessed to
the application fee, and no application shall be approved by Jefferson County
until all application fees have been paid in full.
(h)   Easements for the central septic system shall be indicated on the
preliminary and final plat.
(Ord. of 12-21-2020; Ord. of 5-21-2021)
Editor's note(s)-An ordinance of 12-21-2020, repealed the former § 110-92 and
enacted a new § 110-92 as set out herein. The former 110-92 pertained to
flexible lot size requirements and derived from an Ordinance of 4-24-2006, § 3-
3-2.
Sec. 110-93. Streets and alleys.
(a)   Location. Street and road location shall conform to the following
standards:
   (1)   Street location and arrangements. When an official street plan or
comprehensive plan has been adopted, subdivision streets shall conform to such
plans.
   (2)   Minor streets. Minor streets shall be so arranged as to discourage
their use by through traffic.
   (3)   Stub streets. Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the
arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall be such that said streets
extend to the boundary line of the tract to make provisions for the future
extension of said streets into adjacent areas, and shall have a cul-de-sac or
temporary cul-de-sac. A reserve street may be required and held in public
ownership.
   (4)   Relation to topography. Streets shall be arranged in proper relation
to topography so as to result in usable lots, safe streets and acceptable
gradients.
   (5)   Public alleys. Public alleys shall be provided in multiple dwelling or
commercial subdivisions unless other provisions are made for service access and
off-street loading and parking. Dead-end public alleys shall be prohibited in
all cases.
   (6)   Frontage roads. Where a subdivision abuts or contains an arterial
street, it shall be required that there be frontage roads approximately
parallel to and on each side of such arterial street, or such other treatment
as is necessary for the adequate protection of residential properties and to
separate through traffic from local traffic.
   (7)   Cul-de-sac streets (turn arounds). Cul-de-sac streets shall be
designed and constructed in accordance with applicable state laws and
regulations, in accordance with applicable local ordinances, and shall further
be approved by the Jefferson County Public Works Administrator and applicable
fire district.
   (8)   Half streets. Half streets shall be prohibited except where unusual
circumstances make such necessary to the reasonable development of a tract in
conformance with this article and where satisfactory assurance for dedication
of the remaining part of the street is provided. Whenever a tract to be
subdivided borders on an existing half or partial street, the other part of the
street shall be dedicated within such tract.
   (9)   Private roads. Private roads shall be allowed upon compliance with
part III, Appendix B, private roads.
   (10)   Driveways. Driveways providing access to no more than two dwelling
units shall be allowed within any subdivision.
(b)   Street widths.
   (1)   Width of pavement. All streets shall be centered on a 60-foot wide
easement which shall be dedicated as a public right-of-way and utility
easement. Streets shall be paved to a width of not less than 30 feet centered
in said easement. Said paving should be completed to each lot before it is
sold, and shall meet minimum county standards for the quality and type of
paving.
(c)   Intersections. Intersections shall conform to the following standards:
   (1)   Angle of intersection. Angles of street and driveway intersections
shall be approved by the Jefferson County Public Works Administrator.
   (2)   Sight triangles. Minimum clear sight distance at all street and
driveway intersections shall be approved by the Jefferson County Public Works
Administrator.
   (3)   Number of streets. No more than two streets shall cross at any one
intersection.
   (4)   Existing streets. Proposed new intersections along one side of an
existing street shall, whenever practicable, coincide with any existing
intersections on the opposite side of such street. Street jogs with center-line
offsets of less than 150 feet shall not be permitted, except where the
intersected street has separated dual drives without median breaks at either
intersection. All intersecting streets shall have continuous alignment.
Intersection of major streets shall be at least 800 feet apart.
(d)   Street names. The naming of streets shall conform to section
53-113 and to the following standards:
   (1)   A street name shall not duplicate any existing street name within the
county except where a new street is a continuation of an existing street.
Street names that may be spelled differently but sound the same as existing
street names shall not be used.
   (2)   All new streets shall be named as follows:
      a.   Streets having a predominately north-south direction shall be named
"avenue," except for section line streets which shall be named "road."
      b.   Streets having a predominately east-west direction shall be named
"street," except for section line streets which shall be named "road."
      c.   Meandering streets having a predominately north-south direction
shall be named "way."
      d.   Meandering streets having a predominately east-west direction shall
be named "drive."
      e.   Cul-de-sacs having a predominately north-south direction shall be
named "place."
      f.   Cul-de-sacs having a predominately east-west direction shall be
named "court."
(e)   Private road. A right-of-way which provides access to two or more
adjacent properties under separate ownership and which is not dedicated to or
officially accepted by a public entity, but not including a driveway.
(f)   Transitional traffic lanes. Transitional traffic lanes may be required to
be installed, after review by the Jefferson County Public Works Director, and/
or other road and bridge entity, with design approval right and authority, for
safety and traffic concerns. Transitional traffic lanes shall be designed and
constructed in accordance with applicable state laws and regulations, in
accordance with applicable local ordinances, and shall further be approved by
the Jefferson County Public Works Administrator.
(g)   Traffic study. For the protection of the public health, safety, and
welfare, any (1) proposed subdivision, or (2) previously approved subdivision
whose main electric or gas distribution lines were not yet completely installed
as of December 22, 2020, shall have a traffic study completed and stamped by an
Idaho licensed engineer.
(Ord. of 4-24-2006, § 3-3-3; Ord. of 12-21-2020; Ord. of 5-21-2021; Ord. No.
2024-05, § 2, 4-22-2024)
Sec. 110-94. Pedestrian walkways.
Rights-of-way for pedestrian walkways in the middle of long blocks may be
required where necessary to obtain convenient pedestrian circulation to
schools, parks or shopping areas. The pedestrian easement shall be at least ten
feet wide with a hard surface of either asphalt, concrete, or other hard
compacted surface. Engineering designs shall be submitted with the preliminary
plat.
(Ord. of 4-24-2006, § 3-3-4; Ord. of 12-21-2020; Ord. of 5-21-2021)
Sec. 110-95. Blocks.
Every block shall be so designed as to provide two tiers of lots, except where
lots back onto an arterial street, natural feature or subdivision boundary.
Blocks should not be less than 500 feet long in all cases that allow that
design, with the exception of administrative plats.
(Ord. of 4-24-2006, § 3-3-5; Ord. of 12-21-2020; Ord. of 5-21-2021)
Sec. 110-96. Lots.
Lots shall conform to the following standards:
   (1)   Zoning. Lots within any subdivision shall comply in all respects with
the official dimension and area regulations as set forth by the zone
designation.
   (2)   Future arrangements. Where parcels of land are subdivided into
unusually large lots (such as when large lots are approved for septic tanks),
the parcels shall be divided, where feasible, so as to allow for future
subdivisions into smaller parcels. Lot arrangements shall allow for the
ultimate extension of adjacent streets through the middle of wide blocks.
Whenever such future subdividing or lot splitting is contemplated, the plan
thereof shall be approved by the board prior to taking of such action.
   (3)   Sufficient area for septic tank. Where individual septic tanks have
been authorized, sufficient area shall be provided for a replacement sewage
disposal system as determined by Eastern Idaho District 7 Public Health.
   (4)   All proposed lots or parcels which are 300 feet or less in width shall
maintain a depth to width ratio of not greater than 3.2:1; and lots which are
more than 300 feet in width shall maintain a depth to width ratio of not
greater than 4.2:1.
   (5)   All proposed lots or parcels 100 feet or less in width shall be
designed so that the angle of intersection of the side lot lines with the
fronting road is between 85° and 95°, for a distance of not less than 50 feet
from the point of intersection.
(Ord. of 4-24-2006, § 3-3-6; Ord. of 12-21-2020; Ord. of 5-21-2021; Ord. No.
2022-11, § 1, 9-6-2022; Ord. No. 2024-05, § 2, 4-22-2024)
Sec. 110-97. Easements.
(a)   Unobstructed utility easements shall be provided along front lot lines,
rear lot lines and side lot lines when deemed necessary. Total easement width
shall not be less than 15 feet.
(b)   Unobstructed drainageway easements shall be provided as required by the
county, State of Idaho or any area of impact agreement requirements.
(c)   All natural drainageways shall be left undisturbed which will improve the
hydraulics and ease of maintenance of the drainage channel.
(d)   Unobstructed utility easements shall be provided along front lot lines
for water systems and connections, rear lot lines for sewer and septic systems,
and side lot lines when deemed necessary. Total easement width shall not be
less than ten feet.
(Ord. of 4-24-2006, § 3-3-6; Ord. of 12-21-2020; Ord. of 5-21-2021)
Sec. 110-98. Landscaping/planting strips and reserve strips.
Planting strips and reserve strips shall be provided by the developer and shall
conform to the following standards:
   (1)   Planting strips/buffer areas. Landscape/planting strips/buffer areas
shall be required to be placed next to incompatible features such as highways,
railroads, commercial or industrial uses to screen the view from residential
properties and to provide nuisance mitigation for those residents. Such
planting strips/buffer areas shall be a minimum of ten feet wide unless a
greater width is required within this section of the Code.
   (2)   Reserve strip.
      a.   Private reserve strips. Privately held reserve strip access to
public streets shall be prohibited.
      b.   Public reserve strips. A one foot reserve may be required to be
placed along half streets which are within the subdivision boundaries and shall
be deeded in "fee simple" to the county for future street widening.
   (3)   Prohibited materials and landscaping. All construction, landscaping,
and design shall not interfere with and shall comply with all requirements for
county easements and rights-of-way (including the clear vision triangle).
   (4)   Installation and minimum standards shall be included in each
development agreement for any new developments.
   (5)   Irrigation required. Adequate irrigation is required for all common
areas in the development.
      a.   Irrigation water shall be provided by an irrigation delivery system
identified in article V, section
110-127.
      b.   All required landscaped areas must be provided with an automatic
underground irrigation system, provide an appropriate backflow prevention
device, and provide full coverage of the landscaped area.
      c.   All irrigation systems must be maintained to ensure proper operation
and water conservation.
   (6)   Buffer areas/common lots.
      a.   Definition. A transition zone or buffer area consists of horizontal
space (land) and vertical elements (plants, berms, fences, or walls). The
purpose of such buffer space is to physically separate and visually screen
adjacent land uses which are not fully compatible due to differing facilities,
activities, or different intensities of use, such as townhouses and a
convenience store, or a major roadways and residential dwellings.
      b.   Minimum requirements.
         1.   When a commercial or industrial use abuts a residential use, a
minimum of a ten-foot-wide by six-foot-high landscaped buffer is required.
         2.   When a parking lot abuts a residential activity, a minimum of a
five-foot-wide by six-foot-high landscaped buffer is required.
         3.   To conceal outdoor storage areas, trash receptacles, exposed
equipment associated with any commercial or industrial activity, and off-street
loading when adjacent to or in view from a residential activity or public
street right-of-way, a minimum of a five-foot-wide by six-foot-high landscaped
buffer is required.
         4.   Additional requirements may be necessary as may be noted in other
adopted ordinances (i.e. cell towers, confined animal feeding operations).
      c.   Materials.
         1.   All buffer areas shall be comprised of, but not limited to, a mix
of coniferous and deciduous trees, shrubs, and ground cover in which evergreen
plant materials comprise a minimum of 60 percent of the total plant material
used.
         2.   Height requirements shall be accomplished with plant material,
with a fence, or decorative wall.
         3.   The required buffer area shall result in an effective barrier
within three years and be maintained such that 60 percent or more of the
vertical surface is closed and prevents the passage of vision through it.
         4.   Chain link fencing, with slats or otherwise, and cedar fencing is
prohibited for screening purposes in residential subdivisions.
      a.   Major roadways. New residential developments/subdivisions shall be
buffered from streets classified as arterials, highways, or freeways, to
protect residential communities from noisy, potentially dangerous, high-speed
roads. The term "buffer area" means the distance from the outside wall of the
lowest story of any single-family attached or detached dwelling to the right-
of-way line of the roadway. The lowest story must be screened from the view of
any street classified as an arterial, highway, or freeway. This buffer is
required either on individual lots or as an easement, or as part of the common
open space owned and maintained by a homeowners' association. Any landscaping
proposed to be within the public right-of-way shall not be included as a part
of the buffer area required below. The height for berming/fencing, as noted
below, shall be measured from the elevation of the final grade of the adjacent
roadway (measured at the centerline) to the top of the proposed berming/
fencing.
         1.   A minimum 35-foot buffer area (not including right-of-way) shall
be provided with the following plants per 100 linear feet of right-of-way: four
shade trees, five evergreen trees, and 24 shrubs. Each required shade tree may
be substituted with two flowering/ornamental trees, provided that not more than
50 percent of the shade trees are substituted.
         2.   A minimum five-foot-high, maximum eight-foot-high, berm,
decorative block wall, cultured stone, decorative rock, or similarly designed
concrete wall, or combination thereof shall be provided within the buffer area.
The maximum slope for any berm shall be three feet horizontal distance to one-
foot vertical distance. If a decorative block wall, cultured stone, decorative
rock, or similarly designed concrete wall is to be provided in combination with
the berm, a four-foot-wide flat area shall be provided for the placement of the
decorative wall chain-link, cedar, and similar high maintenance and/or
unsightly fencing shall not be permitted.
      b.   Common area landscapes. In addition to adequate irrigation defined
herein, new residential subdivision common area landscapes shall be comprised
of the following:
         1.   Lawn, either seed or sod; and
         2.   A minimum of one deciduous shade tree per 1,000 square feet.
      c.   Design considerations for residential developments.
         1.   For design flexibility, half of the required shade trees may be
substituted on a two to one basis with ornamental and evergreen trees.
         2.   Buffer areas should include a variety of species, arranged to
create varied and attractive views. Fences, walls, and berms may be used.
Height changes, offset angles, different materials, and other design techniques
are required so as to create variety.
   (7)   Parking lot landscaping (commercial and industrial subdivisions).
      a.   Visual impact. Landscaping shall be provided to minimize the visual
impact of off-street parking. Parking should be located to the side and rear of
buildings and shall be screened so that it does not dominate the streetscape.
Fences, hedges, berms, and landscaping may be used to screen parking areas
(chain-link fencing shall not be permitted for screening purposes). In the
design of large parking areas, bays of parking spaces shall be arranged to be
separated by landscaping. When parking lots occur on sloping terrain, parking
lots shall maintain a set appearance to follow the terrain rather than allowing
the lot surface to extend above natural grade.
      b.   Parking lot landscape strip. A landscape strip shall be provided
between a parking lot and a public right-of-way when a parking lot is located
adjacent to a public right-of-way. The landscaped strip shall serve to shield
views of parked cars to passing motorists and pedestrians, and to establish
coordination among architecturally diverse buildings, which creates a pleasing,
harmonious appearance along the roadway. Four options are provided for
fulfilling this requirement:
         1.   Provide a ten-foot-wide landscaped strip between the right-of-way
and the parking lot, and plant with a minimum of one shade tree and ten shrubs
per 35 linear feet of frontage, excluding driveway openings.
         2.   Provide an earth berm of 30 inches minimum height which shall not
exceed a three-to-one slope within a ten foot wide landscaped strip between the
right-of-way and the parking lot, and plant with a minimum of one shade tree
and five shrubs per 35 linear feet of frontage, excluding driveway openings.
         3.   Provide a six-foot landscaped strip with a minimum 30-inch grade
drop from the right-of-way to the parking lot, and plant with a minimum of one
shade tree and five shrubs per 35 linear feet of frontage, excluding driveway
openings.
         4.   Provide a three-foot high fence of wood, brick, stone, or
decorative block or concrete along with a four-foot wide landscaped strip
between the right-of-way and the parking lot, and plant a minimum of one shade
tree and five shrubs per 35 linear feet of frontage, excluding driveway
openings. The board may waive the requirement for a wood, brick, stone,
decorative block or concrete fence if the board finds the following:
            (i)   The applicant must design, document, and obtain county
approval representing that the overall planting design, at the time of
planting, results in an effective barrier such that the landscape strip shields
the view of parked cars from passing pedestrians and motorists; and
            (ii)   Any such proposed design alternative is compatible with the
overall site design of the entire project and is compatible with the
surrounding area.
      c.   Parking lot perimeter landscaping. Perimeter landscaping
requirements define parking areas and prevent two adjacent lots from becoming
one large expanse of paving. This requirement does not hinder the ability to
provide vehicular access between lots. A minimum five-foot wide perimeter
landscaped strip shall be provided between the property lines and the parking
lot with a minimum of one shade tree and five shrubs per 35 linear feet of
perimeter.
      d.   Parking lot interior landscaping.
         1.   Calculated amount. Interior parking lot landscaping shall be
required on any parking lot with ten spaces and above. The required amount of
landscaping is based on a sliding scale, as follows:
 
Percent Of Total Area Of
Total Number of Spaces Parking Lot Landscape
                       Percentage Requirement
10—20 spaces         5 percent (5%)
21—50 spaces         8 percent (8%)
51+ spaces             10 percent (10%)
 
         2.   Additional requirements.
            (i)   No interior planter shall be less than five feet in any
dimension.
            (ii)   No parking space shall be more than 60 feet from an interior
landscaped area.
            (iii)   Parking islands are to be as evenly spaced as feasible
throughout the lot to consistently reduce the visual impact of long rows of
parked cars.
            (iv)   Deciduous shade trees and ground covers or low shrubs are
recommended as primary plantings in interior landscaped areas. Deciduous shade
trees are to be clear branched to a height of six feet.
            (v)   A terminal island for a single row of parking spaces shall be
landscaped with at least one tree and shrubs, ground cover, or grass. A
terminal island for a double row of parking spaces shall contain not less than
two trees and shrubs, ground cover, or grass.
   (8)   Alternative methods of compliance.
       a.   Project conditions. It is not the intent of these landscape
requirements to inhibit creative solutions to land use problems. Under certain
site conditions, a strict interpretation of requirements may be either
physically impossible or impractical. Alternative compliance is a procedure
that allows certain modifications to existing regulations within this section.
Requests for use of alternative landscaping schemes are justified only when one
or more of the following conditions apply:
         1.   The sites involve space limitations or unusually shaped parcels;
         2.   Irrigation, topography, soil, vegetation, or other site
conditions are such that full compliance is impossible or impractical;
         3.   Due to a change of use of an existing site, the required buffer
yard is larger than can be provided; and/or
         4.   Safety considerations are involved.
      b.   Request for alternative method of compliance. The applicant must
provide the county with a written request if an alternative method of
compliance is proposed. The request shall state which requirement set forth
within this section is to be modified and how the proposed alternative equals
or exceeds said requirements.
(Ord. of 4-24-2006, § 3-3-7; Ord. of 12-21-2020; Ord. of 5-21-2021; Ord. No.
2022-11, § 1, 9-6-2022)
Sec. 110-99. Reserved.
Editor's note(s)-An ordinance of 12-21-2020, repealed § 110-99, which pertained
to public sites and open spaces and derived from an ordinance of 4-24-2006, §
3-3-8.
Secs. 110-100-110-126. Reserved.
ARTICLE V. REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
Sec. 110-127. Improvements required.
(a)   Every subdivider shall be required to install any of the following
improvements in accordance with the conditions and specifications herein.
(b)   Monuments. Monuments shall be set in accordance with Idaho Code, § 50-
1303.
(c)   Streets and alleys. All streets and alleys shall be constructed in
accordance with applicable local, state, and federal standards and
specifications.
(d)   Street signs. Street name signs shall be installed in the appropriate
locations at each street intersection in accordance with the local, state or
federal standards. A per street sign fee shall be paid by the subdivider.
(e)   Streetlights. All subdividers shall comply with existing AOI agreements
at subdivider's expense, including with any streetlight requirement in
accordance with city specifications and standards at locations designated by
the administrator or his representative. After installation and acceptance by
the administrator, the subdivider shall be responsible for the cost of the
county's creation of a lighting district through which the subdivision property
owners shall bear the cost of maintenance and power of said streetlights.
(f)   Pedestrian/bicycle pathway and sidewalk regulations.
   (1)   Intent. The placement of pathways is intended to encourage
nonmotorized forms of travel, and to provide safe, convenient and aesthetic
alternative travel routes to common destinations such as schools, parks,
shopping centers, etc. The following factors will be considered in the
placement of any pathway: any applicable AOI agreement, the utility and need
for a given pathway, impacts to existing neighborhoods, compliance with the
transportation/pathway network maps within the comprehensive plan, pathway
design as it relates to both crime prevention and function, and the
responsibilities of ownership, maintenance, and liability. Subdivisions, with
the exception of administrative subdivisions, may be required to have a
pedestrian walk path, bicycle pathway, or sidewalks to connect common or
interior areas of the subdivision. Each category will be required to meet the
requirements of this section. These requirements will be addressed in the
development agreement for each new development.
   (2)   Location.
      a.   Pathways shall be created, except in cases where deemed
inappropriate, to provide access to adjacent:
         1.   Schools;
         2.   Public parks;
         3.   Adopted pathway elements within the comprehensive plan and
pathway plan;
         4.   Neighborhoods;
         5.   Shopping areas;
         6.   Public lands;
         7.   Transportation or other community facilities, and vacant parcels,
held either publicly or privately which could provide future neighborhood
connection to the above noted sites; and
         8.   In similar cases where deemed appropriate.
   (3)   Existing neighborhoods. The placement of a path will be based upon
consideration of current residents of a neighborhood as well as future
residents. Based upon the following, a pathway in existing neighborhoods may be
required when:
      a.   The pathway would provide access to a major pathway element such as
Jefferson County Lake;
      b.   The pathway would provide access to a nearby school or park;
      c.   A substantial lack of motorized access exists in the given area;
      d.   No alternative pathway is provided; or
      e.   It connects to adjacent subdivision pathways.
   (4)   Responsibility. The following provisions are intended to provide
guidance to those entities that are responsible for construction, maintenance
and/or liability for a pathway. Installation costs, which may include
construction of the paved path, are the responsibility of the developer.
      a.   Pathway systems within a proposed subdivision providing access to
private common space and/or other amenities that are used solely by the
residents of a subdivision shall be the responsibility of the homeowners'
association.
      b.   Where the residents of a subdivision will be the primary
beneficiaries of a pathway and travel from adjoining neighborhoods will be
minimal, a homeowners' association may be required to take responsibility for
that path.
   (5)   Sidewalk design. If sidewalks or other infrastructure such as curb and
gutter are required, the following requirements shall apply:
      a.   Sidewalks, a minimum five feet wide, shall be required on both sides
of the street, except, that where the average width of lots, as measured at the
street frontage line or at the building setback line, is over 100 feet,
sidewalks on only one side of the street may be allowed.
      b.   Sidewalks and crosswalks shall be constructed and maintained in
accordance with local, state, or federal standards and specifications.
      c.   If sidewalk is required on one side of each street only, as provided
for, then the trees on the side of the street with no sidewalk shall not be
placed within five feet of the edge of roadway.
      d.   In zoning districts which prohibit densities greater than one
dwelling unit per two acres and at the commission discretion, a four-foot wide
striped path (with pedestrian designation markings such as diamonds or
pedestrian/bicycle symbols) on both edges of all internal roadways may be
permitted in lieu of constructing sidewalks. Trees shall not be placed within
five feet of the edge of roadway.
(h)   Underground utilities. Underground utilities are required with necessary
easements.
(i)   Potable water supply, sewer systems, and irrigation water supply.
Community wells, community sewer systems, and irrigation water shall be
designed, located, and constructed as follows:
   (1)   Design, construction and location. Community potable water supply
systems (community wells) and community sewer systems shall be designed,
located, and constructed in accordance with all local, state, and federal
requirements and specifications and shall be approved by the requisite agencies
including, but not limited to, the Idaho Department of Public Health and the
Idaho Department of Water Resources (IDWR). These systems shall be located and
constructed in a manner that allows for connection to future public potable
water and sewer systems; a subdivider may request an exception to this
connection requirement only upon a showing satisfactory to the commission and
the board that this requirement is not feasible nor is it in the best interest
of the public (administrative plats and subdivisions comprised of lots greater
than three acres shall be deemed exempt this community well and community sewer
requirement). In such cases of non-feasibility, the developer shall provide
that potable water and septic services be located in a manner that will allow
connection to public systems as such services become available.
   (2)   Approval of plans. All water and sewer plans shall be submitted to the
state department of health and welfare or its authorized agent for approval in
accordance with the provisions of Idaho Code, §§ 50-1326 and 67-6537.
   (3)   Irrigation water supply and facilities. For any new subdivision and/or
PUD containing three lots or more, all residential dwelling units within such
subdivision shall be provided with sufficient surface water rights and a
sufficiently designed, located, constructed, and pressurized delivery system of
said surface water to each lot in order to provide irrigation water to each
lot. Exception to provide a surface water irrigation delivery system may be
made for those developers who reserve these surface water rights to the
subdivision and applicable homeowners association to be used exclusively and in
perpetuity for aquifer recharge.
      a.   The county may adopt supplemental standards and regulations
pertaining to the design, construction and maintenance of irrigation systems.
These standards shall supplement all other regulations, and where at variance
with other laws, regulations, ordinances or resolutions, the more restrictive
requirements shall apply. The board may determine revisions to the supplemental
standards are warranted and make such revisions by resolution.
      b.   The developer shall submit plans and documents reflecting the
required standards and regulations with the application for a preliminary plat
including the following:
         1.   The irrigation supply system to the individual lots shall be
designed by a licensed professional engineer registered in the State of Idaho,
and the construction plans for the system shall be reviewed and approved by the
county appointed engineer.
         2.   Any irrigation supply system shall have an approval letter from
the Idaho Department of Water Resources (IDWR) to the extent the IDWR requires
review.
         3.   The irrigation system shall also have an approval letter from the
canal company in which surface water rights are associated.
         4.   The plat shall note and meet any and all local and state
requirements for setbacks from all canals and irrigation systems.
(j)   Storm drainage, flood controls.
   (1)   Adequate storm drainage system. An adequate storm drainage system to
accommodate storm water runoff from the public rights-of-way shall be required
in development agreements for all new subdivisions.
   (2)   Interceptor ditches. Interceptor ditches shall be established above
all cut/fill slopes, and the intercepted water conveyed to a stable channel or
natural drainage way with adequate capacity.
   (3)   Pavement design. Pavement design shall be such that water on roadways
is prevented from flowing off the roadway onto private property and will be
directed to either curb and gutter or the borrow pit for drainage.
   (4)   Natural drainage way treatment. Natural drainage ways shall be
riprapped or otherwise stabilized below drainage and culvert discharge points
for a distance sufficient to convey the discharge without channel erosion.
   (5)   Runoff from impervious cover. Runoff from areas of concentrated
impervious cover (for example, roofs, driveways and roads) shall be collected
and transported to a natural drainage way with sufficient capacity to accept
the discharge without undue erosion.
   (6)   Deposit of waste material prohibited. Waste material from
construction, including soil and other solid materials, shall not be deposited
within the 100-year floodplain.
   (7)   Drainage ways or hydraulic structures in major waterways. Drainage
ways or hydraulic structures in major waterways (defined as draining a basin
area of ten acres or more) shall be designed for the 100-year floodplain or to
accommodate the runoff front, whichever is greater. In minor waterways (defined
as draining a basin area of less than ten acres), such structures shall be
designed for the 50-year floodplain.
   (8)   Storm drainage retention facilities. On site retention or partial on
site retention of storm drainage from new developments is required in any case
where, due to development activity, such drainage would be increased either in
peak flow rate or in total quantity from that previously discharged from the
land or property being developed. Complete retention is required in all cases
except those where:
      a.   Runoff flows directly, without crossing intervening property, into
an existing drain ditch or other drainage facility that is operated and
maintained by a drainage receiver; and
      b.   Such drainage receiver agrees, as evidenced by valid and binding
public document, to receive a certain definite quantity of storm drainage from
the development.
Retention on site of any drainage not so accepted by a drainage receiver or of
any drainage in excess of the quantity accepted by a drainage receiver is a
duty of the current property owner at any time.
Retention or partial retention facilities shall be provided as an essential
part of such development. Design and construction of such retention facilities
shall conform to standards, titled Design Standards For Storm Drainage
Retention Facilities, adopted by resolution of the board, and which standards
may, from time to time, be amended by subsequent resolution of the board. All
facilities shall be maintained on an ongoing basis in order to perform as
designed. Should any of the provisions of the supplemental standards conflict
with the standards set forth herein, the higher standard shall apply.
   (9)   Sediment catchment ponds. Sediment catchment ponds shall be
constructed and maintained downstream from each development, unless sediment
retention facilities are otherwise provided. Any facility used shall provide
for the removal of surface debris and contaminants, as well as sediment
retention.
   (10)   Completion and operation deadline. The overall drainage system shall
be completed and made operational prior to any other construction.
   (11)   Alterations of major drainage ways. Alterations of major drainage
ways shall be prohibited except for approved road crossings and drainage
structures.
   (12)   Natural or improved open channel drainage ways. Natural or improved
open channel drainage ways shall be preserved or provided for in major
waterways, except that at road crossings, conduits may be permitted. Minor
waterways shall be permitted to be enclosed in conduits.
   (13)   Reservation of right to require. The county reserves the right to
require installation of hydrologic measuring devices in drainage ways within
any development at public expense.
   (14)   Drainage system plans. Drainage system plans shall show how lots will
be graded so that all runoff runs either over the curb or to a drainage
easement, and that no runoff shall cross any lot line onto another lot except
within a drainage easement.
(k)   Fire hydrants and water mains. Adequate fire protection may be required
in accordance with the appropriate fire district standards, if available
through public or private infrastructure.
(Ord. of 4-24-2006, § 3-4-1; Ord. of 12-21-2020; Ord. of 5-21-2021; Ord. No.
2022-11, § 1, 9-6-2022)
Sec. 110-128. Reserved.
Editor's note(s)-An ordinance of 12-21-2020 repealed § 110-128, which pertained
to construction plans and derived from an ordinance of 4-24-2006, § 3-4-2-1.
Sec. 110-129. Guarantee of improvements.
(a)   After the preliminary plat is approved and upon written direction from
the commission, the administrator shall prepare an agreement to include the
applicants submittal of an engineer cost estimate and a surety/financial
guarantee of performance in one or a combination of the following arrangements
for those requirements which are over and beyond the requirements of any other
agency responsible for the administration, operation and maintenance of the
applicable public improvement:
   (1)   Performance bond, cash deposit, certified check, certificate of
deposit, or irrevocable bank letter of credit. A performance or maintenance
bond, cash deposit, certified check, certificate of deposit, by an insurance
company licensed in Idaho having a rating from AM Best & Company of "A" or
better, letter of credit issued and backed by a federal or state chartered
bank, in the amount equal to 150 percent of the estimated construction costs of
public improvements shall be provided by the owner/developer and held by the
county until said construction is complete. Construction cost estimates shall
be reviewed and approved by the administrator prior to county acceptance of
said surety. The surety initiation and extension fees shall be established by
resolution of the board. In the case of cash deposits or certified checks, an
agreement between the board and the subdivider may provide for progressive
payment out of the cash deposit or reduction of the certified check, to the
extent of the cost of the completed portion of the public improvement, in
accordance with a previously entered into agreement.
   (2)   Completion time. All public improvements shall be completed within two
years from the date of acceptance of the surety/financial guarantee of
performance by the county. The board, by resolution, may authorize a delay in
the completion of public improvements during the months of November, December,
January, February, and March due to weather conditions, if, at a minimum, the
surety is extended.
(b)   No final occupancy permit will be issued for any residence or business,
whichever is applicable, until the development agreement requirements,
conditions of approval, AOI agreement requirements, and other local, state, and
federal requirements have been completed and approved.
(Ord. of 4-24-2006, § 3-4-2-2; Ord. of 12-21-2020; Ord. of 5-21-2021; Ord. No.
2022-11, § 1, 9-6-2022)
Sec. 110-130. Inspections.
(a)   After the preliminary plat is approved, the subdivider shall have an
improvement plan for the subdivision prepared by a registered civil engineer.
Two copies of the improvement plan shall be filed with the planning department.
This plan shall include the following:
   (1)   The subdivision name and number, geographic grid (township, range and
tier, section number and location within the section), north arrow, date and
scale no smaller than 100 feet to the inch (1" = 100').
   (2)   The plan and profile of all proposed roads showing final grades and
cross sections of roads in accord with the requirements contained in chapter 53
of this Code.
   (3)   The plan and profile of proposed sanitary and stormwater systems with
grades and sizes indicated. Drain calculations may be required.
   (4)   A grading plan, showing stormwater drainage for each lot.
   (5)   Any other improvements such as curbs, gutters, sidewalks, bridges,
lift stations, fire hydrants, streetlighting, etc., as required, and in accord
with the requirements contained in chapter 53 of this Code.
(b)   The county engineer, or his representative, shall check inspection
reports of the applicant's engineer and shall perform a final inspection and
additional inspections (if called for). Construction and inspection of road
improvements shall be completed in accord with the requirements contained in
chapter 53 of this Code.
(Ord. of 4-24-2006, § 3-4-2-3; Ord. of 12-21-2020; Ord. of 5-21-2021; Ord. No.
2022-11, § 1, 9-6-2022)
Sec. 110-131. Failure to complete public improvement construction.
In the event the subdivider shall, in any case, fail to complete such work
within the period of time as required by the conditions of the guarantee for
the completion of public improvements, and where the developer posted a
guarantee as may be required by section
110-129, the board may proceed to have such work completed. Using said
guarantee, the board shall reimburse itself for the cost and expense thereof
(including the cost of administration) by appropriating the performance bond,
cash deposit, certified check, irrevocable bank letter of credit, or negotiable
bond which the subdivider may have deposited in lieu of a surety bond, or may
take such steps as may be necessary to require performance by the bonding or
surety company to do so, and as included in a development agreement between the
board and the subdivider. In the event the county is unable to complete the
requirements, the board may direct a petition be filed for vacation of the
approved plats supported by the development agreement, and the county may grant
said vacations in accordance with Idaho Code, title 50, chapter 13 "Plats and
Vacations" and assess against the surety and/or the applicant any and all costs
the county has incurred.
(Ord. of 4-24-2006, § 3-4-2-4; Ord. of 12-21-2020; Ord. of 5-21-2021; Ord. No.
2022-11, § 1, 9-6-2022)
Sec. 110-132. Fire protection.
(a)   Any subdivision containing 25 lots or more shall be required to have two
accesses to a connector road, minor or major arterials.
(b)   The developer shall comply with any other provisions required by the
applicable fire district chief and with local, state, and federal fire codes
and regulations.
(Ord. of 12-21-2020; Ord. of 5-21-2021)
Secs. 110-133-110-160. Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT SUBDIVISIONS
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 110-161. Purpose and summary of provisions.
The purpose of this article is to identify various types of developments that
normally pose special concerns to the regulating jurisdiction then reviewing
and acting upon subdivision requests. This article outlines the plan submittal
requirements and design standards that shall be taken into consideration when
acting on special developments.
(Ord. of 4-24-2006, § 3-5-1; Ord. of 12-21-2020; Ord. of 5-21-2021)
Sec. 110-162. Supplementary provisions.
The provisions of this article are in addition to the plan requirements, design
standards and improvement standards that are required by this chapter.
(Ord. of 4-24-2006, § 3-5-2; Ord. of 12-21-2020; Ord. of 5-21-2021)
Sec. 110-163. Cemetery subdivisions.
(a)   Submission of proposed function. The developer of any cemetery
subdivision shall provide written documentation that will sufficiently explain
the functions of the proposed cemetery for either human or animal remains.
(b)   Compliance with state law. The developer of any cemetery subdivision
shall submit a written statement that has been prepared by an attorney that
adequately ensures compliance of the proposed cemetery with the procedural
management requirements that are outlined in Idaho Code, title 27.
(Ord. of 4-24-2006, § 3-5-6; Ord. of 12-21-2020; Ord. of 5-21-2021)
Editor's note(s)-An ordinance of 12-21-2020, repealed the former § 110-163 and
renumbered the former §§ 110-164-110-166 as §§ 110-163-110-165 as set out
herein. The historical notations have been retained with the amended provisions
for historical purposes. The former § 110-163 pertained to large scale
development subdivisions, required information and derived from an ordinance of
4-24-2006, § 3-5-5.
Sec. 110-164. Subdivision within a floodplain.
In addition to the provisions of this article, any subdivision within the
designated floodplain of the county shall comply with all applicable provisions
of the floodplain regulations of the county as now in effect or as may
hereafter be amended.
(Ord. of 4-24-2006, § 3-5-7; Ord. of 12-21-2020; Ord. of 5-21-2021)
Editor's note(s)-See the editor's note to § 110-163.
Sec. 110-165. Subdivision within an area of critical concern.
(a)   Designation of areas of critical concern. Hazardous or unique areas may
be designated as an area of critical concern by the board or by the state.
Special consideration shall be given to any proposed development within an area
of critical concern to ensure that the development is necessary and desirable
and in the public interest in view of the existing unique conditions. Hazardous
or unique areas that may be designated as areas of critical concern are as
follows:
   (1)   Earthquake location;
   (2)   Unstable soils;
   (3)   Unique animal life;
   (4)   Unique plant life;
   (5)   Scenic areas;
   (6)   Historical significance;
   (7)   Floodplain;
   (8)   Areas located near incompatible uses, that include but are not limited
to confined animal feeding operations, industrial uses, etc;
   (9)   Areas within the area of county impact zone but outside county
boundaries; and
   (10)   Other areas of critical concern including but not limited to areas
with high sub-surface water.
(b)   Environmental assessment plan. The developer shall prepare and submit an
environmental assessment along with the preliminary plat application for any
development that is proposed within an area of critical concern. The content of
the environmental assessment shall be prepared by an interdisciplinary team of
professionals that shall provide answers to the following questions:
   (1)   What changes will occur to the area of environmental concern as a
result of the proposed development?
   (2)   What corrective action or alternative development plans could occur so
as not to significantly change the area of environmental concern?
   (3)   What changes in the area of environmental concern are unavoidable?
   (4)   What beneficial or detrimental effect would the development have on
the environment including, but not limited to, animal life, plant life, social
concerns, economic, nuisances available farm land and other?
(Ord. of 4-24-2006, § 3-5-8; Ord. of 12-21-2020; Ord. of 5-21-2021; Ord. No.
2022-11, § 1, 9-6-2022)
Editor's note(s)-See the editor's note to § 110-163.
Secs. 110-166-110-185. Reserved.
DIVISION 2. RESERVED
Secs. 110-186-110-211. Reserved.
Chapter 112
ZONING*
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
DIVISION 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sec. 112-1. General provisions.
   (a)   Authority. The zoning regulations and districts contained herein have
been prepared, adopted and enacted pursuant to the authority granted the county
by Idaho Code § 67-6501 et seq. and Article 12, § 2 of the Idaho Constitution,
as amended or subsequently recodified.
   (b)   Title. This chapter shall be known as the "Zoning Ordinance of
Jefferson County, Idaho."
   (c)   Purpose. A chapter providing for the establishment of zoning within
the county under the constitution and laws of the state. The zoning regulations
and districts herein established have been made in accordance with specific
goals and designs for the county to promote the health, safety and general
welfare of the residents of the county through efforts to:
      (1)   Protect property rights and enhance property values;
      (2)   Ensure that adequate public facilities and services are provided to
the citizens at a reasonable cost;
      (3)   Ensure that the economy of the county is protected and enhanced;
      (4)   Ensure that important environmental features of the county are
protected and enhanced;
      (5)   Encourage the protection of prime agricultural, forestry and mining
lands for production of food, fiber and minerals;
      (6)   Encourage urban and urban-type development within incorporated
cities and within areas of city impact;
      (7)   Avoid concentration of population and overcrowding of land outside
of urban growth areas;
      (8)   Ensure the development of land is commensurate with the physical
characteristics of the land;
      (9)   Protect life and property in areas subject to natural hazards and
disasters;
      (10)   Protect fish, wildlife and recreation resources as is consistent
with state and federal law; and
      (11)   Avoid water and air pollution with standards set by state and
federal government.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-2. Interpretation, relation to other ordinances.
   (a)   Minimum requirements. In interpretation and application, the
provisions of this zoning chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements,
adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare of
the citizens of the county. Whenever the requirements of this chapter conflict
with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules, regulations,
ordinances or resolutions, the most restrictive or that imposing the higher
standards shall govern.
   (b)   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed,
located, extended, converted or altered without full compliance with the terms
of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
   (c)   Severability clause. If any section or provision of this chapter is
declared by the courts to be invalid or unconstitutional, such decision shall
not affect the validity of the chapter as a whole or any part thereof, other
than the part so declared to be invalid or unconstitutional.
   (d)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and any other ordinance, easement,
covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlay, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
DIVISION 2. DEFINITIONS
Sec. 112-3. General rules for use of language.
   (a)   Purpose. To give this chapter its most reasonable application, the
words or phrases used throughout the chapter, shall be interpreted so as to
give them the meaning they have in common usage, unless specifically defined
below.
   (b)   Rules of construction. Whenever appropriate to the context, words used
in the present tense include the future tense; words used in the singular
include the plural; words used in the plural include the singular; and words in
the masculine shall include the feminine. The term "shall" is mandatory; the
term "may" is permissive; and the word "should" is preferred.
   (c)   Terms not defined within any chapter of Part III of this code shall
have the meaning assigned to them in other current county ordinances, or the
meaning given in the Merriam-Webster Collegiate Dictionary, Eleventh Edition.
   (d)   All references to public officials, bodies, and agencies are those of
Jefferson County, unless otherwise indicated.
   (e)   All aviation terms, definitions, and references to airports are as
defined in Federal Aviation Regulations Part 77.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-4. Definitions.
   Words and terms defined. The following words, terms and phrases, when used
in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section,
except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Abutting means a common border with, or being separated from such a common
border only by a right-of-way, alley, or easement.
   Accessory means a use, building structure or part thereof, which is
subordinate to or incidental to the main building structure or use on the same
parcel of land. Such uses include, but are not limited to, closed shops, sheds,
and pole barns.
   Administrator means an official having knowledge in the principles and
practices of zoning, subdivisions, and other land uses, and who is appointed by
the Board to administer this chapter.
   Affected person means one having a bona fide interest in real property which
may be adversely affected by the issuance or denial of a permit authorizing
development.
   Agricultural land means any parcel of land presently being used for the
primary purpose of agriculture; agriculture being the systematic and controlled
use of other forms of life- particularly the rearing of livestock, poultry,
fur-bearing animals, or honeybees, and the production of crops- to produce food
or clothing for humans. It is generally synonymous with both farmland or
cropland, as well as pasture or rangeland.
   Aliquot parcel means the division of a surveyed section of land, described
without reference to bearing or distance, into square or rectangular parcels,
the area of each parcel comprising a fractional portion of the total area of
the section and of the parcel from which it is being divided.
   Alley means a minor street providing secondary access at the back or side of
a property otherwise abutting a street.
   Appeal means a timely request authorized by law which is made by an affected
person for review of the interpretation, administration, or enforcement of any
provision of this chapter.
   Berm means an earthen mound designed to provide visual interest, screen
undesirable views, reduce noise, or fulfill other such purposes.
   Board means the Jefferson County Commissioners, the governing body.
   Building height means the distance, measured vertically, from the
undisturbed or natural ground surface to the top of the building's roof.
   Building official means the individual designated by the Administrator and/
or the Jefferson County Commissioners (Board) to administer and enforce this
chapter and the International Building Code adopted by the county.
   Building permit means an official document or certification issued by the
Building Official, or under the direction of the Building Official, authorizing
the construction, alteration, enlargement, conversion, reconstruction,
remodeling, rehabilitation, erection, demolition, moving, or repair of a
building or structure.
   Building property line setback means a designated distance established by
ordinance by which all buildings shall be set back away from property lot
lines.
   Building site means an area proposed or provided and improved by grading,
filling, excavation or other means for erecting pads for buildings.
   Carport means a roofed structure not more than 75 percent enclosed by walls
and attached to, or detached from the main building for the purpose of
providing shelter for one or more motor vehicles, or other motorized equipment.
   City means incorporated areas within Jefferson County, Idaho in accordance
with Idaho Code title 50.
   Central septic system means any system which receives black waste or
wastewater in volumes exceeding 2,500 gallons per day; any system which
receives black waste or wastewater from more than two dwelling units or more
than two buildings under separate ownership.
   Clear vision area means the triangular area within the intersection of the
linear extension of the lateral curb lines, or edges if no curb exists, of two
roadways, or a roadway and a railroad, and extending back from the point of
intersection along each roadway or railroad a distance of 40 feet, except that
where the angle of intersection is less than 30 degrees, a greater distance may
be required as determined by the Jefferson County Public Works Department or
other local, state, or federal regulatory agency.
   Clustering means a process allowing lots to be reduced in size and be placed
closer together, provided the total development density does not exceed that
which could be constructed on the site under conventional zoning with the
remaining land being utilized for agriculture, open space, or public purpose.
   Commercial use means an occupation or enterprise which is carried on for
profit upon the premises for which the use lies.
   Commission means the Jefferson County Planning and Zoning Commission.
   Common open space means an area in a development that is held for the use
and benefit of the owners of dwelling units or lots and that is devoid of
streets, parking, or buildings not intended for recreational or community
purposes. Common open space does not include open space of individual lots
within a subdivision, but may include open space as a buffer for commercial and
industrial land uses, and a buffer on the perimeter of a planned unit
development ("PUD").
   Community well means a centralized system providing potable water and waste
water to multiple housing units.
   Comprehensive plan means a documented plan adopted by the Board that herein
may be referred to as a comprehensive plan or comprehensive development plan as
defined in Idaho Code § 67-6509.
   Conditional use means a use which may not be appropriate throughout the
zoning district but which, when subject to special requirements (conditions),
may be allowed.
   Container, Conex Box means a hard-sided Conex type rigid steel container or
enclosure, aka shipping container, that can be secured in place. Trucking
trailers associated with a semi-truck are specifically excluded.
   County means Jefferson County, Idaho.
   County Commissioners ("Board") means the Jefferson County Commissioners, the
governing body.
   County Recorder means the office of the Jefferson County Recorder (Jefferson
County Clerk).
   Culvert means a driveway pipe, bridge or structure where water may run
through.
   Development means any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving excavating or drilling operations located within the
county.
   Environmental Health Officer means an individual designated by the Board or
the Idaho State Department of Health to enforce health and safety laws or
regulations.
   Family means the persons related to each other, within the first degree of
consanguinity, whether by blood relation or legally adopted, including a
person's spouse, son, daughter, father, and mother.
   Farm building means any building or structure, other than a dwelling unit,
built or placed upon land within a farm and considered essential and standard
to the carrying on of farm operations.
   Floor area means the area included within the surrounding walls of a
building, or portion thereof, exclusive of vent shafts and court, multiplied by
the number of stories.
   Grade means at the level of the ground, taken as a reference point.
   Greenbelt means land retained in an open improved or unimproved, natural
condition or landscaped and improved as park facilities for public and/or
private purposes. Ownership of such land may be private, with an easement or
reservation for greenbelt use by deed restriction or it may be dedicated to the
public. The designation of a greenbelt does not automatically provide for
access by the public.
   Gross floor living area means the sum of horizontal areas of each floor of a
building, measured from the interior faces of the exterior walls or the
centerlines of walls separating two buildings.
   Group home means a single-family dwelling in which eight or fewer unrelated
elderly persons or persons with disabilities reside and who receive on site
supervision in connection with their disability or age-related infirmity.
Resident staff, if employed, need not be related to each other or to any of the
other persons residing in the group home. No more than two of such staff
members shall reside in the dwelling at any given time.
   Hardship means a deprivation of an owner's right to all economic use and
benefit from property caused when a zoning ordinance makes it insurmountable to
receive a reasonable return from the property.
   Hearing Body means the entity charged with the conduct of a public hearing
and a decision or recommendation on an application or appeal pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter. The Hearing Body may be a Hearing Examiner, the
Planning and Zoning Commission, or the Board, as appropriate.
   Industrial operations classifications means industrial uses may be
classified under one of the following categories, which characterizes the
dominant feature of the operation for purposes of regulation under this
chapter:
      (1)   Extraction. The removal of physical matter in a solid, liquid or
gaseous state from its naturally occurring location. The initial step in
utilization of or harvesting a natural resource such as oil, natural gas, coal,
gravel pits and timber.
      (2)   Processing. Changing the physical state or chemical composition of
products. The second step in utilization of a natural resource or product grown
for consumption, such as refining petroleum, milling feed, canning or packaging
food, mixing cement, blending fertilizer and crushing gravel.
      (3)   Fabrication. Changing the physical shape of material which has been
processed to form a product.
      (4)   Storage. The keeping of material or products from extraction,
processing or fabrication on a parcel of land, in a building, storage tank or
other structure.
      (5)   Repair. Restoration of a used or damaged product to its original,
physical shape or function, such as automobile, equipment and appliance repair.
      (6)   Material handling. Loading and unloading goods, materials and
products in bulk or large quantities, separate from the operations of
extraction, processing, fabrication or storage.
   Infrastructure means facilities and services needed to sustain industry,
residential, commercial, and all other land-use activities, including but not
limited to water, sewer lines, and other utilities, streets, roads,
communications and public facilities.
   Loft means a floor level located more than 30 inches above the main floor,
open to the main floor on one or more sides with a ceiling height of less than
80 inches and used as a living or sleeping space (see “tiny house”).
   Lot means a parcel of land held in separate ownership from contiguous lands
or delineated as an individual parcel on record in the office of the County
Clerk and Recorder, including, but not limited to, a part of any subdivision
plat filed of record.
   Lot coverage means the total area of a lot which is occupied by the physical
improvements or uses such as buildings, structures, parking, loading/unloading,
driveway and storage. Normal landscaping improvements are not computed into the
lot coverage area.
   Lot line adjustment means a boundary/property line correction typically
requiring a "give" and "take" by two or more affected property owners. The
purpose is to either correct or adjust existing property lines, but not to
create a new parcel of land, obtain a building right, or circumvent a lot
split. A lot line adjustment does not legally occur until the adjustment has
been approved to ensure ordinance compliance and deeds with new legal
descriptions have been recorded. (Note: A record of survey "ROS" is not a
lawful lot line adjustment, nor a lawful division of property).
   Lot, corner means a lot abutting two or more roads, other than an alley, at
their intersection.
   Lot, created by clustering means a lot which is smaller than the assigned
zoning, which was created by clustering a larger parcel of land.
   Lot, nonconforming means a lot existing on the effective year of 2008 that
does not meet the minimum area requirement of the zoning district in which the
lot is located.
   Lot slope means the gradient or configuration of the undisturbed land
surface of a lot or building site, which shall be established by measuring the
maximum number of feet in elevation gained or lost over each 100 feet or
fraction thereof, measured horizontally in any direction between opposing lot
lines. The relationship of elevation or vertical measurement shall be expressed
as a percentile, as a means of quantifying the term "lot slope."
   Lowest floor means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor.
   New construction means any structure for which the start of construction
commenced on or after the effective date of the ordinance from which this
chapter is derived.
   Nonconforming structure or nonconforming use means an existing structure or
use which was lawful when it was made, but which no longer conforms to the law.
Examples include a use that existed prior to 2008 but no longer conforms to the
current requirements of the zone in which it is located (including
nonconforming lots of record). While permitting a nonconforming use to continue
(if unchanged) protects an owner from abrupt termination of what had once been
a lawful activity or condition on the property, "eventually the nonconforming
use is to be eliminated." Cole-Collister Fire Protection Dist. V. City of
Boise, 93 Idaho 558, 561 (1970). For that reason, nonconforming uses shall not
be added upon, extended, expanded, or enlarged (see Glengary-Gamlin Protective
Ass'n v. Bird, 106 Idaho 84 at 90 (Ct. App. 1983).
   Occupancy means use of property by any person as a residence, including the
storing of anyone's personal property in, under, or upon a structure, other
than the tools and materials being used to construct that specific structure.
   Off-street parking means an area developed and maintained on a parcel of
land in an accessible and unobstructed condition for the parking of automobiles
by residents, visitors, employees, and customers engaging in uses permitted on
the same or adjacent premises.
   Pasture means an area suitable for the keeping of livestock or poultry.
   Permit means an instrument in writing, issued by the Planning Administrator
or County Building Official, permitting a specific use of land, building, or
structure in conformance to regulations under this chapter, and setting forth
any conditions to which such use is subject.
   Person means a human being, or an entity that is recognized by law as having
the rights and duties of a human being (such as a corporation), governmental
entity, etc.
   Planning Administrator means the individual designated by the Board to
assist them and the Commission with the administration of this chapter and
related state and county laws and regulations.
   Property line means the external boundary of a lot or parcel.
   Road means an open way for vehicles, persons, and animals to travel upon.
Every street is a road, but not every road is a street.
   Septic tank means a watertight, accessible, covered receptacle, designed and
constructed to receive sewage from a building sewer, to settle solids from the
liquid, to anaerobically digest organic matter and store digested solids
through a period of retention and allow the clarified liquids to discharge to
other treatment units for final disposal.
   Setback means the minimum distance by which a building or structure must be
separated from a street right of way, canal, waterway, or property line.
   Space means that portion of a park reserved for the location of a recreation
vehicle, tent, tent vehicle, or camping vehicle.
   Start of construction means the date of either the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or
footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Start of construction includes land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling. The start of construction (which includes repair,
reconstruction, placement, or other improvement), must be within 180 days of
the permit issuance date.
   Storage tanks means underground or above-ground fuel, liquid, or liquefied
gas storage tanks typically used for farm, commercial, industrial, or private
use.
   Street means a right-of-way reserved for public use (other than an alley)
which also provides primary vehicular and pedestrian access to adjacent
properties; it may also be used for utility access to adjacent properties.
      (1)   Arterial street means a street designated for the purpose of
carrying fast and/or heavy traffic.
      (2)   Local street means a street primarily used for access to adjacent
properties, typically located in cities or subdivisions.
      (3)   Collector street means a street designated for the purpose of
carrying traffic from minor streets to other collector streets and/or arterial
streets.
      (4)   Dead-end street means a street connecting to another street at one
end only and not having provision for vehicular turn around at its terminus.
   Structure means any object constructed or erected which requires location on
ground or is attached to something having a location on the ground, including
towers, smokestacks, overhead transmission lines, and roads, but not including
fences or walls used as fences, less than eight feet in height.
   Substantial improvement means
      (1)   a.   Repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the
cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure
either:
            1.   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
            2.   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored,
before the damage occurred.
         b.   For the purposes of this definition, the term substantial
improvement is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall,
ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences, regardless
of whether that alteration affects the external dimension of the structure.
      (2)   The term substantial improvement does not, however, include either:
         a.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications, which
are solely necessary to ensure safe living conditions; or
         b.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a state inventory of historic places.
   Temporary means a period of time of six months or less, unless approved for
an extended period exceeding six months with an approved conditional use
permit.
   Trailer means a trailer is defined as a wheeled vehicle without its own
motive power, designed to be towed by another vehicle. It's essentially a
vehicle for transporting goods or passengers that doesn't have an engine of its
own. Trailers can include various types of towed vehicles, from cargo trailers
to utility trailers and even some types of recreational vehicles.
   Use.
      (1)   Use by right means use allowed in a particular zone district when
listed thereunder with no further conditions or approval required other than
the general terms and stipulations of this chapter.
      (2)   Use, accessory means a use, incidental and subordinate to the
principal use of the lot, structure or building on the same lot.
      (3)   Use, principal means the purpose or function for which a lot,
structure or building is intended, designed or constructed or the activity
which is carried on within said lot, structure or building. A lot is restricted
to one principal use.
      (4)   Use, special or conditional means uses allowed only after a public
hearing by the Commission, the application for which may be approved or denied.
If approved, certain conditions and performance standards may be imposed and
must be complied with by the permittee prior to the issuance of the permit.
   Variance means a modification of the requirements of this chapter as to lot
size, lot coverage, width, depth, front yard, side yard, rear yard, setbacks,
parking space, height of buildings, or other ordinance provisions affecting the
size or shape of a structure or the placement of the structure upon lots, or
the size of lots.
   Vicinity map means a map depicting the general location of the subject
property to other properties, the roads and associated transportation system,
landmarks and other physical features within a one mile radius of the site.
   Water impoundments means impoundments of water, including surface runoff
stream flow, extracted ground water and water as a by-product of extraction or
processing of mineral resources, energy generation, or agricultural, municipal
or industrial water supply or sewage treatment installation, with a surface
area of one acre or more, or a number of smaller impoundments on one lot with
an aggregate surface area of one acre or more.
   Zoning certificate means a document issued by the Administrator that
certifies that the structure or use meets the requirements of this chapter.
   Zoning official means the Planning and Zoning Administrator or his designee.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024; Ord. No. 2025-05, § 2, 7-14-2025)
Secs. 112-5—112-25. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
DIVISION 1. ADMINISTRATION
Sec. 112-26. Establishment of the Planning Department.
   (a)   Pursuant to the authority granted at Idaho Code title 31, ch. 8, the
Board of County Commissioners has created a Planning Department to assist in
the fulfillment of the duties prescribed by this chapter and Idaho Code.
   (b)   The Board of County Commissioners shall designate a Planning
Administrator, who shall be charged with administering the provisions of this
chapter.
   (c)   The Department, in the execution of its administrative duties, may
establish procedures and rules it deems necessary for compliance with this
chapter.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-27. The Planning Administrator.
   (a)   The Board of County Commissioners shall designate a Planning
Administrator, who shall be charged with administering the provisions of Part
III, including, without limitation, the following:
      (1)   Fees. The Administrator is authorized to collect fees, as approved
by resolution of the Board, for services associated with development activities
authorized in this chapter.
      (2)   Forms. The Administrator is authorized to develop and require the
completion of forms to aid in the administration of this chapter.
      (3)   Interpretation. In applying this Part III to situations that are
not specifically addressed, the actions taken shall be in conformance with the
purpose and intent of the code, and shall be in the best interest of the
public, but with due consideration for individual property rights.
      (4)   Right to inspect. The property owner or authorized applicant's
signature on a permit application shall constitute approval for the Department
to enter onto and inspect the property which is the subject of the permit
application except in cases where construction standards are governed by codes
other than those under the jurisdiction of the county, such as the National
Electrical Safety Code (NESC), or where entry onto the property may be limited
to qualified or certified personnel due to the nature of the use. In such
cases, an application for a permit shall not constitute a waiver of the right
to limit entry onto the subject property.
      (5)   Abatement of nuisances and hazards. The Administrator shall have
the authority to abate public nuisances and hazards as provided in Idaho law
and this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-28. The Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (a)   Membership. The County Planning and Zoning Commission is established
to perform both planning and zoning duties specified in the Idaho "Local Land
Use Planning Act", Idaho Code, title 67, ch. 65 and this chapter. Such
Commission shall meet the requirements at Idaho Code § 67-6504(a), and shall
consist of not less than three nor more than 12 voting members, appointed by
the Chairperson, and confirmed by a majority vote of the Board. Members shall
be selected without regard to political affiliation and shall serve without
compensation, provided, however, that actual and necessary expenses shall be
allowed if approved by the Board.
   (b)   Term. The length of the appointment term for Commissioners shall be
four years unless removed for cause pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-6504. A
Commissioner must have resided in the county for two years prior to his/her
appointment, and must remain a resident of the county during his/her service on
the Commission. Commissioners serving when this chapter is adopted shall
continue to serve the terms for which they were appointed.
   (c)   Officers. The Commission shall elect a chairperson and create and fill
other positions as provided for in Idaho Code § 67-6504(b).
   (d)   Duties and powers. The Commission shall have those powers and perform
those planning and zoning duties assigned by the Board that are provided for in
the Local Land Use Planning Act, Idaho Code, title 67, ch. 65 and in county
ordinances.
   (e)   Procedural rules. The Commission may adopt such bylaws or rules of
procedure as it may deem necessary to properly exercise its powers and duties.
Such rules shall be kept on file with the Department and a copy thereof shall
be furnished to any person upon request.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-29. The Hearing Examiner.
   (a)   Establishment. The position of Hearing Examiner is hereby established
in and for the county pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-6520. One or more Hearing
Examiners may be appointed by the Chairperson, and confirmed by a majority vote
of the Board of County Commissioners, and shall serve at the Board's
discretion.
   (b)   Qualifications. Hearing Examiners shall be professionally trained or
licensed planners, attorneys, engineers, or architects, who are experienced in
land use matters.
   (c)   Powers and duties. Hearing Examiners shall act in the same advisory
capacity to the Board as the Commission, and shall perform such duties as may
be imposed upon them by the Board in accordance with Idaho Code.
   (d)   Liability. No Hearing Examiner shall incur any financial liability in
the name of the county.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
DIVISION 2. ENFORCEMENT
Sec. 112-30. Enforcement/penalty.
   (a)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The Planning Administrator, or designee, shall have the authority
to enforce this chapter. The Planning Administrator shall not issue a permit
unless the intended uses of the buildings and land conform in all respects with
the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall prevent the Board or any
other public official or private citizen from taking lawful action necessary to
restrain or prevent a violation of this chapter or of Idaho Code. In addition
to court actions, the county may impose and recover as penalties all reasonable
costs incurred in the investigation, abatement and prosecution of the
violation.
      (3)   Whenever any construction or site work is not in compliance with
this chapter, specific conditions of approval, or other related laws,
ordinances or requirements, the Administrator may issue a notice of violation
and order any work stopped by written notice. Such notice of violation or stop
work order shall be served on any persons engaged in doing or causing such work
to be done, and persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by the
Administrator to proceed.
      (4)   A copy of the notice of violation or stop work order shall be
mailed to the property owner of record and any known holder of any legal
interest in the property, if applicable, via certified mail, return receipt
requested. The notification shall include:
         a.   The property owner and the legal description of the parcel;
         b.   A detailed description of the nature of the violation;
         c.   A detailed description of all remedial actions that must be
undertaken to resolve the violation; and
         d.   The length of time allotted to resolve the violation.
      (5)   The property owner shall 45 days from the date the notice of
violation was mailed to resolve the violation. If resolution does not occur
within those 45 days, the notice of violation shall be filed in the office of
the County Recorder, with a copy mailed to the owner via certified mail.
      (6)   The notice of violation or stop work order shall also advise the
owner of the process for appeals of notices of violation and stop work orders.
An owner or a holder of any legal interest in the property may appeal a notice
of violation or stop work order pursuant to Sec. 112-33 of this chapter. The
appeal shall be heard in accordance with Sec. 112-33 of this chapter. If the
appeal is denied (i.e., the action is affirmed), the Board shall specify an
exact number of days to gain compliance with this chapter before the notice of
violation is recorded, and may add or remove conditions of remedial action. If
the appeal is approved (i.e., the action is reversed), the Board shall specify
actions to be taken by the Administrator to release the violation.
      (7)   Prior to or at such time as a violation is resolved, the owner
shall pay the fee specified in the current adopted fee schedule unless the
enforcement action was reversed by the county or a court of competent
jurisdiction. Upon payment of such fees or a determination that payment of fees
is not necessary, the Administrator shall cause a release of notice of
violation to be recorded in the office of the County Recorder. The release
shall contain all of the information contained in the notice of violation, as
well as the corrective action taken to resolve the violation. A copy of the
release shall be mailed to the owner, via certified mail, return receipt
requested.
   (b)   Complaints of violation.
      (1)   When a violation of this chapter occurs, or is alleged to have
occurred, any person may file a written complaint. The complaint shall state
fully the causes and basis for the complaint and shall be filed with the
Planning Administrator. The Planning Administrator has the authority to
investigate and take actions on the complaint as provided in this chapter. The
Planning Administrator may also dismiss the complaint based upon a finding that
there is insufficient evidence that a violation exists.
   (c)   Violations and penalties. Penalties for failure to comply with or
violations of the provisions of this chapter shall be as follows:
      (1)   Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or failure to
comply with any of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable
by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding six months, or by a fine not
exceeding $1,000.00 or by both.
      (2)   Each day on which a violation continues shall be considered a
separate violation for purposes of both civil and criminal action. The
landowner, tenant, subdivider, builder, or any other person who commits,
participates in, assists in, or maintains such violation may be found guilty of
a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Board or any
other public official or private citizen from taking such lawful action as is
necessary to restrain or prevent any violation of this chapter or of Idaho
Code.
      (3)   The prosecuting attorney or other attorney who represents the
county may also take civil action in district court on behalf of the county to
prevent, restrain, correct, or abate any action taken, or which may be taken,
in violation of this chapter, to vacate any subdivision plat recorded in
violation of this chapter, or to otherwise enforce the provisions of this
chapter. In addition to other actions that may be ordered by the court, if the
county prevails, the violator shall pay to the county all fees associated with
the violation then due and owing. The county may also seek the imposition of a
civil penalty in an amount not to exceed $1,000.00 per violation per day, with
a total maximum penalty of $10,000.00.
      (4)   In cases where multiple individuals, firms, corporations or agents
participated in violating this chapter, they may be held jointly and severally
liable for any remedies, penalties or payments.
      (5)   The Administrator may withhold issuance of permits, including
building permits and certificates of occupancy, for subdivisions, lots, or
parcels of land that are in violation of any provision of this chapter.
Withholding of permits may be appealed in accordance with Sec. 112-33 of this
chapter.
      (6)   Applications for approvals authorized by this chapter will not be
scheduled for hearing until all violations of this code are corrected, except
when the purpose of the approval is to correct the violations of this chapter
then existing.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
DIVISION 3. APPLICATIONS/PUBLIC HEARINGS/APPEALS/FEES
Sec. 112-31. Applications.
   (a)   Applications submitted for action under the provisions of this title
shall be processed as follows:
      (1)   All applications shall be submitted with their required fees to the
Planning Department.
      (2)   The Planning Department shall have 30 days to examine the
application to determine its completeness, based on the requirements provided
in this chapter for each type of application.
      (3)   The Planning Administrator shall inform the applicant in writing if
the application is incomplete and specify the items or information necessary to
complete the application.
      (4)   The Planning Administrator shall assign completed applications to
the appropriate hearing body.
   (b)   Changes or additions to applications. Once hearing notices have been
mailed and/or published, the applicant may not modify the content of the
application, or submit additional items until the hearing. The applicant may,
however, withdraw the application and resubmit it after the new or modified
items are submitted. If withdrawn, the application shall not be rescheduled for
a public hearing until the additional items have been received.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-32. Public hearings.
   (a)   Public hearing required. Upon determination an application that
requires a public hearing is complete, the application shall be scheduled for
public hearing.
   (b)   Notifications. Notice of public hearings shall be provided as follows:
      (1)   Notice of meetings. In addition to the public notice provisions set
forth in this chapter, notice of regular and special meetings, including the
posting of agendas, shall be given in accordance with Idaho Code § 74-204.
      (2)   Content. The content of notices for public hearings shall conform
to the requirements of Idaho Code title 67, ch. 65, and shall include the time
and place of the hearing, a summary of the application or request, and a
statement that written comments on an application must be submitted at least
seven days prior to the hearing, or at the hearing. Written comments are not
accepted during the seven days preceding a hearing. If a County Hearing Body
has issued recommendations on the application, or made significant changes to a
proposal, the notice shall also include a summary of those recommendations and/
or changes.
      (3)   Newspaper, other media, political subdivisions. At least 28 days
prior to a public hearing, the Department shall cause a copy of the notice to
be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the county, and shall
ensure that the notice is made available to other newspapers, radio and
television stations. At least 28 days prior to the hearing, the Department
shall also cause the notice to be mailed to all political subdivisions
providing services within the county, including school districts.
      (4)   Property owners. When notice of adjacent and nearby property owners
is required by law, the Department shall ensure that hearing notices are
mailed, at least 28 days prior to the hearing. The notice shall be mailed to
property owners or purchasers of record of all parcels located within a 1,000
feet from the exterior boundaries of the parcels under consideration, including
any contiguous parcels under the same ownership.
      (5)   Site posting. Where on-site posting of a hearing notice is required
by law, the notice shall be posted on the premises that is the subject of the
application, at least seven days prior to the hearing. If the site is
inaccessible, the access driveway to the site shall be posted where it adjoins
a public or private road.
      (6)   Alternate forms of notice in lieu of mailing. When notice is
required to 200 or more property owners or purchasers of record, notice may be
provided through a display advertisement at least four inches by two columns in
size, in the official newspaper of the county, published twice with the last
notice at least 15 days prior to the hearing.
   (c)   Public comments.
      (1)   Written public comments in response to the contents of the
application file shall be submitted at least seven days prior to the hearing.
      (2)   Written statements not exceeding one standard letter sized, single
spaced page may be submitted at the public hearing. The Chair may request the
document be read into the record. All written statements shall include the
name, signature and address of the person submitting the document. The Chair
may rule as inadmissible any written document that fails to meet these
standards. Nothing contained herein prohibits the Chair or Hearing Body from
extending the written comment period as provided by this chapter.
   (d)   Agency comments. All agency comments, not previously received, shall
be submitted at least seven days prior to the hearing, or may be submitted at
the hearing.
   (e)   Conduct of hearings. Public hearings required by this chapter shall be
conducted as follows:
      (1)   The hearing shall be open to the public pursuant to the Open
Meetings Law, Idaho Code title 74, ch. 2;
      (2)   A transcribable record shall be maintained in accordance with Idaho
Code § 67-6536;
      (3)   Every person wishing to testify shall properly identify themselves
for the record;
      (4)   Written statements, plans, drawings and similar materials offered
in support of statements at a public hearing are part of the hearing record,
and shall be marked with an exhibit number and shall be retained by the county;
      (5)   The Hearing Body shall declare any potential conflicts, or economic
interests in the proposed action, in accordance with Idaho Code § 67-6506. A
member with a conflict may not deliberate on, nor participate in the proceeding
or action;
      (6)   The Hearing Body shall accept a report from staff, including an
evaluation of the request, proposed findings of fact, and, if applicable,
recommended conditions or other considerations;
      (7)   The Hearing Body shall allow the applicant the opportunity to
present the application;
      (8)   The Hearing Body shall then entertain statements from the public.
Any testimony given shall specifically address the proposal's compliance or
lack of compliance with the requirements of this chapter, requirements of Idaho
Code, applicable statutes or regulations, or the county comprehensive plan.
After having been recognized by the Hearing Body, members of the public shall
state for the record their name and place of residence prior to making their
statement. Members of the public may be permitted to speak for five minutes, or
as otherwise determined by the Hearing Body. Questions or comments made by the
recognized member of the public shall be directed to the Chairperson. The
Hearing Body shall not entertain irrelevant statements, and shall not entertain
statements that are inflammatory, personally attacking or derogatory toward any
Board, Commission Member, Hearing Examiner, staff member, elected official,
member of the public or business. Any unrecognized comments or disruptive
behavior will be grounds for removal from the hearing by the Hearing Body and
may subject the person or persons being removed to criminal prosecution
according to law.
      (9)   When all statements by members of the public have been given, the
Hearing Body shall call for discussion among the members. The Hearing Body will
entertain any questions by members, to be directed to any person present,
including staff members, in order to clarify statements or elicit further
information that members feel is necessary to evaluate the application.
      (10)   Following any questions, the Hearing Body shall afford the
applicant or a designated representative an opportunity to present rebuttal to
any statements or to clarify his or her own statement. New statements, the
introduction of new information, or new exhibits shall not be permitted at this
time.
      (11)   After the applicant's rebuttal and clarifications have been given,
the hearing shall be closed to further testimony.
      (12)   The Hearing Body shall then discuss and consider the application.
As a part of this discussion, members may direct questions to planning staff
members.
      (13)   At the close of the discussion, a motion relevant to the proposal
under consideration, the Hearing Body shall make a motion. Motions may include,
but are not limited to:
         a.   Motions for recommendation, approval or denial as appropriate;
         b.   Motions to continue the public hearing to a future certain date,
pending the receipt of additional information or the modification of the
proposal;
         c.   Motions to reopen the public testimony portion of the public
hearing, if new information has been introduced or become available; or
         d.   Motions to close the public hearing and/or continue discussion on
the proposal until a future certain date.
      (14)   Once a hearing is closed:
         a.   The Hearing Body shall not allow any additions or modifications
to the official record.
         b.   Decisions and recommendations shall be provided in writing in
accordance with Idaho Code title 67, ch. 65, and shall be based on the
standards and criteria set forth in federal and state laws and regulations and
applicable county ordinances.
         c.   If the Hearing Body determines that the official record is
incomplete or that the application needs additions, amendments or
modifications, the Hearing Body may continue to a date and time certain asking
for the specific information to be provided.
            1.   If the application is continued, the applicant may submit the
necessary additions, amendments or modifications, or may withdraw the
application and submit a new application.
            2.   The Hearing Body may limit future hearings on a continued
application to particular issues of fact;
      (15)   A recommendation or decision shall be made within 35 days of the
close of the public hearing, or in the case of the Board, within 35 days of the
receipt of a Hearing Body recommendation, unless otherwise agreed to by the
applicant. If the Board has held a public hearing on an application, the Board
shall make a decision within 35 days of the close of the final public hearing
unless otherwise agreed to by the applicant;
      (16)   In the event a Hearing Body fails to carry out its
responsibilities according to these regulations, the Board shall assume the
Hearing Body's duties.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-33. Appeals/reconsideration.
   (a)   Written decisions and finality. No request for reconsideration,
appeal, or judicial review shall be filed by an affected person until a written
decision has been entered by the body considering the subject application. A
written decision entered by the body considering the subject application shall
be final unless:
      (1)   The matter is otherwise required to be approved by the Board;
      (2)   An appeal as set forth below is timely filed with the Planning and
Zoning Department during regular business hours;
      (3)   A request to reconsider as set forth below is timely filed with the
Planning and Zoning Department during regular business hours; or
      (4)   A petition for judicial review of the Board's decision is timely
filed with the County District Court.
   (b)   Appeal of Administrator decision.
      (1)   Any determination made by the Planning Administrator in the
administration of the provisions of this chapter may be appealed to the Board
by paying the required fee and notifying the Administrator in writing of the
intent to appeal within ten working days from the date of the determination.
Within ten working days of receipt of an appeal, the Administrator shall
schedule a meeting with the Board to hear the appeal and shall provide written
notice to the appellant of the time and place of the meeting. The Administrator
and appellant shall be provided an opportunity to present the relevant issues
to the Board at that meeting. The appellant bears the burden of proof and may
be responsible for costs incurred for producing such proof, including
engineering or surveying documents or other evidence. The Board's decision
shall be final, and further recourse of the appellant shall be as provided by
Idaho Code. If no appeal to the Board is filed, the Planning Administrator's
decision shall be deemed final.
   (c)   Appeal of the Hearing Body.
      (1)   Any "affected person", as defined by Idaho Code title 67, ch. 65,
may appeal to the Board any final decision by the Hearing Body.
      (2)   Filing time limit. Any affected person may file an appeal of the
final written decision of the Hearing Body by submitting a written appeal to
the Planning and Zoning Department. The appeal of a final decision shall be
filed within 28 days of the date of the final decision. The appeal of a
recommendation to the Board shall be filed within 15 days of the written
decision.
      (3)   Fee. An appeal shall not be considered filed until such fee has
been paid. Failure to file the appeal within the time limits shall cause
automatic dismissal of the appeal.
      (4)   The Administrator shall schedule and the Board shall hold a public
hearing and make a decision pursuant to the procedures as set forth in this
division.
      (5)   At the public hearing, the Board shall consider the order,
requirement, permit, decision, or determination of the Hearing Body, and any
attached conditions thereto. The Board shall also consider any additional
evidence that may be offered by the public, applicant, Administrator, or
Hearing Body.
      (6)   The Board may affirm, reverse, modify, in whole or in part the
order, requirement, permit, decision, or determination appealed from, or make
or substitute any additional conditions that in its deliberations it may find
warranted.
   (d)   Reconsideration. Every applicant or affected person seeking judicial
review of the Board's final decision must first file with the Board a request
for reconsideration of the Board's decision, specifying deficiencies in the
decision within 14 days of the date of the decision, along with the applicable
fee. A failure to seek reconsideration is also a failure to exhaust
administrative remedies.
      (1)   Initial decision. The Board may consider the reconsideration motion
as scheduled on an open business meeting agenda and determine whether to grant
or deny the request. If the Board grants reconsideration in whole or in part, a
hearing before the Board will be scheduled to address the specific deficiencies
identified by the applicant or affected person and to allow interested persons
to have an opportunity to be heard. If the Board denies the request for
reconsideration, it shall promptly notify the parties in writing.
      (2)   Public notice on hearing. Notice of the public hearing on the
reconsideration, identifying the specific deficiencies alleged in the
reconsideration request, will be provided as stated in this division.
      (3)   Decision. Following the hearing on the reconsideration, the Board
may affirm, reverse or modify its prior decision and shall provide a written
decision to the applicant and the affected person(s) within 60 days of receipt
of the request for reconsideration. If the Board fails to timely decide, the
original decision of the Board will stand.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-34. Abandonment of application.
   (a)   An application that has been filed under the terms of this chapter
which has received a notice of incompleteness from the Planning Department and
has remained incomplete for 120 days minimum may be considered abandoned by the
Planning Department if:
      (1)   The Planning Department has sent by certified mail a written notice
to the applicant, stating that the application is incomplete and will be
considered abandoned if not determined complete by the Planning Department
within 30 days of the date of the notice; and
      (2)   The application remains incomplete either because the applicant
fails to respond by 30 days or fails to provide the required information to
complete the application by 30 days.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-35. Mediation.
   (a)   Pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-6510, the Board may require an applicant
and affected persons objecting to an application made pursuant to any provision
of this chapter to participate in at least one mediation session. Requests for
mediation must be submitted to the Board in writing, and may be submitted by
the applicant, an affected person, the Commission, or a Hearing Examiner. The
Board may grant or deny the request for good cause.
   (b)   If required, the Board shall select and pay the expense of the
mediator for the first meeting. Compensation of the mediator for additional
meetings shall be determined among the parties at the outset of any mediation
undertaking. If agreed by both parties, an attorney from the prosecuting
attorney's office may serve as the initial mediator.
   (c)   Mediation may occur at any point during the decision-making process or
after a final decision has been made; however, if mediation occurs after a
final decision, any resolution of differences must be the subject of another
public hearing before the Hearing Body.
   (d)   The mediation session shall not be a part of the official record for
an application.
   (e)   During mediation, any relevant time limitation on the application
shall be tolled. Such tolling shall cease when the applicant or other affected
person, after having participated in at least one mediation session, provides
the county with a written statement that no further participation is desired,
and the other parties are notified. If no mediation is scheduled, tolling shall
cease 28 days from the date of the request.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-36. Zoning certificate required.
   It shall be unlawful for an owner to use or to permit the use of any
structure, building, land or part thereof hereafter created, erected, changed,
converted, or enlarged, wholly or partly, until a zoning certificate, which may
be a part of the building permit, has been issued by the Planning Administrator
or his authorized representative.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-37. Fees.
   (a)   By resolution, the Board shall establish an official fee schedule for
land use applications and permits governed under Chapters 106 through 112.
   (b)   Whenever an application, review or public hearing is required, the
person or persons requesting the hearing or review shall pay the fee
established in the official fee schedule.
   (c)   All fees collected shall be nonrefundable unless an application is
withdrawn prior to the Planning, Zoning and Building Department’s determination
that the application is complete, in which case one-half of the fee will be
refunded.
   (d)   Until all required fees, charges and expenses have been paid in full,
no action shall be taken on any application or appeal. No permit or action
shall become effective until all fees have been paid.
   (e)   The Board may waive all or part of any fees for political subdivisions
or public agencies.
   (f)   A copy of the official fee schedule shall be maintained by the
Planning, Zoning and Building Department and shall be available for public
inspection during normal business hours.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Secs. 112-38—112-56. Reserved.
ARTICLE III. PROCEDURES
DIVISION 1. AMENDMENTS
Sec. 112-57. Authorization to initiate amendments.
   An amendment to the text of this chapter, the official zoning map may be
initiated by the Board, by the Commission, by the Planning and Zoning
Administrator, or by a property owner. Any person may initiate a change to the
comprehensive plan map.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-58. Contents of an application for a zone change or comprehensive plan
map amendment.
   (a)   An applicant shall submit the following:
      (1)   A detailed site map showing all existing improvements of the
property, utilities and significant observations within the area proposed for
zone change.
      (2)   A narrative statement explaining the extent and nature of the
requested amendment, including any effects of the zone change upon the delivery
of services by entities providing public services, including school, road,
public safety, sewer, water, and other relevant services.
      (3)   A narrative statement explaining how the proposed change is in
accordance with the goals and policies of the comprehensive plan.
      (5)   A legal description of the subject property prepared by a licensed
surveyor. The Department may, after discussion with the County GIS Department,
accept an alternate legal description if it is adequate to ensure accurate
boundaries on the official zoning map of the county.
      (6)   A vicinity map sufficient to show the impact of the proposal
commensurate with the scale of the project.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-59. Public hearing and records of amendments.
   The Commission shall hold a public hearing on every requested change in
accordance with Sec.112-32. Its recommendations on each requested zone change
shall be transmitted to the Board. No change shall be accomplished other than
by written decision and by ordinance or resolution duly passed by the Board.
The County Recorder shall maintain records of amendments to this division in a
form convenient for use by the public.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-60. Rezone criteria.
   (a)   The Commission may recommend approval to the Board if the Commission
finds the proposed zone change conforms to each of the following criteria:
      (1)   The request is in accordance with the goals and policies of the
comprehensive plan.
      (2)   The request is in accordance with the regulations outlines for the
proposed zone district, including the purpose statement.
      (3)   The zone change request and the uses in the requested zone, shall
not be incompatible with the surrounding area, and the uses in that area.
      (4)   The zone change shall not result in unreasonable adverse impacts
upon the delivery of services by any political subdivision providing public
services within the planning jurisdiction including, but not limited to, school
districts.
   (b)   The Commission may recommend approval for rezone proposals that do not
initially meet these criteria, if the applicant can provide substantial
mitigation through a written development agreement as provided by Sec. 112-61.
The Commission may also recommend approval for applications not meeting the
criteria listed above if the Commission finds that the rezone is essential to
the public health, safety, or welfare.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-61. Development agreements.
   (a)   Purpose. Conditional zoning development agreements are a discretionary
tool that may be used by the Board as a condition of rezoning. Conditional
zoning development agreements allow a specific project with a specific use to
be developed on one or more parcels located in an area that is not currently
zoned for the proposed uses.
   (b)   Initiation of agreements. An agreement may be initiated with the
consent of the applicant for the rezoning of a particular parcel of land or
collection of parcels of land through the following methods:
      (1)   On application by the applicant;
      (2)   By recommendation of the Administrator;
      (3)   By recommendation of the Commission or a hearing examiner; or
      (4)   As required by the Board.
   (c)    Jurisdiction.
      (1)   In the event that a Hearing Body finds that a conditional zoning
development agreement should be entered into, the Hearing Body shall retain
jurisdiction of the matter, defer consideration of the rezone applied for and
set a time limit for submittal of a proposed agreement. The Hearing Body shall
then proceed as specified herein.
      (2)   In the event of a determination by the Board that an agreement
should be entered into, the Board may remand the matter to the Hearing Body to
set a time limit for submittal of a proposed agreement. The Hearing Body shall
then proceed as specified in this article.
   (d)   Time limits. In the event of findings by the Hearing Body, or by
requirement of the Board to submit an agreement, all time limits required by
the provisions of Idaho Code or this title may be stayed, modified, or extended
upon affirmative decision of the Hearing Body or vote of the Board. The Hearing
Body or the Board may establish time limits for submittal of a proposed
agreement. Failure by the applicant to comply with such time limits may be
deemed to constitute just cause for termination of conditional zoning
development agreement proceedings and denial of the zone change application.
   (e)   Form of agreements. An agreement shall be in the form required by the
Administrator. No agreement shall be accepted by the Department which does not
include the following:
      (1)   The legal name, title and addresses of the applicant, property
owner and/or others with a direct vested interest in the conditional zoning
development agreement and rezone request.
      (2)   A legal description of the property that is subject of the rezone
request. Such legal description must be acceptable to the county.
      (3)   The current use of the property for which the conditional zoning
development agreement is sought.
      (4)   The proposed specific use of the property for which the conditional
zoning development agreement is sought and an explanation of how the proposed
use is permitted or conditionally permitted in the zone for which application
has been made.
      (5)   An affidavit by the owner of the parcel agreeing that upon the
Board's approval of the requested rezone, the owner shall use the property as
agreed in the development agreement.
      (6)   A project summary report, which shall include:
         a.   A narrative description of the proposed density, amenities,
improvements or other uses sought, including, but not limited to: height,
setbacks, size, and location of all proposed structures or activities on the
property.
         b.   The estimated time of start and completion of all proposed
development activities. This may be simplified by devising a time line that
splits development activities into phases.
         c.   Plans for use and reuse of property after proposed project
completion.
         d.   A narrative description of physical and environmental effects,
constraints, or limitations of the proposed development, including
infrastructure demands, and proposals for mitigation of identified physical and
environmental effects, constraints or limitations.
         e.   Economic benefits gained or lost from proposed development.
         f.   Conceptual site plans, with some representation of scale showing
the approximate location of any proposed structures, perimeter buffer treatment
(as required), road improvements, conceptual drainage strategy, and other
proposed usage information. Exhibits on general soil types, topography, slope,
vegetation, drainages, and other pertinent land characteristics may also be
required.
         g.   Signed letters of application, approval, or preapproval from any
applicable federal, state, or local agencies involved in the permitting process
for the specific use proposed. Letters shall include any written agreements
made with agencies to perform any specific action. If letters of application,
approval, or preapproval are not provided, acknowledgment and consent to comply
with all applicable federal, state and local laws, r   ules, regulations, and
standards shall be substituted.
         h.   A statement by the owner of the property that failure to comply
with the commitments in the agreement shall be deemed consent that the property
which was the subject of the agreement shall revert to the zone applicable as
of the date of submittal of the rezone request which resulted in the proposed
development agreement that such reversion of the zoning of the subject parcel
will occur at the time of termination of the agreement and shall comply with
the notice and hearing procedures set forth in Idaho Code § 67-6509; and that
the costs of such zone reversion shall be paid by the applicant, owner and/or
developer.
         i.   Signatures of all applicants, owners, developers, or lawfully
authorized agents, shall be notarized, and in the case of lawfully authorized
agents, properly executed powers of attorney in a form acceptable to the
county's legal counsel shall be presented to the Administrator and shall be
made part of the agreement.
         j.   A clause that the commitment shall run with the land and be
binding on the heirs, assigns, and successors in interest of the owner and/or
developer.
         k.   Any other matter mutually agreeable to the parties. This may
include, but is not limited to, performance bonding or other fiscal guarantees.
   (f)   Approval of agreements. The Board may require an agreement to be
executed to allow a rezone in order to ensure implementation of the project as
represented by the applicant and to promote the general health, safety,
comfort, convenience, and welfare of the citizens of the county. A conditional
zoning development agreement shall not allow a use of the property that is not
a permitted use (whether of right or with the appropriate permit) in the zone
requested.
      (1)   Conditional zoning development agreements may be recommended for
approval by the Hearing Body, and may be approved by the Board, only after
public hearings complying with the notice and hearing procedures set forth in
Idaho Code § 67-6509, and Sec. 112-32.
      (2)   The Hearing Body may recommend, and the Board may add, conditions,
terms, duties or obligations to the development agreement.
   (g)   Recordation of agreements. Following approval of a conditional zoning
development agreement and adoption of a companion ordinance rezoning the
subject property by the Board, the agreement shall be recorded in the office of
the County Recorder at the expense of the property owner or applicant. The
recorded agreement shall take effect and be in force upon adoption of the
approval order or publication of the ordinance rezoning the subject property,
whichever occurs later. The agreement, and all conditions, terms, duties or
obligations included therein, shall run with the land and shall be considered
to be continuing obligations of the owner, all subsequent owners and any other
person acquiring an interest in the property.
   (h)   Duty to comply with terms of agreement. Any owner, subsequent owner,
and any other person acquiring an interest in property that is restricted by an
agreement adopted pursuant to this chapter, shall comply with all terms,
conditions, obligations and duties contained in the agreement.
   (i)   Modification of agreements.
      (1)   No substantial modification of an agreement may be made without
approval of the Board unless the modification is required by changes in state
or federal laws, rules, or regulations. An agreement may be modified by the
Board without a public hearing only upon an affirmative recommendation from the
Hearing Body that the proposed modification is not a substantial change to the
terms and conditions of the agreement, or that the modification is required by
changes in state or federal laws, rules, or regulations. 
      (2)   After recordation of a conditional zoning development agreement,
any party bound by the agreement may seek to modify the agreement. Requests for
modification of a conditional zoning development agreement shall comply with
the procedures set forth in this article, and may also follow any procedures
contained in the original development agreement which are consistent with those
set forth in this article. The Hearing Body may recommend to the Board, and the
Board may approve, a substantial modification of a previously adopted agreement
based upon the following criteria:
         a.   A public hearing is held which complies with the notice and
hearing procedures set forth in Idaho Code § 67-6509 and Sec.
112-32.
         b.   A finding that the circumstances surrounding the agreement
currently in effect have changed and that the proposed modification will:
            1.   Preserve the enjoyment of a substantial property right of the
owner;
            2.   Not be detrimental to the public welfare; and
            3.   Not be injurious to other property in the surrounding
neighborhood.
   (j)   Termination of agreements.
      (1)   A conditional zoning development agreement may be terminated by the
Board without the consent of the breaching party for failure to comply with any
term, condition, obligation or duty contained in the agreement. Such
termination shall take place after a public hearing on the termination, at
which time testimony shall be taken to establish noncompliance with the
agreement. The public hearing shall comply with the notice and hearing
procedures set forth in Idaho Code, § 67-6509 and Sec.
112-32.
      (2)   A conditional zoning development agreement may contain termination
procedures, including, without limitation, notification of the persons bound by
the agreement of the alleged violation and establishing a reasonable time to
remedy the violation prior to the initiation of termination proceedings.
      (3)   Upon termination of the agreement, the property which was the
subject of the agreement shall revert to the zone applicable as of the date of
submittal of the rezone request which resulted in the adoption of the
agreement. If no such zone then exists, the zone then in effect which most
closely conforms to the characteristics and requirements of the prior existing
zone, as determined by the Administrator, shall apply. At that time, all uses
of the property which are not permitted within the subsequently applied zone
following termination of the agreement shall immediately cease. The property
owner may apply for the appropriate permit for any use that is permitted within
the subsequently applied zone upon approval of such permit.
      (4)   A conditional zoning development agreement shall stipulate that the
costs incurred to rezone the property upon termination of the agreement be paid
by the applicant, owner and/or developer of the property.
   (k)   Enforcement of agreements. Conditional zoning development agreements
may be enforced by the county through any means deemed to be appropriate,
including, but not limited to, specific enforcement, injunctive relief, or
damages for violation of any provision of this article or of any agreement
approved pursuant to the provisions of this article. The foregoing enforcement
options available to the county shall not be deemed exclusive.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Secs. 112-62—112-83. Reserved.
DIVISION 2. CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
Sec. 112-84. General provisions.
   (a)   There are certain land uses that possess unique characteristics
relative to location, design, size, method of operation, circulation and public
facilities that each specific use must be considered individually.
   (b)   Once a conditional use permit is approved, the terms and conditions of
the conditional use permit become the controlling plan for the use of the
property and may only be changed in accord with this division.
   (c)   Conditional use permits shall be reviewed on an annual basis, and are
valid as long as the use is being maintained in the manner approved. The
Commission shall determine the length the conditional use permit is valid
during the hearing in which the application has been approved.
   (d)   Conditional use permits that entail significant investment in
structures or infrastructure may be deemed to run with the land to which they
are attached; and other terms of the permits may be modified or terminated by a
change in ownership of the lands.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-85. Application.
   (a)   A property owner, or his agent, may initiate a request for a
conditional use or a modification of an existing conditional use, by filing an
application with the Zoning Official on forms prescribed by the Planning and
Zoning Department.
   (b)   At a minimum, the application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name, address and phone number of the applicant;
      (2)   Authorized signature of at least one owner of the property for
which the conditional use permit is proposed;
      (3)   Legal description of property;
      (4)   Applicant's interest in title;
      (5)   Description of existing use;
      (6)   Zoning district in which property is located;
      (7)   Description of proposed conditional use or nature of variance
requested; and
      (8)   A narrative statement that addresses:
         a.   The effects of elements such as noise, glare, odors, fumes and
vibrations on adjoining property;
         b.   The compatibility of the proposal with the adjoining land uses;
and
         c.    The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan.
   (c)   A plan of the site, drawn to scale, showing location of all existing
and proposed buildings, parking and loading areas, traffic access and
circulation, undisturbed areas, open spaces, landscaping, refuse and service
areas, utilities, signs and yards.
   (d)   A "vicinity map", sufficient to show the impact of the proposal
commensurate with the scale of the project.
   (e)   Other information that the Planning Administrator or Hearing Body
requires to determine if the proposed conditional use meets the intent and
requirements of this chapter, such as information regarding utilities, traffic,
service connections, natural resources, unique features of the land or off-site
features affecting the proposal.
   (f)   Variances or deviations from standards. An application for a
conditional use permit may include a request for one or more variances or
deviations from the standards which would otherwise apply to the use for which
the permit is sought. Any such request must be specifically identified and
addressed in detail in the narrative. The narrative must also explain why the
variance or deviation should be approved, including why an undue hardship
exists because of characteristics of the site, why the requested variance or
deviation is the minimum variance that will make possible the use associated
with the applied for permit, and why the variance or deviation would not be in
conflict with the public interest.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-86. Action by the Hearing Body.
   (a)   The Commission shall approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the
application as presented. If more information is needed for a determination to
grant a conditional use permit, the Commission may request information from the
planning staff or public agencies concerning social, economic, fiscal and
environmental effects of the proposed conditional use. If the application is
approved or approved with modifications, the Commission shall direct the
Administrator to issue a conditional use permit listing the conditions
specified for approval.
   (b)   Required findings. The Hearing Body shall not approve a conditional
use permit except upon the following findings:
      (1)   The applicable procedural requirements have been met.
      (2)   The proposal is in compliance with the applicable standards for the
proposed use without variances, or with such variances as may be approved by
the Board.
      (3)   The proposal is compatible, with conditions, with existing homes,
businesses and neighborhoods, and with the natural characteristics of the area.
      (4)   The proposal adequately addresses site constraints or hazards, and
adequately mitigates any negative environmental, social and economic impacts.
      (5)   Services and facilities for the proposal are available and
adequate.
      (6)   The proposal will meet the duly adopted requirements of other
agencies with jurisdiction.
      (7)   The proposal is not in conflict with the comprehensive plan.
   (c)   Any requested variance or deviation from standards which would
otherwise apply to the use for which the permit is sought shall not be approved
except upon findings indicating the request meets the requirements at Sec.
112-98.
   (d)   If the decision is a denial, the Hearing Body must state the actions,
if any, the applicant could take to gain approval.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-87. Permit conditions.
   (a)   Permits for conditional uses shall stipulate restrictions or
conditions which uphold the spirit and intent of this chapter and are roughly
proportional, both in nature and extent, to the reasonably expected impacts of
the approved use, including, without limitation, a definite time limit, hours
of operation, suitable landscaping, sight restrictions, or other conditions or
safeguards which address reasonably expected impacts of the approved use.
Permit approval may be conditioned on approval of other agencies with
jurisdiction. Violation of any such conditions, when made a part of the terms
under which the permit is granted, shall be deemed a violation governed under
Sec. 112-30 of this chapter.
   (b)   Conditional use permits approved without a time deadline shall expire
after two years from the date of signing the decision letter approving the
permit if the use authorized by the permit has not been established through, at
a minimum, development activity apparent upon a view of the site or submittal
of an application for one or more building permits.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-88. Annual review.
   (a)   All conditional use permits are required to have an annual review from
the date of approval. Each applicant shall be required to respond to the
request from the Planning Department to confirm the continued use on the
property and compliance with the approved conditions.
   (b)   Failure to respond within 30 days of the initial annual review letter
will initiate a second review letter requiring response with 30 days and a
warning that failure to respond will be considered a "no need situation"
meaning the applicant no longer needs the conditional use permit and the permit
will be set for a revocation hearing with the Commission.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-89. Revocation.
   (a)   A conditional use permit may be revoked upon violation of any of the
conditions imposed therein. The Administrator or designee shall verify that a
violation has occurred. The permit holder shall be notified that a violation
has been noted and shall be given a reasonable time to correct said violation.
If compliance is not or cannot be reached within an approved time, the
Administrator shall notify the Hearing Body, which approved the original
conditional use permit, to review the preponderance of the evidence to
determine, if after due process, the conditional use permit should or should
not be revoked.
      (1)   Grounds for revocation. Any conditional use permit may be revoked
for any of the following reasons:
         a.   There was a misrepresentation in the original application of
hearing.
         b.   One of more of the terms, conditions or uses upon which such
permit was granted has been violated or altered.
         c.   The annual review by the Department has been no response or a no
need situation and the conditional use permit needs revoked.
         d.   The use for which the permit was granted has become detrimental
to the public health, safety, or general welfare and such was not the condition
at the time of approval based on the actions of the owner or unknown at the
time of application.
      (2)   Procedure. Any hearing to revoke a permit shall be conducted in
accordance with Sec.
112-29.
      (3)   Any property owner, where a conditional use permit has been
revoked, may reapply for a conditional use permit as only allowed by the land
use table in the most recently adopted zoning ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-90. Recordation.
   The decision letter approving a conditional use permit application shall be
recorded at the owner's expense.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Secs. 112-91—112-95. Reserved.
DIVISION 3. VARIANCES
Sec. 112-96. General provisions.
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of this division is to authorize such variances
from the provisions of this chapter in specific cases as will not be contrary
to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter would result in unnecessary
hardship.
   (b)   Description. A variance is a modification of the bulk and placement
requirements of this title as to lot size, lot coverage, width, depth, front
yard, side yard, rear yard, setbacks, parking space, height of buildings, or
other provision of this title affecting the size or shape of a structure or the
placement of the structure upon lots, or the size of lots. A variance shall not
be considered a right or special privilege, but may be granted to an applicant
only upon a showing of undue hardship because of characteristics of the site
and that the variance is not in conflict with the public interest.
   (c)   Invalid grounds. No nonconforming use of neighboring land, structures,
or buildings in the same zone, and no permitted or nonconforming use of lands,
structures, or buildings, in other zones shall be considered grounds for the
issuance of a variance.
   (d)   Once granted, a variance is permanent and runs with the land.
   (e)   In granting a variance, the Commission may attach conditions which it
finds necessary to protect the interests of the surrounding property or
neighborhood, and otherwise to achieve the purpose of this division.
   (f)   No variance shall be granted to allow the use of property for purposes
not authorized within the zone in which the proposed use would be located.
   (g)   Expense shall not be considered when considering a variance.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-97. Application.
   (a)   The contents of a variance application shall be the same as for a
conditional use permit, and shall also address the standards of Sec.
112-98.
   (b)   Hearing. A hearing shall be conducted following the requirements of
Sec.
112-32 of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-98. Granting variances.
   (a)   No variance shall be granted except upon the following findings.
      (1)   The applicable procedural requirements have been met.
      (2)   An undue hardship exists because of characteristics of the site.
         a.   The subject property has exceptional or extraordinary physical
characteristics such as irregularity, narrowness, shallowness, or slope.
         b.   Because of these physical characteristics, the strict application
of the provisions of this title that are the subject of the requested variance
would create an exceptional or undue hardship upon the property owner.
         c.   The hardship is not self-imposed.
            1.   The applicant has proved by competent financial evidence that
the lack of reasonable return is substantial.
      (3)   The variance will not be in conflict with the public interest.
         a.   The variance is necessary for the preservation of a property
right of the applicant, substantially the same as is possessed by owners of
other property in the same zone or vicinity.
         b.   The authorization of the variance will not:
            1.   Be materially detrimental to the purposes of the applicable
chapter;
            2.   Be injurious to property in the zone or vicinity in which the
property is located; and
            3.   Conflict with the objectives of any county development plans
or policies.
      (4)   The variance requested is the minimum variance, which will
alleviate hardship.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Secs. 112-99—112-106. Reserved.
DIVISION 4. PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
Sec. 112-107. Purpose.
   (a)   It is the purpose of this chapter to encourage the unified and planned
development of land at the time of development by the use of planned unit
developments (PUD) by considering deviations from specific or strict compliance
with zone regulations in this title and to allow by master planning flexibility
in site design and dimensional standards to develop residential, commercial
and/or industrial uses not allowed individually within the specific zones,
resulting in:
      (1)   A more efficient, aesthetic and desirable use of open space and
recreational amenities;
      (2)   A variety of housing and building types;
      (3)   The placement of structures that is compatible with abutting
development;
      (4)   An integrated development that is served by essential services;
      (5)   Protection of existing natural, scenic, and historic resources;
      (6)   Protection of existing neighborhoods through buffering techniques
including screen planting, open space, and landscaping;
      (7)   A more efficient use of land than is generally achieved through
conventional development resulting in substantial savings through shorter
utilities and streets;
      (8)   A development pattern in harmony with land use density,
transportation and community facilities objectives of the plan; and
      (9)   A development pattern which preserves and utilizes natural
topography and geologic features, scenic vistas, trees and other vegetation and
prevents the disruption of natural drainage patterns.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-108. Scope.
   Planned unit developments shall only be allowed in areas of city impacts of
the county, recreational zones, recorded town sites, or areas supported by
either a community well and/or sewer system.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024; Ord. No. 2025-05, § 2, 7-14-2025)
Sec. 112-109. Application of provisions.
   Whenever there is a conflict or difference between the provisions of this
chapter and those of other chapters of this title, the provisions of this
chapter shall prevail. Subjects not covered by this chapter shall be governed
by the respective provisions found elsewhere in this title.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-110. General provisions.
   (a)   Conformity required. Planned unit developments shall conform to the
zones in which they are proposed. Latitude will be given to incorporate
imaginative ideas and innovations, provided the planned unit developments shall
conform to the purposes and objectives of the comprehensive plan.
   (b)   Concurrent processing. An application for a planned unit development
may be accompanied by all other discretionary requests, such as changes of
zone, variances, conditional use permits and subdivision plats that may relate
to the proposal. Zone change applications consistent with the comprehensive
plan that are processed concurrently with a PUD application may be filed with
the Administrator, but shall not become finalized until the provisions of this
division are met.
   (c)   Subdivision of land. Planned unit developments that require the
subdivision of land may also have applications for each processed concurrently.
A preliminary development plan may also be a preliminary plat and be processed
as a subdivision. In no instance shall the platting requirements for
subdivisions, as set forth in state code and in Chapter 110 of this code be
waived as a result of this concurrent processing provision. A final subdivision
plat may not be recorded prior to approval of a development plan for a PUD.
   (d)   Streets. All streets to be dedicated to the public shall comply with
the road standards established in Chapter 53 of this code.
   (e)   Minimum area. A planned unit development for the following principal
uses shall contain an area of not less than:
      (1)   20 acres for residential development;
      (2)   25 acres for residential use with subordinate commercial or
industrial use;
      (3)   Ten acres for commercial use; and
      (4)   Ten acres for industrial use.
   (f)   Ownership requirements.
      (1)   An application for approval of a PUD shall be filed in the name(s)
of the recorded owner(s) of the property.
      (2)   One person or entity shall be in control of a PUD and the subject
property to ensure that the development can be accomplished, until an approved
final plat is recorded.
   (g)   Common open space.
      (1)    A minimum of ten percent of the gross land area developed in any
residential PUD project shall be reserved for common open space and
recreational facilities for the residents or users of the area being developed.
      (2)   The required amount of common open space reserved under a PUD shall
be held in corporate ownership by owners of the project for the use of each
owner who buys property within the development, or shall be sold to the owners
of the project as a group or be dedicated to the public and retained as common
open space for parks, recreation or related uses. Public utility and similar
easements and rights-of-way for watercourses and other similar channels are not
acceptable for common open space dedication unless such land or right-of-way is
usable and is approved by the Commission.
      (3)   The responsibility for the maintenance of all open spaces shall be
specified by the developer before approval of the final subdivision plat.
      (4)   Every property developed under the PUD approach should be designed
to abut common open space, or similar areas. A clustering of dwellings is
encouraged.
      (5)   Dedicated open space/amenities shall abut any lots that have been
reduced below the minimum property size and shall abut multi-family development
within the PUD.
   (h)   Utility requirements. Underground utilities, including telephone and
electrical systems, are required within the limits of all PUDs. Appurtenances
to these systems which can be effectively screened may be excepted from this
requirement if the Commission finds that such exception will not violate the
intent or character of the proposed PUD.
   (i)   Commercial uses.
      (1)   When PUDs include commercial uses, commercial buildings and
establishments shall be planned as groups having common parking areas and
common ingress and egress points in order to reduce the number of potential
accident locations at intersections. Vegetative buffers or fences shall be
provided on the perimeter of the commercial areas abutting residential areas.
      (2)   The plan of the project shall provide for the integrated and
harmonious design of buildings and for adequate and properly arranged
facilities for internal traffic circulation, landscaping and such other
features and facilities as may be necessary to make the project attractive and
efficient from the standpoint of the adjoining and surrounding noncommercial
areas.
      (3)   All areas designed for future expansion or not intended for
immediate improvement or development shall be landscaped or otherwise
maintained in a neat and orderly manner.
   (j)   Industrial uses.
      (1)   PUDs may include industrial uses if it can be shown that the
development results in a more efficient and desirable use of land.
      (2)   Industrial uses and parcels shall be developed in park like
surroundings utilizing or creating landscaping as buffers to screen lighting,
parking areas, loading areas or docks and/or outdoor storage of raw materials
or products. A planned industrial area shall provide for the harmony of
buildings and a compact grouping in order to economize in the provision of such
utility services as are required. Thoroughfares shall be kept to a minimum
throughout a planned industrial area in order to reduce through traffic.
   (k)   Recreational uses.
      (1)   PUDs which are primarily recreational in nature shall be developed
utilizing natural surroundings and existing woodlands as buffers to screen
nonrecreational uses.
      (2)   Buildings shall be harmonious and compatible with the surrounding
scenery and terrain. Residential buildings shall be grouped so as to preserve
as much land as possible in its natural state and thoroughfares shall be kept
to a minimum in order to reduce through traffic.
      (3)   All areas designed for future expansion or not intended for
immediate development shall be left as natural as possible.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-111. Application requirements.
   (a)   A development plan shall be filed with the Administrator by at least
one property owner or his agent. At a minimum, the plan shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   Name, address and phone number of applicant;
      (2)   Legal description of property;
      (3)   Description of existing use;
      (4)   Zones;
      (5)   Topography of property within 250 feet of the subject site, at a
minimum of five contour intervals, with natural drainage patterns indicated and
with the subject site's topography and drainage patterns depicted. The
location, size, and invert elevation of adjacent, or the closest sanitary
sewer, storm sewer, and water main, as well as documentation of these
facilities' points of origin.
      (6)   Detailed plan. A drawing of the PUD shall be prepared at a scale of
not less than one inch equals 50 feet unless approved at another scale by the
county appointed surveyor and shall show such designations as proposed streets
(public and private), all buildings and their use, common open space,
recreation facilities, parking areas, service areas, and other facilities to
indicate the character of the proposed development. The submission may be
composed of one or more sheets and drawing, and must include:
         a.   Boundary lines and dimensions of the subject site;
         b.   Existing and proposed easements; general purpose and width;
         c.   Streets on, adjacent, or proposed for the tract;
         d.   Utility extensions of water lines, sanitary sewers, and storm
sewers;
         e.   Land use designations for the subject site;
         f.   Retention and detention areas;
         g.   Residential lots (average lot size and minimum lot size shall be
specified);
         h.   General location, purpose and height, in feet or stories, of each
building other than single family residences; and
         i.   Map data (Name of development, name of site planner, north point,
scale, date of preparation).
      (7)   A schedule of the development of units and site to be constructed
in progression, a description of design principles and preliminary building
plans including general flood plans and exterior elevations, or an architect's
rendition thereof;
      (8)   Engineering feasibility studies and plans showing water, sewer,
drainage, electricity, telephone and natural gas installations; waste disposal
facilities; street improvements and nature and extent of earth work required
for site preparation and development;
      (9)   A traffic impact study shall be submitted when requested by the
Administrator or by a highway agency with jurisdiction. This study must
include:
         a.   Existing traffic counts and level of service on adjacent and
nearby streets;
         b.   Vehicle trips that will be generated by the development;
         c.   The effect the development will have on the level of service on
affected streets;
         d.   The effect added traffic will have on signals, turn lanes, or
other transportation infrastructure;
         e.   Improvements needed to maintain adequate levels of service; and
         f.   Any other information required to evaluate impacts to the
transportation system.
      (10)   The application of a development plan shall be accompanied by a
written statement by the developer setting forth the reasons why, in his/her
opinion, the PUD would be in the public interest; and
      (11)   Deed restrictions, protective covenants and other legal statements
or devices to be used to control the use, development and maintenance of the
land and the improvements thereon, including those areas which are to be
commonly owned and maintained.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-112. Phased projects.
   The preliminary plans for multi-phased projects shall include the
anticipated phasing of the development. Each consecutive phase shall be filed
with the Administrator for final plat approval within one year of the approval
date of the final plat of the prior phases. One 1-year extension for each phase
may be granted by the Administrator. Bonding and other financial guarantees
shall be extended accordingly. In approving a time extension, the Administrator
may institute additional conditions on the plan to meet new requirements that
have been adopted by the county, as they may affect the project. Failure to
file the final plat within the specified time periods shall void the specific
preliminary plat phase as well as all remaining phases.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-113. Public hearing.
   The Commission shall follow the hearing procedures in Sec.
112-32.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-114. Approval procedure.
   (a)   An application for PUD approval shall be brought before the Hearing
Body for a recommendation, and before the Board for a decision, in accordance
with the notice and hearing procedures set forth in Sec.
112-32.
   (b)   Required findings. For the Hearing Body to recommend approval of a PUD
development plan, and for the Board to grant approval of a PUD development
plan, each of the following findings must be made:
      (1)   The PUD is in general conformance with the comprehensive plan;
      (2)   The proposal is consistent with the intent and purpose of this
title, and the amenities, design, and benefits of the PUD justify any approved
deviations from the normal requirements of this chapter;
      (3)   The proposed development can be initiated within two years of the
date of approval;
      (4)   Each individual unit of the development, as well as the total
development, can exist as an independent unit capable of creating an
environment of sustained desirability and stability or that adequate assurance
will be provided that such objective will be obtained;
      (5)   The uses proposed will not be detrimental to present and potential
surrounding uses and will have a beneficial effect which would not be achieved
under standard zone regulations;
      (6)   The streets and thoroughfares proposed are suitable and adequate to
carry anticipated traffic, and any increased densities will not generate
traffic in such amounts as to overload the street network outside the PUD;
      (7)   Any proposed commercial development can be justified at the
location proposed;
      (8)   The area surrounding said development can be planned and zoned in
coordination and substantial compatibility with the proposed development; and
      (9)   The existing and proposed utility services are adequate for the
population densities and nonresidential uses proposed.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-115. Conditions of approval.
   PUD approvals may contain conditions which address potential impacts of the
development contemplated in the PUD, including, without limitation, the
following:
   (a)   Minimizing or mitigating adverse effects on delivery of services by
political subdivisions, including school districts;
   (b)   Minimizing or mitigating adverse effects on other developments;
   (c)   Controlling the sequence, timing and duration of development;
   (d)   Assuring that the development is maintained properly;
   (e)   Designating the exact location and nature of development;
   (f)   Requiring the provision of on site or off-site public facilities or
services;
   (g)   Requiring more restrictive standards than those generally required in
this title; or
   (h)   Varying from standards generally required in this title.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-116. Procedure for development of a PUD.
   Upon approval of the PUD development plan, the PUD shall be developed in
accordance with the following procedure:
   (a)   The permit holder must obtain approval of infrastructure plans from
agencies with jurisdiction, and must obtain approval of necessary construction
permits, including building and site disturbance permits, from the Department.
   (b)   If additional lots are being created within the PUD, infrastructure
must be completed, or financial guarantees provided, in accordance with the
requirements of Chapter 110. If additional lots are not being created, the
Board may require an acceptable financial guarantee to assure completion of
improvements within two years from the date of PUD development plan approval.
Upon written request by the property owner, the Administrator may approve an
extension for good cause shown in accordance with Sec.
112-118. Non-infrastructure building permits will not be issued until the
associated bond and development agreement are in place or the essential
infrastructure and improvements (e.g., roads, water, sewer, fire suppression
systems, wildfire mitigation) have been completed and approved by the agencies
with jurisdiction.
   (c)   Construction of nonessential improvements, such as landscaping and
recreational facilities, shall be completed in proportion to the overall
progress on the project, and shall be totally completed and approved by the
time building permits are issued for 50 percent of the units. If this
requirement is not met, the Administrator may suspend the issuance of building
permits until the nonessential improvements are completed.
   (d)   Approval of individual building permits must be in accordance with the
approved PUD development plan and associated conditions.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-117. Duration of approval.
   (a)   The PUD development permit shall expire if construction on the project
has not begun within two years from the date of the PUD approval, unless an
alternative completion schedule was approved by the Board in the decision
letter granting PUD approval.
   (b)   The Administrator may approve an extension of the duration of approval
for good cause shown in accordance with Sec.
112-118.
   (c)   Effect of noncompliance. Failure to comply with conditions or
restrictions contained in a PUD approval shall constitute a violation pursuant
to Sec.
112-30. Upon such a finding, the Administrator may take action to suspend or
revoke a PUD, which may be appealed in accordance with Sec.
112-33.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-118. Extensions and amendments.
   (a)   Extensions of approval. At any time prior to expiration of approval,
the applicant may request one extension of up to two additional years for
development to begin from the date of PUD approval, according to the procedure
set forth in this section.
   (b)   Amendments.
      (1)   Minor amendments to a PUD, its structures or uses, may be approved
by the Administrator. Minor amendments include, without limitation, adjustments
to platted lot lines, or a combination of the boundary lines of platted and
legally created, unplatted parcels. The determination of whether a proposed
amendment to a PUD constitutes a minor amendment shall be within the sound
discretion of the Administrator.
      (2)   Significant changes in use, structures, lot or boundary lines,
conditions of approval, and all other aspects of a final PUD plan must be
approved by the Board in accordance with the application, hearing and approval
procedures for a new PUD. If components of the PUD are under separate
ownership, the cooperative corporation or other organization established to
provide oversight and control of the project may be authorized to submit the
application on behalf of the property owners in the development. If an
organization with such authority has not been established, then all affected
persons within the PUD must be coapplicants for the request.
   (c)   Application requirements. The following items constitute a complete
application.
      (1)   An application form which is completed and signed by the applicant
or property owner. The signature of an applicant other than the property owner
must be accompanied by a signed, notarized letter from the property owner
authorizing the applicant to sign and file the application. Applications for a
minor amendment to a PUD may also be submitted by a cooperative corporation or
other organization vested with authority to act on behalf of the property
owners within the PUD. Proof of such authority shall be submitted with the
application, and all signatures shall be notarized in a manner indicating the
capacity of the persons signing the application.
      (2)   Fees, as adopted by resolution of the Board.
      (3)   A narrative explaining the reasons the PUD development plan
construction was not completed within the original time line, the status of
compliance with the original conditions of approval, and the anticipated
schedule for completing the plan and/or beginning construction.
      (4)   As part of a complete application, the Administrator may require
additional information to determine compliance with conditions of approval, the
provisions of this chapter or other provisions of this code, or the
requirements of other agencies.
   (d)   Approval requirements and procedures.
      (1)   Extensions. The Administrator may grant an extension for the
requested time period, or such other time period as may be deemed appropriate,
upon making the following findings:
         a.   A complete application was submitted;
         b.   The project is in compliance with the requirements of the county
and other agencies at the time the complete PUD application was received by the
Department; and
         c.   The project is in compliance with its conditions of approval.
      (2)   Minor changes. Minor changes to a PUD shall be approved only upon
the following findings:
         a.   No additional lots or parcels are created;
         b.   The resulting lots are in conformance with the size and design
approved for the PUD and are in conformance with all applicable provisions of
this chapter and any other applicable provisions of this code;
         c.   The adjustment does not result in lots separated by a right of
way or road; and
         d.   A statement is included on the deed of conveyance indicating that
the instrument is being recorded for lot line adjustment purposes, and that the
property being transferred is not a separate, buildable lot.
      (3)   Time frame. Unless otherwise approved by the applicant, the
Administrator shall make a decision within 35 days of receipt of a completed
application.
      (4)   Appeal. The decision of the Administrator may be appealed in
accordance with Sec.
112-33.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Secs. 112-119—112-131. Reserved.
DIVISION 5. ADMINISTRATIVE PERMITS
Sec. 112-132. Administrative approvals.
   The approval process for all permits requiring approval of the Planning
Administrator, other than building permits. Administrative use permits may be
issued for uses identified in Sec. 112-551 as administrative.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-133. Application/process.
   The process shall be as follows:
   (a)   Application. An application must be filed meeting the requirements of
Sec.
112-31.
   (b)   Review. Upon submittal of a complete application, the Administrator
may forward application packets to agencies with jurisdiction requesting their
review and input. The Administrator shall have up to 30 days to review the
application.
   (c)   Required findings. To approve an application, the Administrator must
make the following findings:
      (1)   The applicant has met the relevant application requirements.
      (2)   The proposal is compatible with existing homes, businesses and
neighborhoods, and with the natural characteristics of the area.
      (3)   The proposal is compatible with existing homes, businesses and
neighborhoods, and with the natural characteristics of the area.
      (4)   The proposal adequately addresses site constraints or hazards, and
adequately mitigates any negative environmental, social and economic impacts.
      (5)   Services and facilities for the proposal are available and
adequate.
      (6)   The proposal will meet the duly adopted requirements of other
agencies with jurisdiction.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-134. Decision letter.
   (a)   After all relevant information has been received or the lapsing of 30
days, whichever is earlier, the Administrator shall review the application and
all associated documents and issue a decision letter within seven working days.
Alternatively, the Administrator may, at any time during this review, forward
the application to the Planning and Zoning Commission for a public hearing and
decision in accordance with the public hearing process in Sec.
112-32.
   (b)   The decision letter shall comply with the requirements of Idaho Code §
67-6535.
   (c)   If the decision is an approval, the order shall include any
conditions, restrictions, or limitations of approval. If the decision is a
denial, the order shall include the actions which the applicant could take to
gain approval.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-135. Conditions of approvals.
   Administrative approvals may stipulate restrictions or conditions which
uphold the spirit and intent of this chapter and are roughly proportional, both
in nature and extent, to the reasonably expected impacts of the approved use,
including, without limitation, a definite time limit, hours of operation,
suitable landscaping, sight restrictions, or other conditions or safeguards
which address reasonably expected impacts of the approved use. Approval may be
conditioned on approval of other agencies with jurisdiction. Violation of any
such conditions, when made a part of the terms under which the permit is
granted, shall be deemed a violation governed under Sec.
112-30.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-136. Appeals.
   Decisions made by the Administrator may be appealed in accordance with Sec.
112-33.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-137. Authorization.
   (a)   Authorization of an administrative use permit shall be for a period as
specified by the Planning and Zoning Administrator.
   (b)   Administrative use permits shall be reviewed on an annual basis and
are valid as long as the use is being maintained in the manner approved.
   (c)   A permit shall be valid for two years, and may be renewed for
consecutive two-year periods. If application for permit renewal is not received
by expiration date, the permittee must reapply as for a new permit.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Secs. 112-138—112-145. Reserved.
Sec. 112-146. Modification of the terms and conditions of permit approval.
   (a)   The terms and conditions of the approval of any permit authorized or
required in this chapter may be modified only by the Planning Administrator,
Commission and/or Board as established in this chapter. This section applies to
modifications of approved permits, including, but not limited to, conditional
use permits, special use permits, variances, preliminary plats, final plats,
lot line adjustments and planned unit developments.
   (b)   Application for a modification of terms and conditions of approval
shall be made to the Planning Department, on forms provided by the Department,
and accompanied by the fee specified in Sec. 112-265.
   (c)   A public hearing shall be scheduled and notice provided in accordance
with the requirements for the original permit issuance.
   (d)   The Planning Administrator, Commission and/or Board shall consider the
proposed modification in accordance with the requirements for the original
permit application and shall confine the review to the proposed modification.
   (e)   The Planning Administrator, Zoning Commission and/or Board shall
render a decision in writing on the proposed modification within five working
days after consideration of the proposal, and the decision shall conform to the
procedures, standards and requirements pertaining to the original permit.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Secs. 112-139—112-145. Reserved.
DIVISION 6. NONCONFORMING USES
Sec. 112-147. Continuance of a nonconforming use or structure.
   Subject to the provisions of this division, a nonconforming use may be
continued and maintained in reasonable repair but shall not be altered or
extended, except that the extension of a nonconforming use to a portion of a
structure that was provided for the nonconforming use at the time the ordinance
from which this division is derived is adopted shall be permitted, and except
that a structure with respect to use but nonconforming with respect to height,
setback, or coverage may be altered or extended if the alteration or extension
does not further deviate from the standards of this division. Nonconforming
uses may be continued and maintained following the sale of the property, if the
use is continued within one year of the date of sale, but the use shall not be
altered or extended.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-148. Discontinuance of a nonconforming use.
   (a)   If a nonconforming use involving a structure is discontinued from use
for a period of one year, further use of the property shall conform to this
division.
   (b)   If a nonconforming use not involving a structure is discontinued for a
period of six months, further use of the property shall conform to this
division.
   (c)   On lots which have more dwelling units than that allowed by the zone,
and one or more of the dwelling units are manufactured homes, a manufactured
home may be replaced by another manufactured home if said manufactured home is
replaced within one year from the date the initial manufactured home is
removed. Replaced means the home has been issued a building permit and has
received final approval for occupancy. If the unit is not replaced within one
year, another dwelling may not be placed upon the lot. A six month extension
may be granted upon written request and approval by the Board if the request is
received prior to the one year expiration.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-149. Change of nonconforming use.
   (a)   If a nonconforming use is located in a conforming structure, any
change in use shall conform to this section.
      (1)   A nonconforming use located in a nonconforming structure, may upon
review by the Commission, be changed to another nonconforming use, provided the
Commission shall find that the proposed use is equally appropriate, or more
appropriate, to the zone than the existing nonconforming use. In permitting
such a change of use, the Commission shall consider whether the proposed use
will:
         a.   Generate less traffic;
         b.   Decrease hours of operation; and/or
         c.   Generally be less offensive.
      (2)   In permitting any such change of use, the Commission may require
additional appropriate conditions and safeguards in accord with other
provisions of this section. Structural alteration may be allowed to any portion
of the nonconforming structure, provided it does not increase the existing
floor area, and provided the alteration is aesthetically acceptable for the
neighborhood in which the structure is located, as determined by the
Commission.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-150. Destruction of nonconforming use.
   If a nonconforming structure or a structure containing a nonconforming use
is destroyed by any cause to an extent exceeding 80 percent of fair market
value as indicated by the records of the County Assessor, a future structure or
use on the site shall conform to this division. This section does not apply to
manufactured homes described in Article IV, Division 4 of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-151. Completion of structure.
   Nothing contained in this division shall require any change in the plans,
construction, alteration, or designated use of a structure for which a permit
has been issued and construction work has commenced prior to the adoption of
this division, except that, if the building is nonconforming or is intended for
a nonconforming use, it shall be completed and in use within one year from the
time the permit was issued.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-152—112-165. Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. ZONING DISTRICT ESTABLISHED; DISTRICT REGULATIONS
DIVISION 1. GENERAL
Sec. 112-166. Official zoning map.
   The official zoning district map shall be made available in an electronic
format for the public to view. The official map shall be updated on a
continuous basis as zone changes are approved by the Board and upon
publication. The official, electronic zone map shall be made available for
public review during the County Planning Department's normal business hours.
Changes to the official zone map shall be listed in an electronic format on the
official zoning map. One or more physical reproductions of the official zoning
map shall be located in office of the County Planning Department. Any
reproductions of the official zoning map shall be true and correct
reproductions of the official zoning map to the greatest extent possible (with
the exception of signatures), but any such reproductions shall not be
considered official.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-167. Adoption of official zoning map, certification, amendments to be
shown.
   (a)   Official zoning district map. The county is divided into zones or
districts, as shown on the official zoning district map, which, with all
explanatory matter thereon, is adopted by reference and declared to be a part
of this title. The official zoning map shall be identified by the signature of
the Chairperson of the Board, attested by the County Clerk:
      (1)   This is to certify that this is the official zoning district map
referred to in Sec.
112-166.
   (b)   Amendments. If, in accordance with the provisions of this title,
changes are made in zone boundaries, or other matter portrayed on the official
zoning map, changes shall be entered on the official zoning map promptly after
the amendment has been approved by the Board, with the entry on the official
zoning map specifying the file number, ordinance number, and effective date.
Amendments to the zoning map are to become effective immediately upon
publication.
   (c)   Conformance with procedures. No changes of any nature shall be made in
the official zoning map or matter shown thereon except in conformity with the
procedures set forth in this chapter. Any unauthorized change of whatever kind
by any person or persons shall be considered a violation of this chapter and
punishable under Sec.
112-30.
   (d)   In the event that a parcel is divided by two or more zoning districts,
the Commission or Board will determine the zoning district which will be
applied to the parcel or portion of the parcel thereof, when considering land
use or other applications. All determinations of the Administrator or
Commission are subject to review by the Board. The decision regarding the
applicable zoning district will be based upon the most beneficial use of the
land and its compatibility to surrounding zoning districts and land use. The
zoning decision rendered will be formally codified within the county zone map
following a public hearing on said zone change amendment. If a parcel consists
of more than one zoning designation, the majority zone shall be the regulatory
zone.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-168. Zoning districts established.
   (a)   The purpose statements for each zone and map designation set forth in
the following sections shall be used to guide the application of the zones and
designations to all lands in unincorporated Jefferson County. The purpose
statements also shall guide interpretation and application of land use
regulations within the zones and designations, and any changes to the range of
permitted uses within each zone through amendments to this chapter.
   (b)   In accordance with the provisions of Idaho Code and the objectives set
forth in this code, all land in the unincorporated areas of the county is
hereby classified according to the following zoning designations and zoning map
symbols, which shall be applied as shown on the official zoning district map:
   (c)   To further the purposes stated in this section, the following names
shall apply to zoning districts created by this article:
District name Symbol
District name              Symbol
Agrictultural 10 Zone      Ag-10
Agricultural 20 Zone       Ag-20
Agricultural 40 Zone       Ag-40
Suburban Neighborhood Zone SN
Residential 1 Zone         R-1
Residential 5 Zone         R-5
Commercial 1 Zone          C-1
Commercial 2 Zone          C-2
Light Industrial Zone      L-I
Heavy Industrial Zone      H-I
Recreational Res/Com Zone  RR/C
Recreational Open Zone     R/O
 
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-169. Land use table.
   See Sec. 112-645. This table is the official land use table showing the uses
that will be allowed within every zone including whether a conditional use
permit or an administrative use permit is required.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Secs. 112-170—112-189. Reserved.
DIVISION 2. AGRICULTURAL ZONES
Sec. 112-190. General purpose.
   (a)   The Agricultural Zone District is established to provide for
agricultural pursuits, including livestock production, horticulture,
floriculture, viticulture, and necessary accessory uses for treating, storing
and processing agricultural products. The purpose of the agricultural zones is
to preserve, protect and maintain areas that are rural in character and the
integrity of the farming areas where viable agricultural pursuits can be
feasible and to avoid fragmentation of farms. These purposes are accomplished
by:
      (1)   Establishing residential density limits and conservation
development standards to retain areas sized for efficient farming.
      (2)   Allowing for uses related to agricultural production and limiting
nonagricultural uses to those compatible with agriculture, or requiring close
proximity for the support of agriculture.
   (b)   Uses. Uses administrative, permitted or conditional are allowed in
accordance with the land use table in Sec. 112-645.
   (c)   Setbacks and density requirements. Refer to setback table in Sec. 112-
263.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-191. Agricultural 10 Zone (Ag-10).
   AG-10 in areas designated as agricultural land in the comprehensive plan
that do not feature prime agricultural soils, but where agricultural pursuits
remain viable. These areas may be within or adjacent to areas of city impact or
where lands are afforded fire protection, access to standard roads and other
services
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-192. Agricultural 20 Zone (Ag-20).
   (a)   Use of this zone is appropriate in areas designated by the
comprehensive plan as follows:
      (1)   AG-20 in all areas designated as agricultural land in the
comprehensive plan that also feature:
         a.   Prime agricultural soils;
         b.   Are characterized by agricultural uses; and
         c.   Areas where one or more of the following apply: limited services;
where access may be absent or limited to substandard road systems or where
large tracts of land may be devoted to agricultural production.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-193. Agricultural 40 Zone (Ag-40).
   (a)   This zone is characterized by land used for farms, ranches and open
range in the production of crops and livestock. The uses in the AG-40 Zone
include the growing of crops, the production of livestock and the location of
various buildings, structures, equipment, dwelling units and facilities
incident to such uses.
   (b)   Development in this zone shall be encouraged on the least fertile
soils, corners of pivots and where access to county-maintained roads and fire
protection exist.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Secs. 112-194—112-201. Reserved.
DIVISION 3. RESIDENTIAL ZONES
Sec. 112-202. General purpose.
   (a)   The purpose of the residential zones is to provide for and protect
residential lands of a single-family residential environment, located
conveniently near urban centers, by providing for an area of transition from
agricultural to residential. To provide for gardening and family recreation
opportunities, including the keeping of a limited number of livestock and
poultry. The minimum lot size and building location in this zone must be such
that water and sewer facilities and locations for the same can be easily
provided on an individual basis on each lot, without affecting surrounding
properties adversely.
   (b)   Uses. Uses administrative, permitted or conditional are allowed in
accordance with the land use table in Sec. 112-645.
   (c)   Setbacks and density requirements. Refer to setback table in Sec. 112-
263.
   (d)   Off-street parking requirements. For each single-family residence, two
parking spaces are required. They shall be sufficient in size for a garage or
carport.
   (e)   Access to a state or county road. All access to county or state roads
shall follow all access policies and ordinances as set by the county and/or
regulating authority with jurisdiction. Multiple accesses are discouraged and
shared access will be encouraged under these policies.
   (f)   Distances between accesses will be reviewed, and an access permit will
be issued by the County Public Works, if it conforms to jurisdictional
requirements.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-203. Residential One Zone (R-1).
   (a)   Purpose. The Residential Zone is established to promote the
development of residential uses located on the edges of the incorporated cities
or other developed communities or areas, where urban sewer and water services
are either available or have the potential to become available in the near
future by reason of their inclusion in service districts, city service areas,
or are adjacent to those areas or areas of city impact. This zone needs to have
access to primary transportation routes and a system of maintained roads. The
purpose can be accomplished by:
      (1)   Providing for single-family detached dwelling units and other
compatible housing forms, with a variety of densities in locations where
central sewer and central water or where municipal water and sewer are
permissibly provided;
      (2)   Allowing only those accessory and complementary nonresidential uses
that are compatible with city-like residential communities; and
      (3)   Establishing density designations to facilitate advanced area-wide
planning for public facilities and services, and to protect environmentally
sensitive sites from over development.
   (b)   Use of this zone is appropriate in areas designated by the
comprehensive plan as residential and is inside or adjacent to a city area of
impact, where a network of roads provide good access to primary transportation
routes. Urban services may not be available immediately, but are capable of
being extended or constructed in the area.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-204. Residential Five Zone (R-5).
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose to the R-5 Residential Zone is to preserve
residential neighborhood, to prevent over-crowding of the land and to encourage
the development of low-density area which are compatible with rural pursuits.
This purpose is best accomplished by:
      (1)   Limiting residential densities and permitted uses to those that are
compatible with rural pursuits and nearby agricultural zones and sites can be
adequately supported by rural service levels;
      (2)   Allowing small scale farming activities, tourism and recreation
uses that can be supported by rural service levels; and
      (3)   Encouraging development configurations that maintain farming areas,
reduce infrastructure costs and/or enhance recreational opportunities.
   (b)   Use of this zone is appropriate in areas designated by the
comprehensive plan as residential and is adjacent to a city area of impact and
agricultural zones; characterized by areas that are small farms, have access to
irrigation, and had direct access to maintained county roads.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-205 Residential Ten (R-10).
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of the R-10 Single-family Residential Zone is to
preserve low-density residential uses in the county while encouraging higher
density in the impact areas of incorporated cities within the county. The
density in this zone is ten acres per dwelling unless otherwise permitted by
county ordinance. This zone designation also acts as a holding zone within the
impact area of an incorporated city within the county to allow thoughtful
development of property that will be annexed.
   (b)   Area of impact guidance. Developers are encouraged to work with
incorporated cities in the county and within the guidelines imposed by current
area of impact agreements between said cities and the county to plan
developments that will be annexed. Through this strategy, agriculture and rural
residential uses will continue within areas of city impact until municipal
public facilities are extended to those areas for greater development.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Secs. 112-206—112-215. Reserved.
DIVISION 4. SUBURBAN ZONES
Sec. 112-216. General purpose.
   (a)   The purpose of the suburban zones is to promote the development of
uses located inside the areas of city impact, and along the edges of cities
compatible with city development. Municipal sewer and water are either
available or have the potential to become available in the near future by the
property's inclusion in service districts, city services areas or by annexing
into a city. This zone needs to have access to primary transportation routes
and a system of hard surfaced roads built according to the area of impact
agreement. This purpose can best be achieved by:
      (1)   Providing for single-family detached dwelling units and other
compatible housing forms, with a variety of densities in locations appropriate
for urban densities.
      (2)   Allowing limited service and commercial uses that are compatible
with urban residential communities and focusing those establishments along main
corridors and intersections.
      (3)   Establishing density designations to facilitate advanced area-wide
planning for public facilities and services.
      (4)   Encourage developments that include open space such as parks that
enhance recreational opportunities. Creating and linking to community walking
paths is appropriate.
      (5)   Use of this zone is appropriate in areas designated by the
comprehensive plan as residential and is located in a city area of impact.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Secs. 112-217—112-225. Reserved.
DIVISION 5. COMMERCIAL ZONES
Sec. 112-226. General purpose.
   (a)   The intent and purposes of the commercial zoning districts are to
establish areas within the county that are primarily commercial in character
and to set forth certain minimum standards for commercial development within
those areas. The purpose in having more than one commercial district is to
provide opportunities for a variety of employment and community service
opportunities within the community, while providing a basic level of
predictability. There is a rebuttable presumption that the uses set forth for
each district will be compatible with each other both within the individual
districts and to adjoining zoning districts when the standards of this division
are met and any applicable conditions of approval have been satisfied.
   (b)   Uses. Uses administrative, permitted or conditional are allowed in
accordance with the land use table in Sec. 112-645.
   (c)   Setbacks and density requirements. Refer to setback table in Sec. 112-
263.
   (d)   Access to a state or county road. All access to county or state roads
shall follow all access policies and ordinances as set by the state or county.
Multiple accesses are discouraged and shared accesses encouraged under these
policies.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-227. Commercial One (C-1).
   (a)   Purpose. The intent of the C-1 Neighborhood Business District is to
provide for smaller scale retail and service activities frequently required by
neighborhood residents on a day-to-day basis. Development scale and pedestrian
orientation are important elements of this district.
   (b)   These purposes are accomplished by:
      (1)   Providing for a range of small-scale retail and rural service uses;
      (2)   Allowing for mixed use buildings (housing over office or retail)
and a range of housing types, including detached single-family dwelling units,
cottage housing, townhouses, apartments and mobile home parks where sufficient
services are provided;
      (3)   Allowing for light industrial uses where activities are conducted
primarily indoors and impacts to adjacent uses are mitigated;
      (4)   Excluding commercial uses with extensive outdoor storage;
      (5)   Excluding large scale commercial uses that would be more
effectively located in incorporated cities; and
      (6)   Applying simple design standards that enhance pedestrian access and
improve the character of the area.
   (c)   Use of this zone is appropriate in areas designated as commercial by
the comprehensive plan and community plans and that are served at the time of
development by adequate sewage disposal services, water supply, roads and other
needed public facilities and services. Expansion of existing commercial zones
may be considered only if the expansion will not negatively impact the safety
and function of a state highway or other roadway.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-228. Commercial Two (C-2).
   (a)   Purpose. The intent of the C-2 Community Business District is to
provide for a broad range of mutually supportive retail and service functions
located in clustered areas bordered on one or more sides by limited access
arterial streets.
   (b)   These purposes are accomplished by:
      (1)   Providing for a wide range of small to medium scaled retail,
professional, governmental and personal service uses;
      (2)   Allowing for mixed use buildings (housing over office or retail)
and a range of housing types, including tiny home, RV and mobile home parks
where sufficient services are provided;
      (3)   Allowing for light industrial uses where activities are conducted
primarily indoors and impacts to adjacent uses can be mitigated; and
      (4)   Excluding large scale commercial uses that would be more
effectively located in incorporated cities.
   (c)   Use of this zone is appropriate in areas designated as commercial by
the comprehensive plan and are served at the time of development by adequate
sewage disposal services, water supply, roads and other needed public
facilities and services. Expansion of existing commercial districts or the
creation of new commercial districts may be considered only if the expansion
will not negatively impact the safety and function of a state highway or other
roadway.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Secs. 112-229—112-238. Reserved.
DIVISION 6. INDUSTRIAL ZONES
Sec. 112-239. General purpose.
   (a)   The intent and purpose of the Industrial Zoning Districts is to
establish areas within the county that are primarily industrial in character
and to set forth certain minimum standards for development within those areas.
The purpose in having more than one industrial district is to provide
opportunities for a variety of employment and community service functions
within the community while providing a basic level of predictability. There is
a rebuttable presumption that the uses set forth for each district will be
compatible with each other when the standards of this division are met and any
applicable conditions of approval have been satisfied.
   (b)   Uses. Uses administrative, permitted or conditional are allowed in
accordance with the land use table in Sec. 112-645.
   (c)   Setbacks and density requirements. Refer to setback table in Sec. 112-
263.
   (d)   Access to a state or county road. All access to county or state roads
shall follow all access policies and ordinances as set by the state or county.
Multiple accesses are discouraged and shared accesses encouraged under these
policies.
   (e)   Screening requirements.
      (1)   Any industrial development that abuts any existing residential
development or abuts any parcel planned or zoned for housing development shall
be screened from view from the housing site using a combination of fencing,
planting and/or berming to the satisfaction of the Commission.
      (2)   If an industrial development occurs prior to an adjacent
residential development, it shall be the responsibility of the residential
development to provide screening using a combination of fencing, plantings and/
or berming to the satisfaction of the Commission.
      (3)   Any outdoor storage of display of goods, materials, or damaged
vehicles awaiting repairs shall be screened from view from any non-industrial
zones to the satisfaction of the Commission using a combination of fencing,
coniferous and deciduous plantings, and/or berming.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-240. Light Industrial (L-I).
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of the Light Industrial Zone is to provide for
the community's needs for wholesale trade, storage and warehousing, trucking
and transportation terminals, light manufacturing and similar activities. The
zone must be adjacent to major transportation facilities yet arranged to
minimize adverse effects on residential development, therefore, some type of
screening may be necessary. Due to the intensity of land use, these areas
require primary transportation routes, adequate sewage disposal services, water
supply, fire and police services and consideration given to the potential
public transportation access.
   (b)   These purposes are accomplished by:
      (1)   Providing for a wide range of industrial and manufacturing uses;
      (2)   Establishing appropriate development standards and public review
procedures for industrial activities with the greatest potential for adverse
impacts; and
      (3)   Limiting residential, institutional, office and other nonindustrial
uses to those that are accessory to industrial activities.
      (4)   Allowing limited commercial uses that complement industrial
activities.
   (c)   Use of this zone is appropriate in areas designated by the
comprehensive plan as industrial which are served at the time of development by
adequate sewage disposal services, water supply, roads and other needed public
facilities and services. Expansion of existing industrial districts or the
creation of new industrial districts may be considered only if the expansion
will not negatively impact the safety and function of a state highway or other
roadway.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-241. Heavy Industrial (H-I).
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of the Heavy Industrial Zone is to provide
locations for industrial activities that have greater than average off-site
effects. This zone shall be located adjacent to existing industrial development
and/or along federal, state, county or local roads in locations consistent with
city land use plans as established in the impact zones. Due to the intensity of
land use, these areas require primary transportation routes, adequate sewage
disposal services, water supply, fire and police services and consideration
given to the potential public transportation access.
   (b)   These purposes are accomplished by:
      (1)   Providing for a wide range of industrial and manufacturing uses;
      (2)   Establishing appropriate development standards and public review
procedures for industrial activities with the greatest potential for adverse
impacts;
      (3)   Limiting residential, institutional, office and other nonindustrial
uses to those that are accessory to industrial activities; and
      (4)   Allowing limited commercial uses that complement industrial
activities.
   (c)   Use of this zone is appropriate in areas designated by the
comprehensive plan as industrial which are served at the time of development by
adequate sewage disposal services, water supply, roads and other needed public
facilities and services. Expansion of existing industrial districts or the
creation of new industrial districts may be considered only if the expansion
will not negatively impact the safety and function of a state highway or other
roadway.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Secs. 112-242—112-250. Reserved.
DIVISION 7. RECREATIONAL ZONES
Sec. 112-251. General purpose.
   (a)   It is the purpose of this district to promote general recreational
hobbies and to allow the public enjoyment of certain areas of land without the
interference of nonconforming uses.
   (b)   Uses. Uses administrative, permitted or conditional are allowed in
accordance with the land use table in Sec. 112-645.
   (c)   Setbacks and density requirements. Refer to setback table in Sec. 112-
263.
   (d)   Access to a state or county road. All access to county or state roads
shall follow all access policies and ordinances as set by the state or county.
Multiple accesses will be discouraged and shared access will be encouraged
under these policies.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-252. Recreational Residential/Commercial (RR/C).
   (a)   Purpose. The RR/C Zone is to allow for recreational residential
development, providing for a range of housing types and uses that are accessory
and complementary to recreational and residential uses. These purposes are
accomplished by:
      (1)   Allowing for a range of housing types provided adequate services
are available;
      (2)   Providing for commercial and private resorts which contain
provisions for a range of recreational activities; and
      (3)   Encouraging development configurations that create open space,
protect sensitive environmental features, reduce infrastructure costs and/or
enhance recreational opportunities.
   (b)   Use of this zone is appropriate in areas designated as recreation with
the following conditions:
      (1)   Land is physically suitable to accommodate a broad range of
residential and recreational uses; and
      (2)   Sites are served by adequate sewage disposal service, water supply,
roads and other needed public facilities and services.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-253. Recreation/Open Space (R/O).
   (a)   Purpose. It is the purpose of the R/O District to promote general
recreational hobbies and to allow the public enjoyment of certain areas of land
without the interference of nonconforming uses. Also to protect wildlife
habitat, floodplain, environmental sensitive area, open space and ensure the
preservation of natural habitat. These purposes are accomplished by:
      (1)   Applying the R/O Zone to large contiguous areas adjacent to the
Snake River and into the Kelly Canyon area adjacent to national forest lands;
      (2)   Limiting residential, recreational, and commercial uses to those
uses that are compatible with the recreation areas of the county, encouraging
public access to the forest and the Snake River; and
      (3)   Providing for compatible outdoor recreation uses and for
conservation and protection of watersheds and fish and wildlife habitats.
   (b)   Use of this zone is appropriate in areas designated as recreation in
the comprehensive plan. The Recreation/Open Space (R/O) is located on
mountaintops and along the Snake River of the county where few or no access
roads have been constructed.
   (c)   Open space. Open space shall mean any area of land or water that is
not a part of a residential lot, is devoted to environmental preservation,
agricultural production, or outdoor recreation and generally lacks buildings or
other structures except for structures that are subordinate to and customarily
incidental to the use of the open space.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Secs. 112-254—112-262. Reserved.
ARTICLE V. DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
DIVISION 1. DENSITY AND DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS
Sec. 112-263. Density and dimensional requirements.
   (a)   This section contains the general density and dimension standards for
the various zones and limitations to a particular zone. The minimum setbacks
shall apply to all structures as defined in Sec.
112-4 Definitions.
   (b)   An administrative exception not to exceed ten percent of any
dimensional requirement, setbacks or lot size minimum, may be granted by
administrative action of the Planning Administrator without public notice or
public hearing.
   (c)   Agricultural and Residential Zoning Districts.
Standard Residential Zoning Districts
        AG-40 AG- 20 AG- 10 R-10 R-5 R-1 SN RR/ C R/O
Standard               Residential Zoning Districts
                      AG-40 AG- 20 AG- 10 R-10 R-5 R-1 SN   RR/ C R/O
Minimum lot size       40    20     10     10   5   1   1(3) 5     10
(acres)(1)
Maximum residential          1 single-family dwelling unit per minimum lot size
density (2)
Multi-family dwellings                                  (4)
Minimum property line        (5)(6)(11)
setback
Minimum private road         (7)(11)
setback
Minimum street setback       80 feet measured from centerline of road
(8)(11)
Minimum flanking or
cul-de-sac street            (9)(10)(11)
setback
Canal setbacks (12)          60 feet measured from the high-water mark
Elevated canal               80 feet measured from the high-water mark
setbacks (12)
Waters of the U.S.           80 feet measured from the high-water mark
(13)
 
      (1)   Clustered lots may be smaller than the lot size minimum.
      (2)   Single family dwellings, not to exceed a total of three units, may
be permitted on a single parcel of land; providing, that the parcel is large
enough to comply with the density requirements of the zone. For example, three
dwelling units may be permitted on a 15 acre parcel in the R-5 District.
      (3)   Minimum lot size in the Suburban Neighborhood Zone is one acre.
With community sewer and water, one-quarter acre lots may be allowed.
      (4)   Multifamily dwellings, i.e., apartments, duplexes, etc., are
allowed with a minimum of 10,000 square feet of lot area for the first unit
plus 3,000 square feet for each additional use; provided that community sewer
and water is available.
      (5)   For legal nonconforming lots or parcels the following setback
exceptions may be applied, provided snow storage and stormwater are
accommodated on the subject site:
         a.   The minimum property line setback may be reduced to five feet for
lots/parcels of less than one acre.
      (6)   All building property line setbacks shall be a minimum of ten feet
for a structure up to 14 feet in height. Buildings exceeding 14 feet in height,
as measured from the first finished floor to the highest gable end, shall have
additional foot of property line setback for each additional one foot of
building height. Setbacks are measured from the property lines to the roof
overhang, or end of porches or decks, whichever protrudes more.
      (7)   Private road setbacks shall be 25 feet from the edge of the
easement.
      (8)   For legal nonconforming lots or parcels less than one acre, the
minimum street setback line may be reduced to 65 feet measured from the
centerline of the road.
      (9)   All residential structures shall have a 25 foot setback from the
flanking or cul-de-sac street property line.
      (10)   All accessory structures shall have a ten foot setback from the
flanking street property line.
      (11)   Utility structures not exceeding 30 square feet such as well
houses may be permitted within the required property line or street setback,
when necessary, per applicable utility company or property owner.
      (12)   A non-habitable structure may be allowed closer than 60 feet with
written permission from the canal company having jurisdiction.
      (13)   These waterways are known in the county as the Snake River, Dry
Bed, Great Feeder, Camas Creek, Mud Lake, Market Lake and Ray's Lake.
   (d)   Commercial and Industrial Zoning Districts.
Standard Zoning District
         C-2 C-1 L-I H-I
Standard                          Zoning District
                                  C-2    C-1    L-I    H-I
Minimum lot size (acres) (1)      1      1      1      1
Maximum residential density       (2)    (2)
Building height                   (3)
Minimum property line setback (4) 0 feet 0 feet 0 feet 0 feet
(5)
Minimum street setback (6)(7)(8)  80 feet measured from centerline of the road
Minimum flanking street setback   (9)
Canal setbacks (10)               60 feet measured from the high-water mark
Elevated canal setbacks (10)      80 feet measured from the high-water mark
Waters of the U.S. (11)           80 feet measured from the high-water mark
 
      (1)   Lots must be sized sufficient to accommodate permitted uses and
associated parking, setbacks, landscaping, walkways and other applicable
development standards.
      (2)   Accessory dwelling units are allowed in the commercial zoning
districts.
      (3)   Building heights shall be limited per specific use and/or fire
district approval.
      (4)   Minimum property line setbacks shall be increased to 25 feet when
abutting a residential district.
      (5)   Utility structures not exceeding 30 square feet such as well houses
may be permitted within the required property line or street setback, when
necessary, per applicable utility company or property owner.
      (6)   90 feet is required if the road is a major or minor arterial. State
highway or main county throughfare.
      (7)   Street setback exceptions.
         a.   Street setbacks may be reduced where approved and indicated on
the final plat of a subdivision or PUD.
      (8)   The minimum street setbacks may be reduced to zero feet for
buildings containing ground floor commercial uses facing the street, provided
the following conditions are met:
         a.   A 12 foot wide sidewalk with street trees between the street and
walkway is provided.
         b.   The street facade contains transparent windows and doors along at
least 50 percent of the facade three feet and eight feet above the sidewalk
grade.
         c.   There is a public building entrance off of the sidewalk.
         d.   Street facade features weather protection at least five feet in
width along at least fifty percent of the facade. Said weather protection could
be a building overhang, permanent canopy or awning, or fabric awning, and must
be at least eight feet above the grade of the sidewalk.
         e.   Building location does not conflict with county or state roadway
plans.
      (9)   Structures shall be set back at least 45 feet from the centerline
of a paved road, but not closer than 15 feet setback from the property line
fronting the right of way.
      (10)   A non-habitable structure may be allowed closer than 60 feet with
written permission from the canal company having jurisdiction.
      (11)   These waterways are known in the county as the Snake River, Dry
Bed, Great Feeder, Camas Creek, Mud Lake, Market Lake and Ray's Lake. All
others shall require a 60 foot setback.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Secs. 112-264—112-280. Reserved.
DIVISION 2. GENERAL STANDARDS
Sec. 112-281. Lot size.
   (a)   Minimum lot size shall be subject to District Seven Health Department
standards for the installation of approved domestic water supply and sewage
disposal systems, provided that any lot created shall be at least one acre in
size except as otherwise provided by county ordinance.
   (b)   If an existing lot is divided by a county road that is maintained by
the county, the minimum lot size for that portion may be less than the minimum
required for the zoning district.
   (c)   Public and semipublic utility lots shall be exempt from the minimum
lot size in any district, and shall be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-282. Clear vision area requirements.
   A clear vision area, as defined in Sec.
112-4, shall be maintained on the corners of all public and private property
within the intersection of roadways, or of a roadway and railroad. The clear
vision area shall contain no trees, shrubs or other plantings, fences, walls,
signs or other temporary or permanent sight obstructions of any nature
exceeding 30 inches in height above the existing centerline elevation of the
adjacent roadway, except that trees exceeding 30 inches in height may be
permitted if all branches and foliage are removed to a height of nine feet
above the existing centerline elevation of the adjacent roadway.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-283. Site plans.
   Site plans may be required for various uses to determine setbacks, parking,
landscaping, etc., requirements. Site plans shall be submitted for all uses
listed in the ordinance from which this section is derived requiring a site
plan and for any other use which is required by this article, the
Administrator, or the Commission.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-284. Animals in the residential zones.
   (a)   Animals are defined as follows:
      (1)   Large size animal means cattle, horse, donkey, mule, etc.
      (2)   Medium size animal means sheep, goat, emu, llama, pigs, etc.
      (3)   Large fowl means turkey, geese, etc.
      (4)   Small fowl means chickens, pigeons, pheasants, ducks, rabbits, etc.
   (b)   Animals in residential zones. Large and medium sized animals will be
allowed in R-1 Zones at one head for the first one-half acre of land and one
head for each additional acre (not including sucklings). Each lot may have a
maximum of ten large fowl per acre and a maximum of 20 small fowl per acre.
Fowl will not count towards the allowable medium and large sized animals for
the parcel. Roosters and large and medium animals are not permitted in R-
1 subdivisions, unless the parcel is at least two acres or more, and then the
aforementioned restrictions shall apply. Exception will not be permitted for
large animals that are kept for 4-H, FFA, or other educational projects.
   (c)   Animals shall be kept in such a manner as not to constitute a nuisance
or health hazard with respect to neighboring property.
   (d)   Pasture does not include that portion of land where the residence and
accessory buildings are located. It does include any buildings used for
animals.
   (e)   Animals, regardless of zoning, shall not run at large. Any/all owners
of any/all animals running at large may be referred for prosecution.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-285. Noise standards.
   (a)   Noise. "Objectionable noise", as defined in this subsection, which is
due to volume, frequency or beat shall be muffled or otherwise controlled. Air
raid sirens and related apparatus used solely for public purposes are exempt
from the requirement. "Objectionable noise" is defined as:
      (1)   Residential land use resulting in greater than 65 decibels at the
property line of the lot or parcel developed with the residential land use;
      (2)   Commercial land use resulting in greater than 70 decibels at the
property line of the lot or parcel developed with the commercial land use; and
      (3)   Industrial land use resulting in greater than 75 decibels at the
property line of the lot or parcel developed with the industrial land use.
   (b)   Vibration. No vibration shall be permitted which is discernible
without the use of vibration detection instruments on any adjoining lot or
property.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-286. Outdoor storage of commercial materials.
   (a)   Will be screened from the view from any existing adjoining residence
or residentially zoned area, whether or not such property is separated by an
alleyway or street.
   (b)   Will not be located in any front yard setback area.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Secs. 112-287—112-305. Reserved.
DIVISION 3. PARKING STANDARDS
Sec. 112-306. Purpose.
   (a)   It is the purpose of this chapter to require the parking of vehicles
off the public streets to improve safety, reduce congestion and facilitate
street maintenance and traffic flow. Exception: roadways which are designed
with additional pavement width to allow for the short-term parking of vehicles
for a period of not more than seven days.
   (b)   Lots for parking six or more cars, in all but the residential zones,
shall conform to the standards established by this division. The following
requirements shall apply to all required parking lots for six or more cars in
all zoning districts except residential.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-307. Parking standards.
   (a)   Requirements. Parking spaces required shall be exclusive of drives and
access lanes and each space will be provided with adequate ingress and egress.
   (b)   Size of parking spaces. Parking spaces shall be no less than 200
square feet in area.
   (c)   Unspecified uses. Parking for unspecified uses shall be determined by
the Planning Administrator. Requirements for such unspecified uses shall be
based on the requirements for the most comparable use pursuant to the "Standard
Industrial Classification Manual" or the North American Industry Classification
System (NAISC), as amended, modified or superseded.
   (d)   Handicapped parking. Handicapped parking shall be provided consistent
with the Americans with Disabilities Act, where applicable.
   (e)   Cooperative off-street parking. Any two or more uses may establish
cooperative off-street parking where it can be established to the satisfaction
of the Planning Administrator that the hours of traffic generation on the part
of the different land uses are at non-overlapping times of the day based on
hours of operation. In that case, the off-street parking provisions for each
can be credited to the same off-street parking areas provided cooperatively.
All shared parking and mutual easements shall be recorded and a copy provided
to the Planning Department.
   (f)   When the Administrator deems it necessary, parking lots shall be
equipped with appropriate drainage control measures to minimize the effects of
storm water on adjacent lands. Drainage plans shall be submitted to the
Commission upon request.
   (g)   Lighting of parking lots shall be accomplished in a manner which does
not disturb adjacent land uses with unnecessary light. Lighting shall avoid
conflict with traffic.
   (h)   Minimizing access to arterial streets. Parking area shall be located
and designed to minimize access points to arterial streets by using non-
arterial streets or alleys.
   (i)   No parking area shall be designed so that circulation from one portion
of the area to another relies on a public street.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-308. Private roads.
   No land use permits on private roads shall be granted/approved/accepted
unless the private road has the characteristics that render a road sufficiently
safe for fire and other emergency vehicles to access them, consistent with Part
III, Appendix B, Private Roads.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Secs. 112-338. Reserved.
DIVISION 4. SIGNS
Sec. 112-339. Authority.
   These regulations are authorized by Idaho Code, § 40-1901 et seq. and Idaho
Code, § 67-6501 et seq.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-340. Purpose.
   (a)   The purpose of this division is:
      (1)   To promote and protect the public safety, morals, comfort,
convenience and general welfare by the orderly placement and erection of signs
and billboards in the county;
      (2)   To foster the effective use of signs as a means of communication
within the county;
      (3)   To maintain a balance between the community's visual character and
sustainability of economic growth;
      (4)   To ensure the county will have the ability to attract sources of
economic development and growth;
      (5)   To improve, maintain and enhance pedestrian and traffic safety;
      (6)   To ensure that signs are safe and consistent with building
regulations through adoption of the Uniform Sign Code;
      (7)   To minimize the possible adverse effects of signs on nearby public
and private property; and
      (8)   To enable the fair and consistent enforcement of sign regulations.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-341. Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Architectural blade means a roof sign or projecting sign with no legs or
braces, designed to look as though it could have been part of the building
structure, rather than something suspended from or standing on the building.
   Canopy means a roof-like structure projecting from a wall and supported in
whole or in part by vertical supports from the ground, and erected primarily to
provide shelter from the weather.
   Changeable copy panel means a panel which is characterized by changeable
copy, regardless of method of attachment.
   Changing sign means a sign such as an electronically or electrically
controlled public-service time, temperature and date sign, message center or
reader board, where different copy changes are shown on the same lamp bank.
   Copy area of sign means that actual area of the sign copy applied to any
background. Computer copy area by straight lines drawn closest to copy
extremities encompassing individual letters or words.
   Electric sign means any sign containing electrical wiring. The term electric
sign does not include signs illuminated by an exterior flood light source.
   Fixed signage means signs which are permanently affixed to the ground or a
building surface in accordance with the Uniform Sign Code.
   Flashing sign means any directly or indirectly illuminated sign on which the
artificial light is not constant in intensity or color at all times when such
sign is in use. Automatic changing signs such as public service time,
temperature and date signs or electronically controlled message centers are
classed as "changing signs", not flashing signs.
   Freeway means a traffic way in respect to which owners or occupants of
abutting property or lands and other persons have no legal right of access to
or from the same, except at such points and in such manner as may be determined
by the public authority having jurisdiction over such traffic way.
   Gross area means the entire area within a single continuous perimeter
enclosing the extreme limits of such sign. However, such perimeter shall not
include any structural elements outside the limits of such sign and not forming
an integral part of the display. When two sides of a double-faced sign are
located not more than 36 apart at the widest point and not more than 12 inches
apart at the narrowest point and display identical messages or other
representation, the gross area shall include only one of the sides. If the sign
consists only of individual letters affixed directly to the wall of a building,
only the areas of a simple geometric figure which will encompass the letters is
counted as part of the gross sign area.
   Height means the vertical distance measured from the adjacent street grade
or upper surface of the nearest street curb other than an elevated roadway,
which permits the greatest height to the highest point of the sign.
   Identification sign means a sign which contains advertising but is limited
to the name, address and number of a building, institution or person on the
premises.
   Illuminated sign means any sign which emanates light either by means of
exposed tubing or lamps on its surface, or by means of illumination transmitted
through the sign faces.
   Incidental sign means a sign pertaining to goods, products, services or
facilities which are available on the premises where the sign is located.
   Indirectly illuminated sign means a sign illuminated with a light so
shielded that no direct rays from it are visible elsewhere than on the lot
where illumination occurs.
   Individual letter sign means any sign made of self-contained letters that
are mounted on the face of a building, top of a parapet, roof edge of a
building or on top of/or below a marquee.
   Lot frontage means the distance at the property line adjacent to the street,
right-of-way, arterial or collector, serving the property. On corner lots, the
lot frontage on the shorter shall not count as part of this computation. Alley
rights-of-way shall not count as part of this computation.
   Mansard roof means a roof with two slopes on each of the four sides, the
lower steeper than the upper.
   Marquee means a roof-like structure of a permanent nature which projects
from the wall of a building.
   Marquee sign means any sign attached to or constructed in a marquee.
   Multi-prism sign means a sign made with a series of triangular vertical
sections that turn and stop, or index, to show more than one message in the
same area.
   Nameplate means a non-electric sign identifying only the name and occupation
or profession of the occupant of the premises include more than one occupant,
nameplate refers to all names and occupations or professions as well as the
name of the building and directional information.
   Nonconforming sign (legal) means any advertising structure or sign which was
lawfully erected and maintained prior to such time as it came within the
purview of the ordinance codified in this division and any amendments thereto,
and which fails to conform to all applicable regulations and restrictions of
this division.
   Off-premises sign means a sign which advertises goods, products or services
not sold or located on the property where the sign is located.
   On-premises sign means a sign which carries only advertisements strictly
incidental to a use of the premises on which it is located, including signs or
sign devices indicating the business transacted, services rendered, goods sold
or produced on the premises, name of the business, name of the person, firm or
corporation occupying the premises.
   Political sign means any temporary sign which supports the candidacy of any
candidate for public office or urges action on any other matter on the ballot
of primary, general, or special elections.
   Portable sign means any sign made of wood, metal or plastic not permanently
attached to the ground or a building, and designed to be capable of being
readily moved.
   Poster panels (including poster board and painted bulletins) means a
structure or framework attached to a building or the ground for the purpose of
posting advertising bills, posters and painted signs.
   Principal identification sign means a primary permanent, on-premises sign
designed to identify or advertise the business or industry to motorists or
pedestrians approaching the business.
   Projecting sign means any sign extending more than 18 inches from the face
or wall of a structure to which it is affixed.
   Public service information sign means any sign intended primarily to promote
items of general interest to the community such as time, temperature and date,
atmospheric conditions, new, traffic control, etc.
   Pylon sign means a massive gateway or tower advertising the name, address
and tenants of a large integrated shopping center or industrial park.
   Real estate sign or property for sale, rent, or lease sign means any sign
pertaining to the sale, lease or rental of land or building.
   Roof sign means a sign erected upon a roof or above a parapet wall of a
structure or building (see also definition of roof sign, integral).
   Roof sign, integral means any sign erected or constructed as an integral or
essentially integral part of a normal roof structure, and extending vertically
above the highest portion of the roof.
   Sandwich board sign means a two-sided freestanding portable sign made of two
flat surfaces less than 12 square feet in size (on each side), hinged at top to
permit bottom to be spread apart for footing.
   Scoreboards means signage used to record or tally scores at an athletic or
sporting event. Scoreboards are allowed off-premises signage for the sponsor of
the scoreboard only.
   Sign means a name, identification, description, display, or statuary which
is affixed to, or represented directly upon a building, structure, or piece of
land, and which directs attention to an object, product, place, activity,
person, institution, organization or business. However, a sign shall not mean
any display of official court or public office notices nor shall it mean the
flag, emblem, or insignia of a nation, political unit, school or religious
group. Furthermore, assembly property (on location no more than 90 days
annually per display), in the form of equipment which delivers no communicative
message, other than to draw attention by virtue of its size, motion, or
prominent location upon the property, shall not be considered a sign.
   Sign structure means any structure which supports or is capable of
supporting any sign as devised in this division. A sign structure may be a
single pole or may not be an integral part of the building.
   Street means a public or private right-of-way which affords a means of
access to abutting property, whether designated as a street, avenue, highway,
road, boulevard, land throughway, or however otherwise designated, but does not
include driveways to buildings.
   Temporary sign means a sign, banner pennant, advertising balloon or blimp,
poster, or advertising display constructed of cloth, canvas, light fabric,
paper cardboard or other light material, with or without frames, that is not
permanently attached to a building or the ground and which is intended to be
displayed for a limited period of time.
   Wall sign means any sign attached to, erected or painted on the wall of a
building or structure, and which projects not more than 18 inches from such
wall.
   Window sign means any sign located completely within an enclosed building
and visible from the exterior.
   Zoning lot means a parcel of land of sufficient size to meet minimum zoning
requirements and shall consist of a single lot or lots of record under one
ownership or control and described as part of a subdivision or by metes and
bounds description.
   Zoning of land use means the land use zone as established by the Commission.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-342. Applicability.
   This section pertains to and regulates all signs within the county.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-343. Uniform Sign Code adopted.
   The Uniform Sign Code, 1997 edition, as published by the International
Conference of Building Officials, is hereby adopted to supplement the
regulations set forth in this county sign article. If any conflict exists
between these regulations and Uniform Sign Code, these regulations shall
govern. All signs allowed, including those which do not require permits, must
be in conformance with the Uniform Sign Code and other applicable building
codes and county regulations.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-344. Permit.
   (a)   All persons desiring to erect, construct or paint a new sign exceeding
six square feet in size, except those exempt, shall make application to and
obtain a permit therefore from the office of the Planning and Zoning Department
and shall pay a fee as established by resolution of the Board for such permit
at the time such application is sought, applicant shall furnish the following
minimum information to the Planning Administrator or his designee:
      (1)   A scaled drawing of the sign;
      (2)   Exact dimensions of the proposed sign;
      (3)   A site plan showing the location and setbacks of the sign support
relative to property lines and any projection of the signage into the rights-
of-way or over public ingress/egress travel ways;
      (4)   Footing and foundation plans that demonstrate stability;
      (5)   Documentation from the property owner allowing the placement of a
sign; and
      (6)   Such other information as may be required by the Planning
Administrator or his designee for his determination of compliance with the
provisions of this division.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-345. Temporary signs.
   (a)   Temporary signs as defined in this division shall require a permit and
shall be allowed under the following circumstances:
      (1)   Applicants will be allowed temporary signs so long such signs are
well maintained and are removed or replaced when they deteriorate, become faded
or tear. Temporary signs may be changed or replaced by signs of equal size and
character of those applied for in the permit without the applicant needing to
obtain a new permit.
      (2)   Banners shall be permitted temporary signs and shall be maintained
in a clean, sightly and undamaged condition. Banners in excess of eight square
feet in size shall be either placed on walls or attached in accordance with the
Uniform Sign Code.
      (3)   Temporary signs will be restricted to the same cumulative area,
size, and spacing and height requirements as permanent signage within the
respective zone.
      (4)   Temporary political signs or banners may be erected by any person,
party, group, or organization.
      (5)   Temporary political signs not exceeding 32 square feet in area,
purporting to advertise candidates or issues, may be erected on private
property, such signs shall be removed not later than the fourth day following
such election. Any such signs which have not been removed by the fifth day
following such election shall be removed by the County Building Inspector or
designee.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-346. Portable signs.
   (a)   Portable signs, including sandwich, swinger, and reader boards may be
utilized subject to the following regulations:
      (1)   Portable signs must be removed when the business is closed, except
for portable reader boards, which may be left in place when the business is
closed.
      (2)   A one-time permit must be obtained. Permits for portable reader
boards shall expire six months after placement of the sign or issuance of the
permit (whichever date comes first). Only one permit for a portable reader
board will be issued during any one year for a specific premise.
      (3)   Square footage shall be computed as part of the allotted signage
for the premises.
      (4)   Locations must be approved as part of the permit process.
      (5)   No more than one portable sign is allowed per 50 feet of street
frontage.
      (6)   May be placed adjacent to sidewalk, but not block sidewalk or must
not obstruct visibility at access point.
      (7)   Must be removed if worn, deteriorated, or damaged.
      (8)   May not be placed in the public right-of-way.
      (9)   Must be aesthetically secured so that the sign will not fall over
or blow away.
      (10)   Maximum square footage is limited to eight square feet on each
side, and 32 square feet on each side for reader boards.
      (11)   Electrical signs must conform to the Uniform Sign Code and the
National Electrical Code. Electrical cords may not extend across pedestrian
walkways or areas where vehicles will drive over them.
      (12)   Mobile signs are prohibited, except for signs painted on the
surface of vehicles (or magnetically attached) identifying the business
actively using the vehicle for transportation purposes.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-347. Marquee or mansard roof signs.
   Marquee and mansard roof signs may be placed on, attached to, or constructed
on a marquee or mansard roof and shall be limited to the size of the surface.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-348. Real estate signs.
   (a)   Advertising the sale, lease or rental of real property shall be
permitted in accordance with the following:
      (1)   Real estate signs may be placed within the boundaries of the
property being advertised and in any zone, without a permit. Such signs may be
placed for a period of not more than one year and must be removed within 30
days of the sale, lease or rental of the property.
      (2)   Real estate signs may not exceed six square feet in size in all
residential zones except as provided in subsection (6) of this section and not
more than 32 square feet in any other zone.
      (3)   Real estate signs may not be placed in public right-of-way without
a license to use right-of-way granted by the Board.
      (4)   Real estate signs may not violate the visibility triangle standards
enacted by the county or other governmental entity having jurisdiction.
      (5)   Real estate signs may not be placed so that view of roadway is
obstructed for drivers entering roads from private drives.
      (6)   Signs announcing new subdivision sales may be placed within the
boundaries of the subdivision, but may not exceed 40 square feet in size.
Permit shall be obtained before erecting such signs and such signs shall be
removed when 95 percent of the lots have been sold by the developer.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-349. Freestanding signs.
   Freestanding signs may not project over the property line, and shall have
minimum clearance of 12 feet measured from the ground, curb or sidewalk surface
to the bottom of the sign. Every sign projecting over public ingress and egress
travel-ways shall have a minimum clearance of 15 feet, and shall obtain a
conditional use permit.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-350. Mounting.
   (a)   All signs shall be mounted in accordance with the Uniform Sign Code
and in one of the following manners:
      (1)   Flat against a building or wall; or
      (2)   Back-to-back in pairs, so that back of sign will be screened from
public view:
         a.   In cluster in an arrangement which will screen the back of the
signs from public view; or
         b.   Otherwise mounted so that the backs of all signs or sign
structures showing to public view shall be painted and maintained a neutral
color or a color that blends with surrounding environment.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-351. Rooftop signs.
   (a)   Rooftop signs must conform to the following requirements:
      (1)   The sign area shall be calculated as part of the total allowable
sign area for the premises.
      (2)   The sign may not exceed three feet in height unless approved by the
Commission.
      (3)   Integral rooftop signs which were approved as part of a building
permit on the building shall not require a separate sign permit.
      (4)   Temporary rooftop signage requires Planning and Zoning approval.
      (5)   Rooftop signs shall require a submittal of an engineer-stamped
construction or design drawing prior to issuance of a permit.
      (6)   Provisions requiring Planning and Zoning approval shall be
considered conditional use permits and shall follow that procedure.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-352. Illumination.
   (a)   No flashing of intermittent red, green or amber illumination shall be
located in the line of vision of approaching vehicular traffic. Where
reflecting, radiating, or other illumination is permitted, then:
      (1)   The light from any illuminated sign shall be so shaded, shielded or
directed so that the light intensity or brightness will be minimized to
surrounding areas.
      (2)   Such illumination shall be direct and the source of light shall not
be exposed when located in or facing a residential district.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-353. Removal of obsolete, unmaintained or abandoned signs.
   All signs, including those painted on a building, which no longer serve the
purpose for which they were intended, or are not maintained, or which have been
abandoned, shall be removed or restored by the business or property owner
within 30 days after the receipt of a removal or restoration request. If no
such signs are removed or repaired, the county will have the signs removed at
the expense of the property owner.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-354. Location.
   All signs shall be located within the property lines of property owned by or
licensed or leased to the applicant. Placement of signs shall conform to
visibility regulations adopted by any governmental entity having jurisdiction.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-355. Off-premises signs.
   (a)   Off-premises signs will be permitted only along Highway 20 and I-15
only within a commercial, agriculture, or industrial zone and shall meet
requirements of the county and ITD.
   (b)   The following minimum standards shall apply to all off-premises signs:
   (c)   Off-premises signs may be spaced not less than 1,000 feet apart along
each side of Highway 20 and Interstate 15. The point of the sign nearest the
highway shall be used to determine the measuring point between signs.
   (d)   Off-premises signs may be spaced at 600 feet apart from the
interchange for one mile.
   (e)   The Highway 20 and Interstate 15 corridor is defined as that property
within 100 feet of the right-of-way lines of Highway 20 and Interstate 15.
   (f)   No such sign shall be located within 100 feet of any residentially
zoned property. Flashing signs that will cause a hazard are prohibited. The
area of these signs shall not be counted as part of the total gross area of
signs allowed for the property upon which they are located.
   (g)   The review process will require the following submittals be made to
the Planning Department:
      (1)   Completed sign permit application; and
      (2)   One-fourth scale (minimum) drawing depicting elevation view,
location on-site, material specifications, and engineered structural and
footing details.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-356. General exemptions; signs permitted without permit.
   (a)   The provisions of this division shall not apply to a sign located in a
display window; or on a door of a business establishment which announces only
the name of the proprietor or business establishment and the nature of the
business; nor to a sign not exceeding six square feet on a building, or on
premises adjacent to a building in which persons congregate for civic,
political, educational, religious, social or recreational purposes, displaying
the name and nature of the occupancy, and information as to the condition of
use, admission or time of services or event; nor to street signs erected by the
county.
   (b)   The following signs shall be permitted within any zone of the county
and shall not require a permit; provided, however, they must comply with
setback and sight obstruction regulations:
      (1)   Construction signs which identify the architects, engineers,
contractors and other individuals or firms with the construction, but not
including any advertisement of any product. Two such signs not to exceed 32
square feet each shall be confined to the premises upon which construction
occurs during the construction period. Such signs shall be removed within 60
days of the certificate of occupancy.
      (2)   Street banners advertising a public event may be erected as
approved by the Planning Administrator or his designee. The banners shall be
removed within five days after the termination of the event.
      (3)   Parking area signs designating parking area entrances and exits are
limited to one sign for each such exit or entrance and to a maximum size of six
square feet each. One sign per parking area, designating the conditions or use
of identity of such parking area and limited to a maximum size of 24 square
feet, shall be permitted. On a corner lot, two such signs, one facing each
street, shall be permitted.
      (4)   Off-premises and on-premises signs that are placed and removed on
the same day and that are intended to direct traffic or advertise a special
event or sale, however, such signs are to be limited to the following
conditions:
         a.   A maximum of 14 days per year;
         b.   The consent of the property owner must be obtained;
         c.   Signs must comply with or be located outside the visibility
triangle; and
         d.   Signs shall be a maximum of 12 square feet in size.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-357. Tourist trade exception.
   (a)   Any business or trade transacted upon a property within the county
which can establish to the satisfaction of the Commission the following
percentages of their gross revenues are derived from customers who reside
outside of the county, shall be entitled to a tourist trade exception, which
shall consist of factors shown in the following table which will be applied to
their otherwise allowed signage. This exception shall only apply to on premises
signage, and shall not allow any greater size of individual signs, only the
cumulative gross total of signage. (i.e., sign size table allows 1,000 square
feet; if 65 percent of revenue is derived from outside of the county tourist
trade, 1,500 square feet is allowed.)
 
Percent of revenue derived from customers outside of Allowed signage per acre
the county
50% to 60%                                           1.25
61% to 70%                                           1.50
71% to 80%                                           1.75
81% to 100%                                          2.00
 
   (b)   Sign size table. This table shall regulate the cumulative total of all
signs allowed within the county.
Zone/Land Use Size Height
Zone/Land Use         Size                         Height
                      0 to 8 acres = 200 SF 8
                      acres and over = 25 SF per   Not to exceed 35 LF 0 to 10
                      acre. Maximum size 480 SF    ft. from ROW 10 ft. 10 to 20
Commercial zones      per sign. Distance from      ft. from ROW 20 ft. 20 to 40
                      property line: Sign area     ft. from ROW 27 ft. 40 and
                      divided by 10 = distance     beyond from ROW 35 ft.
                      from ROW
                      0 to 8 acres = 200 SF 8
                      acres and over = 25 SF per   Not to exceed 35 LF 0 to 10
                      acre. Maximum size 480 SF    ft. from ROW 10 ft. 10 to 20
Industrial zones      per sign. Distance from      ft. from ROW 20 ft. 20 to 40
                      property line: Sign area     ft. from ROW 27 ft. 40 and
                      divided by 10 = distance     beyond from ROW 35 ft.
                      from ROW
                      0 to 8 acres = 200 SF 8
                      acres and over = 25 SF per   Not to exceed 35 LF 0 to 10
                      acre. Maximum size 480 SF    ft. from ROW 10 ft. 10 to 20
Agricultural zones    per sign. Distance from      ft. from ROW 20 ft. 20 to 40
                      property line: Sign area     ft. from ROW 27 ft. 40 and
                      divided by 10 = distance     beyond from ROW 35 ft.
                      from ROW
Residential zones     Allowed only under Sec. 112-  
                      418
Non-conforming area   CUP/No greater than the non- CUP/No greater than the non-
                      conforming use zone          conforming use zone
Home occupations home Not allowed                  Not allowed
business
LF= linear feet, SF= square feet, LtF= lot frontage, ROW= right-of-way
 
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-358. Nonconforming signs; removal of signs in violation.
   (a)   No sign or billboard shall hereafter be altered, rebuilt, enlarged,
extended or relocated, except in conformity with the provisions of this
division. The changing or movable parts of signs that are designed to be
changed or the repainting of display matter in conformity herewith and
maintenance and repair shall not be deemed to be alterations within the meaning
of this division.
      (1)   Determination of legal nonconformity. Existing signs which do not
conform to specific provisions of this division may be eligible for the
designation "legal nonconforming," provided that:
         a.   The Planning and Zoning Administrator or his designee determines
that such signs are properly maintained and do not in any way endanger the
public;
         b.   The sign was issued a valid permit or variance or complied with
all applicable laws on the date of adoption hereof;
      (2)   Loss of legal nonconforming status. A legal nonconforming sign may
lose this designation if:
         a.   The sign is relocated or replaced;
         b.   The structure or size of the sign is altered in any way except
towards compliance with this division. This does not refer to change of copy or
maintenance and repair;
         c.   There is a change of use of the property as determined by the
Planning Administrator or his designee.
      (3)   Portable or temporary signs. All portable or temporary signs as
defined herein, not having a valid permit prior to the effective date of the
ordinance from which this division is derived, shall be responsible for
obtaining a permit within 60 days from the effective date of the ordinance from
which this division is derived.
         a.   Maintenance and repair of nonconforming signs. The legal
nonconforming sign is subject to all requirements of this division regarding
safety, maintenance and repair. However, if the sign suffers more than 75
percent appraised damage or deterioration, it must be brought into conformance
with this division or removed.
         b.   Removal and impounding. Signs which are established in violation
of this division or which are left in place after removal was required may be
removed by the county and impounded after seven days' written notice to the
property owner. The fees for removal and impounding shall be set by the Board
by resolution. Signs erected within the public right-of-way, or that may create
a potential hazard, may be removed by the county without notice.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-359. Duties of Building Official.
   (a)   Enforcement of provisions; entry onto premises. The Building Official
is authorized and directed to enforce all of the provisions of this division.
Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Official may enter at
reasonable times and building or structure or upon any premises to perform any
duty imposed upon him by this division as follows:
   (1)   All signs may be inspected or reinspected at the discretion of the
Building Official. The Building Official may inspect footings, structural
components, and fire resistance for freestanding or rooftop signs. The Building
Official may enter at reasonable time upon the premises of any person licensed
under the provisions of this section of the division for the purpose of
inspecting signs under construction.
   (2)   Neither the Building Official nor the county shall be liable for any
damages for failure to enforce of the provisions of the division.
   (b)   Removal of signs. If the Building Official finds that a sign is in
violation of this division and that the sign is in violation of this division
and that the sign, by reason of its condition, presents an immediate hazard to
the public, he may, without prior written notice, order its removal or repair
within a period of time he may specify. If, within a reasonable time as
determined by the nature of the hazard and the immediacy of the threatened harm
to persons or property, the Building Official cannot find the person
responsible for the sign, then he may remove or authorize others to remove such
sign, or make minimum repairs that are necessary to bring the sign into
compliance and remove the hazard. Any and all costs incurred to repair or
remove the sign, shall be the responsibility of the property owner.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-360. Variances.
   Variances to this division shall be heard by the Commission and processed in
accordance with Article II, Division 4 of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-361. Violation; penalty.
   Violations of provisions of this article shall constitute an infraction with
a penalty of $100.00. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. The landowner, tenant, subdivider, builder, public official
or any other person who commits, participates in, assists in or maintains such
violation may be found guilty of a separate offense. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the Board or any other public official or private citizen from
taking such lawful action as is necessary to restrain or prevent any violation
of this division.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-362. Appeal, time limit for filing and decision.
   Appeal notice shall be filed within ten days after the decision or order of
the Planning and Zoning Administrator or designee. The Commission shall hear
such appeal within 30 days after filing of all required matters by appellant
which shall be filed no later than 20 days from the appeal notice. An appeal
from a decision of the Commission must be filed pursuant to the same time
limit.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-363. Commission, appeal limitations.
   (a)   In determining an appeal, the Commission shall:
      (1)   Allow only the minimum appeal necessary to meet the hardship or
practical difficulties;
      (2)   Find that the granting of the appeal will not be materially
detrimental to the purposes of this division, be injurious to the
characteristics of the premises on which the signs are located or be otherwise
detrimental to the objectives of the county development plans or policies;
      (3)   Attach such conditions to granting all or a portion of any appeal
as necessary to achieve the purposes of this division; and
      (4)   Give due consideration to whether or not granting all or a portion
of the appeal would materially improve the safety, appearance of the sign, sign
location on the building, structure or premises on which the sign is located.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-364. Stay during appeal exception.
   Unless the Planning and Zoning Administrator or his designee finds an
immediate and serious danger to persons or property, the filing of notice of
appeal shall stay further action pending appeal and decision of the Commission
or Board upon appeal of the Commission's decision.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-365. Appeal of Commission decision to Board.
   (a)   Any person aggrieved by a final determination of the Commission under
this division shall have the right of further appeal to the Board.
   (b)   An appeal to the Board must be made within 14 days after receiving
written notice of the decision by the Commission.
   (c)   Filing an appeal to the Board shall meet the requirements set forth in
Sec. 112-33.
   (d)   Upon accepting an appeal application to the Board, the Planning and
Zoning Administrator, or his designee, will file the appeal with the County
Clerk for scheduling before the Board.
   (e)   The Board shall hear all pertinent data and make a binding
determination on the parties involved.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Secs. 112-366—112.369. Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. STANDARDS FOR LAND USES
DIVISION 1. RESIDENTIAL USES
Sec. 112-370. Accessory buildings/structures.
   (a)   Buildings or structures on a residential lot or parcel that are:
   (1)   Subordinate in size and function to the main dwelling;
   (2)   Located on the same lot or parcel as the primary residence; and
   (3)   Used for purposes incidental to the main residence.
   (b)   Examples include detached garages, storage sheds, containers, Conex
boxes, workshops, greenhouses, pool houses, and gazebos. These buildings or
structures are likely to require a building permit and shall meet the required
development standards of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024; Ord. No. 2025-05, § 2, 7-14-2025)
Sec. 112-371. Accessory dwelling units (ADU's).
   (a)   Purpose. This section aims to provide regulations and limitations that
will develop affordable housing alternatives for both homeowners and renters.
These units can also allow families to provide support to another family
member. Accessory dwelling units help to maximize the use of existing public
infrastructure and services since they are created on already developed sites
thereby reducing the pressure to develop on open space.
   (b)   Standards.
      (1)   One accessory dwelling unit is allowed per lot or parcel where
permitted by the zone district.
      (2)   An accessory dwelling unit may be the first residence on a
property, where it meets the requirements of this division.
      (3)   Accessory dwelling units may be attached to a single-family
dwelling, detached on a permanent foundation, or part of an accessory
structure.
      (4)   Accessory dwelling units shall not exceed 1,200 square feet of
gross floor living area.
      (5)   An accessory dwelling unit must share an access or driveway with
the principal or primary dwelling.
      (6)   Accessory dwelling units on private roads shall be allowed upon
compliance with Part III Appendix B.
      (7)   Accessory dwelling units shall have a separate outside entrance
from the primary structure.
      (8)   The accessory dwelling unit shall not have more than two bedrooms.
      (9)   Accessory dwelling units shall not be permitted in subdivisions
that were approved with a nutrient pathogen study unless total number of
bedrooms matches the subdivision or NP Study requirements for bedrooms in the
subdivision and the structure and its utilities are attached to the existing
primary residence.
      (10)   The accessory dwelling unit may be sold as a separate unit or lot
provided that it meets applicable county ordinances.
      (11)   The accessory dwelling use must meet setback requirements and all
other provisions of this chapter.
      (12)   Each accessory dwelling shall be required to obtain a building
permit before building and shall meet all the requirements of this chapter and
the Building Code as per residential uses.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-372. Duplex.
   (a)   A duplex is a residential structure consisting of two distinct
dwelling units within a single building typically:
      (1)   Sharing a common wall (for side-by-side units) to floor/ceiling
(for stacked units);
      (2)   Having separate entrances for each unit; and
      (3)   Designed for occupancy by two households living independently.
   (b)   Duplex units.
   (1)   May be of similar size, not limited to size as with an attached
accessory dwelling unit.
   (2)   Required acreage shall be 13,000 square feet where community sewer and
water are provided and one acre where only community sewer is provided.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-373. Single family dwelling.
   (a)   A detached residential building, designed exclusively for and occupied
by one family.
   (b)   Single-family dwellings are characterized by:
      (1)   One dwelling unit per structure;
      (2)   Designed for use by a single household;
      (3)   Usually situated on its lot or parcel;
      (4)   Shall meet the setback and density requirements in Sec.
112-263 of this chapter; and
      (5)   May be considered a group home as defined in Idaho Code § 67-6531.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-374. Recreational vehicle (RV)- living quarters.
   (a)   Purpose. The section is intended to allow provisions for a temporary,
affordable, transitional housing alternative through the use of RVs that are
sanitary, and safe and maintain the residential character of the surrounding
neighborhood. The county encourages primary residences to be within permanent
structures. For those who require the use of the RV as a residence, the
following standards and permits shall apply.
   (b)   Definitions. A vehicular or portable unit designed to be mounted on a
chassis and wheels, designed and constructed to be installed with or without a
permanent foundation for human occupancy as a residence. The term "recreation
vehicle" shall include, but is not limited to, travel trailers, park models,
camping trailers, motor homes, and tiny houses.
   (c)   Applicability.
      (1)   These standards pertain to the use of an RV as primary living
quarters on property outside of a legal RV or manufactured home park for more
than 30 days in a one-year period.
      (2)   RVs used in conjunction with an open building permit shall not
require an additional permit.
      (3)   The standards do not apply to the storage of RVs.
   (d)   Number allowed. One RV used as living quarters is permitted on a legal
parcel that is one acre or greater in size, per the standards listed in this
section.
   (e)   Time period/time extensions. RVs may be used as living quarters for up
to one year on the same property. A one year time extension may be granted by
the Administrator if the RV is appropriately screened from public view. This
section shall not apply to RVs used as living quarters on the same property for
30 days or less within a one year period.
   (f)   Inspections. A six month, on-site inspection to ensure compliance with
these standards shall be conducted by the Administrator or designee.
   (g)   Permit required. All property owners siting an RV under this section
are required to obtain an RV residency permit and pay the established fee
before use of the RV as living quarters.
   (h)   Addressing. If the RV is sited on a property with an existing address,
no new address shall be issued for the RV. If there is no existing address, a
new address shall be issued (unless the RV is on-site for 30 days or less).
   (i)   Wastewater. The RV shall utilize a wastewater system approved by and/
or acceptable to the Health Department.
   (j)   Location. The RV shall be located to the side or rear of a primary
dwelling if one exists on the property. If the RV is located on bare ground or
concrete pad, it shall comply with all setbacks as established in this chapter.
If the RV is located under a snow roof or in a garage, additional building
permits may apply.
   (k)   Skirting. The RV shall have adequate skirting material around the
base, as approved by the Building Official.
   (l)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   Two or more RVs used as living quarters on the same property;
      (2)   The RV shall not be used as a rental;
      (3)   Not allowed on lots or parcels less than one acre in size; and
      (4)   RVs used as living quarters on a non-compliant parcel.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024; Ord. No. 2025-05, § 2, 7-14-2025)
Sec. 112-375. Short term rental.
   (a)   A residential unit, or any portion of a residential unit, that the
owner of record or the lessee of the residential unit offers for occupancy or
other transient lodging uses for fewer than 30 consecutive days.
   (b)   Short-term rentals shall:
      (1)   Be classified as a residential use for zoning purposes; and
      (2)    Occur in structures designed for single-family households.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-376. Multi-family dwellings.
   A building or group of buildings designed to house three or more separate
families or households with:
   (a)   Multiple independent living units within one or several structures;
   (b)   Shared common areas;
   (c)   May include shared amenities; and
   (d)   Shall meet the setback and density requirements in Sec.
112-263 of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-377. Manufactured building/manufactured homes/mobile homes.
   (a)   Definitions.
      Manufactured building means any building which is of closed construction
and which is made or assembled in manufacturing facilities, on or off the
building site, for installation or assembly and installation on the building
site.
      Manufactured home means a structure, constructed according to HUD/FHA
mobile home construction and safety standards, transportable in one or more
sections, which is built on a permanent foundation when connected to the
required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and
electrical systems contained therein.
      Mobile home means constructed before June 15, 1976.
   (b)   As of October 1, 2024, all newly installed manufactured homes in the
county shall meet the following minimum requirements:
      (1)   All newly installed manufactured homes shall be 15 years old or
newer.
         a.   Exception. A manufactured home more than 15 years old may be
permitted through the conditional use permit process in the zones that allow
manufactured homes.
         b.   Moving an older manufactured home from one property to another in
the county shall require an administrative use permit for the zones that allow
manufactured homes.
      (2)   Connecting two individual or stand-alone units shall be prohibited.
      (3)   Mobile homes shall only be allowed in the Suburban Neighborhood and
Agricultural Zones.
      (4)   Before a permit for the installation of the mobile home may be
issued, the home must meet the rehabilitation requirements specified in Idaho
Code § 44-2502 and receive a certificate of compliance from the Administrator
of the division of occupational and professional licenses of the State of
Idaho.
   (c)   New manufactured housing. Manufactured housing units are permitted in
the SN, R-1, R-5, Ag-10, Ag-20, Ag-40, and RR/C Zones on individual lots under
specific conditions.
      (1)   It shall have a non-glare, wood shake, or asphalt roof with a
minimum slope of three twelfths and a minimum of six-inch eaves.
      (2)   The home shall have exterior residential siding, including but not
limited to clapboards, simulated clapboards such as conventional vinyl or metal
siding, or similar material. The siding shall not be composed of smooth,
ribbed, or corrugated metal or plastic panels.
      (3)   The home shall be placed on a permanent foundation that complies
with the county's most current Building Code for residential structures.
      (4)   The hitch, axles, and wheels must be removed, and the foundation,
and foundation fascia must be similar in appearance and durability to the
masonry foundation of built buildings.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-378. Higher density residential developments.
   (a)   Higher-density residential developments are identified in this
division as manufactured home parks, cottage home developments, and planned
unit developments. These developments:
      (1)   Are higher density than traditional single-family zones;
      (2)   Include common open spaces or shared amenities;
      (3)   Often have unified management or homeowners' associations;
      (4)   Typically require comprehensive site planning; and
      (5)   Are subject to conditional use permits.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-379. Manufactured home parks.
   (a)   Application process.
      (1)   Any application for a manufactured home park shall be submitted as
a conditional use permit subject also to the following:
         a.   The application shall be made to the Administrator in writing. If
complete, the Administrator shall certify that the application contains all
required information specified in this section and any other county ordinances
and regulations. The developer shall be encouraged to develop detailed designs
as described in this section in cooperation with the Commission to avoid undue
costs and repeated application.
         b.   The application shall be processed as described in Article II,
Division 3.
         c.   Fee. Application for a manufactured home park shall be
accompanied by such fees as indicated in the approved fee schedule.
         d.   Commission action. In determining the acceptability of a proposed
development, the Commission shall consider the objectives of this section,
including:
            1.   The conformance of the development with the county
comprehensive plan.
            2.   Approved roads, domestic water and sewage disposal to
accommodate the proposed development.
               i.   A nutrient pathogen study based on the proposed number of
units.
               ii.   Approval of a water supply - this may require a
groundwater evaluation study.
               iii.   A traffic study based on the number of trips per day and
impact on roads, and adjacent intersections.
            3.   Any health, safety, or environmental problems that may be
brought to the Commission's attention.
            4.   The compatibility of the proposed development with existing
uses of adjoining land.
            5.   The overall design of the development, including the layout of
building sites, open spaces, recreational areas, and circulation system, as
well as landscaping and aesthetic considerations.
            6.   The ability of the development to provide a healthful and
pleasant living environment.
         e.   The Commission shall otherwise proceed with a decision as
required in Sec. 112-32.
   (b)   Design standards.
      (1)   An application for a manufactured home park shall be in writing,
signed by the applicant, and shall contain the following in sufficient detail
to determine compliance with the design standards and requirements of this
division, and all other applicable regulations:
         a.   The name and address of the applicant, and the name and address
of the owner, if not the applicant;
         b.   The interest of the applicant in and the location and legal
description of the proposed manufactured housing development;
         c.   The zoning designation; and
         d.   A complete plan of the development showing the following:
            1.   The area and dimensions of the development site and its
relationship to surrounding properties;
            2.   The number, location, and size of all proposed building sites,
service buildings, or other structures, and proposed improvements;
            3.   The location of manufactured homes within each building site;
            4.   The pattern of roads and driveways, including widths of
parking facilities, number of parking spaces for each unit, and walkways;
            5.   The type and location of existing and proposed sewer and water
facilities;
            6.   The location of existing and proposed service buildings or
other structures;
            7.   The location of recreation or open space areas to be set aside
for use-in-common;
            8.   General landscape treatment;
            9.   Plans for all buildings and other improvements existing or
proposed;
            10.   Type of drainage system proposed to handle surface,
underground, and runoff waters;
            11.   Type and location of fire protection systems to be used;
            12.   Contour lines at 20-foot intervals;
            13.   Scale and north point of the plan; and
            14.   Enlarged plot plan of a typical space showing the location of
a manufactured home, storage space, parking, utility connecting, and other
necessary improvements.
   (c)   Site standards.
      (1)   A manufactured home park shall meet the minimum lot size required
by this division, but in no case shall be less than two acres, and shall
contain no less than two sites.
      (2)   No manufactured home park shall exceed a density of eight units per
acre. No structure or accessory structure shall exceed a maximum height of 30
feet.
      (3)   All manufactured home parks shall be connected to city
infrastructure where permitted or connected to a community septic system and
community well.
      (4)   Spaces within a manufactured home park shall contain a minimum of
3,000 square feet with a maximum lot coverage of 75 percent. Every manufactured
home park shall abut on a driveway or other clear area with unobstructed access
to a county road.
      (5)   No units within a manufactured home park shall be closer than ten
feet to another unit.
      (6)   Attached structures shall be considered part of the manufactured
home for setback purposes.
      (7)   All units shall be installed per the manufacturer's instructions
and under Idaho Code § 44-2201 et seq.
      (8)   All manufactured homes located on property abutting a county road
shall have a minimum setback of 45 feet from the centerline of said road or in
the case of a state highway, shall have a 20-foot setback from the property
line.
      (9)   Two parking spaces shall be provided at each manufactured home
space and within a ten-foot access to any interior road.
      (10)   A minimum of one parking space per three manufactured home spaces
shall be provided for parking recreational vehicles, boats, trailers, and
related items. Recreational vehicles shall not be kept on individual lots in
manufactured home parks except in designated parking spaces which shall contain
a six-foot high sight-obscuring fence with a lockable gate erected around the
perimeter of said parking area.
      (11)   Internal streets. All internal streets shall provide a dustless
surface. A manufactured home park with more than ten lots shall have streets
that are based, graded, and paved with asphalt, concrete, or approved tar and
rock. All streets shall have a minimum width of 30 feet to accommodate
emergency vehicles and shall be approved by the County Road and Bridge
Department.
      (12)   Street surfaces shall remain free of cracks, holes, and other
hazards.
      (13)   Dead-end streets shall be no more than 500 feet in length and
shall terminate with an adequate turn-around radius of not less than 40 feet.
      (14)   Access to a county road shall meet the requirements of the County
Road Department.
      (15)   Open areas. A common landscaped area shall be provided in each
development consisting of five percent of gross land area, but in no case shall
be less than 5,000 square feet. The area shall be exclusive of all building
space, streets, and buffer areas. Landscaping shall be required in all open
areas of the manufactured home park not otherwise used for park purposes. All
required landscaping shall be maintained by the developer on a continuing
annual basis.
      (16)   Buffering, screening, and windbreaks (surrounding the park), as
required by the Commission, shall be a sight-obscuring fence, wall, evergreen,
or other suitable planting of at least four feet high. Fences or windbreaks
exceeding 40 inches high shall be no closer than three feet to any home or
accessory structure. Screening shall not be located in a manner that creates a
traffic hazard.
      (17)   All manufactured home parks shall be furnished with lighting
units, so spaced and equipped with luminaries placed as to provide for the safe
movement of pedestrians and vehicles at night.
      (18)   Each lot in a manufactured housing development shall be
conspicuously marked with the proper lot number that will provide
identification.
      (19)   All manufactured home parks shall be connected to a central water
and central sewage system.
      (20)   Sanitary sewage disposal shall meet the requirements of the
District Seven Health Department construction plans and specifications for all
systems shall be approved by the District Seven Health Department before
approval by the Commission.
      (21)   Domestic water shall meet the requirements of the District Seven
Health Department and construction plans and specifications shall be approved
by the District Seven Health Department before approval by the Commission.
      (22)   Manufactured homes shall have a compatible pre-finished skirting
of moisture-resistant, noncombustible material of fire-retardant wood, which
shall extend from the grade of the ground to the base of the manufactured home.
Skirting shall remain in good repair at all times and shall extend around the
entire perimeter without gaps or holes, other than that required for
ventilation, which shall be screened.
      (23)   The developer shall provide for a solid waste collection site.
      (24)   The tongue of a manufactured home shall not be closer than 13 feet
from the centerline of any internal street
   (d)   Location of combustible materials. Liquefied petroleum (LP) gas tanks
shall not be located closer to any manufactured home unit than five feet for
tanks of less than 100 gallons, nor ten feet for tanks of 100 gallons or more.
If sufficient space is not available to comply with this provision and another
source of fuel is available, said tanks shall be removed within 90 days from
the effective date of the ordinance from which this division is derived,
provided that each manufactured home unit may not have more than two factory
installed propane tanks of not more than ten gallon capacity, each
notwithstanding the foregoing provision.
      (1)   The storage of personal property beneath manufactured home units
shall not be permitted under any bedroom or sleeping quarters and shall be
limited to 25 percent of the area under the manufactured home unit.
      (2)   The following materials shall not be stored under manufactured
homes:
         a.   Flammable liquid, which includes any liquid having a flash point
below 140 degrees Fahrenheit, and having a vapor pressure not exceeding 40
pounds per square inch (absolute) at 100 degrees Fahrenheit;
         b.   Combustible liquid, which includes any liquid having a flash
point at or above 140 degrees Fahrenheit, and below 200 degrees Fahrenheit, and
shall be known as Class III liquids;
         c.   Compressed gas, which includes any mixture or material having in
the container either an absolute pressure exceeding 104 pounds per square inch
at 130 degrees Fahrenheit, or both; or any liquid flammable material having a
vapor pressure, as defined in § 1.424 of the Uniform Fire Code, exceeding 40
pounds per square inch at 100 degrees Fahrenheit;
         d.   Flammable material, which includes any material that will readily
ignite from common sources of heat; any material that will ignite at a
temperature of 600 degrees Fahrenheit or less; or
         e.   Combustible waste matter, including magazines; books; trimmings
from lawns, trees, and flower gardens; pasteboard boxes; rags; paper; straw;
sawdust; packing material; shavings; boxes; and all rubbish and refuse that
will ignite through contact with flames of ordinary temperatures.
   (e)   Existing manufactured home parks.
      (1)   Manufactured home parks in existence as of the effective date
hereof, shall be permitted to continue as an established land use, but shall
not be altered to deviate below the minimum standards of this chapter. Any
addition to an existing manufactured home park shall meet all the standards
required by this chapter. If an addition or series of additions result in the
doubling of the size of an existing manufactured home park, when such doubling
exceeds ten total manufactured homes for the entire park, the entire park shall
be required to meet all standards required by this chapter. The term "addition
to an existing manufactured home park" shall mean the addition of units to an
existing park; provided that new spaces created by the rearrangement of
manufactured home units within an existing park for the maintenance or
improvement of vehicle access shall not, so long as the minimum yard
requirements of this chapter are met, be deemed an addition.
      (2)   Private drive access presently provided to manufactured home units
in existing parks shall not be altered to decrease the vehicular access area
presently provided.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-380. Cottage home development.
   (a)   Purpose.
      (1)   To promote sustainable development practices through smaller, more
efficient housing and effective use of residential land.
      (2)   To diversify the county's housing stock by providing a housing type
that is affordable and that responds to changing household sizes and ages, such
as retirees, small families, and single-parent households.
      (3)   To encourage development in existing residential areas by allowing
a density bonus and design flexibility.
      (4)   To provide a centrally located and functional common open space
that fosters a sense of community and openness within the cottage development.
      (5)   To provide private areas around the individual dwellings to enable
diversity in landscape design and foster a sense of ownership.
      (6)   To maintain the character of existing residential neighborhoods and
ensure compatibility between cottage developments and their neighbors.
   (b)   Development standards and requirements.
      (1)   Cottage housing developments shall require a conditional use
permit.
      (2)   Cottage housing developments may have a density of up to eight
cottage housing units per acre.
      (3)   Cottage housing developments shall contain a minimum of four and a
maximum of 12 units in a cluster; provided that a cottage development may
contain more than one cluster.
      (4)   For platted cottage developments, the minimum lot area and lot
dimension standards of the underlying zone shall not apply; provided that the
cottage on each lot meets the setback and separation standards herein.
      (5)   Cottages and accessory structures shall maintain the following
minimum setbacks:
         a.   Ten feet from public rights-of-way or private street easements;
         b.   Five feet from external non-street property boundaries.;
         c.   18 feet from a street for garage doors; provided the minimum
garage door setback from an alley may be two feet; and
         d.   Ten feet minimum space between buildings (including accessory
structures).
      (6)   On-site parking shall be provided at a minimum rate of one and one-
half parking spaces per cottage and one parking space per accessory dwelling
unit.
      (7)   On-site parking may be clustered in common parking lots or detached
garages.
      (8)   Detached garages may contain up to two accessory dwelling units
(ADUs) per cottage cluster built above the parking spaces.
      (9)   Cottage developments shall provide common open space at a minimum
rate of 400 square feet per cottage.
      (10)   Common open space shall be located with cottages abutting on at
least two sides and abutting a minimum of 50 percent of the cottages in the
cluster.
      (11)   Each cottage shall have a minimum of 200 square feet of private
open space. Private open space shall be adjacent to each dwelling unit for the
exclusive use of the residents of that cottage. The space shall be usable (not
encumbered by steep slopes or other physical limitations) and oriented toward
the common open space as much as possible, with no dimension less than ten
feet.
   (c)   Building design standards.
      (1)   Cottages shall have a minimum of 400 and a maximum of 1,600 square
feet of gross floor area. The maximum floor area allowed on the ground or main
floor shall be 1,200 square feet.
      (2)   Cottages located adjacent to a street shall provide a covered entry
feature with minimum dimensions of six feet by six feet facing the street.
      (3)   Cottage facades facing the common open space or common pathway
shall feature a roofed porch at least 80 square feet in size with a minimum
dimension of eight feet on any side.
      (4)   The maximum building height shall be 25 feet for cottages and ADUs
built over garages and 18 feet for accessory structures.
      (5)   All portions of building roofs over 18 feet in height must be
pitched with a minimum slope of six to twelve.
      (6)   Cottages and accessory buildings within a particular cluster shall
be designed within the same "family" of architectural styles. Examples include:
         a.   Similar building/roof form and pitch;
         b.   Similar siding materials;
         c.   Similar porch detailing; or
         d.   Similar window trim.
      (7)   A diversity of cottages can be achieved within a "family" of styles
by:
         a.   Alternating porch styles (such as roof forms);
         b.   Alternating siding details on facades and/or roof gables; and
         c.   Different siding colors.
   (d)   Conditional use permit required.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/325843b5aeb9be70ae28a66ea37e96d9dc6ad349/
IMAGES/0-0-0-626.gif]
 
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-381. Planned unit developments.
   (a)   Planned unit development is a development process that allows for
greater flexibility in design and development standards than traditional zoning
regulations. It may include:
      (1)   Comprehensive planning of the entire development;
      (2)   Mixing of land uses (e.g., residential, commercial, recreational);
      (3)   Clustering of buildings to preserve open space;
      (4)   Flexibility in lot sizes, setbacks, and density; or
      (5)   Open space and amenities.
   (b)   A planned unit development shall follow the requirements and processes
listed in Article III, Division 3.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-382. Clustering.
   (a)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of cluster development is to permit a procedure for
development which will result in improved living and working environments;
which will promote or encourage a variety of types of residential dwelling;
which will encourage ingenuity and originality in total subdivision and
individual site design; and which can preserve open space to preserve
recreational, scenic, agricultural, and public service purposes, and other
purposes related thereto all within the densities established for the
clustering. To achieve these goals:
         a.   A variety of lot/parcel sizes may be permitted.
         b.   A greater variety of building types in residential, recreational
and agricultural zones may be permitted.
         c.   Procedures are established to ensure adequate maintenance and
restricted use of open space areas for the benefit of the inhabitants of
subdivisions, for dedication to the public use, for the purpose of agricultural
use, and the preservation of the floodplain and wildlife corridors.
         d.   Procedures are established to ensure adequate protection of
existing and potential developments adjoining a proposed planned unit and
cluster development.
   (b)   Cluster development; dwelling types; size.
      (1)   Residential clustering is permitted to provide for single-family
residential dwellings in the following zones: Ag-10, Ag-20, Ag-40, and RR/C.
Clustering shall be limited in the R-5 and AG-10 zone to a total of three (3)
clustered lots with a remainder lot through administrative review. Clustering
shall not be permitted in R-1, C-1, C-2, L-I, and H-I Zones.
      (2)   Clustering shall only be permitted if the proposed split results in
at least one conforming parcel according to the zoning district. Divisions that
do not result in one parcel conforming to the zoning shall not be permitted.
      (3)   Cluster developments containing both individual wells and septic
within the boundaries of the lot/parcel shall be not less than one (1) acres in
size in all zones.
      (4)   Cluster developments shall be determined by the development rights
which is defined as the number of acres within the parcel of land, divisible by
the zoning density designated within the zone. Acreage shall be divided by zone
equal to number of development rights.
      (5)   Lots within Ag-10, Ag-20, or Ag-40 zones, may qualify for aliquot
parceling, if the total lot size is within three percent (3%) of the zoning
designation (eg: a 19.4-acre parcel in an Ag-10 would be eligible for
clustering because the total lot size is within three percent (3%) of twenty
(20) acres).
   (c)   Approval for cluster development.
      (1)   Cluster development may be constructed in accord with any land
division application as listed in Chapter 110 Subdivisions.
   (d)   Further Subdivision of Cluster Lots/Parcels.
      (1)   Lots/parcels resulting from a cluster land division or subdivision
may not be further subdivided unless and until the zone changes allowing for a
greater density. However, notes on the final plat as approved by the board may
include other restrictions on future subdivision of the lots.
(Ord. No. 2025-05, § 2, 7-14-2025)
Secs. 112-383—112-390. Reserved.
DIVISION 2. AGRICULTURAL USES
Sec. 112-391. Accessory buildings or structures.
   (a)   Structures subordinate to the main agricultural use of the property.
These structures are:
      (1)   Incidental to and support the primary agricultural use;
      (2)   Located on the same parcel as the main agricultural operation;
      (3)   Directly related to agricultural activities; and
      (4)    May require an agricultural exempt building permit.
   (b)   Structures may include:
      (1)   Barns;
      (2)   Silos;
      (3)   Equipment sheds;
      (4)   Greenhouses;
      (5)   Storage facilities for crops or livestock feed;
      (6)   Pump houses;
      (7)   Farm stands;
      (8)   Cold storage facilities;
      (9)   Workshops for equipment repair;
      (10)   Farm labor housing (with approved permits); or
      (11)   Containers, Conex boxes.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024; Ord. No. 2025-05, § 2, 7-14-2025)
Sec. 112-392. Agricultural commercial storage.
   (a)   Facilities used to store agricultural products for commercial purposes
often serving multiple farms or producers. It may involve processing, grading
or packaging. Examples include:
      (1)   Large grain elevators;
      (2)   Commercial cold storage facilities;
      (3)   Warehouses for produce distribution;
      (4)   Cooperative storage facilities; or
      (5)   Specifically excludes meat or poultry processing, slaughterhouses
and commercial fertilizer manufacturing.
   (b)   Uses require:
      (1)   Adequate off-street parking;
      (2)   Loading and unloading areas that do not disrupt the flow of
traffic; and
      (3)   Appropriate county permits.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-393. Agricultural noncommercial storage.
   (a)   On-farm storage of crops or agricultural products primarily for the
farm's own use or direct marketing activities. See Idaho Code § 22-4502.
   (b)   This use is:
      (1)    Smaller scale, typically serving a single farm;
      (2)   Primarily for storing the farm's own produce or supplies; and
      (3)   Often part of normal farming operations.
   (c)   Examples include:
      (1)   Farm silos for grain storage;
      (2)   Small barns or sheds for crop storage;
      (3)   Root cellars;
      (4)   Hay lofts; and
      (5)   Equipment storage sheds.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-394. Agricultural direct marketing.
   (a)   On-farm or near-farm practices that enable agricultural producers to
sell their products directly to consumers or end-users. These may include:
      (1)   Farm stands or stores;
      (2)   Pick-your-own operations;
      (3)   Community Supported Agriculture (CSA) programs;
      (4)   Farmers' markets (when held on farm property);
      (5)   Agritourism activities related to marketing (e.g., farm tours,
harvest festivals); or
      (6)   On-farm processing and sales of value-added products.
   (b)   Standards.
      (1)   The subject property shall be actively farmed by the property
owner/lessee.
      (2)   Retail structures may operate out of an existing agricultural
accessory structure permitted for such use. A specific structure dedicated to
this use shall be limited to 900 square feet.
      (3)   The parcel, or adjacent parcel, shall include the residence of the
owner or operator of the farm.
      (4)   Carnival rides, helicopter rides, inflatable features, and other
typical amusement park games, facilities, and structures may be permitted for
seasonal festivities.
      (5)   The use shall be operated in accordance with all applicable
federal, state, and local ordinances.
      (6)   Adequate sanitary facilities shall be provided in accordance with
Eastern Idaho Health District requirements.
      (7)   The access road shall be located within a recorded easement or
public right of way.
      (8)   Sufficient land area is required to accommodate the proposed use
and related parking, and the use and any appurtenant structures shall be so
arranged on the land as to minimize any adverse effects on surrounding
properties. The use shall not create particular hazards to adjacent properties.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-395. Agricultural fuel storage (propane/bulk fuel).
   (a)   On-site storage facilities for fuels, typically propane and diesel,
used primarily to support farming operations.
   (b)   Propane storage.
      (1)   Above-ground tanks, ranging from 500-1,000 plus gallons.
      (2)   Used for grain drying, heating livestock buildings and fueling some
equipment.
   (c)   Bulk fuel storage (typically diesel).
      (1)   Above ground or underground storage tanks, ranging from 500-20,000
gallons.
      (2)   Used primarily for fueling tractors, combines and other farm
equipment.
   (d)   Standards.
      (1)   Fencing and other security measures to prevent unauthorized access.
      (2)   Obtain appropriate building and other permits.
      (3)   Shall comply with all building, fire and environmental code
regulations established by local, state or federal jurisdictions. See IDAPA
rules.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-396. Agricultural truck and tractor repair.
   (a)   A service or facility dedicated to the maintenance, repair, and
servicing of trucks, tractors, and other motorized farm equipment used
primarily for agricultural purposes. Characterized by:
      (1)   Specialized focus on farm vehicles and machinery;
      (2)   Services ranging from routine maintenance to major repairs; and
      (3)   Often includes both mobile and fixed-location services;
   (b)   Standards.
      (1)   May be considered an accessory use for a single farming operation.
      (2)   Operation servicing multiple farms shall require an administrative
use permit.
      (3)   Adequate off-street parking.
      (4)   Loading and unloading area that do not disrupt the flow of traffic.
      (5)   Appropriate county permits.
      (6)   Landscaping and screening to provide buffering for outdoor storage
of equipment or materials may be required.
      (7)   The business shall comply with all building, fire and environmental
code regulations established by local, state or federal jurisdictions.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-397. Agricultural uses.
   (a)   Land uses primarily focused on the production of crops, or other
agricultural products. This category does not include those uses identified as
CAFO's but does include:
      (1)   Crop cultivation (e.g., grains, fruits, vegetables);
      (2)   Horticulture and floriculture;
      (3)   Aquaculture;
      (4)   Silviculture (tree farming);
      (5)   Apiculture (beekeeping); and
      (6)   Viticulture (grape growing).
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-398. Commercial greenhouses.
   (a)   A structure with walls and roof made largely of transparent material
(such as glass or plastic) used for the commercial production of plants.
Characterized by:
      (1)   Purpose. Growing plants for sale, including vegetables, fruits,
flowers, and ornamental plants.
      (2)   Scale. Larger than hobby or residential greenhouses, often covering
significant acreage.
      (3)   Climate control. Sophisticated systems to regulate temperature,
humidity, and light.
      (4)   Commercial intent. Operated as a business venture rather than for
personal use.
   (b)   Standards.
      (1)   No greater than ten percent of the floor area shall be used for
retail sales in conjunction with agricultural direct marketing activities.
      (2)   The greenhouse shall comply with all building, fire and
environmental code regulations established by local, state or federal
jurisdictions.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-399. Farm labor housing.
   Farm workers must be bona fide employees of the property ownership and/or
management. The total allowable number of dwelling units does not apply to
temporary or seasonal farm labor housing, such as a bunkhouse where only
sleeping quarters are provided for farmworkers.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-400. Confined Animal Feeding Operations (CAFO)
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of this division is to establish an orderly
procedure to regulate the placement and construction of confined animal feeding
operations (CAFOs) within the county. The county does not have the resources or
authority to enforce state or federal environmental laws. However, it is the
intent of the Board to require all CAFOs operating in the county to obtain and
be in compliance with all applicable federal and state environmental standards,
to be sited within agriculture zones and meet certain development standards.
The Board also feels that it is appropriate to take advantage of all resources
and assistance available from other government agencies in making CAFO permit
decisions. The provisions of this division apply to confined animal feeding
operations.
   (b)   General.
      (1)   The specific provisions of this division control when other
portions of the county zoning chapter are inconsistent with provisions of this
division.
      (2)   Any action by the county pursuant to this division does not ensure
that the applicant is in compliance with any other provisions of applicable
local, state, and/or federal laws, rules, and/or regulations.
      (3)   The provisions of this division are minimum standards, and any more
restrictive standards required by other applicable local, state, and/or federal
laws, rules, and/or regulations must be complied with.
      (4)   A CAFO, as defined herein, shall not operate in the county without
a permit.
   (c)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning
   Administrator means the official or that official's designee appointed by
the Board to administer the county zoning and development ordinance.
   Affected person means a person or legal entity having an interest in real
property that may be affected by the issuance or denial of a permit.
   Animal unit means a measurement unit and is 1,000 pounds per unit.
   Animal waste means animal excrement, feed wastes, process wastewater, or any
other waste associated with the confinement of animals.
   Animal waste management system means any structure or system that provides
for the collection, treatment, storage or utilization of animal waste.
   Applicant means any person initiating an application for any action or
provision authorized under this division.
   Application means the document and accompanying information required of a
person seeking a CAFO siting permit.
   CAFO means confined animal feeding operation.
   CAFO facility area means a contiguous area or parcel of land or the use of a
contiguous area or parcel of land, upon which are confined or fed livestock,
fish, or birds in enclosures or ponds and which does not sustain crops,
vegetation, forage growth in the normal growing season or post-harvest
residues, and which consists of:
      a.   Any combination of animal units as set forth below and defined in
“medium confined animal feeding operation” confined for 90 days or more a year;
      b.   Any facility with a milk shipping permit; or
      c.   Any facility with an animal waste management system.
      d.   Land application sites are not considered to be part of the CAFO
facility area. Areas or parcels of land are deemed contiguous when separated by
county roads. Areas or parcels of land also are deemed contiguous if they are
not adjacent, but are owned or operated by a CAFO operator and a pipeline
exists which is capable of conveying process wastewater to the non-adjacent
land. CAFO facility area only pertains to the area containing CAFO
improvements.
   CAFO improvements means improvements to the CAFO real property including,
but not limited to, buildings, barns, feed stalls, feeding yards, corrals, feed
containment structures or areas, the waste management system and truck or motor
vehicle parking areas. CAFO improvements do not include land application sites
or the piping or method of conveyance used to convey process wastewater to the
land application area.
   CAFO operation permit means the permit required to occupy a new CAFO
facility area or the added portion of an expanded CAFO.
   CAFO site advisory team means the team authorized by Idaho Code, §§ 67-6529C
and 67-6529G consisting of representatives of Idaho State agencies that review
a site and information regarding a proposed CAFO and issues an opinion
regarding that site's suitability for a CAFO.
   CAFO siting permit means the special use permit required for a person to
operate a new or expanding facility.
   Commence or start of construction means the date building permit is issued
or notice of agriculture construction is submitted to the county. Where no
building permit or notice is required, the date work is actually begun.
   Commission means the Commission of the county appointed by the Board.
   Direct glare means the light seen in a lighting fixture as opposed to seeing
the light from a fixture.
   Existing or pre-existing CAFO means a CAFO built and in operation and
properly registered at the time of the effective date of the ordinance from
which this division is derived.
   Expanding CAFO means an existing CAFO that:
      a.   Cumulatively increases its one-time animal unit capacity by 150 or
more animal units;
      b.   Cumulatively increases its one-time animal unit capacity by ten
percent or more, whichever increase is less; or
      c.   An existing CAFO that increases the capacity of its animal waste
management system.
   FSA means the Farm Service Agency of the United States Department of
Agriculture.
   IDAPA means the Idaho Administrative Procedures Act (Idaho Code, § 67-5201
et seq.).
   IDEQ means the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality.
   IDWR means the Idaho Department of Water Resources.
   ISDA means the Idaho State Department of Agriculture.
   Land application means the spreading on or incorporation of animal waste
into the soil mantle primarily for beneficial purposes.
   Large concentrated animal feeding operation (large CAFO) means an AFO that
stables or confines as many or more than the numbers of animals specified in
any of the following categories:
      a.   700 mature dairy cows, whether milked or dry;
      b.   1,000 veal calves;
      c.   1,000 cattle other than mature dairy cows or veal calves. Cattle
includes, but is not limited to, heifers, steers, bulls and cow/calf pairs;
      d.   2,500 swine, each weighing 55 pounds or more;
      e.   10,000 swine, each weighing less than 55 pounds;
      f.   500 horses;
      g.   10,000 sheep or lambs;
      h.   55,000 turkeys;
      i.   30,000 laying hens or broilers (if the AFO uses of liquid manure
handling system);
      j.   30,000 ducks (if the AFO uses other than a liquid manure handling
system); or
      k.   5,000 ducks (if the AFO uses a liquid manure handling system).
   Material change criteria means an alteration in the CAFO that meets at least
one of the following:
      a.   Change in the size and/or location of the animal waste management
system;
      b.   Relocation of CAFO Improvements outside of the CAFO facility area
for which they were approved;
      c.   Relocation of any CAFO improvement so that it no longer meets a
setback required by this division;
      d.   Change in type of animal housed;
      e.   Change to dead animal storage area;
      f.   Change or relocation of feed storage area; or
      g.   Cumulative increase of the permitted one time animal unit capacity
by ten percent or 150 animal units, whichever is less.
   Medium concentrated animal feeding operation (medium CAFO) means any AFO
with the type and number of animals that fall within any of the rages listed
below and which has been defined or designated as a CAFO. An AFO is defined as
a medium CAFO if the type and number of animals that it stables or confines
fall within any of the following ranges:
      a.   200 to 699 mature dairy cows, whether milked or dry;
      b.   300 to 999 veal calves;
      c.   300 to 999 cattle other than mature dairy cows or veal calves,
cattle includes, but is not limited to, heifers, steers bulls and cow/calf
pairs;
      d.   750 to 2,499 swine each weighing 55 pounds or more;
      e.   3,000 to 9,999 swine each weighing less than 55 pounds;
      f.   150 to 499 horses;
      g.   3,000 to 9,999 sheep or lambs;
      h.   16,500 to 54,999 turkeys;
      i.   9,000 to 29,999 laying hens or broilers, if the AFO uses a liquid
manure handling system;
      j.   37,500 to 124,999 chickens (other than laying hens), if the AFO uses
other than a liquid manure handling system; or
      k.   1,500 to 4,999 ducks (if the AFO uses a liquid manure handling
system); and either one of the following conditions are met:
         1.   Pollutants are discharged into waters of the United States
through a manmade ditch, flushing system, or other similar manmade device; or
         2.   Pollutants are discharged directly into waters of the United
States which originate outside of and pass over, across, or through the
facility or otherwise come into direct contact with the animal confined in the
operation.
   New CAFO means a CAFO commenced after the effective date of the ordinance
from which this division is derived, which contains upon it a CAFO facility
area.
   Nonconforming CAFO means any pre-existing operation or an operation that met
the definition of a livestock confinement operation, but is not registered
prior to 2005 shall become a legal non-conforming CAFO if it has not been
expanded or materially changed. It may not be expanded or materially improved
except as otherwise provided in the zoning ordinance.
   NRCS means the Natural Resource Conservation Service of the United States
Department of Agriculture.
   Nutrient management plan means a plan approved by the Director of the Idaho
State Department of Agriculture or his designee for managing the amount,
source, placement, form and timing of the land application of nutrients and
soil amendments for plant production and to minimize potential for
environmental degradation, particularly impairment of water quality.
   Odor management plan means a site specific plan approved by the responsible
government agency with regulatory authority to manage odor generated on a CAFO.
   One-time animal unit capacity means the maximum number of animal units that
a CAFO facility area is capable of housing at any given point in time.
   Pest means insects, rodents and other vermin.
   Pest abatement plan means a site-specific plan, if such plan is required by
any regulatory agency with authority over the proposed CAFO.
   Process wastewater means any water on the CAFO facility area that comes into
contact with any manure, litter, bedding, raw, intermediate, or final material
or product used in or resulting from the production of animals and any products
directly or indirectly used in the operation of a CAFO facility area, such as
spillage from animal watering systems; washing, cleaning or flushing pens,
barns, manure pits, or spray cooling of animals; and dust control and any
precipitation which comes into contact with animal waste.
   Registrant means an owner or operator of an existing CAFO who files a
registration notice with the office of the Administrator and provides the
information required under this division.
   Registration notice means the document and accompanying information that an
existing CAFO shall file with the Administrator in order to register the CAFO.
   Setbacks means a distance measured from the nearest edge of the CAFO
improvements, not the property boundary.
   Small concentrated animal feeding means an AFO that stables or confines less
than the standards of the medium CAFO.
   USGS means the United States Geologic Survey.
   Variance means a modification of the requirements of this division approved
through the process outlined in Sec. 112-138 of this chapter.
   (d)   Applicability requirements. Any and all livestock operations are
subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   A waste distribution plan for all waste from a livestock operation.
Discharge of waste from a property owned or controlled by any livestock
operator is prohibited. This applies to any livestock operation, regardless of
size or type. Animal waste products, including sprinkled waste, shall not leave
the property of the operator, unless the operator has agreed with another party
to disperse animal waste products on that person's property. Liquid waste
treatment lagoon, separators and holding ponds and such dispersal shall meet
all local, state and federal guidelines;
      (2)   A nutrient management plan and waste system design for solid and
liquid waste approved by the appropriate state agency regulating solid and
liquid waste;
      (3)   All new operations or the expanding portion of an existing
operation shall be required to use shielded or directional lighting; and
      (4)   Waste storage on property not a part of the CAFO, such as leased or
rented property, is required to follow setbacks stated in this section.
      (5)   All new operations are required to have a closure bond, the amount
will set by Board.
   (e)   Pastured animals. Pastured animals are not considered to be a confined
livestock operation and, therefore, they do not need a permit, nor are they
regulated as to the number of animals that an owner can have on his property.
Pasture is defined as land where crops, vegetation, or forage growth are
sustained in the normal growing season. Said use includes winter feeding and
calving of cattle.
   (f)   Operations requiring a permit. Livestock operations requiring a permit
include all operations in the county, which meet the definition of a confined
animal feed operation (CAFO).
      (1)   Animals have been, are, or will be stabled or confined and fed or
maintained for a total of 90 days or more in any 12 month period, or as adopted
by the state; and
      (2)   Crops, vegetation, or forage growth are not sustained in the normal
growing season on the animal confinement site.
   (g)   Animal units. One animal unit is the unit of measure for any CAFO and
is defined as 1,000 pounds of livestock. The weight of any type of livestock is
determined by tables of weights typical for that type of livestock. Multiply
the number of animals by the animal equivalency factor to determine animal
units.
   (h)   Zones. The following may be permitted in agricultural zones as shown
in the land use table in Sec. 112-645
Animal Sector Size Thresholds (number of animals)
              Large CAFOs Medium CAFOs Small CAFOs
Animal Sector                 Size Thresholds (number of animals)
                              Large CAFOs     Medium CAFOs     Small CAFOs
Cattle or cow/calf pairs      1,000 or more   300 - 999        Less than 300
Mature dairy cattle           700 or more     200 - 699        Less than 200
Veal calves                   1,000 or more   300 - 999        Less than 300
Swine (weighing over 55       2,500 or more   750 - 2,499      Less than 750
pounds)
Swine (weighing less than 55  10,000 or more  3,000 - 9,999    Less than 3,000
pounds)
Horses                        500 or more     150 - 499        Less than 150
Sheep or lambs                10,000 or more  3,000 - 9,999    Less than 3,000
Turkeys                       55,000 or more  16,500 - 54,999  Less than 16,500
Laying hens or broilers
(liquid manure handling       30,000 or more  9,000 - 29,999   Less than 9,000
systems)
Chickens or other laying hens
(other than a liquid manure   125,000 or more 37,500 - 124,999 Less than 37,500
handling systems)
Laying hens (other than a
liquid manure handling        82,000 or more  25,000 - 81,999  Less than 25,000
systems)
Ducks (other than a liquid    30,000 or more  10,000 - 29,999  Less than 10,000
manure handling systems)
Ducks (liquid manure handling 5,000 or more   1,500 - 4,999    Less than 1,500
systems)
 
   (i)   Existing CAFO without a CAFO/AFO permit.
      (1)   Such CAFOs shall be granted a livestock siting permit without a fee
upon filing a completed livestock siting permit application with the Planning
and Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Such CAFOs shall file a completed application no later than 60 days
after notification by the Planning and Zoning Administrator of the requirements
of subsection (a) of this section.
   (j)   Expansion of an existing CAFO, structures and property.
      (1)   Expansion of an existing CAFO holding a CAFO or a livestock siting
permit will require the CAFO owner to apply for a new CAFO permit as outlined
below. The term "expansion" means, for the purposes of this division, an
increase in animal units.
      (2)   An expansion of structures only with no increase in animal units of
a CAFO with an existing permit requires a CAFO expansion siting permit for
corrals and lagoons. A building permit is required for all other structures.
      (3)   An expansion of property area only, with no increase in animal
units or change of structures, will only require the approval of the Planning
and Zoning Administrator.
      (4)   Changes of structure in an existing CAFO, mandated by new federal
or state regulations, shall be permitted, provided there is no erosion of
existing setbacks.
   (k)   Permitted locations.
      (1)   New CAFOs. New CAFOs shall be allowed only in Agricultural Zones,
and only after compliance with the provisions of this division and in
conformance with the land use table located in Sec. 112-645
      (2)   Maximum animal unit density for CAFOs. New facilities shall include
any livestock feeding operation designed, implemented and requested to be
placed in existence subsequent to the implementation of this division.
         a.   Cattle.
            1.   Any confined feeding, raising or breeding of beef cattle,
exceeding seven months in any given fiscal year commencing July 1 and ending
June 30 in the succeeding year, shall require a minimum of one acre for each 20
head of weaned animals to be placed contiguous and adjacent to the confined
facility.
            2.   Any confined feeding, raising or breeding of dairy cattle,
exceeding seven months in any given fiscal year commencing July 1 and ending
June 30 in the succeeding year, shall require a minimum of one acre for each
ten head of weaned animals to be placed contiguous and adjacent to the confined
facility.
            3.   Sanitation of such confined facility shall be in accordance
with the state regulations governing the same.
         b.   Sheep.
            1.   Any confined feeding of sheep, exceeding seven months in any
given fiscal year commencing July 1 and ending June 30 in the succeeding year,
shall require a minimum of one acre for each 100 head of weaned animals to be
placed contiguous and adjacent to the confined facility.
            2.   Sanitation of such confined facility shall be in accordance
with the state regulations governing the same.
         c.   Swine. Any confined feeding of swine, exceeding seven months in
any given fiscal year commencing July 1 and ending June 30 in the succeeding
year, shall require a minimum of one acre for each 50 head of weaned animals to
be placed contiguous and adjacent to the confined facility.
         d.   Poultry. Any confined feeding of poultry shall require a minimum
of one acre for each 500 head of animals to be placed contiguous and adjacent
to the confined facility.
         e.   Other animals. All other animals, not heretofore mentioned, shall
be considered on a case-by-case basis and require appropriate conditions
according to the specifics of such confined feeding operation.
   (l)   Required setbacks for a new CAFO or expansion of existing CAFO.
CAFO Setbacks
 Distance
CAFO Setbacks
                               Distance
Public roads                   50 feet    From county rights-of-way
                               300 feet   From state rights-of-way
                               1,000 feet Residents not associated with the
Confinement area                          CAFO
                               80 feet    Live water, lakes, rivers, streams
Property line liquid waste     50 feet    Water’s edge
treatment lagoons, separators, 1,000 feet Residence not associated with the
holding ponds, waste storage              CAFO
facilities                     300 feet   Wells for potable water
                               50 feet    County rights-of-way
Composting                     1,000 feet Residence not associated with the
                                          CAFO
                               50 feet    Water’s edge
                               1,000 feet R-1 and R-5 residential
Zoning                                   C-1 and C-2
                                         RR/C and R/O
                                          All cities with the population of
                               3 miles    3,000 or more from the CAFO property
Incorporated municipalities               line
                                          All cities with the population of
                               1 mile     2,999 or less from the CAFO property
                                          line
Setback applied equally        1,000 feet New construction must be 1,000 feet
                                          from existing CAFO confinement area
 
   (m)   Procedure for CAFO and siting permit application.
      (1)   A CAFO permit application as required in this division shall be
filed with the Planning and Zoning Administrator by the owner of the real
property for which the CAFO is proposed.
      (2)   Application. CAFO permit application forms shall be available at
the County Planning and Zoning Administrator's office. Completed applications
for CAFOs will be filed with the Administrator. The Administrator shall forward
a copy of the application to the Department of Agriculture siting team. The
CAFO permit application shall include the following items:
         a.   The name, complete address and telephone number of the
applicants;
         b.   The legal description of the real property upon which the CAFO
will be constructed and operated, along with common directions from the nearest
intersection within the boundaries of the county;
         c.   A full description of the present use of the property, including
the present zoning of the property;
         d.   A full written description of the CAFO;
         e.   A parcel map of all the property of the proposed livestock
confinement operation with the site location of the animal confinement site
outlined on the parcel map. Vicinity map with the CAFO site location. If
available, a detailed sketch of the site location on an aerial photograph with
the following: Private and community domestic water wells, irrigation wells,
and existing monitoring wells, existing injection wells as documented by the
IDWR, irrigation canals and laterals, rivers, designated wetlands, streams,
springs, and reservoirs which are within a one mile radius of the proposed
facility;
         f.   A complete site plan of the CAFO/AFO animal confinement site,
minimum size 18 inches by 24 inches. Minimum site plan drawing scale shall be
one inch equals 100 feet. The site plan shall include, but not be limited to,
location of all structures, feed storage areas, animal confinement areas, waste
storage areas, rock outcroppings, sink holes, traffic access, area lighting
fixtures, adjoining residences within one mile of site boundaries of the
proposed facility and public thoroughfares, and shall also include all setback
measurements;
         g.   FEMA flood zones or other appropriate flood data for the facility
site and land application sites owned or leased by the applicant (this may be
obtained from the Planning and Zoning Administrator's office);
         h.   A waste system design for solid and/or liquid waste approved by
the appropriate state agency regulating solid and/or liquid waste;
         i.   A sketch of how the natural drainage would go around the
confinement area and not through it (an engineered drawing is not required);
         k.   A characterization of the proposed facility and any land
application site owned or operated by the applicant that, if available,
includes the following information:
            1.   Annual precipitation as contained in the state waste
management guidelines;
            2.   Soil characteristics from NRCS:
               i.   Topographical map;
               ii.   Soils map; and
               iii.   Soils profile.
            3.   Hydrogeological factors from IDWR, ISDA or USGS including:
               i.   Depth to water at nearest wells;
               ii.   Direction of ground-water movement and gradient;
               iii.   Sources and estimates of recharge; and
               iv.   Ground water/surface water relationships.
            4.   Water quality data from IDEQ, ISDA, IDWR or USGS, including:
               i.   Microorganisms (bacteria or single-cell);
               ii.   Nutrients; and
               iii.   Pharmaceuticals and organic compounds.
         l.   Written comment on and approval of the site plans and site
assessment by a CAFO site advisory team is required. Site assessment comments
are required from the appropriate state Transportation Department, Irrigation
District, District Seven Health Department, Department of Agriculture,
Department of Water Resources, and/or other agencies designated by the Planning
and Zoning Administrator; and
         m.   A non-refundable fee, in an amount to be determined by resolution
of the Board, shall accompany each application or re-application for a CAFO use
permit. Commissioners may waive or adjust fee at their discretion. This fee is
in addition to that mandatory fee required by Idaho Code § 67-6529(H).
   (n)   Livestock siting permit application. The livestock siting permit
application shall include the following items:
      (1)   The name, complete address and telephone number of the applicant;
      (2)   Legal description of property and common address;
      (3)   Acres of land, existing use, zoning district, type of CAFO,
quantity of animal units and species of animal; and
      (4)   Full description of the CAFO with a complete CAFO animal
confinement site plan.
   (o)   Livestock structure expansion siting permit application.
      (1)   The name, complete address and telephone number of the applicant.
      (2)   Legal description of the property and common address.
      (3)   Acres of land, type of structure and zoning district.
      (4)   A CAFO animal confinement site including the dimension, size,
setbacks or alterations and the location of the existing and new proposed
structure on the lot, including all feed storage areas, animal confinement
areas, waste storage areas, water wells, canals, ditches, injection wells,
traffic accesses, public thoroughfares and building heights. A topographical
map of the parcel shall be submitted. If a CAFO or siting permit is on file,
then the applicant only needs to up-date the existing file with the new
information.
   (p)   Time limitations. Once granted, a CAFO permit remains with the
property described in the application. If the applicant fails to begin
construction within two years of permit issuance, or fails to have a CAFO
occupancy permit within five years of CAFO permit issuance, with the exception
of legitimate legal delay, the CAFO permit is no longer valid and an
application must be resubmitted. If the CAFO remains out of operation for a
period of more than ten years, the CAFO permit is no longer valid and an
application must be resubmitted.
   (q)   Existing permit transfers. The holder of the existing permit may
transfer a livestock siting permit or CAFO permit to a new owner or operator
upon written notification to the Planning and Zoning Administrator. The
Administrator shall place the transfer document in the existing CAFO permit
file.
   (r)   Amending the livestock siting permit and CAFO permit. If the type of
animal or animal species is changed from the existing livestock siting permit
or CAFO permit, then amended permits are required. The procedure for amending
the permits includes the following:
      (1)   Submission of the CAFO permit application regarding the changed
use;
      (2)   Subject to payment of a new CAFO fee, the siting team is required
to visit the site and provide written comment and approval; and
      (3)   The applicant shall comply with all applicable requirements.
   (s)   Public notification. The Planning and Zoning Administrator shall cause
a notice of the filing of an application for a CAFO permit to be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the county and send the notice by mail to
all property owners within one mile of the boundaries of the contiguous
property owned by the applicant of the proposed CAFO pursuant to Idaho Code §
67-6529. The property owner shall be responsible to forward notice of hearing
to all primary residents on the property. The applicant for the CAFO permit, in
addition to the application fee, shall pay all costs of publication and notice.
   (t)   Public comment. The application shall be available for public
inspection for a minimum period of 15 days after publication in the newspaper,
including weekends and holidays, during regular business hours, at the Planning
and Zoning Administrator's office. Any primary resident, in accordance with
Idaho Code § 67-6529, may submit written comments and/or objections to the
Administrator within 15 days after publication of the notice in the newspaper.
The Administrator shall evaluate the written comments and submit those comments
to be part of the record for the hearing before the Commission.
   (u)   Permit decision. One public hearing shall be heard before the
Commission. A permit to construct shall be issued or denied by the Board.
   (v)   Amendments during construction. New CAFOs shall be constructed
according to the site plans submitted to the Planning and Zoning Administrator.
The Administrator may approve amendments submitted by the applicant during the
construction process to the site plan as long as the amended changes and/or
material changes do not change the setback requirements in the county zoning
chapter, or conditions lessening the requirements of the approved application.
Any proposed change to increase to a large or medium CAFO shall be submitted by
application and shall be subject to the fee and a hearing as set forth above.
   (w)   Occupancy permit. The occupancy permit shall be issued and operation
of the CAFO may commence upon receipt by the Planning and Zoning Administrator
of all the following:
      (1)   Approval by the Board where required;
      (2)   Certification by the applicant that the CAFO has been constructed
according to the site plans submitted to the Planning and Zoning Administrator,
including any changes to those plans that were approved by the Administrator;
      (3)   A final approval letter from the appropriate state agency
certifying that the waste system as constructed is approved;
      (4)   A letter or other certification from the Idaho Department of Water
Resources that the applicant has water rights sufficient to operate the
facility with the number of animal units permitted under the CAFO permit; and
      (5)   A letter of approval for nutrient management plan from appropriate
agency, if required.
   (x)   Operation. CAFOs shall be operated in accordance with the CAFO permit
submitted and approved in the application.
   (y)   Violation.
      (1)   Any CAFO owner who has not filed a CAFO permit or livestock siting
permit with the Planning and Zoning Administrator within 60 days of written
notification from the Administrator that this is required shall be in violation
of the county zoning chapter. The owner may not continue operation and must
apply for a CAFO permit.
      (2)   Failure of the owner of an existing CAFO to make application for a
livestock siting permit or CAFO permit as required by this division shall
constitute a violation of the county zoning chapter and the owner may not
continue operation of the CAFO without a CAFO or siting permit obtained in
accordance with this division.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Secs. 112-401—112-415. Reserved.
DIVISION 3. PUBLIC USES
Sec. 112-416. Accessory buildings and structures.
   (a)   Accessory buildings and structures in the public use designation refer
to secondary or supporting structures that complement the main building or
facility serving a public purpose. These structures serve auxiliary functions
to enhance the primary public use. Examples include:
      (1)   Storage sheds;
      (2)   Maintenance buildings;
      (3)   Restroom facilities;
      (4)   Picnic shelters;
      (5)   Information kiosks;
      (6)   Ticket booths;
      (7)   Security guardhouses;
      (8)   Utility buildings (e.g., pump houses, electrical substations);
      (9)   Gazebos or bandstands;
      (10)   Small concession stands; or
      (11)   Containers, Conex boxes.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024; Ord. No. 2025-05, § 2, 7-14-2025)
Sec. 112-417. Airfields, airports, landing strips.
   (a)   Definitions. A tract of land or a structure, and requisite clear zone,
used or intended for the landing and takeoff of private aircraft and including,
but not limited to, accessory hangars, control towers, and accommodations of
passengers and cargo.
      (1)   Airfield. An airfield is a general term for any area of land or
water used for aircraft to take off and land. It's often used interchangeably
with "airport," but can also refer to smaller or less developed facilities.
      (2)   Airport. An airport is a more complex and developed facility
designed for aircraft operations. It typically includes more extensive
infrastructure and services than a basic airfield.
      (3)   Landing strip. A landing strip is a basic runway, often unpaved,
used for landing small aircraft. It's typically narrower and shorter than a
full runway found at larger airports.
   (b)   Facilities shall be designed and located with full consideration given
to the proximity of residential zones and to safety considerations.
   (c)   Facilities must be located at least 2,000 feet from any adjoining
residence not directly associated with the airstrip.
   (d)   Landing strips shall be limited to the owner or owners of the land
where the strip is located.
   (e)   Facilities must meet all ITD and FAA aviation requirements.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-418. Amateur radio tower.
   (a)   The supporting towers and antenna structure necessary for broadcast
from a radio communication service for the purpose of self-training,
intercommunication, and technical investigation carried out by amateurs, that
is, duly authorized persons interested in radio technique solely with a
personal aim and without commercial interest.
   (b)   An amateur antenna as defined by Idaho Code § 55-2903, to include
dipoles, used by a federally licensed amateur radio operator is allowed in any
zone in the county with a building permit and does not require a conditional
use permit, provided the highest point of the tower and anything mounted on it
is no higher than 70 feet above the ground, measured from grade, and provided
all applicable FCC regulations are met. Towers shall follow setbacks from
applicable zones.
   (c)   Towers taller than 70 feet above the ground, measured from grade,
shall require a conditional use permit in all residential and recreation zones
and an administrative use permit in Agricultural, Commercial, and Industrial
Zones.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-419. Cemeteries or mausoleums.
   (a)   A place dedicated to, used and intended to be used for the permanent
interment of the human dead, and shall include a burial plot for earth
interments, a mausoleum for vault or crypt interments, a crematory, or a
crematory and columbarium for cinerary interments, or a combination of one or
more of the above.
   (b)   No structure, exclusive of fences or walls, shall be located within
100 feet from any existing dwelling other than the dwelling of the owner or
caretaker. Structures shall conform to the height limitation and required yards
for the applicable base district.
   (c)   Graves and monuments shall not be located within 15 feet from any
property line.
   (d)   All cemeteries shall be platted according to the regulations of
Chapter 110.
   (e)   If the cemetery is privately owned, the cemetery shall be established
as a perpetual care cemetery in accord with Idaho Code § 27-401.
   (f)   If the cemetery use includes a mortuary, the mortuary is considered an
accessory use to the cemetery.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-420. Place of assembly or worship.
   (a)   A place of assembly or worship refers to a building or space designed
for people to gather for civic, social, recreational, religious or educational
purposes. This can include both secular and religious gatherings. Examples
include churches, synagogues, mosques, temples, community centers or museums.
   (b)   Use of a place of assembly or worship for meetings, recreational
activities, educational activities, weddings, and wedding receptions shall be
regarded as being customarily incidental to the primary use of the facility.
   (c)   Building standards. Buildings shall meet the following standards:
      (1)   One primary building shall be allowed on a parcel; and
      (2)    Development standards of the underlying zone shall be met.
   (d)   Plans. A site plan shall be submitted which includes the location of
existing and proposed structures, landscaped areas, lighting for site and
signs, and other existing or proposed improvements. A parking and traffic
circulation plan which includes proposed on and off-site parking areas shall
also be submitted.
   (e)   Lighting. With the exception of signs, lighting shall be downward
directed and screened so that it produces no glare upon public rights of way or
adjacent properties.
   (f)   Additional provisions for conditional use review. The Commission may
attach such reasonable conditions as the record indicates may be necessary to
visually screen, control dust, manage traffic, buffer adjoining uses, reduce
noise impacts, prevent glare and undue lighting impacts on adjacent properties,
or to mitigate effects on water and air quality.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-421. Communication station/cell towers.
   (a)   A structure with a height greater than 70 feet used in the provisions
of communication services including, but not limited to, the transmission or
reception of audio, video, data, and other information by wire, radio
frequency, light, and other electronic or electromagnetic systems.
   (b)   Standards.
      (1)   Height. Maximum allowable tower height, including antennas, is 150
feet. The Board may impose stricter height limitations as a condition of
approval in order to mitigate obstruction of views or incompatibility with
surrounding uses.
      (2)   Location. No new tower greater than 60 feet in height shall be
constructed within a two mile radius of an existing tower unless engineering
data demonstrates the existence of a significant network coverage gap which
would be impractical to remedy by other means.
      (3)   Design. All towers shall be of a design which best blends in with
the surrounding area, as determined by the Board.
      (4)   Collocation.
         a.   All new transmission towers and tower sites shall be designed to
structurally allow for a minimum collocation of three additional providers.
Collocation shall be a permitted use accessory to any permitted tower.
         b.   Transmission towers 60 feet high or less are exempt from
collocation requirements and may be located within a two mile radius of an
existing tower.
         c.   No lot shall contain multiple towers.
         d.   Antennas placed for purposes of collocation shall be placed and
colored to blend into the architectural detail and coloring of the host
structure.
         e.   The placement of an antenna on an existing tower or structure for
collocation purposes shall not require a new conditional use permit or
modification of an existing permit unless otherwise required by this title.
      (5)   Outdoor storage. Outdoor storage of any supplies or vehicles is
prohibited.
      (6)   Abandonment. If any antenna or tower is not operated for a
continuous period of six months it shall be considered abandoned. The owner of
an abandoned antenna or tower, or property owner, shall remove the same within
90 days. If such antenna or tower is not removed within a 90 day period, the
county may, at the property owner's expense, remove the antenna or tower and
file a lien on the subject property for expenses incurred in removal. If the
county is compelled to seek judicial authority to undertake such removal, the
reasonable costs and attorney fees incurred by the county in the course of
doing so shall constitute a charge against the owner.
      (7)   FCC compliance. All towers shall comply with the applicable
requirements of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and other agencies
with jurisdiction.
      (8)   Telecommunications Act. The standards and application requirements
contained in this section shall not be interpreted or applied in a manner which
would constitute a violation of, or conflict with, the applicable provisions of
the Telecommunications Act of 1996, 47 USC § 251 et seq.
      (9)   Public safety towers. The provisions of this section shall not
apply to public safety towers which are permitted of right in the underlying
zone.
   (c)   Application requirements. Except as may be waived by the Administrator
with respect to modifications to existing conditional use permits, the
following shall be submitted with a permit application for a new tower or a
modification to an existing tower:
      (1)   Written verification from a licensed engineer that a structural
analysis of the tower has been completed which demonstrates the tower's ability
to accommodate the collocation of three additional providers.
      (2)   Written verification that alternative sites within a radius of four
miles have been considered and have been determined to be unavailable or are
not technologically feasible.
      (3)   A description of the need for the proposed facility at the proposed
location and justification for site selection, including appropriate
engineering data. The applicant shall also provide a radio frequency coverage
plan.
      (4)   A notarized statement from the property owner granting
authorization to proceed with the permit application.
      (5)   Proof of a duly recorded legal right of access to the site for the
intended purpose. The county may restrict the location and number of access
points to the property.
      (6)   A signed agreement stating that the tower owner is willing to allow
collocation on the proposed tower. This agreement shall also state that any
future owners or operators will allow collocation on the tower.
      (7)   Documents demonstrating that the Federal Aviation Administration
(FAA) has reviewed and approved the proposal.
      (8)   Only such lighting as required by the FAA is permitted. The FAA
lighting requirement shall be complied with in the least obtrusive manner, as
determined by the director. Security lighting for the tower site is permitted
as long as it is downward directed and shielded to prevent illumination at the
site boundary to be no greater than 0.2 foot-candle.
      (9)   A photo simulation (including elevations) of the proposed facility
from selected properties and public rights of way as requested by the
Administrator.
      (10)   A detailed site plan and letters of comment from agencies with
jurisdiction, as deemed applicable by the Administrator.
   (d)   Modifications to existing towers.
      (1)   The Administrator may approve a minor modification to a previously
issued conditional use permit for a tower.
      (2)   If the Administrator determines that a modification to a previously
issued conditional use permit for a tower would constitute a substantial change
to the previous approval, the modification shall require approval via the
conditional use permitting process. Substantial changes may include, but are
not limited to, the physical expansion of a siting area or the extension of a
transmission tower beyond 20 feet from its original height.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-422. Landfill, county-owned.
   (a)   A designated area for waste disposal that is owned and operated by the
county. It is designed to safely contain and manage solid waste generated
within the county and sometimes surrounding areas.
   (b)   The landfill shall be subject to federal, state and local
environmental regulations.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-423. Parks, pools and playgrounds.
   (a)   An area of land set aside for public use, typically owned and
maintained by a government entity (local, state or national) or homeowner's or
community association. Parks are designed for recreation, conservation and the
enjoyment of the natural or landscaped environment.
   (b)   Swimming facilities open for public use, typically managed by local
government or community organizations.
   (c)   A playground may be associated with a park and may include play
structures focused on children's play and physical activity.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-424. Public building and offices.
   (a)   These are structures owned, leased, or operated by government agencies
to carry out various administrative, service and operational functions for the
public.
   (b)   Examples include:
      (1)   Administrative offices (e.g., city hall, county courthouse);
      (2)   Service centers (e.g., DMV offices, social services buildings);
      (3)   Public safety buildings (e.g., police stations, fire departments,
road departments);
      (4)   Libraries;
      (5)   Post offices; and
      (6)   Government run health care facilities.
   (c)   In determining whether a permit application should be approved, the
Commission shall consider the following factors:
      (1)   The public convenience and the necessity of the facility;
      (2)   Any adverse effects that the facility may have upon properties in
the vicinity; and
      (3)   Whether reasonable restrictions, conditions of development, or
protective improvements may be necessary to mitigate or eliminate any potential
adverse effects of the facility.
   (d)   Specific conditions with respect to emissions of noise, particulate
matter, or vibrations, may deviate from the standards which would otherwise
apply in the underlying zone in order to ensure consistency with applicable
state and federal standards.
   (e)   Accessory uses directly related to the maintenance and fueling of
vehicles (including, but not limited to, truck and trailer washing, fuel pumps,
garages for minor repair) may be allowed.
   (f)   Installation of underground fuel tanks shall require written approval
from the Idaho Division of Environmental Quality and the appropriate fire
authority.
   (g)   Adequate fencing shall be provided around the entire facility.
   (h)   All driveways into and through the facility and any open area with a
driving surface shall be surfaced with a dustless material including, but not
limited to, asphalt, concrete, pavers or bricks.
   (i)   A site plan shall be submitted which includes the location of existing
and proposed structures, fencing, parking areas, other associated activities,
and other existing or proposed improvements.
   (j)   A public building or office may be located on a lot that is otherwise
ineligible for building permits, and need not comply with the minimum lot size
requirement for the zone in which it is located.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-425. Public fairgrounds and/or rodeo arena.
   (a)   Large, multi-purpose outdoor venues owned by a local government or
non-profit organization, designed to host community events, and may include
rodeo events.
   (b)   Common uses include:
      (1)   Annual county or state fairs;
      (2)   Agricultural shows and competitions;
      (3)   Trade shows and exhibitions;
      (4)   Concerts and performances;
      (5)   Community gatherings and festivals;
      (6)   Rodeo competitions;
      (7)   Western-themed events and performances;
      (8)   Equestrian competitions; and
      (9)   Livestock shows.
   (c)   The minimum property size shall be ten acres.
   (d)   Riding arenas may be located indoors or outdoors. Indoor riding arenas
shall be enclosed within a structure that is at least 24 feet in height, and
that is at least 2,000 square feet.
   (e)   Facilities shall provide sufficient parking and turnaround areas for
horse trailers. Such areas shall be designed to preclude vehicles from backing
out into a roadway.
   (f)   A site plan shall be submitted which includes the location of existing
and proposed structures, fencing, areas for riding, boarding, feeding,
training, and other associated activities, and other existing or proposed
improvements. A parking and traffic circulation plan shall also be submitted.
   (g)   The use may include boarding stables and other support facilities such
as restroom, concessions and first aid stations.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-426. Schools.
   (a)   Any land, building or part thereof, whether publicly or privately
owned, which is used for the provision of education, instruction or training in
any branch of knowledge. This definition shall include schools providing
instruction for any grades between first and twelfth grade (and may also
include pre-kindergarten or kindergarten), and shall also include colleges,
universities, and professional, vocational, technical, or trade schools.
   (b)   No elementary, middle, or junior high school shall be located adjacent
to any parcel within the light industrial or industrial zone. No high school or
post- secondary educational institution shall be located adjacent to any parcel
within the industrial zone.
   (c)   No school shall be located in a special flood hazard area or adjacent
to a hazardous land use.
   (d)   The use shall require a conditional use permit in all zones and shall
provide the following:
      (1)   A traffic study and analysis shall include the following:
         a.   Time of peak traffic flows;
         b.   Traffic patterns or primary routes; and
         c.   Expected number of additional traffic or impact as a result of
this application.
      (2)   An operation plan identifying safety hazards and mitigation
including the recommendations of the traffic study such as traffic lights,
turnout lanes, crosswalks, and walking paths;
      (3)   Infrastructure including:
         a.   Written documentation that the facility meets the minimum site
area for sewage disposal;
         b.   Floor plan;
         c.   Landscaping/play area;
         d.   Parking; and
         e.   Roads, including, but not limited to, crosswalks and transitional
lanes.
      (4)   A site plan showing all proposed structures, outbuildings, fields
and playgrounds with documentation from the Idaho State Department of Education
the facility meets the minimum site area guidelines.
   (e)   Portable classrooms that are not indicated on an approved conditional
use or certificate of zoning compliance shall require administrative approval.
If the proposed use cannot meet all of the following specific use standards,
the use shall require conditional use approval:
      (1)   The portable classroom shall not be located in the front yard of
the principal school structure.
      (2)   The portable classroom shall not be located in any required yard
setbacks.
      (3)   The placement of the portable classroom shall not reduce the number
of required off street parking spaces.
      (4)   The portable structures shall comply with the currently adopted
Building Code.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-427. Public utilities structures.
   (a)   Structures which are built by a public utility for the sole purpose of
housing and maintaining fully operational communications transmission
   equipment used exclusively in the furtherance of the business of the public
utility, shall be a permitted use in any zone.
   (b)   Such structures shall not be used at any time for human habitation,
and when they are no longer used by the public utility, they shall be abandoned
and removed.
   (c)   The purchase of land for the placement of such a structure shall not
constitute a division of land for purposes of the one-time division of
property.
   (d)   Said structure shall be fully enclosed, not to exceed one story in
height as defined by the Uniform Building Code, shall not exceed 300 feet
square feet in size and shall have no water or sewer connections.
   (e)   No storage of vehicles, equipment or supplies shall be allowed.
   (f)   The lot shall be kept weed free.
   (g)   Zero setback of the actual structure is permissible as long as there
is no interference with sight distances which would compromise or impair
vehicular traffic safety.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-428. Public utility complex facility.
   (a)   A public utility facility of major importance involving construction
of facilities of a complex nature including, but not limited to: station houses
or station grounds, pumping stations, dam structures, water storage facilities
which hold more than 100,000 gallons or are greater than 25 feet in height,
sewage disposal or storage stations, railroad transportation lines, spurs, or
classification yards, or other structures principally used in interstate
transmission of electricity, natural gas, or fuel. This definition shall not
include wireless communication facilities.
   (b)   Lot coverage by buildings shall not exceed 35 percent of the total lot
area.
   (c)   In determining whether a permit application should be approved, the
Hearing Body shall consider the following factors:
      (1)   The public convenience and the necessity of the facility;
      (2)   Any adverse effects that the facility may have upon properties in
the vicinity; and
      (3)   Whether reasonable restrictions, conditions of development, or
protective improvements may be necessary to mitigate or eliminate any potential
adverse effects of the facility.
   (d)   Specific conditions with respect to emissions of noise, particulate
matter, or vibrations, may deviate from the standards which would otherwise
apply in the underlying zone in order to ensure consistency with applicable
state and federal standards.
   (e)   A conditional use permit may be required in conjunction with the
creation of a new facility or the expansion of an existing facility involving a
material increase in the facility's boundaries.
   (f)   The provisions of this chapter pertaining to public utility complex
facilities shall be interpreted and applied in a manner consistent with
applicable federal and state law.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Secs. 112-429—112-440. Reserved.
DIVISION 4. COMMERCIAL USES
Sec. 112-441. Accessory buildings and structures.
   (a)   Accessory structures and buildings for commercial uses are subordinate
constructions on a commercial property that support the primary business
operations. They are usually detached from the main building and serve
supplementary functions like storage, parking, or additional workspace.
   (b)   Examples may include:
      (1)   Storage sheds or warehouses;
      (2)   Detached garages;
      (3)   Parking structures;
      (4)   Maintenance buildings;
      (5)   Employee break areas or outdoor seating;
      (6)   Utility buildings (e.g., for HVAC systems or electrical equipment);
      (7)   Loading docks;
      (8)   Drive-through facilities;
      (9)   Fuel stations or charging points (for relevant businesses);
      (10)   Trash enclosures; and
      (11)   Containers, Conex boxes.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024; Ord. No. 2025-05, § 2, 7-14-2025)
Sec. 112-442. Animal hospitals, veterinarian services.
   (a)   A place where animals are given medical care and the boarding of
animals is limited to short term care incidental to the hospital use.
   (b)   Uses may include:
      (1)   Preventive care (vaccinations, health check-ups);
      (2)   Diagnosis and treatment of illnesses;
      (3)   Surgical procedures;
      (4)   Dental care;
      (5)   Nutritional counseling;
      (6)   Emergency and critical care;
      (7)   Laboratory testing and diagnostics;
      (8)   Behavioral consultations;
      (9)   End-of-life care and euthanasia services; and
      (10)   Crematory.
   (c)   All animals will be housed in permanent structures which can be
physically enclosed during nighttime hours.
   (d)   Adequate fencing shall be provided to restrain animals from running at
large. At a minimum, the animals shall be enclosed within a six foot fence or
wall. Electronic fences shall not be used as the sole method of restraining
animals.
   (e)   All buildings and fenced running areas will be a minimum of 300 feet
from any existing dwelling other than the dwelling of the owner.
   (f)   Animal runs, kennels and pasturing areas located in the rural or
agricultural suburban zones shall provide visual screening to buffer adjacent
land uses if existing visual screening is insufficient to accomplish that
purpose.
   (g)   Adequate housekeeping practices will be maintained so as to prevent
the creation of a nuisance.
   (h)   Veterinarian services describe the range of medical care provided,
which can be offered in various settings including hospitals, clinics, or even
mobile practices.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-443. Auction establishment.
   (a)   An auction establishment is a business or facility primarily dedicated
to conducting public sales where livestock, goods or property are sold to the
highest bidder. These establishments organize and host auctions, providing a
venue and the necessary infrastructure for the competitive bidding process.
   (b)   Livestock auctions shall only be allowed in the Agricultural Zones.
   (c)   A 300 foot separation shall be maintained between the area and
structures where animals are housed and any residential district. This
requirement may be waived where the owner and/or operator of the establishment
can demonstrate that the area or structure in which the animals are housed
shall not allow sound or odors to be transmitted to the residential district.
   (d)   Outdoor storage areas shall comply with Sec. 112-286 of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-444. Automotive vehicle or recreational vehicle sales or service.
   (a)   Businesses that engage in the sale and/or maintenance of motor
vehicles for transportation or recreational purposes.
   (b)   Includes establishments that:
      (1)   Sell new or used cars, trucks, motorcycles, and other motor
vehicles primarily designed for transportation on public roads. This often
includes dealerships, used car lots, and specialty vehicle retailers;
      (2)   Sell new or used recreational vehicles, which are designed for
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use. This
includes motorhomes, travel trailers, fifth-wheel trailers, pop-up campers, and
sometimes boats or personal watercraft;
      (3)   Provide maintenance, repair, and other services for cars, trucks,
and motorcycles. This can range from general auto repair shops to specialized
services like body shops, oil change facilities, or tire centers; or
      (4)   Maintenance, repair, and customization services specifically for
RVs and sometimes boats. May include specialized RV repair shops, mobile RV
repair services, and RV customization businesses.
   (c)   The use shall not constitute a junkyard.
   (d)   All repair activities (including, but not limited to, open pits and
lifts) shall occur within an enclosed structure.
   (e)   Outdoor storage of accessories, replacement parts, or discarded parts
shall comply with Sec. 112-286 of this chapter.
   (f)   Inoperable or dismantled motor vehicles shall be stored behind a sight
obscuring fence, wall, or screen or within an enclosed structure and shall not
be visible from any street or private road.
   (g)   Automotive sales and rental areas shall be subject to the landscape
and screening requirements.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-445. Automobile, major repair.
   (a)   Any or all of the following activities:
      (1)   Engine rebuilding;
      (2)   Major reconditioning of worn or damaged motor vehicles;
      (3)   Collision service, including body, frame, or fender straightening
or repair; and
      (4)   Overall painting of vehicles within an enclosed structure.
   (b)   The use shall not constitute a "junkyard" as herein defined.
   (c)   All repair activities (including, but not limited to, open pits and
lifts) shall occur within an enclosed structure.
   (d)   Outdoor storage of accessories, replacement parts, or discarded parts
shall comply with Sec. 112-286 of this chapter.
   (e)   Inoperable or dismantled motor vehicles shall be stored behind a sight
obscuring fence, wall, or screen or within an enclosed structure and shall not
be visible from any street or private road.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-446. Automotive hobby.
   (a)   An accessory use involving the restoration, maintenance, and/or
preservation of not more than three vehicles at any one time.
   (b)   It is the intent of this regulation to allow for restoration,
maintenance, and/or preservation of motor vehicles as a hobby.
   (c)   The following standards shall apply:
      (1)   There shall be no wholesale or retail sale of automotive parts or
supplies.
      (2)   There shall be no commercial restoration, repair, or maintenance of
motor vehicles.
      (3)   The site for an automotive hobby shall be maintained in an orderly
manner so as not to create a public nuisance.
      (4)   Not more than two inoperable, dismantled, or unregistered motor
vehicles may be visible from any street or private road. All other inoperable,
dismantled, or unregistered motor vehicles shall be stored:
         a.   In the rear or side yard behind a sight obscuring fence, wall, or
screen that is not less than six feet in height; or
         b.   Within a completely enclosed structure.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-447. Automobile impound yard.
   (a)   A designated facility used for the temporary storage of vehicles that
have been seized, towed, or otherwise removed from public or private property
by law enforcement agencies or authorized towing companies. These facilities
serve as secure holding areas for vehicles until they can be reclaimed by their
owners, auctioned, or disposed of according to local regulations.
   (b)   Screening.
      (1)   Outdoor storage and outdoor activity areas shall comply with Sec.
112-286 of this chapter. The fence or wall and screening materials shall be a
minimum of ten feet in height.
      (2)   No portion of the vehicle impound yard outdoor storage areas and/or
outdoor activity areas may be visible from any "highway", "interstate",
"principal arterial", or "minor arterial" as herein defined.
      (3)   All materials or parts shall be stored and located within the
fenced or walled area. No vehicles or materials shall be stored so they exceed
the height of the fence or wall.
   (c)   Site related standards.
      (1)   The use shall be located a minimum of 1,000 feet from any
residential zone.
      (2)   No person shall establish, operate, or maintain a vehicle impound
yard, any portion of which is within 1,000 feet of the nearest edge of the
right-of-way and visible from any "highway", "interstate", "principal
arterial", or "minor arterial" as herein defined.
      (3)   The use shall comply with the Flood Hazard Overlay District as set
forth in Chapter 110.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-448. Bar, lounge, nightclub, tavern.
   (a)   Establishments that primarily serve alcoholic beverages, often with
entertainment and sometimes food:
      (1)   Bar. A bar is an establishment that primarily serves alcoholic
beverages for on-premises consumption.
      (2)   Lounge. A lounge is typically a more upscale, relaxed drinking
establishment, often with comfortable seating.
      (3)   Nightclub. A nightclub is an entertainment venue that operates late
at night, typically featuring music, dancing, and alcohol service.
      (4)   Tavern. A tavern is traditionally a drinking establishment that may
also serve food, often with a more casual, neighborhood-oriented atmosphere.
   (b)   The facility shall comply with all Idaho Code regulations regarding
the sale, manufacturing, or distribution of alcoholic beverages.
   (c)   The bar, lounge, nightclub, tavern shall not be located within 1,000
feet of a church or school property.
   (d)   For properties abutting a residential zone, no outside activity or
event shall be allowed on the site.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-449. Child or daycare centers, preschools.
   (a)   Care and supervision of children not related by blood or marriage to
the caregiver, for compensation during part of a 24 hour day in a place other
than the home of the children being cared for. A preschool focuses on preparing
young children for entry into elementary school.
   (b)   No facility shall be located adjacent to any property located within
the Light Industrial or Industrial Zone.
   (c)   No facility shall be located in a floodplain or floodway, or adjacent
to any hazardous land use.
   (d)   A site plan shall be submitted which includes the location of existing
and proposed structures, fencing, playground area, and other existing or
proposed improvements. A parking and traffic circulation plan shall also be
submitted.
   (e)   The applicant or owner shall secure and maintain a basic daycare
license from the State of Idaho Department of Health and Welfare Family and
Children's Services Division.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-450. Contractor’s yard.
   (a)   Any area of land used by a contractor for storage, maintenance, or
processing incidental to the business of building, hauling, excavation,
demolition, or similar activity and including any area of land used for the
incidental repair of machinery used for any of the above listed activities.
   (b)   All outdoor storage areas shall be located a minimum of 50 feet from
any property line abutting other property and depicted on the master site plan.
This buffer from the property line shall have a vegetative ground cover and
shall be regularly maintained to prevent weed growth.
   (c)   The minimum property size for a contractor's yard shall be five acres.
   (d)   The site shall not be used as a "junkyard" or "automobile wrecking
yard" as herein defined.
   (e)   The property shall have approved access from an improved public
roadway for the use.
   (f)   Maintenance of vehicles or machinery shall be incidental to the
contractor's yard or shop and the incidental use shall only include minor
repair.
   (g)   Will have screening fence around the areas utilized for storage of
equipment.
   (h)   Will be limited to storage, maintenance and processing incidental to
contracting work. There shall be no general industrial or commercial uses.
   (i)   All structures and outdoor storage areas shall be depicted on the
master site plan.
   (j)   The use shall be subject to zoning inspection upon advanced notice and
request by the the County Planning, Zoning and Building Department. If a permit
holder refuses to allow inspection of the premises by the Department, the
approved zoning certificate may be revoked.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-451. Food trucks.
   (a)    Food trucks are mobile kitchens or restaurants on wheels that prepare
and sell food directly to consumers.
   (b)    A food truck shall require an administrative use permit.
   (c)    Application requirements. In addition to other information required
in Chapter 739 Transient Merchants for a license, an application for a food
truck shall include:
      (1)   A site plan showing where the food truck will be parked and
operating; and
      (2)   The dates and hours of operation.
   (d)   Noise. No food truck shall utilize sound-amplifying devices within
public rights-of-way or on private property in such a manner that causes sound
to carry outside of the public right-of-way or onto adjacent private
properties.
   (e)   Overnight parking. No food truck shall be parked at the location of
operation between the hours of midnight to 6:00 a.m.
   (f)   Lighting. A food truck may only use lighting that is affixed to the
food truck and that does not cause a glare, nuisance, or hazard to the public
in the right-of-way or neighboring private properties.
   (g)   Use of public right-of-way.
      (1)   No food truck shall have an exclusive right to any location in the
public right-of-way.
      (2)   A food truck shall not operate in a congested area where such
operation impedes the safe use of public rights-of-way.
      (3)   A food truck shall not be left unattended on a public right-of-way
except where it is legally parked.
      (4)   A food truck shall not operate in a location that obstructs
pedestrian crossings, bicycle lanes, intersections, driveways, or other
vehicular access points.
   (h)   Waste management. A food truck shall provide its own waste and
recycling containers to collect waste and recyclables generated by the food
truck. No hoses or drainage of grease traps of similar liquids shall be drained
into any storm water system.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-452. Home occupation.
   (a)   Home occupations. Any commercial use carried on as an accessory use
within a dwelling or permitted accessory building which does not require any
exterior building alterations, that generates limited additional traffic, does
not require additional off-street parking, or otherwise create the appearance
or impact of a commercial activity within the neighborhood.
   (b)   Home occupations shall meet the following standards:
      (1)   Incidental to residence. A home occupation shall be operated by a
person residing within the dwelling unit, shall be clearly secondary and
incidental to use of the dwelling unit as a residence, and shall be conducted
entirely within the dwelling unit, without altering the exterior of the
dwelling unit.
      (2)   Impact. A home occupation shall not affect the rural or residential
character of the neighborhood. Consideration shall be specifically given to
impact on sight, sound, smell and traffic.
      (3)   Permitted uses. Uses permitted may include, but are not limited to:
professional services such as an accountant, physician, real estate agent; art
studio, handcraft studio, music studio, or similar studio uses; a tailor;
tutoring or classes for no more than two students at one time; and counseling
primarily for individual persons; or, similar activities.
      (4)   Employment. No one residing off-premises may be employed on the
premises of a home occupation.
      (5)   Parking. All parking shall be provided on-site, and shall be
located to the rear of the structure or in another location in order to avoid
visual obstruction.
      (6)   There shall be no commercial on premises sales in connection with
such home occupation, nor shall there be any commercial or manufacturing uses
specifically provided for in other parts of this chapter.
      (7)   Display and signage. See Division 3 of this article.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-453. Home business.
   (a)   Home businesses. Any commercial enterprise or business conducted at a
residence which does not constitute a home occupation.
   (b)   Shall be subject to a home business permit approved by the Planning
Administrator per the procedures and standards set forth in this section.
      (1)   Procedures. No home business shall be conducted until an
application for a home business permit has been reviewed and approved by the
Planning Administrator or designee. The application shall include the
following:
         a.   The name of the landowner/applicant;
         b.   The address of the property;
         c.   The type of business and business activities;
         d.   The number of employees;
         e.   The location and area of the home business (site plan);
         f.   The vehicles used in the home business;
         g.   The number of expected customer visits per day and at any one
time; and
         h.   Narrative statement describing use and associated impacts to
area.
      (2)   The Planning Administrator shall issue the home business permit
based on conformance with the above application requirements and the standards
listed herein. The applicant may appeal the Planning Administrator decision to
deny a home business permit to the Board, pursuant to the provisions of Sec.
112-33.
   (b)   Home business standards.
      (1)   Is carried out by those residing in the dwelling and up to two
additional employees.
      (2)   Use is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the property
for dwelling purposes.
      (3)   Whereas the business activity may be conducted in other than the
dwelling, there shall be no visible evidence of the conduct of such home
business other than one sign, not exceeding four square feet in area,
nonilluminated and meeting applicable setback requirements.
      (4)   Customers/clients may come to the site, provided the following
criteria are met:
         a.   Where access to the site is by road, the road and address shall
be clearly marked.
         b.   Sales in connection with the activity are limited to merchandise
handcrafted on site or items accessory to a service (i.e., hair care products
for beauty salon).
         c.   Customers/clients are prohibited on the premises prior to 6:00
a.m. and after 8:00 p.m.
      (5)   Vehicular traffic generated by such home business shall not exceed
14 vehicle trips per day on average. Any need for parking generated by the
conduct of such occupation shall be met off the street.
      (6)   Certain activities are prohibited:
         a.   Automobile, truck and heavy equipment repair;
         b.   Auto body work or painting;
         c.   Parking and storage of heavy equipment;
         d.   Stables, kennels, animal husbandry or farming activities, except
as provided in this chapter; and
         e.   Any use of a nature that is similar to those listed in this
section or which creates impacts on the surrounding neighborhood similar to
those created by the uses listed in this section.
      (7)   Additional parking requirements:
         a.   One for a nonresident (if applicable); and
         b.   One for patrons if services are rendered on site.
      (8)   No equipment or process shall be used in such home business which
creates objectionable noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical
interference.
      (9)   Manufacturing shall be limited to the small-scale assembly of
already manufactured parts, but does not preclude production of small,
individually handcrafted items, furniture or other wood items as long as the
activity meets the other standards of this chapter.
   (c)   Permitted uses. Home businesses may include, but are not limited to,
those occupations allowed in home occupations; construction and/or contracting
businesses; service businesses; repair of furniture and small appliances;
offices; music, art or other schools; art studios and galleries; or similar
activities.
   (d)   Home business requiring a conditional use permit. Subject the same
performance standards as above, with the following exceptions and/or additions:
      (1)   Is carried out by those residing in the dwelling and up to four
additional employees.
      (2)   Limited activities and outside storage of materials and/or
equipment are permitted, provided the site is sufficiently screened from the
street and surrounding properties, as determined by the Hearing Body.
      (3)   Vehicular traffic generated by such home business shall not exceed
18 vehicle trips per day on average.
      (4)   Automobile, truck, heavy equipment and small engine repair may be
considered as a home business, subject to the following minimum standards:
         a.   Landscaping and screening to provide buffering for outdoor
storage of equipment or materials shall be provided.
         b.   An accessory structure for the repair business not to exceed
1,500 square feet may be permitted.
         c.   No more than three vehicles associated with the repair business
which are being repaired or awaiting repairs shall be stored on the site at any
given time.
         d.   The business shall comply with all building, fire and
environmental code regulations established by local, state or federal
jurisdictions.
         e.   The business owner shall provide an annual written report to the
Planning Department confirming continued compliance with these standards and
any other conditions of permit approval.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-454. Kennels, commercial.
   (a)   Commercial kennel. A kennel facility which includes one or more of the
following activities:
      (1)   Breeding for sale of three or more litters per year;
      (2)   Offering a service for compensation in conjunction with the
operation of the kennel, including, but not limited to, training, grooming,
boarding, or breeding;
      (3)   Raising of competition dogs for purposes of competition, greyhound
racing, sled dog racing, cattle dogs, dog pulls or any other events; and/or
      (4)   Any pet shop regularly selling dogs.
   (b)   Kennel performance standards. All kennel facilities shall adhere to
the following standards:
      (1)   The owner shall have a continuing obligation to maintain adequate
housekeeping and sanitation practices designed to prevent the creation of a
public nuisance and to reduce to a minimum the factors of noise and odor.
      (2)   The owner/operator shall maintain adequate fencing to restrain the
dogs from running at large. If the kennel is located adjacent to a residence,
visual screening is required.
      (3)   Facilities in which dogs are housed shall have a designated
location for feeding and watering in the rear yard and shall not encroach upon
the rear and side setbacks.
      (4)   All dogs shall be housed indoors during the night.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-455. Kennels, hobby.
   (a)   Hobby kennel. A kennel facility not meeting the requirements of a
commercial kennel, which shall adhere to the following standards:
      (1)   Breeding for sale of no more than two litters per year.
      (2)   No commercial boarding shall be allowed.
      (3)   A maximum of six dogs, excluding pups six months of age or younger,
shall be permitted in a hobby kennel.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-456. Laundromat.
   (a)   An establishment that provides:
      (1)   Washing, drying, and/or ironing machines for hire; and/or
      (2)   Washing, drying and/or ironing services to retail customers.
   (b)   If abutting or located in a residential zone, the hours of operation
shall be 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-457. Ministorage, storage buildings and units.
   (a)   A facility that provides individual, secure storage spaces of various
sizes for rent to the public. These facilities are typically used for personal
or business storage needs on a short-term or long-term basis.
   (b)   Uses are prohibited within 100 feet of a state highway or designated
arterial in the Commercial or Residential Zones.
   (c)   Landscaping shall be installed and maintained in the front yard
between the street and any buildings or vehicular access areas.
   (d)   Security fencing, six feet in height, shall be installed and
maintained around the site. Fencing materials shall complement exterior
building materials (similar color, material and/or detailing) of storage
buildings, except where obscured from public view with landscaping. Fencing
materials within scenic byways shall be earth toned colors.
   (e)   Areas shall not be used as dwellings or as a commercial or industrial
place of business. The manufacture or sale of any item from or at a rental
warehouse, ministorage or boat storage facility is specifically prohibited.
   (f)   All lighting shall be shielded and downward directed so as to confine
lighting to the premises and produce no glare on adjacent properties or rights
of way.
   (g)   The distance between structures shall be designed to allow a 12 foot
wide travel lane for emergency vehicles to pass while tenant's vehicles are
parallel parked at the entrance to their storage areas.
   (h)   Sufficient land area is required to accommodate the proposed use, and
the use and any appurtenant structures shall be so arranged on the land as to
minimize any adverse effects on surrounding properties. The use shall not
create particular hazards to adjacent properties.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-458. Mortuaries, funeral home.
   (a)   A facility in which deceased human bodies are kept and prepared for
burial or cremation.
   (b)   The minimum lot area shall be one acre.
   (c)   A well designed and landscaped off-street vehicle assembly area shall
be provided to be used in support of funeral procession activity. This area
shall be in addition to the required off-street parking area or its related
maneuvering space.
   (d)   A caretaker's residence may be provided within the main building.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-459 Personal Service Business.
   (a)   Establishments that provide services directly to consumers, typically
related to personal care, wellness, or individual needs.
   (b)   Characteristics of a personal service business includes:
      (1)   Direct interaction with individual customers;
      (2)   Services tailored to personal needs or preferences;
      (3)   Often require specialized skills or training; and
      (4)   Usually operate from a fixed location, though some may offer mobile
services.
   (c)   Examples of personal services business may include:
      (1)   Hair salons and barbershops;
      (2)   Nail salons;
      (3)   Spa and massage therapy centers;
      (4)   Tanning salons;
      (5)   Tattoo and piercing parlors;
      (6)   Dry cleaning and laundry services;
      (7)   Tailoring and alteration shops;
      (8)   Shoe repair shops;
      (9)   Photography studios;
      (10)   Personal trainers and fitness instructors;
      (11)   Life coaching services;
      (12)   Nutritionists and dietitians;
      (13)   Pet grooming services;
      (14)   Wedding planning services;
      (15)   Personal shopping services;
      (16)   Home organizing services;
      (17)   Tutoring and educational services;
      (18)   Music and art instruction;
      (19)   Travel agencies;
      (20)   Tax preparation services;
      (21)   Financial planning and advising;
      (22)   Career counseling services;
      (23)   Psychic reading and fortune-telling services;
      (24)   Mobile phone repair shops;
      (25)   Computer repair and tech support services;
      (26)   House cleaning services;
      (27)   Personal chef services;
      (28)   Meal preparation and delivery services;
      (29)   Concierge services; and
      (30)   Errand running services.
   (c)   No additional standards are required for this specific use.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-460. Professional offices.
   (a)   Any building or structure generally used for:
      (1)   Providing professional services to clients or patients; and
      (2)   Conducting business operations, consultations, and administrative
work.
   (b)   Typical occupants may include:
      (1)   Lawyers and law firms;
      (2)   Accountants and accounting firms;
      (3)   Architects and architectural firms;
      (4)   Engineers and engineering consultancies;
      (5)   Medical professionals (doctors, dentists, psychologists, etc.);
      (6)   Financial advisors and financial services firms;
      (7)   Real estate agencies;
      (8)   Insurance agencies; and
      (9)   Consulting firms.
   (c)   All signage shall meet the requirements of Article IV, Division 6.
   (d)   All parking shall meet the requirements of Article IV, Division 3.
   (e)   All landscaping and parking lot improvements, including asphalt/
concrete work, shall be completed prior to occupancy.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-461. Public stables, riding arenas, or equine training facilities.
   (a)   Definitions.
      (1)   Public stables. Public stables are facilities that offer horse
boarding services to the general public.
      (2)   Riding arenas. Riding arenas are designated areas specifically
designed for horseback riding activities.
      (3)   Equine training facilities. Equine training facilities are
specialized establishments focused on the education and development of horses
and riders.
   (b)   The minimum property size for commercial riding arenas shall be five
acres.
   (c)   Riding arenas may be located indoors or outdoors. Indoor riding arenas
shall be enclosed within a structure that is at least 24 feet in height, and
that is at least 2,000 square feet.
   (d)   Facilities may be for private use or rented to individuals or groups.
Individual or group lessons may be provided to the general public.
   (e)   Riding arenas shall provide spectator seating for at least 50 people.
   (f)   Retail sales accessory to the use of the facility may be conducted on
site.
   (g)   Facilities shall provide sufficient parking and turnaround areas for
horse trailers. Such areas shall be designed to preclude vehicles from backing
out into a roadway.
   (h)   A site plan shall be submitted which includes the location of existing
and proposed structures, fencing, areas for riding, boarding, feeding,
training, and other associated activities, and other existing or proposed
improvements. A parking and traffic circulation plan shall also be submitted.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-462. Radio, TV and FM broadcasting stations.
   (a)   Broadcasting stations:
      (1)   Are facilities that transmit audio and/or visual content to the
public;
      (2)   May use various transmission methods: over-the-air, cable,
satellite, or internet streaming;
      (3)   Often have more extensive production facilities, including multiple
studios and editing suites; and
      (4)   Content can range from news and entertainment to educational and
public service programming.
   (b)    Radio frequency or electrical interference disturbances shall not be
created which would adversely affect any form of life or equipment at or beyond
the boundaries of the lot occupied by the use.
   (c)   Antennas or towers shall be limited in height to the distance from the
base to the adjacent property line.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-463. Residential care facility, nursing home.
   (a)   A facility in which nine or more unrelated elderly persons or persons
with disabilities reside, generally on a long-term basis, and receive on-site
supervision in connection with their disability or age-related infirmity. The
facility may also provide short-term rehabilitation services for such persons.
Resident staff, if employed, need not be related to each other or to any of the
other persons residing in the facility.
   (b)   Minimum area. Three acres.
   (c)   Parking. A minimum of six off street parking spaces shall be provided.
   (d)   Fencing. Adequate fencing shall be provided around the entire
facility.
   (e)   IDHW compliance. Facilities shall comply with the applicable
requirements of the Idaho Department of Health and Welfare (IDHW).
   (f)   Site plan. A site plan shall be submitted which includes the location
of existing and proposed structures, fencing, parking areas, other associated
activities, and other existing or proposed improvements.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-464. Resort, commercial, or private.
   (a)   Minimum area. Ten acres.
   (b)   Recreational activities. The primary purpose of a commercial resort
shall be to provide recreational activities for its customers. Such activities
may include indoor or outdoor facilities for swimming, boat launching, boat
sales and rentals, waterskiing, hiking, fishing, hunting, camping, picnicking,
snow skiing and snowboarding, snowmobiling, tennis, volleyball, soccer,
badminton, golf, horseback riding or other athletic activities. Recreational
and educational activities ordinarily associated with an agritourism or
ecotourism operation are also permitted.
   (c)   Other uses which may be permitted.
      (1)   The following uses may also be permitted, so long as they are
incidental and accessory to the commercial resort's recreational activities:
         a.   Convention or entertainment facilities;
         b.   Retail sales shops for items such as agricultural products,
groceries, camping and sporting equipment, souvenirs, and art and handicraft
items;
         c.   Restaurants and bars;
         d.   Retail fuel services;
         e.   Hotels, motels, cabins, tiny homes, and similar accommodations;
         f.   Camping facilities, including tent camping sites, yurts, and
recreational vehicle parks;
         g.   Bath and laundry facilities;
         h.   Spa facilities;
         i.   Facilities for weddings, wedding receptions, and other associated
activities; and
         j.   Other commercial uses as specifically authorized in the permit.
      (2)   All commercial uses permitted within a commercial resort must be
scaled to the size of the parcel and must meet the required setbacks and
standards applicable to such uses in the underlying zone.
   (d)   Prohibited uses. Any uses other than those permitted in this section,
or those which are otherwise permitted of right in the underlying zone, are
prohibited.
   (e)   Plans. A site plan shall be submitted which includes the location of
existing and proposed structures, fencing, activity areas, and other existing
or proposed improvements. A parking and traffic circulation plan shall also be
submitted.
   (f)   Additional conditions. The Board may attach such reasonable conditions
as may be necessary for visual screening, control of dust, management of
parking and traffic, buffering of adjoining uses, or mitigation of effects on
water and air quality.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-465. Restaurants, bakeries and cafes.
   (a)   An establishment with table services whose principal business is the
selling of unpackaged food and beverages to the customer in a ready to consume
state, in individual servings, or in non-disposable containers.
   (b)   Standards.
      (1)   Shall be located on a main road; and
      (2)   Meet the requirements for parking, health regulations and solid
waste disposal.
   (c)   Restaurant with a drive through.
      (1)   Will be enclosed within the property lines with landscaping and
fencing, except for ingress and egress, to prevent trash from moving onto other
properties;
      (2)   Will have a six feet high sight obscuring fence along the property
lines that adjoin a residence; and
      (3)   Will provide for adequate trash receptacles.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-466. Retail, grocery store.
   (a)   A physical location where merchandise is sold to the public for
personal or household consumption.
   (b)   Characteristics include:
      (1)   Direct sales to end consumers;
      (2)   Physical storefront with product displays;
      (3)   Regular business hours;
      (4)   Often located in high-traffic areas;
      (5)   May include storage areas for inventory; and
      (6)   Usually requires parking facilities for customers.
   (c)   Examples include:
      (1)   Grocery store;
      (2)   Convenience store;
      (3)   Hardware store;
      (4)   Pharmacies and drugstores;
      (5)   Specialty food stores (e.g., butcher shops, bakeries);
      (6)   Thrift stores and secondhand shops; and
      (7)   Automotive parts store.
   (d)   In the Residential Zones:
      (1)   A retail establishment is limited to 10,000 square feet;
      (2)   Shall be located on a main intersection; and
      (3)   Shall meet the requirements of parking, road access, fire
accessibility, and signage.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-467. Sexually-oriented business.
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish provisions for
sexually oriented businesses (SOB). This provision will reasonably govern the
location of sexually-oriented business in order to avoid adverse secondary
effects which may result from the operation of such business; and to promote
the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the citizens of the county.
   (b)   Intent.
      (1)   To provide appropriate locations for adult entertainment uses that
minimize impacts to the character of residential neighborhoods;
      (2)   To minimize exposure of such facilities to minors;
      (3)   To ensure that such uses do not become incompatible land uses and
further, will not contribute to the blighting or downgrading of zoning
districts in which they are permitted, thereby adversely affecting property
values and deterring or interfering with the development and operation of other
businesses within the county; and
      (4)   To provide measures to minimize the incidents of crime associated
with such uses.
   (c)   Zoning and requirements.
      (1)   No sexually-oriented business shall operate within 2,500 feet
(state minimum) of any of the following:
         a.   Residential Zone boundary line as shown on the county zoning map;
         b.   The property boundary of any church public park, public library,
school, or daycare;
         c.   The boundary of any property for which a sexually-oriented
business license earlier has been issued and has not expired; or
         d.   Another adult entertainment establishment or SOB.
      (2)   No church, public parks, public library, daycare or school shall be
established closer than 2,500 feet from any sexually-oriented business.
      (3)   For the purpose of this section, the distance from any church,
public park, public library, daycare or school shall be measured in a straight
line from the nearest point of the line of any property on which a sexually-
oriented business is operating, or is proposed to operate, to the nearest
Residential Zone boundary line or property boundary line of any church, public
park, public library, daycare or school, as the case may be.
      (4)   The applicant shall provide evidence certified by a professional
land surveyor licensed in the State of Idaho that the proposed adult
entertainment establishment conforms to the separation requirements of this
subsection (c).
   (d)   Developments standards. Each sexually-oriented business shall be
subject to all development standards of the H-I Zone in which it is located,
including, but not limited to, setbacks, building height, projections, etc.
      (1)   All building openings, entries and windows for an adult
entertainment business shall be located, covered or screened in such a manner
as to prevent a view into the interior of an adult entertainment business from
any area open to the general public.
      (2)   All entrances to an adult entertainment business shall be clearly
and legibly posted by a notice indicating that minors are prohibited from
entering the premises.
      (3)   No loudspeakers or sound equipment shall be used by an adult
entertainment business for the amplification of sound to a level discernible by
the public beyond the walls of the building in which the adult entertainment
business is conducted.
      (4)   All off street parking areas, walkways and building entries serving
the adult entertainment business shall be illuminated during all business hours
with a lighting system designed to provide a minimum maintained horizontal
illumination of greater than one foot-candle of light on the parking surface
and/or walkway. This required lighting level is established in order to provide
sufficient illumination of the parking areas and walkways serving the adult
entertainment business for personal safety of its patrons.
      (5)   All exterior areas of adult entertainment businesses, including
buildings, landscaping and parking areas, shall be kept free of litter.
   (e)   Signs.
      (1)   All signage for a SOB will comply with Division 3 of this article
(Signs) and shall have administrative approval.
      (2)   Signs for adult entertainment establishments shall not contain any
emphasis, either by movement, picture, or otherwise, on matter relating to
adult entertainment as herein defined.
      (3)   Signs for any SOB providing adult entertainment or adult material
shall have in a conspicuous place at each entrance to such business a legible
door sign conspicuously stating "Persons under 18 years of age not permitted."
      (4)   Any sign considered obscene, as defined in subsection (b) of this
section, shall be considered a public nuisance. Signs shall not display nudity,
semi-nudity, pictures of sexual acts, other related adult material, or "XXX,"
"XX," or "X," or any series of the letter "X." Signage shall not display the
words or phrases “erotic,” “adult entertainment,” “sex” or “sexual acts.”
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-468. Sport or shooting range.
   (a)   A facility or area with permanently-located structures that is
designed or intended to provide a confined space for the safe discharge, on a
regular and structured basis, of lawfully possessed firearms, archery
equipment, or other weapons for the purpose of target practice, shooting
competitions, or training. This definition does not include any facility or
area designed and utilized exclusively for air guns or wax bullets, and shall
neither apply to nor affect a landowner and guests of the landowner discharging
a firearm, when the discharge will not endanger persons or property (as
required by Idaho Code § 18-3302J(3)(c)).
   (b)   The following standards shall govern all conditional use permits for
sport or shooting ranges:
      (1)   Each proposed sport or shooting range shall be inspected by the
County Planning and Zoning Department and the County Sheriff's office to
determine whether the proposed firearm discharge would endanger persons or
property;
      (2)   Shooting shall only occur between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 7:00
p.m.;
      (3)   Shooting shall not occur if the range is directed to such locations
such as county roads, schools, airports, etc.;
      (4)   Target areas shall be 600 feet from any existing dwelling and 300
feet from any property line;
      (5)   All facilities shall be designed and located in accordance with
safety standards or guidelines promulgated by the National Rifle Association
(NRA), National Skeet Shooting Association (NSSA), National Field Archery
Association (NFAA), or other similar body; and
      (6)   A site plan shall be submitted which includes the location of
existing and proposed structures, fencing, areas for shooting or archery and
associated safety buffers, other associated activities, and other existing or
proposed improvements. A parking and traffic circulation plan shall also be
submitted.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-469. Trailer sales, rentals, storage.
   (a)   Trailer sales. This refers to a business that sells various types of
trailers. These could include:
      (1)   Travel trailers for recreational use;
      (2)   Utility trailers for hauling equipment or materials;
      (3)   Car trailers for transporting vehicles;
      (4)   Cargo trailers for moving or storage purposes; or
      (5)   Specialized trailers for specific industries (e.g., horse trailers,
boat trailers).
   (b)   Trailer rentals. A service where trailers are rented out for temporary
use. This might include:
      (1)   Short-term rentals for moving or hauling;
      (2)   Longer-term rentals for construction projects or events; or
      (3)   Rentals of specialized trailers for specific needs.
   (c)   Trailer storage. A facility or area where trailers can be stored when
not in use. This could involve:
      (1)   Outdoor storage lots for larger trailers;
      (2)   Covered or indoor storage for more valuable or weather-sensitive
trailers; or
      (3)   Security measures to protect stored trailers.
   (d)   All repair activities (including, but not limited to, open pits and
lifts) shall occur within an enclosed structure.
   (e)   All sales and equipment storage areas must be screened on all sides
and back by a six foot sight obscuring fence unless otherwise approved by a
conditional use permit.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-470. Warehouse.
   (a)   Warehouse. A warehouse is a large commercial building used for storing
goods. Key features include:
      (1)   Purpose. Storage, distribution, and sometimes light assembly of
goods.
      (2)   Size. Typically large, often with high ceilings to maximize
vertical space.
      (3)   Design. Open floor plans with minimal interior walls.
      (4)   Features. Loading docks, large doors for vehicle access, heavy-duty
shelving or racking systems.
      (5)   Equipment. May include forklifts, conveyors, and inventory
management systems.
      (6)   Location. Near transportation hubs, and industrial parks.
      (7)   Uses. Can be for retail inventory, manufacturing supplies,
wholesale goods, or third-party logistics.
   (b)   Accessory uses allowed. Office not to exceed 25 percent and retail
sales not to exceed ten percent of the total enclosed area of the use.
   (c)   Outside activity areas. Outside activity areas shall be located a
minimum of 300 feet from any property line adjoining a residential zone.
   (d)   With the exception of signs, lighting shall be downward directed and
screened so that it produces no glare upon public rights of way or adjacent
properties.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Secs. 112-471—112-500. Reserved.
DIVISION 5. INDUSTRIAL USES
Sec. 112-501. Accessory buildings and structures.
   (a)   Accessory buildings and structures are secondary or subordinate on the
same lot as the main industrial building or use. They support or complement the
primary industrial activity but are not the principal use of the property.
   (b)   Examples may include:
      (1)   Storage sheds;
      (2)   Maintenance facilities;
      (3)   Security buildings;
      (4)   Parking structures;
      (5)   Loading docks;
      (6)   Utility installations;
      (7)   Waste management facilities;
      (8)   Caretaker's residence; or
      (9)   Containers, Conex boxes.
   (c)   One caretaker's residence may be permitted as an accessory use on
parcels three acres or larger for the purpose of overseeing and maintaining the
industrial property. The residence is limited to individuals directly employed
with the property. A caretaker's residence on a parcel smaller than three acres
may be allowed with a conditional use permit.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024; Ord. No. 2025-05, § 2, 7-14-2025)
Sec. 112-502. Asphalt or Concrete Batch Plant.
   (a)   An industrial facility used for the production of asphalt or concrete,
or asphalt or concrete products, and which may also include facilities for the
administration or management of said business, the stockpiling of bulk
materials used in the production process or of finished products manufactured
on the premises, and the storage and maintenance of required equipment.
   (b)   Asphalt mixing and concrete batching may only be allowed as accessory
uses to a pit, mine, or quarry in an industrial or agricultural district.
   (c)   Any structure or equipment shall be a minimum of 1,000 feet from any
dwelling other than the dwelling of the owner or caretaker of the subject
property.
   (d)   Outdoor storage areas shall comply with Sec. 112-286 of this chapter.
   (e)   The emissions control system(s) on such batch plants shall be of "best
available control technology" (BACT) as generally accepted under relevant
industry standards, within five years prior to application.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-503. Construction trades.
   (a)   Businesses or operations that provide specialized services, materials,
or equipment for construction projects, often requiring industrial-zoned spaces
due to the nature of their work. This typically involves: fabrication or
assembly of construction materials, storage and maintenance of heavy equipment,
warehousing of building supplies, or workshops for custom construction
elements.
   (b)   Examples would include:
      (1)   Welding shops;
      (2)   Carpentry and woodworking facilities;
      (3)   Electrical supply and fabrication;
      (4)   Plumbing supply and prefabrication;
      (5)   HVAC system assembly;
      (6)   Concrete product manufacturing;
      (7)   Steel fabrication;
      (8)   Masonry supply and cutting;
      (9)   Roofing material storage and preparation; or
      (10)   Glass cutting and glazing operations.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-504. Feed and fertilizer processing.
   (a)   Industrial operations that involve the manufacturing, blending, and
packaging of animal feed and plant fertilizers. These processes typically
include:
      (1)   For feed processing.
         a.   Grinding and mixing raw ingredients (grains, vitamins, minerals);
         b.   Pelleting or extruding feed mixtures;
         c.   Fortifying with additives; and
         d.   Packaging for distribution.
      (2)   For fertilizer processing.
         a.   Blending various nutrient sources (nitrogen, phosphorus,
potassium);
         b.   Chemical reactions to create synthetic fertilizers;
         c.   Granulation or pelletizing of fertilizer mixtures; and
         d.   Packaging or preparing for bulk distribution.
   (b)   Storage of chemicals, pesticides and fertilizers for wholesale, resale
or as part of a manufacturing facility shall be subject to the following:
      (1)   The applicant must furnish evidence that the facility will comply
with DEQ or other regulatory agencies.
      (2)   A buffer may be required within the required setback from property
line.
      (3)   Approved loading and unloading spaces and off-street parking
facilities will be required.
      (4)   A secondary retaining area will be required. The secondary
retaining area shall be large enough to hold up to the amount of the largest
tank located in the retaining area.
      (5)   Setbacks for structures are to be from the secondary containment
area.
      (6)   There shall be no uncontained outdoor storage of chemicals and/or
fertilizers.
      (7)   Construction of all facilities shall meet the criteria listed in
the approved County Building Code.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-505. Fuel storage.
   (a)   A facility or system designed to store significant quantities of fuel,
such as:
      (1)   Gasoline;
      (2)   Diesel;
      (3)   Kerosene;
      (4)   Aviation fuel;
      (5)   Natural gas; or
      (6)   Propane.
   (b)   Minimum area. Five acres.
   (c)   Setbacks for all petroleum storage facilities shall be in accordance
with current fire and safety codes and shall not be less than 50 feet from any
property line.
   (d)   All such facilities shall be contained within a sight obscuring fence
not less than six feet in height or sight obscuring evergreen trees or compact
hedge not less than six feet in height. All landscaping will require adequate
sprinkling systems and proper maintenance.
   (e)   All such uses shall be located and/or designed with full consideration
to their proximity to adjacent uses, their effect upon adjacent property, and
to the reduction of inherent dangerous factors.
   (f)   All such facilities, including structures and storage tanks, within
300 feet of the property line of any parcel located within any residential zone
shall have a maximum vertical height of 40 feet.
   (g)   All such facilities shall conform to the standards prescribed by the
National Fire Protection Association, the American Petroleum Institute, East
Idaho Health District, and other agencies with jurisdiction, whichever
regulations are most restrictive.
   (h)   The Board may require the posting of a performance bond to guarantee
performance of conditions of approval and to ensure that the use will not
constitute a nuisance or be detrimental to the health, safety, comfort or
welfare of persons in the vicinity of such use. If required, the bond will be
renewable every two years upon confirmation of compliance with all applicable
provisions of this chapter and conditions of approval.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-506. Freight or trucking yards, terminals.
   (a)   A heavy truck or rail facility for freight pick-up, transfer or
distribution; may include intermodal distribution facilities for truck or
shipping transport.
   (b)   Freight/trucking yards.
      (1)   Large paved areas for parking and maneuvering trucks and trailers.
      (2)   May include maintenance facilities and administrative offices.
      (3)   Used for short-term storage of vehicles and cargo.
   (c)   Terminals.
      (1)   Facilities for loading, unloading, and transferring freight between
vehicles.
      (2)   Often include warehouses for temporary storage.
      (3)   Can serve as hubs for local delivery operations.
      (4)   May have intermodal capabilities (truck-to-rail transfer).
   (d)   Accessory uses directly related to the maintenance and fueling of
vehicles (including, but not limited to, truck and trailer washing, fuel pumps,
garages for minor repair) may be allowed.
   (e)   The use shall be located a minimum of 300 feet from any residential
zone.
   (f)   All outdoor storage of material shall be maintained in an orderly
manner so as not to create a public nuisance. Outdoor storage areas shall
comply with Sec.
112-286 of this chapter.
   (g)   Installation of underground fuel tanks shall require written approval
from Idaho Division of Environmental Quality, Idaho Department of Water
Resources, and the appropriate fire authority.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-507. Junkyards, wrecking yards, salvage yards.
   (a)   Junk and/or salvage yard. An open area where scrap materials are
bought, sold, exchanged, recycled, stored, disassembled or handled, including,
but not limited to, scrap iron and other metals, paper, rags, rubber tires,
bottles and such other worn out or discarded material as can be turned to some
use, but which cannot be used again for the purpose for which it was originally
intended. A sanitary landfill, refuse, transfer station, drop box facility for
waste disposal, or recycling center shall not be considered a "junkyard and/or
salvage yard" when operated by a governmental agency or other institution.
   (b)   Junkyard or wrecking yard. An open area where waste and scrap material
are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled or handled.
“Junkyard/wrecking yard” is further defined as any place where four or more
vehicles, unlicensed or not in operating condition, are stored in the open.
“Junkyard/wrecking yard” includes the commercial salvaging or recycling of any
goods or machinery.
   (c)   Junk vehicle. Any vehicle meeting the following requirements:
      (1)   Is apparently inoperable and without valid, current registration
tabs or license plates; or
      (2)   Is extensively damaged, including, but not limited to, and of the
following: a damaged window or windshield, or missing wheels, tires, motor, or
transmission;
      (3)   Unless said vehicle is stored within a completely enclosed building
or sight obscuring fence.
   (d)   Screening.
      (1)   Outdoor storage areas shall comply with Sec.
112-286 of this chapter. The fence or wall and screening materials shall be a
minimum of ten feet in height.
      (2)   No portion of the junkyard or automobile wrecking yard outdoor
storage areas and/or outdoor activity areas may be visible from any highway,
interstate, principal arterial, or minor arterial as herein defined.
      (3)   All materials or parts shall be stored and located within the
fenced or walled area. No vehicles or materials shall be stored so they exceed
the height of the fence or wall.
   (e)   Site related standards.
      (1)   All structures or outdoor activity areas shall be located a minimum
of 300 feet from any property line. The use shall be located a minimum of 1,000
feet from any residential district.
      (2)   The master site plan shall designate an area for processing
vehicles as they are brought to the site. The processing area shall be an
impermeable surface that has a means to collect and properly dispose of oils
and fluids in the vehicles.
      (3)   The applicant shall obtain all necessary permits for the storage of
materials on the site, including, but not limited to, oil, hazardous waste, and
tires.
      (4)   No person shall establish, operate, or maintain a junkyard or
automobile wrecking yard, any portion of which is within 1,000 feet of the
nearest edge of the right of way and visible from any highway, interstate,
principal arterial, or minor arterial as herein defined. See Idaho Code § 40-
313.
      (5)   The use shall comply with the flood hazard overlay district as set
forth in Chapter 106 of this code.
      (6)   The applicant shall submit review comments from the Idaho Division
of Environmental Quality with the conditional use permit application.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-508. Light industrial manufacturing.
   (a)   Industrial activity characterized by smaller-scale production process
with minimal environmental impact involving the fabrication, processing or
assembly of goods.
   (b)   Light manufacturing is mostly conducted entirely within enclosed
buildings, uses smaller machinery and equipment, produces minimal noise, odor,
vibration or particulate matter, does not involve large quantities of hazardous
materials and often focuses on creating finished products from preprocessed
materials.
   (c)   Examples include electronics assembly, clothing manufacturing,
furniture making, food processing (small scale), printing and publishing, craft
brewing or small-scale beverage production.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-509. Heavy industrial manufacturing.
   (a)   Heavy manufacturing refers to large-scale industrial operations that
typically involve more intensive production processes and greater environmental
impacts.
   (b)   Heavy manufacturing is characterized by:
      (1)   Large-scale production of goods, often from raw materials;
      (2)   Significant environmental impacts (noise, emissions, vibrations);
      (3)   Use of heavy machinery and equipment;
      (4)   Higher energy consumption and resource utilization;
      (5)   Often involves chemical or mechanical transformation of materials;
      (6)   Requires substantial infrastructure (power, water, transportation);
      (7)   Usually located in dedicated industrial zones away from residential
areas;
      (8)   Subject to stringent environmental and safety regulations;
      (9)   Often operates continuously (24/7); and
      (10)   May involve hazardous materials or processes.
   (c)   Common examples include:
      (1)   Steel mills and metal foundries;
      (2)   Automobile manufacturing plants;
      (3)   Chemical production facilities;
      (4)   Oil refineries;
      (5)   Large-scale food processing plants;
      (6)   Paper mills;
      (7)   Cement factories; or
      (8)   Tanneries.
   (d)   Uses not included in this definition and prohibited are:
      (1)   Slaughterhouses;
      (2)   Rendering plants; and
      (3)   Glue factories.
   (e)   Standards applying to heavy manufacturing uses.
      (1)   All structures shall be located a minimum of 300 feet from any
property line.
      (2)   The use shall be located a minimum of 1,000 feet from any
residential zone.
      (3)   All hazardous chemicals or gases shall be stored and/or used within
an enclosed structure.
      (4)   The facility shall be enclosed by a minimum eight foot high
security fence or wall. Entrance and exit shall be through a gate that shall be
locked during nonbusiness hours.
      (5)   The application materials shall include written documentation from
the appropriate fire authority approving the proposed location and plan
specifications of the facilities.
      (6)   The application materials shall include maps and engineering
drawings showing proposed drainage, proposed sewer system design, the depth of
the water table, soil composition, all existing surface water, and all existing
uses within one-fourth mile of the property. The applicant shall also furnish
evidence that any dangerous characteristics of the particular process or
activity in question have been, or shall be, eliminated or minimized
sufficiently so as not to create a public nuisance or be detrimental to the
public health, safety, or welfare.
      (7)   The facility must register and maintain current hazardous waste
generation notification as required by Environmental Protection Agency and/or
Idaho Department of Environmental Quality and provide such proof of
registration.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-510. Heavy equipment repair, sales, service.
   (a)   The use of a site that focuses on the sales, maintenance, repair, and
overhaul of heavy-duty vehicles used primarily for commercial purposes,
including large trucks, semi-trucks, tractors, and other heavy equipment,
tools, trucks, tractors, construction equipment, agricultural implements, or
similar industrial equipment.
   (b)   All repair activities (including, but not limited to, open pits and
lifts) shall occur within an enclosed structure.
   (c)   Outdoor storage of accessories, replacement parts, or discarded parts
shall comply with Sec. 112-286 of this chapter.
   (d)   Inoperable or dismantled equipment shall be stored behind a sight
obscuring fence, wall or screen or within an enclosed structure, and shall not
be visible from any street or private road.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-511. Off-site mineral extraction.
   (a)   The various activities associated with excavating valuable minerals
from the ground, including, but not limited to, excavating a pit, removing the
resource, processing the resource, disposing of unwanted material, and building
a roadway to accommodate hauling trucks.
   (b)   Mineral extraction requirements.
      (1)   Mineral (gravel, sand, and other minerals) extraction may be
allowed pending the approval of a conditional use permit. The following
stipulations are required when applying and considering a conditional use
permit to extract minerals:
         a.   A site plan for the entire parcel shall be submitted with the
application identifying the location of any pits, stockpiles, hauling roads,
processing facilities, equipment or material storage, fencing, screening, with
a landscape plan, irrigation for trees or landscaping, and setbacks from
existing roads and adjacent residential and commercial areas and any other
pertinent features.
         b.   A grading/stormwater management plan shall be prepared and
submitted concurrently with the application for conditional use permit.
         c.   The landowner (applicant) shall apply dust abatement (magnesium
chloride or other suppressants acceptable to the county) to the private,
nonpaved easement and the haulage road on a yearly and/or as needed basis, at
no cost to the county.
         d.   The mined area shall not be located closer to the nearest
property line or public right of way than a horizontal distance equal to one
and one-half times the vertical depth of the mined area at any given point,
except that steeper slope may be permitted where certified by an Idaho licensed
engineer. In no instance shall the actual mined area extend to within 60 feet
of the nearest property line or public right of way. Drainage from areas
disturbed by surface mining shall be filtered, treated and contained on site.
         e.   Applicant shall provide evidence it has met approval requirements
of all state and federal regulations.
            1.   Applicant must provide an approved reclamation plan from the
Idaho Department of Lands as required by the Idaho Surface Mining Act (Idaho
Code § 47-1501 et seq.).
            2.   Applicant shall provide a review or approval letter from the
Idaho Department of Environmental Quality for setbacks and dust mitigation.
            3.   Applicant shall provide a letter of approval from Eastern
Idaho Health Department to ensure any ponds or pits will not cause septic
leach/drainage fields on abutting properties to fail.
            4.   Applicant shall provide a storm water permit from the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for any extraction area that will disturb
more than one acre.
         f.   A bond or irrevocable letter of credit shall be required to
ensure the completion and compliance of the re-use plan. The bond or letter of
credit shall be updated/renewed before the expiration date or shall stay
current until a county representative verifies the reclamation and re-use plan
are completed and satisfy the conditions of the conditional use permit. The
number of years and hours of operation shall be provided on the application. If
the extraction area is inactive for three years or longer the conditional use
permit shall be revoked and the applicant must re-apply.
         g.   Mining or extraction of minerals shall not result in the damage
or alteration of a floodway, channel, natural drainage way, wetlands, or
wildlife corridors. Developer/applicant shall submit a natural features
analysis.
         h.   Gravel, sand, and other mineral mining is viewed as a temporary
use to be followed by another land use that is compatible with surrounding
landscape. When an extraction area is progressively reclaimed during active
mining, problems can be minimized and operator costs can also be reduced if
reclamation is accomplished as part of the mining plan. Developer/applicant
shall have a drawing of a master plan of the "re-use" or what the project will
look like when finished, beyond the basic reclamation plan (i.e., park, water
feature, game reserve, and farm ground).
         i.   Water quality. The Commission may require the applicant to
perform testing of water quality according to the Department of Environmental
Quality (DEQ) standards as a condition. If the pit or extraction area is a
point source of contamination the conditional use permit shall be revoked and
the developer shall be responsible for mitigating the issue. If water in a pit
becomes stagnate or creates a mosquito problem, the conditional use permit
shall be revoked and it shall be the developer's responsibility to mitigate the
problem.
         j.   All other regulations for conditional use permits as set forth in
this chapter shall apply.
   (c)   Standards for temporary use approval.
      (1)   The property has not received previous approval for a pit, mine, or
quarry as a temporary use.
      (2)   The maximum area of the extraction site shall be six acres.
      (3)   The proposed extraction activities shall be completed within five
years.
      (4)   The pit, mine, or quarry shall meet the standards in subsections
(a) and (b) of this section.
      (5)   Stockpiles shall be a maximum of 15 feet in height.
      (6)   All extraction and hauling activities shall take place between 7:00
a.m. and dusk or 6:00 p.m. (whichever is earlier) Monday through Friday.
      (7)   Haul roads shall not pass through existing residential
neighborhoods. For the purpose of this section, the term "residential
neighborhood" shall be any residential subdivision development at a density of
one or more units per acre.
      (8)   Additional standards for temporary mineral extraction.
         a.   Rock crushing may be allowed on a temporary basis.
         b.   The proposed extraction activities shall be completed within one
year.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-512. On-site mineral extraction.
   (a)   Minerals. Gravel, sand, soil or other minerals may be excavated and
removed from a maximum of a two acre site, per parcel. The minerals must be
removed from the subject property within six months from the date excavation
begins. Extracted minerals may not be stored on site beyond the six month time
period.
   (b)   Processing. Crushing, screening, or processing the material is allowed
on or at the excavation site at the discretion of the Administrator.
   (c)   Accessory uses. Temporary asphalt mixing and concrete batching may
only be allowed as accessory uses to a pit, mine, or quarry at the discretion
of the Administrator.
   (d)   Submittals. Prior to commencing any phase of extraction, the landowner
or operator/extractor shall submit all appropriate fees and provide the
following:
      (1)   Name of the landowner;
      (2)   Name of the operator/extractor;
      (3)   Legal description of the property where gravel is to be extracted;
      (4)   A site plan of the property showing the area where the gravel is to
be extracted;
      (5)   The extraction commencement date and completion date (no later than
six months after commencement date); and
      (6)   Reclamation plan as approved by Idaho Department of Lands, if
required.
   (e)   Time limit. Short term mineral extraction is allowed during the
process of subdivision construction following the provisions of this section.
The six month time limit shall apply to extraction during each phase as shown
on the approved preliminary plat.
   (f)   Mineral extraction in floodway. Gravel and sand and their subsequent
extraction on lands within the special flood hazard area that encroach into
regulated floodways shall meet the requirements of subsection 7-10A-11(4) of
this chapter. A reclamation LOMR shall be completed within one year of the
completion of mining.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-513. Solar farms.
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to facilitate the
construction, installation, and operation of solar farms (solar energy systems)
in the county in a manner that promotes economic development and ensures the
protection of health, safety, and welfare while also avoiding adverse impacts
to important areas such as agricultural lands, conservation lands or other
sensitive lands.
   (b)   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   Solar farm (solar energy system (SES)) means the components and
subsystems required to convert solar energy into electric or thermal energy
suitable for use. The area of the system includes all the land inside the
perimeter of the system, which extends to any fencing. The term applies, but is
not limited to, solar photovoltaic (PV) systems, solar thermal systems, and
solar hot water systems.
   (c)   Lot size minimum. The minimum lot size for a solar farm shall be 40
acres.
   (d)   Conditional use permit. All solar farms shall require an approved
conditional use permit.
      (1)   Application. In addition to the conditional use permit application
requirements the following information shall be included in the application:
         a.   Proof of a lease, deed or purchase agreement for the parcel for
the proposed solar farm;
         b.   Type of solar panel to be used and any hazardous chemicals
contained in the solar panels and measures to prevent leakage;
         c.   Name and address of the manufacturer, and model of the solar
panels;
         d.   Expected energy output and anticipated useful life of the system,
development phases, likely markets for the generated energy, and possible
future expansions;
         e.   Information on the visual impact of the proposed solar farm using
photos or computer-generated images of the project on the site to demonstrate
the appearance of the project from off site;
         f.   Agricultural impact analysis. An analysis reviewing soils types,
existing use of land and water showing the projected change to the agricultural
impact to county production and water usage;
         g.   Storm water management plan. An engineered plan showing the
impact of the impervious surface change and the management of the projected
increase in runoff;
         h.   Maintenance and construction schedule. The applicant shall
provide a written description of the maintenance program to be used to maintain
the SES, and the anticipated construction schedule;
         i.   Digital versions of all planning and construction documents
submitted in PDF format;
         j.   A decommissioning plan as required by section (e);
         k.   Distance from the proposed solar farm to the nearest habitable
dwelling unit on a parcel which does not contain the solar farm;
         l.   A security plan detailing on-site security provisions which may
include fencing, security guards, video surveillance, and similar measures;
         m.   A landscaping plan may be used to screen the solar farm from
nearby roadways;
         n.   A fire break may be required; and
         o.   Additional information as may be required by the Planning
Commission.
         p.   The Planning Commission may waive or modify some of the above
requirements at the request of the applicant if the Commission determines that
those items would not be needed to properly review the project.
      (2)   Findings. To approve a conditional use permit for a solar farm, the
Planning Commission shall find that:
         a.   The applicable procedural requirements have been met;
         b.   The proposal is compatible with existing homes, businesses and
neighborhoods and with the natural characteristic of the area;
         c.   The proposal adequately addresses site constraints or hazards,
and adequately mitigates any negative environmental, social and economic
impacts;
         d.   Services and facilities for the proposal are available and
adequate;
         e.   The proposal will meet the duly adopted requirements of other
agencies with jurisdiction; and
         f.   The proposal is not in conflict with the comprehensive plan.
   (e)   Decommissioning. The applicant shall submit a decommissioning plan to
the county which shall address all of the following:
      (1)   Defined conditions upon which decommissioning will be initiated
(such as, end of land lease, no power production for nine months, obsolete
equipment and similar circumstances);
      (2)   A description as to how the useful life of the system will be
determined and who will make this determination;
      (3)   Removal of all non-utility owned equipment, conduit, structures,
fencing, roads, and building foundations to a depth of three feet below grade;
      (4)   Restoration of property to the condition prior to development of
the solar farm including measures to ensure that soils are not contaminated
during decommissioning;
      (5)   The timeframe for completion of decommissioning activities;
      (6)   An engineer's cost estimate for all aspects of the decommissioning
plan;
      (7)   Description of any agreement with the landowner regarding
decommissioning;
      (8)   Provisions for updating the decommissioning plan;
      (9)   A statement signed by the owner or operator that they take full
responsibility for reclaiming the site in accordance with the decommissioning
plan and the special land use permit upon cessation of use; and
      (10)   The Planning Commission may require that the owner or operator
provide a development agreement with a financial guarantee to cover 150% of the
costs of proposed engineer cost estimate for decommissioning the site in
accordance with this section. The conditional use permit holder is required to
update the bond on an ongoing basis every five years.
   (f)   Additional requirements for solar farms.
      (1)   Safety/access. A security fence shall be placed around the
perimeter of the solar farm with a locked gate. Knox boxes and keys shall be
provided at locked entrances for emergency personnel access. The height and
material of the fence shall be as approved by the Planning Commission depending
upon the location of the facility.
      (2)   Building permit. A building permit must be obtained within two
years of approval of the conditional use permit. Commencement of the operation
of the solar farm shall occur within two years from the date of building
permit. These time-frames may be extended for cause upon application, review,
and approval by the Board.
      (3)   The facility shall be designed for interconnection to a public
utility electrical power grid, and shall be operated with such interconnection.
All electrical interconnection or distribution lines shall comply with all
applicable codes.
      (4)   The portion of the premises on which the array of collector panel
structures is located shall not be paved with asphalt or any other surface
material that is impervious to rainwater.
      (5)   If a landscaping plan is required to screen the solar farm from
nearby roadways, plantings shall be installed parallel to the roadway adjacent
to the solar farm. One deciduous or conifer tree for every 25 feet of property
line length is required. The Planning Commission may modify the landscaping
requirement depending upon the location of existing plant material on the site
or if additional plantings are needed to buffer existing land uses. Trees shall
be a minimum of four feet tall when planted and remain in good condition for
the life of the project.
      (6)   Setbacks. Solar panels shall be setback a minimum of 50 feet from
all right of way lines and ten feet from all other lot lines except solar
panels shall not be placed closer than 100 from the lot line of another parcel
containing a dwelling unit.
      (7)   Height. A ground mounted SES shall not exceed a height of 20 feet
above natural grade at the time of project approval, as depicted on the site
plan. The height shall be measured from the highest point of the panel when
oriented at its maximum tilt to the ground immediately below the panel.
      (8)   Electrical interconnections. All electrical interconnection or
distribution lines shall comply with all applicable codes. The applicant shall
provide evidence to the county of approval of connection from the applicable
utility company.
      (9)   Use of above-ground transmission lines for the SES shall be
prohibited within the site.
      (10)   Maintenance and annual summary report. Every solar farm must be
kept and maintained in good repair and condition at all times and shall not
pose a potential safety hazard. The applicant shall keep a record of all
maintenance performed and repairs made to and replacement of equipment and
parts. On or about the anniversary date of the approval by the Planning
Commission of the conditional use permit, the applicant shall provide a summary
of this maintenance record to the county's Planning Administrator.
   (g)   Transfer of ownership. Prior to a change in the ownership or operation
of a solar energy system, including but not limited to the sale or lease of
that system or the underlying property, the current land owner or operator
shall provide written notice to the county at least 60 days prior to that
change becoming effective. This notice shall inform the county of the intended
transfer of control of the solar energy system or the underlying property, and
shall include a copy of the instrument or agreement effectuating that transfer.
Such an instrument or agreement shall include an express statement that the new
owner or operator of the solar energy collector system or the underlying
property shall not be permitted to operate that system until compliance with
the terms of this section, including requirements for continuing security and
other conditions of approval has been established.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Secs. 112-514—112-525. Reserved.
DIVISION 6. RECREATIONAL USES
Sec. 112-526. Accessory buildings or structures.
   (a)   Structures designed to facilitate or complement recreational
activities.
      (1)   Subordinate in size and function to the main use of the property.
      (2)   Located on the same parcel as the primary use.
      (3)   Used to support or enhance recreational activities.
   (b)   These structures may include (but not limited to):
      (1)   Pool houses;
      (2)   Gazebos;
      (3)   Pergolas;
      (4)   Storage sheds for sports equipment;
      (5)   Outdoor kitchens or BBQ areas;
      (6)   Boat houses or docks;
      (7)   Small gyms or exercise rooms;
      (8)   Containers, Conex boxes.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024; Ord. No. 2025-05, § 2, 7-14-2025)
Sec. 112-527. Amusement and recreational facility (indoor).
   (a)   An establishment that houses various forms of entertainment, leisure
activities and recreational pursuits protected from the outdoor elements. These
facilities offer a controlled environment allowing for year-round operation
regardless of weather conditions. They may also include ancillary services such
as food courts, lounges or party rooms.
   (b)   Indoor amusement or recreation facility shall include, but not be
limited to:
      (1)   Indoor arcades;
      (2)   Bowling alleys;
      (3)   Indoor playgrounds;
      (4)   Trampoline parks;
      (5)   Indoor sports complexes;
      (6)   Laser or airsoft tag arenas;
      (7)   Escape rooms;
      (8)   Indoor mini-golf courses;
      (9)   Indoor water parks;
      (10)   Virtual reality gaming centers;
      (11)   Theaters;
      (12)   Health club, spa, fitness facility;
      (13)   Nightclub; or
      (14)   Skating rink.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-528. Amusement and recreational facility (outdoor).
   (a)   An open-air complex or area dedicated to providing various forms of
entertainment, sports, or leisure activities. These facilities are designed to
offer enjoyment, relaxation, and physical activities for visitors, typically
making use of the natural environment or large outdoor spaces. These facilities
often take advantage of natural landscapes or large open spaces to provide
experiences that can't be easily replicated indoors. They may also include
supporting amenities such as parking areas, restroom facilities, concession
stands, and picnic areas.
   (b)   Outdoor amusement and recreational facility (outdoor) shall include,
but not be limited to:
      (1)   Amusement parks with outdoor rides and attractions;
      (2)   Water parks with outdoor pools and slides;
      (3)   Miniature golf courses;
      (4)   Go-kart tracks;
      (5)   Outdoor sports complexes (e.g., tennis courts, basketball courts);
      (6)   Zipline and adventure courses;
         (7)   Outdoor concert venues or amphitheaters;
      (8)   Paintball or airsoft fields;
      (9)   Skate parks; and
      (10)   Golf driving range (that is not an accessory to a golf course).
   (c)   Standards.
      (1)   All structures or outdoor recreation areas shall maintain a minimum
setback of 100 feet from any residential districts.
      (2)   Any outdoor speaker system associated with the amusement or
recreation facility shall comply with the noise regulations in Sec.
112-285 of this chapter.
      (3)   All outdoor activities and events shall be scheduled so as to
complete all activity by 10:00 p.m. All illumination shall be terminated no
later than one hour after conclusion of the event.
   (d)   Golf driving range. Accessory sales and rental of golf equipment shall
be allowed. The golf driving range shall be designed to protect abutting
property and roadways from golf balls.
   (e)   Swimming pool. Any outdoor swimming pool shall be completely enclosed
within a six-foot barrier that meets the requirements of the County Building
Code.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-529. Fraternal organization or lodge.
   (a)   A membership-based organization formed for social, charitable, or
mutual aid purposes. These organizations often have local chapters or "lodges"
where members meet regularly. They may own or operate facilities for meetings,
social events, and sometimes offer services to members such as insurance
programs or retirement homes.
   (b)   These groups are characterized by:
      (1)   Shared values or interests among members;
      (2)   Ritualistic practices or ceremonies;
      (3)   Use of symbols, signs, or regalia;
      (4)   Hierarchical structure;
      (5)   Emphasis on brotherhood (or sisterhood in some cases);
      (6)   Charitable or community service activities; and
      (7)   Mutual support among members.
   (c)   Examples include:
      (1)   Freemasons;
      (2)   Elks Lodge;
      (3)   Knights of Columbus;
      (4)   Odd Fellows;
      (5)   Rotary Club;
      (6)   Lions Club; and
      (7)   Moose Lodge.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-530. Golf course and country clubs.
   (a)   A country club is typically a private membership-based establishment
that provides a combination of social and recreational amenities within a
single, expansive property. They are compatible alongside other large-scale
recreational facilities, parks and open spaces. They may be included as part of
a larger subdivision or golf course.
   (b)   To be eligible for an accessory country club and/or sale of alcoholic
beverages, the golf course shall be a bona fide golf course as defined by Idaho
Code § 23-903.
   (c)   The collection of greens or range fees, the sale or rental of golf
equipment and clothing, and associated food and beverage sales are permitted
commercial uses.
   (d)   The golf driving range shall be designed to protect abutting property
and roadways from golf balls.
   (e)   All other accessory structures to the golf course shall not be located
within 100 feet of an abutting property within a residential zone. No outdoor
recreation area associated with the country club shall be located within 50
feet of any property line. If an outdoor swimming pool is proposed on site, the
pool shall be enclosed with a six-foot barrier that meets the requirements of
the Ada County Building Code as set forth in Chapter 110 of Part III of this
code.
   (f)   Any outdoor speaker system associated with the golf course or country
club shall comply with the noise regulations of Sec. 112-285 of this chapter.
   (g)   For reasons of public health, safety and welfare, an accessory country
club or clubhouse shall only be allowed as long as the subject property is
within a fire district.
   (h)   Outdoor storage areas shall comply with Sec. 112-286 of this chapter.
   (i)   With the exception of signs, lighting shall be downward directed and
screened so that it produces no glare upon public rights of way or adjacent
properties.
   (j)   A site plan shall be submitted which includes the location of existing
and proposed structures, fencing, areas for golfing and associated activities,
and other existing or proposed improvements. A parking and traffic circulation
plan shall also be submitted.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-531. Event center.
   (a)   An event center is a versatile venue specifically designed and
equipped to accommodate a wide range of social, cultural, business, and
community events. These facilities are characterized by their flexibility and
ability to host diverse functions of varying sizes and types.
   (b)   Typical uses include:
      (1)   Hosting conferences, conventions, trade shows;
      (2)   Weddings, receptions, and other celebratory events;
      (3)   Corporate meetings and seminars;
      (4)   Cultural events, concerts, and performances; and
      (5)   Community gatherings and fundraisers.
   (c)   Minimum area. The size of the site must be adequate to accommodate the
event, attendees, and parking unless provisions have been made for off-site
parking. Adequacy of the site shall be as reasonably determined by the Board.
   (d)   Site plan and event description. The application shall include a
detailed site plan and event description which addresses security, access,
crowd management, traffic management, parking, waste control and disposal,
litter control plans, and includes any other relevant information requested by
the Administrator. Copies of the site plan and event descriptions shall be
submitted to the County Sheriff's office, East Idaho Health District, Idaho
Transportation Department, the County Road and Bridge and Fire District with
jurisdiction, and any other agencies as requested by the Administrator.
   (e)   Parking. One parking space will be provided for each three seating
spaces, and the parking area shall be restricted to a clearly designated area
which has clearly delineated boundaries. Off-site parking may be permitted if
the applicant demonstrates that transportation between the parking area and the
event site will be adequate. If the owner of the property where the parking
area will be located is different than the owner of the event site, the written
consent of the owner of the parking area shall be required.
   (f)   Noise. Maximum noise threshold shall be 75 dBa, as measured at the
property lines, unless a higher level is approved in the permit.
   (g)   Drainfields. Parking and construction over existing drainfields is
prohibited.
   (h)   Lighting. Lighting at the special event shall be downward directed and
shielded, and shall not exceed 0.2 foot-candle at the property line unless
otherwise approved in the permit.
   (i)   Additional conditions. The Commission may impose such reasonable
conditions as may be necessary for visual screening, control of dust,
mitigation or elimination of nuisance factors, management of traffic, buffering
of adjoining uses, mitigation of potential effects on water or air quality,
limitation of the duration of the permit, or otherwise addressing the health,
safety, or general welfare of event participants and spectators. Conditions may
also include a requirement that agencies review and approve plans for each
event to be held at the location.
   (j)   Performance bond. The Commission may require the posting of a
performance bond to guarantee performance of conditions of approval and to
ensure that the event will not constitute a nuisance or be detrimental to the
health, safety, comfort or welfare of persons in the vicinity of such use.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-532. RV parks/campgrounds.
   (a)   Recreational vehicle (RV) parks and/or campgrounds shall comply with
the following standards:
      (1)   Purpose. An area or tract of land and associated facilities that
accommodate structures such as cabins, yurts or tents, or recreational vehicles
for overnight stays or short periods of time, for recreation, camping or
vacation purposes.
      (2)   Density.
         a.   An RV park/campground shall be a minimum of five acres in size.
         b.   RV parking is limited to 16 units per acre.
         c.   Campsites are limited to 16 sites per acre.
         d.   Each RV space shall be an area to accommodate the size of the RV,
not less than 1,250 square feet and a width of not less than 25 feet.
         e.   Each camping area must be at least 350 square feet.
         f.   Clustering of the RV park/campground is allowed as long as the
original acreage stays intact and the clustering is done in a way to decrease
potential impacts to neighbors and natural resources.
         g.   Each RV park may allow up to 100% of campground and RV spaces
provided the requirements of this section are met.
      (3)   Access.
         a.   RV parks/campgrounds shall access on maintained county roads or
state highways whenever possible.
         b.   Access on private roads shall meet the requirements of Appendix
B.
      (4)   Water, sewer, refuse.
         a.   Sites within the park designed for short-term use may provide
utility connections, including water and sub-surface sewage disposal system.
         b.   An appropriate number, per industry standard, of restroom/port-a-
johns for tent camping spaces.
         c.   Sites within the park designed for longer than 14 days shall
provide utility connections, including water and sub-surface sewage disposal
system.
         d.   The park shall provide for regular refuse service whether self-
supported or contracted with a refuse service. Accumulation of trash is
prohibited.
      (5)   RV requirements.
         a.   Recreational vehicle (RV) parks may provide temporary or seasonal
RV sites for up to six months in a calendar year. The RV park shall not provide
permanent or year-round sites. Moving from one space to another on the same
property does not in any way extend the six month time limit.
         b.   The RV shall have current registration and shall be in
serviceable condition so it can be operated in a safe and lawful manner upon
the roads and highways in the State of Idaho as set forth in the motor vehicle
laws of the State of Idaho, Idaho Code title 49.
         c.   An RV shall not be set on blocks with the tires or running gear
removed.
         d.   No decks, stairways, or additions shall be attached to an RV.
         e.   The RV shall not be skirted.
         f.   Modifications of any kind which inhibit the mobility of the RV
shall not be permitted.
         g.   The RV shall not be used as a rental property.
      (6)   Park site design.
         a.   Provisions for vehicular, bicycle and pedestrian access shall be
integrated into the site.
         b.   May be associated with other recreational uses such as rafting,
canoeing, swimming, cross country skiing, hiking, hunting and fishing,
horseback riding and snowmobiling, together with accessory facilities.
         c.   Each space within an RV park shall have direct access to a travel
way.
         d.   The park travelway shall consist of an unobstructed area 20 feet
wide and shall be well marked to provide for continuous traffic flow.
         e.   Parking spaces may be up to a 45 degree angle from the travelway.
         f.   The travelway system shall have direct connection to a public
road meeting applicable standards set forth in Chapter 53 Roads and Bridges.
         g.   Any RV space that is to be occupied throughout the winter months
may have an open-shell snow-roof. Snow roofs shall have a minimum ten foot
spacing from one another, measured from greatest architectural projection.
Complete enclosure of snow roofs is prohibited.
         h.   The RV park/campground may be built in phases as approved through
a conditional use permit.
         i.   Uses that are clearly incidental to the operation of the park,
such as management headquarters, recreational facilities, toilets, dumping
stations, laundry facilities, a convenience store, and other facilities
established within the park, are permitted as accessory uses.
         j.   Internal roads and parking service areas shall provide safe and
convenient access for service and emergency vehicles and to amenities within
the park. Internal roads shall not be designed to encourage use by outside
traffic to traverse the park to adjoining developed areas.
         k.   Setbacks to canals, waters of the US, and floodplain, shall be
maintained for all uses onsite.
         l.   The park shall require a sight and sound obscuring mechanisms
starting at ten feet in height.
      (7)   Permits required.
         a.   A conditional use permit is required for an RV park.
         b.   A zoning certificate is required for construction of the entire
project or each phase of the approved project.
         c.   A development agreement may be required to ensure completion of
all public improvements.
      (8)   Site plan. A site plan shall be submitted with the zoning
certificate and/or the conditional use permit application for the development
of a recreational vehicle park/campground. The site plan must include the north
arrow and must clearly depict the following:
         a.   Existing structures which will remain on the parcel, and their
uses, and any existing structures proposed to be modified or removed;
         b.   All proposed structures and their uses;
         c.   Existing and proposed roads, easements, and points of access;
         d.   Recreational vehicle space dimensions;
         e.   Campground space dimensions;
         f.   Size of the site in acres;
         g.   Dimensions of property lines and property line setbacks;
         h.   Reserved or dedicated open space;
         i.   Major landscape features, both natural and manmade;
         j.   Locations of existing and proposed utility lines;
         k.   Accessory off street parking and loading facilities, and parking
space areas;
         l.   Wastewater drainfield areas;
         m.   Traffic circulation patterns;
         n.   Refuse and service areas;
         o.   Signs;
         p.   Outdoor storage; and
         q.   Proposed screening and buffering, including fences, yards, walls
or vegetation.   
   (b)   Responsibilities of the recreational vehicle (RV) park management.
      (1)   The operator of a recreational vehicle park shall operate in
compliance with this chapter, and any other applicable county ordinance or
state code.
      (2)   The operator shall provide supervision to maintain the park, its
facilities and equipment in good repair and a clean and sanitary condition.
      (3)   The park management shall notify park occupants of all applicable
provisions of this chapter and inform them of their duties and responsibilities
under this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-533. Themed attraction/events.
   (a)   Establishments intended to be seasonal or temporary in nature that
primarily engage in providing recreational and amusement services such as
haunted houses and similar holiday attractions, and seasonal harvest
festivities with associated concessions and amusement devices, Renaissance
fairs or historical re-enactments, cultural festivals celebrating specific
traditions or regions.
   (b)   Minimum area. The size of the site must be adequate to accommodate the
event, attendees, and parking unless provisions have been made for off-site
parking. Adequacy of the site shall be as reasonably determined by the Board.
   (c)   Site plan and event description. The application shall include a
detailed site plan and event description which addresses security, access,
crowd management, traffic management, parking, waste control and disposal,
litter control plans, and includes any other relevant information requested by
the Administrator. Copies of the site plan and event descriptions shall be
submitted to the County Sheriff's office, East Idaho Health District, Idaho
Transportation Department, the County Road and Bridge and Fire District with
jurisdiction, and any other agencies as requested by the Administrator.
   (d)   Parking. One parking space will be provided for each three seating
spaces, and the parking area shall be restricted to a clearly designated area
which has clearly delineated boundaries. Off-site parking may be permitted if
the applicant demonstrates that transportation between the parking area and the
event site will be adequate. If the owner of the property where the parking
area will be located is different than the owner of the event site, the written
consent of the owner of the parking area shall be required.
   (e)   Noise. Maximum noise threshold shall be 75 dBa, as measured at the
property lines, unless a higher level is approved in the permit.
   (f)   Drainfields. Parking and construction over existing drainfields is
prohibited.
   (g)   Lighting. Lighting at the special event shall be downward directed and
shielded, and shall not exceed 0.2 foot-candle at the property line unless
otherwise approved in the permit.
   (h)   Additional conditions. The Commission may impose such reasonable
conditions as may be necessary for visual screening, control of dust,
mitigation or elimination of nuisance factors, management of traffic, buffering
of adjoining uses, mitigation of potential effects on water or air quality,
limitation of the duration of the permit, or otherwise addressing the health,
safety, or general welfare of event participants and spectators. Conditions may
also include a requirement that agencies review and approve plans for each
event to be held at the location.
   (i)   Performance bond. The Commission may require the posting of a
performance bond to guarantee performance of conditions of approval and to
ensure that the event will not constitute a nuisance or be detrimental to the
health, safety, comfort or welfare of persons in the vicinity of such use.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Sec. 112-534. Resort lodges, retreat centers, guest ranches.
   (a)   Lodges, retreat centers, and guest ranches are specialized
accommodation and recreational facilities designed to provide visitors with
immersive experiences in specific environments, often emphasizing relaxation,
outdoor activities, or personal growth. These facilities typically offer a
combination of lodging, dining, and recreational activities tailored to their
particular setting and purpose.
   (b)   Common features may include:
      (1)   On-site dining facilities;
      (2)   Recreational amenities (e.g., trails, fitness centers, pools);
      (3)   Event spaces for gatherings or conferences;
      (4)   Emphasis on creating a retreat from urban life;
      (5)   Often located in scenic, natural environments; and
      (6)   May offer guided activities or tours.
   (c)   Roadway access. This use must have direct access to a collector or
arterial roadway.
   (d)   Minimum area. Twenty acres in the agricultural, recreational or
commercial zones.
   (e)   Parking requirements. One and one-half spaces per room or cabin.
Parking requirements for any use of a lodge, retreat center, or guest ranch
that is not covered under the parking lot design standards set forth in Sec.
112-307 of this chapter shall be determined through the conditional use review
process.
   (f)   Loading requirements. One loading space for 10,000 or more square feet
of floor area.
   (g)   Caretaker residence. Accessory on site housing may be allowed for
caretakers or staff members.
   (h)   Additional provisions for conditional use review. The Commission may
attach such reasonable conditions as the record indicates may be necessary to
visually screen, control dust, manage traffic, buffer adjoining uses, reduce
noise impacts, prevent glare and undue lighting impacts on adjacent properties,
or to mitigate effects on water and air quality.
   (i)   Prohibited uses. Any uses other than those permitted in this section,
or those which are otherwise permitted of right in the underlying zone, are
prohibited.
   (j)   Required findings. The Commission shall only approve a lodge, retreat
center or guest ranch upon a finding that the use meets all applicable
regulations, and the following standards:
      (1)   The use will be in harmony with the character of the neighborhood
and compatible with the surrounding area;
      (2)   The use will not result in undue traffic congestion or traffic
hazards; and
      (3)   The use will not otherwise be detrimental to the health, safety, or
welfare of the present or future inhabitants of the county.
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Secs. 112-535—112-550. Reserved.
ARTICLE VII. LAND USE TABLE
Sec. 112-645. Land use table.
   (a)   All uses shown in the tables shall be required to follow any standards
listed within this chapter and any of the following notes as specifically
enumerated in the tables.
 
Symbol Meaning
P      Permitted
C      Conditionally permitted
        
A      Administratively permitted
Blank  Not permitted
 
   (b)   Residential uses. References to these uses are located in Article VI,
Division 1 of this chapter. See Secs.
112-370—112-382.
 AG10 AG20 AG40 R1 R1SD SN R5 C1 C2 LI HI RR/C R/O
                              AG10 AG20 AG40 R1 R1SD SN R5 C1 C2 LI HI RR/C R/O
Residential Uses
Accessory buildings/structure P    P    P    P  P    P  P  P  P  P  P  P    P
Accessory dwelling unit       P    P    P    P  P    P  P  P  P  A  A  P    P
Duplex                                               A
Single-family dwellings       P    P    P    P  P    P  P  C           P    P
Recreational vehicles -       A    A    A    A  A    A  A              A    A
living quarters
Short term rental             P    P    P    P  P    P  P  P  P        P    P
Multi-family dwelling                                A
Manufacture d homes           P    P    P    P  P    P  P              P
Higher density residential developments.
Manufacture d home parks or                          C     C
subdivision
Cottage home park or                                 C     C
subdivision
Planned unit development      C    C         C       C  C  C  C  C  C  C    C
 
   (c)   Agricultural uses. References to these uses are located in Article VI,
Division 2 of this chapter. See Secs.
112-391—
112-400.
 AG10 AG20 AG40 R1 R1SD SN R5 C1 C2 LI HI RR/C R/O
                              AG10 AG20 AG40 R1 R1SD SN R5 C1 C2 LI HI RR/C R/O
Agricultural Uses
Accessory buildings/structure P    P    P    P  P    P  P  P  P  P  P  P    P
Agriculture commercial        P    P    P                     C  P  P
storage
Agriculture non-commercial    P    P    P               A
storage
Agricultural direct marketing A    A    A               A                   A
activities
Agricultural fuel storage     P    P    P                  C  C  C  C
(propane/bulk fuel)
Agricultural truck and        P    P    P               C  P  P  P  P
tractor repair/storage
Agriculture uses              P    P    P    P          P  C  C        A    A
Commercial greenhouses        P    P    P               C  C  C             C
Farm labor housing            A    A    A               A
CAFO                          C    C    C
 
   (d)   Public uses. References to these uses are located in Article VI,
Division 3 of this chapter. See Secs.
112-416—112-429.
 AG10 AG20 AG40 R1 R1SD SN R5 C1 C2 LI HI RR/C R/O
                              AG10 AG20 AG40 R1 R1SD SN R5 C1 C2 LI HI RR/C R/O
Public Uses
Accessory buildings/structure P    P    P    P  P    P  P  P  P  P  P  P    P
Airfields/airports/landing    C    C    C                  C  C  C
strips
Amateur radio tower           P    P    P    P  P       P  P  P  P  P  P    P
Cemeteries or mausoleums      C              C          C  C  C  C  C
Place of assembly or worship  C    C    C    C  C    C  C  C  C        C
Communication station/cell    C    C    C                  C  C  C  C  C
towers
Landfill, county owned                                           P  P
Parks, pools and playgrounds  P    P    P    P  P    P  P  P  P        P    P
Public buildings and offices  C    C    C            C  C  P  P        C
Public fairgrounds and/or     C    C    C    C          C     C
rodeo arenas
Schools                       C    C         C  C    C  C  C  C  C  C
Public utilities structures   P    P    P    P  P    P  P  P  P  P  P  P    P
Public utility complex        C    C    C       C             C  P  P
facility
 
   (e)   Commercial uses. References to these uses are located in Article VI,
Division 4 of this chapter. See Secs.
112-441—
112-470.
 AG10 AG20 AG40 R1 R1SD SN R5 C1 C2 LI HI RR/C R/O
                              AG10 AG20 AG40 R1 R1SD SN R5 C1 C2 LI HI RR/C R/O
Commercial Uses
Accessory buildings/stru      P    P    P    P  P    P  P  P  P  P  P  P    P
cture
Animal hospitals/             P    P    P                  P  P  P
veterinarian services
Auction establishment         P    P    P                  P  P  P  P
Automotive vehicle or
recreational vehicle sales or C    C    C            C     P  P  P  P
service
Automobile, major repair                                   P  P  P  P
Automotive hobby              P    P    P    A  A       A
Automobile impound yard       C    C    C                  P  P  P  P
Bar, lounge, night club,      C                            P  P  P  P  P
tavern
Child or day care centers,    A    A    A    A  A    A  A  A           A
preschools
Contractor s yard             A    A    A               A  A  A  P  P
Food trucks                   A    A    A            A     A  A  A  A  A
Home business                 A    A    A    A  A    A  A              A    A
Home occupation               P    P    P    P  P    P  P              P    P
Kennels (commercial)          C    C    C               C  P  P  P  P  C
Kennels (hobby)               C    C    C    C  C       C  P  P        C    C
Laundromat                    C                      C  C  P  P  P
Mini-storage, storage         C                         C  P  P  P  P  C
buildings and units
Mortuaries/fu neral home      C                      A  C  P  P  P
Personal service business     C              A       A     P  P
Professional offices          C                      C     P  P
Public stables, riding arenas C    C    C               C     C        C
or equine training facilities
Radio, TV, FM stations        C    C    C            C     P  P  P
Residential care facility,    C              C       C  C
nursing home
Resort, commercial or private C    C    C            C     C  C  C     C
Restaurants, bakeries and     C                      A     P  C  C     C
cafes
Retail, grocery store         C                      A     P  P  P  C
Sexually- oriented business                                         C
Sport shooting ranges (4)     C    C    C    C          C  C  C  C  C  C    C
Trailer sales/rentals/        C                         C  P  P  P  P
storage
Warehouse                     C                            P  P  P  P
 
   (f)   Industrial uses. References to these uses are located in Article VI,
Division 5 of this chapter. See Secs.
112-501—
112-513.
 AG10 AG20 AG40 R1 R1SD SN R5 C1 C2 LI HI RR/C R/O
                              AG10 AG20 AG40 R1 R1SD SN R5 C1 C2 LI HI RR/C R/O
Industrial Uses
Accessory buildings/structure P    P    P    P  P    P  P  P  P  P  P  P    P
(1)
Asphalt or concrete batch     A    A    A                        A  A
plant
Construction trades           C                         C  P  P  P  P
Feed fertilizer processing    C    C    C                  C  C  C  C
Fuel storage                                               C  C  C  C
Freight or trucking yards,    C    C    C                  C  C  P  P
terminals, truck stops
Junkyards, wrecking yards,         C    C                     C  C  C
salvage yards
Light industrial              C    C    C                  C  C  P  P
manufacturing
Heavy industrial                   C    C                        C  C
manufacturing
Heavy equipment repair,       C    C    C                  P  P  P  P
sales, service
Offsite mineral extraction    C    C    C               C     C  C  C
Onsite mineral extraction     A    A    A    A  A       A  A  A  A  A  A
Solar farms                             C
 
   (g)   Recreational uses. References to these uses are located in Article VI,
Division 6 of this chapter. See Secs.
112-526—
112-534.
 AG10 AG20 AG40 R1 R1SD SN R5 C1 C2 LI HI RR/C R/O
                              AG10 AG20 AG40 R1 R1SD SN R5 C1 C2 LI HI RR/C R/O
Recreational Uses
Accessory buildings/structure P    P    P    P  P    P  P  P  P  P  P  P    P
Amusement and recreational    C              C       C  C  P  P  P     P
facility (indoor)
Amusement and recreational    C    C                       C  C        C
facility (outdoor)
Fraternal association/lodges  C                         C  P  P  P
Golf course and country clubs C    C    C            C                 C
Event center                  C    C    C               C  A  C        C
RV parks/campgrounds          C    C    C                  C  C        C
Themed attractions/events     A    A    A               A  P  P        A
Resort lodge/retreat centers/ C    C    C                  C  C        C    C
guest ranches
 
(Ord. No. 2024-14, 10-15-2024)
Chapter 113
RESERVED
Chapter 114
AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION AREA
ARTICLE I. GENERAL.
Sec. 114-1. Authority.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority granted by Idaho Code
title 67, ch. 97.
(Ord. No. 2024-20, § 2, 11-18-2024)
Sec. 114-2. Short title and purpose.
   (a)   This chapter shall be known and cited as the Agricultural Protection
Area Ordinance, Chapter 114. The purpose of this chapter is to protect and
enhance the economic and cultural benefits that working lands provide to
residents of Jefferson County by promoting proactive planning tools for working
landowners to maintain and enhance the economic value of working lands without
impacting the property of those landowners who elect not to participate in this
program.
   (b)   Agricultural Protection Areas (APAs) must comply with all existing
zoning, subdivision, and land use regulations as outlined in Part III, Land
Development Ordinances, of this code, unless specifically exempted under this
chapter. In case of conflicts, the more restrictive provision shall apply
unless otherwise explicitly stated in this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2024-20, § 2, 11-18-2024)
Sec. 114-3. Definitions.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply. Any
other words and phrases not defined in this chapter shall be given their
ordinary, commonly understood, and accepted meanings:
   Agricultural production means an activity or condition, consistent with
Idaho Code § 63-604, in connection with the production of agricultural products
for food, fiber, fuel, and other lawful purposes and includes but in not
limited to:
      a.   Producing agricultural, horticultural floricultural, and
viticultural crops, fruits, and vegetable products, seeds, hay, sod, forestry
nursery stock, and other plants; and
      b.   Breeding, hatching, raising, producing, feeding, and keeping
livestock, dairy animals, swine fur-bearing animals, poultry, eggs, fIsh and
other aquatic species, and bees.
   Agricultural Protection Area (APA) means specific parcels of land in
voluntarily designated geographic area created under the authority of this
chapter for the purpose of protecting and preserving agricultural land.
   Agricultural Protection Area Commission means the advisory board to the
governing body created pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-9705.
   Applicant means anyone who owns five acres or more of land that has been in
active agricultural or fo rest production for the previous three consecutive
years, consistent with Idaho Code § 63-604, and who voluntarily applies for
that land to be part of the county's Agricultural Protection Program.
   Governing body means the governing body of the county in which the specific
land is proposed by landowner to be included in an agricultural protection
area.
   Hardship means a situation or circumstance over which a landowner in an
agricultural protection area has no control and can then petition for removal
for reasons that include but are not limited to an adverse result in litigation
against the farm or landowner, death of a close family member that would lead
to unanticipated financial hardships or significant tax liabilities, bankruptcy
due to another person’s fraud or any other illegal activity.
   Proposal means written documents submitted to the county’s governing body or
Agricultural Protection Area Commission from a landowner regarding their
property.
   Unincorporated means the geographic areas of a county not within a
municipality.
(Ord. No. 2024-20, § 2, 11-18-2024)
Sec. 114-4. Conflict with other provisions.
   In the event of an conflict between this chapter and other sections of this
code, the more restrictive provision shall apply unless otherwise specifically
provided in this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2024-20, § 2, 11-18-2024)
Secs. 114-5—114-9. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. ADMINISTRATION
Sec. 114-10. Agricultural Protection Area Commission establishment and purpose.
   (a)   The Board of County Commissioners shall establish an "Agricultural
Protection Area Commission" (hereafter referred to as "the Commission").
   (b)   The Commission shall operate under the authority and direction of the
Board of County Commissioners.
   (c)   The purpose of the Commission is to:
      (1)   Accept and review applications from landowners seeking to designate
their land as an agricultural protection area;
      (2)   Determine if the proposed land meets the criteria established in
this chapter to be set aside as an agricultural protection area;
      (3)   Work with planners, comprehensive plans, and other relevant
entities to proactively plan for agriculture in the county;
      (4)   Provide applications and guidelines to landowners seeking to place
their land in agricultural protection areas;
      (5)   Make recommendations to the Board of County Commissioners regarding
the approval of agricultural protection area applications.
(Ord. No. 2024-20, § 2, 11-18-2024)
Sec. 114-11. Commission composition and responsibilities.
   (a)   Composition and appointment.
      (1)   The Commission shall consist of at least three and not more than
five members.
      (2)   Members must be engaged in farm production by employment or
involved in supporting agriculture in the county.
      (3)   All members must reside within the county.
      (4)   Members may include representatives from the local Soil
Conservation Board, Farm Bureau Board, Irrigation Water Board, or growers/
commodity associations within the county.
      (5)   The Board of County Commissioners shall appoint all Commission
members.
   (b)   Terms of service.
      (1)   Each member shall serve a term of no less than three years and no
more than six years.
      (2)   Terms shall be staggered such that no more than two members are
replaced in any given year.
   (c)   Commission responsibilities. The Commission shall collaborate with the
Board of County Commissioners to:
      (1)   Establish the process for accepting, reviewing, and offering
recommendations on agricultural protection area proposals;
      (2)   Develop landowner information requirements and evaluation criteria
for agricultural protection area designations;
      (3)   Propose an application fee structure commensurate with the effort
required to process and record agricultural protection areas;
      (4)   Evaluate agricultural protection area applications and make
recommendations to the Board of County Commissioners within 60 days of
receiving an application.
   (d)   Decision-making timeline.
      (1)   The Commission shall make recommendations to the Board of County
Commissioners within 60 days of receiving an application.
      (2)   The Board of County Commissioners shall make the final decision on
whether to designate an agricultural protection area within 120 days of the
initial application receipt.
(Ord. No. 2024-20, § 2, 11-18-2024)
Secs. 114-12—112-14. Reserved.
ARTICLE III. AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION AREA APPLICATION REVIEW AND DECISION
PROCESS
Sec. 114-15. Qualification for the creation or designation of an Agricultural
Protection Area.
   (a)   An APA designation is a voluntary land use designation available to
landowners who wish to protect their agricultural land from future
nonagricultural development. To qualify for an APA designation, the land must
be:
      (1)   At least five contiguous acres;
      (2)   Actively devoted to an agricultural or forest purpose;
      (3)   Assessed as agriculture or forest land; and
      (4)   Located within a zone that allows for agricultural or forest use.
(Ord. No. 2024-20, § 2, 11-18-2024)
Sec. 114-16. Application.
   (a)   Landowners wishing to establish an APA must submit an application to
the County Planning, Zoning and Building Department. The application shall
include:
      (1)   Name, phone number, email, and mailing address of the landowner;
      (2)   Proof of land ownership;
      (3)   A legal description of the parcels. structures, and facilities
proposed to be included in the APA;
      (4)   A map showing the boundaries of the proposed APA;
      (5)   A statement outlining the current contiguous acreages of land, land
use, agricultural productivity. and other relevant characteristics of the land
to be included in the APA;
      (6)   The number of years the land has been in agricultural or forest
production, the types of agricultural or forest commodities produced, and the
applicant's plan to continue using the land for agricultural or forest
purposes;
      (7)   The stated reasons for seeking an APA designation; and
      (8)   Soil surveys, water rights, and. any other re levant environmental
assessments.
(Ord. No. 2024-20, § 2, 11-18-2024)
Sec. 114-17. Initial review by APA Commission.
   (a)   Upon receipt of a completed application, the Agricultural Protection
Area (APA) Commission shall review the proposal within 60 days.
   (b)   The APA Commission shall evaluate the application based on the
following criteria:
      (1)   Minimum land requirements.
         a.   The proposed area consists of at least five contiguous acres; and
         b.   The land has been actively devoted to agricultural or forest
production for at least three consecutive years, consistent with the provisions
of Idaho Code §§ 63-604 and 63-1701.
      (2)   Proximity considerations.
         a.   Adjacency to existing areas of city impact;
         b.   Proximity to existing public rights of way;
         c.   Proximity to planned transportation corridors or future public
rights of way;
         d.   Proximity to planned airport expansion or development; and
         e.   Proximity to planned developments with existing entitlements.
      (3)   The application shall be evaluated for potential conflicts with
existing city annexation or development plans or agreements that may negatively
impact agricultural productivity.
      (4)   The APA Commission shall assess the land's long-term agricultural
production potential and its contribution to the county’s agricultural economy.
      (5)   The Commission may consider additional factors such as, but not
limited to, environmental impacts, watershed protection, and consistency with
county agricultural goals.
   (c)   The APA Commission shall make a recommendation to the Board of County
Commissioners within the 60 day review period.
(Ord. No. 2024-20, § 2, 11-18-2024)
Sec. 114-18. Board of County Commissioners Review and Decision.
   (a)   Upon receiving the APA Commission's recommendation, the Board of
County Commissioners shall:
      (1)   Hold a public hearing within 60 days of receiving the APA
Commission's recommendation, in accordance with the notice and hearing
procedures set forth in Idaho Code § 67-6509;
      (2)   Issue a decision within 60 days of the public hearing; and
      (3)   If the Board fails to take action within 60 days of receiving the
recommendation, the APA Commission's recommendation shall automatically become
final as provided by Idaho Code § 67-9706(2).
   (b)   The Board's decision shall include findings of fact supporting their
decision.
   (c)   The Board may place additional conditions on lands designated as an
APA, including but not limited to:
      (1)   Setbacks from existing public rights of way. Setback and buffer
zone requirements for Agricultural Protection Areas (APAs) adjacent to
nonagricultural uses shall follow the provisions of the county zoning and
subdivision regulations, as outlined in Part III, Land Development Ordinances,
of this code. The Board of County Commissioners may impose additional setbacks
or buffer zones as deemed necessary to ensure land use compatibility and
protect public health, safety, and welfare;
      (2)   Setbacks from public structures. Setback distances from public
structures shall be determined based on their proximity to agricultural
operations, safety concerns, and land use compatibility; and
      (3)   A review of the land's APA designation after 20 years.
   (d)   Public hearing and notice requirements. All public hearings and
notices required under this chapter shall follow the procedures outlined in
Chapter 112 and the Local Land Use Planning Act (LLUPA), Idaho Code § 67-6509.
Notices must be provided to affected property owners and the public as
prescribed by law, including published notice and mailed notice to adjacent
landowners. ensuring proper participation in the public hearing process.
(Ord. No. 2024-20, § 2, 11-18-2024)
Sec. 114-19. Post-decision actions and recording of Agricultural Protection
Areas.
   (a)   Purpose of recording.
      (1)   The recording of an Agricultural Protection Area (APA) is necessary
to give notice of its existence to all persons who may acquire, or seek to
acquire, an interest in the land within or adjacent to the APA.
   (b)   Post decision actions. Within ten days of making its decision to
create or dissolve an APA, the Board of County Commissioners or their designee
shall:
      (1)   Record the following with the County Recorder:
         a.   The date of creation or dissolution of the APA;
         b.   A legal description of the parcel(s) of real property included in
the APA;
         c.   The designation of the APA;
         d.   Any findings and facts supporting the decision;
         e.   The findings of the Agricultural Protection Commission;
         f.   A summary of relevant public hearings, if applicable; and
         g.   Actions taken by the Board of County Commissioners.
      (2)   Add or remove the parcel(s) to or from the future land use planning
map and the most recent comprehensive plan, consistent with Idaho Code § 31-
709.
      (3)   Notify relevant public officials and agencies of the APA
designation or dissolution.
   (c)   Recording failure. The Board of County Commissioners' failure to
record the Agricultural Protection Area does not invalidate the decision to
create or dissolve an APA.
(Ord. No. 2024-20, § 2, 11-18-2024)
Sec. 114-20. Renewal of Agricultural Protection Areas.
   (a)   Notification.
      (1)   The Board of County Commissioners shall notify the landowner in
writing of the AP A's renewal or termination at least 60 days before the end of
the current term.
      (2)   This notification shall include:
         a.   The new expiration date, in case of renewal;
         b.   A reminder of the landowner's right to terminate the APA at the
end of any 20-year term; and
         c.   The process for requesting termination, as outlined in this
section.
   (b)   Automatic renewal.
      (1)   Twenty years after the creation of an Agricultural Protection Area
(APA), if the landowner desires to continue the APA designation, no action on
the part of the landowner is necessary.
      (2)   The Board of County Commissioners shall automatically renew the APA
for another 20 year period, unless terminated as provided in this section.
   (c)   Recording of renewal. Upon approval from the Board of County
Commissioners for the renewal, the Clerk shall record the renewal in accordance
with procedures in Sec.
114-19.
   (d)   Termination at expiration.
      (1)   If a landowner desires to terminate the APA at the end of its 20-
year term, they must provide written notice to the Board of County
Commissioners.
      (2)   Such notice must be received at least 90 days prior to the
expiration of the APA's current term.
      (3)   Upon timely receipt of such notice, the Board of County
Commissioners shall terminate the APA designation at the end of its current
term.
   (e)   Continuity of protection.
      (1)   All conditions or restrictions imposed by the Board of County
Commissioners during the initial designation of the APA shall remain in full
force and effect during any subsequent renewal periods unless formally modified
by the Board during the renewal process.
(Ord. No. 2024-20, § 2, 11-18-2024)
Sec. 114-21. Expansion or modification of an APA.
   (a)   An expansion, modification, or removal of an existing APA shall follow
the same application, review, and hearing procedures outlined in this code. Any
expansion of an APA shall be contiguous to the APA.
      (1)   Modification. A modification is any significant change in the use
of land within the APA that could impact its agricultural productivity or its
designation as an agricultural protection area. This includes, but is not
limited to, the construction of non-agricultural structures, subdivision of
land, or re-zoning requests.
      (2)   Hardship removal. A landowner may petition for the removal of land
from an APA due to a hardship situation or circumstance over which a landowner
in an agricultural protection area has no control as defined in Idaho Code §
67-9703(5). Hardship removals may include, but are not limited to, adverse
litigation results, death of a close family member causing financial hardship,
bankruptcy due to fraud, or any other uncontrollable circumstance impacting the
landowner’s ability to continue agricultural operations.
   (b)   Notice requirement. Any proposed expansion or modification of an APA
shall require written notice to adjacent landowners and the public at least 30
days prior to the public hearing on the proposed change. Notice shall be given
in accordance with Idaho Code § 67-6509.
   (c)   Subdivision or lot line adjustments in APAs. Subdivision of land or
lot line adjustments within designated Agricultural Protection Areas (APAs)
shall follow the subdivision and lot line adjustment procedures outlined in
Chapter 110. Any proposed subdivision must maintain the integrity of the
agricultural protection area and comply with this chapter's requirements. If a
subdivision would impact the APA designation, the Board of County Commissioners
must review the impact and may impose additional conditions to preserve
agricultural viability.
(Ord. No. 2024-20, § 2, 11-18-2024)
Secs. 114-22—114-29. Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. PROTECTIONS AND RESTRICTIONS FOR AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION AREAS
Sec. 114-30. Assurances in maintaining Agricultural Protection Areas.
   (a)   The Board of County Commissioners shall encourage the protection of
Agricultural Protection Areas (APAs) by:
      (1)   Refraining from enacting local laws, ordinances, or regulations
that would restrict farm structures or farming practices, unless such
structures or practices do not comply with generally recognized farming
practices, as defined by Idaho Code.
      (2)   Maintaining current agricultural land use classifications and
agricultural zoning designations for parcels within an APA, unless written
permission is obtained from the landowner.
      (3)   Amending the applicable future land use planning map and
comprehensive plan to reflect the boundaries of designated APAs, in compliance
with the provisions of Idaho Code § 67-6508.
   (b)   Any proposed changes to laws, ordinances, regulations, land use
classifications, or zoning designations that may affect APAs shall:
      (1)   Be subject to a public hearing process; and
      (2)   Require written notification to all affected APA landowners at
least 30 days prior to the hearing.
   (c)   Zoning impact on APAs. Zoning changes to lands adjacent to an APA
shall not affect the designation or protections of the APA unless explicitly
requested by the landowner of the APA. The APA designation shall remain in
effect irrespective of zoning changes to neighboring lands.
(Ord. No. 2024-20, § 2, 11-18-2024)
Sec. 114-31. Nuisance protections.
   (a)   Recognizing Idaho as a right-to-farm state, and in accordance with
Idaho Code title 22, ch. 45, the Board of County Commissioners shall:
      (1)   Not enact laws or ordinances that define or prohibit a public
nuisance in a manner that includes APAs or agricultural activities within APAs,
provided such activities follow generally recognized farming practices.
      (2)   Exclude APAs from the definition of public nuisance in any existing
or future ordinances, so long as agricultural activities or operations within
the APA follow generally recognized farming practices.
   (b)   In any civil action for nuisance or criminal action for public
nuisance, it shall be a complete defense if the action involves otherwise
lawful agricultural activities that were:
      (1)   Conducted within an APA;
      (2)   Not in violation of any federal, state, or local law or regulation
relating to the alleged nuisance; and
      (3)   Conducted using generally recognized farming practices.
   (c)   The county shall make available to the public in formation about the
protections afforded to APAs under this chapter and state law.
(Ord. No. 2024-20, § 2, 11-18-2024)
Sec. 114-32. Eminent domain restrictions.
   (a)   No political subdivision having or exercising eminent domain powers
may condemn for any purpose any land within an APA that is being used for
agricultural production, except as explicitly granted in:
      (1)   Section 14, Article I of the Constitution of the State of Idaho; or
      (2)   Section 8, Article XI of the Constitution of the State of Idaho.
   (b)   Any proposed use of eminent domain powers affecting an APA must:
      (1)   Be reviewed by the Board of County Commissioners for compliance
with this chapter and state law.
      (2)   Be subject to a public hearing process, with written notification
to affected APA landowners at least 60 days prior to the hearing.
(Ord. No. 2024-20, § 2, 11-18-2024)
Sec. 114-33. Fees.
   An application fee shall be required to cover administrative costs,
including, but not limited to, reviewing materials, conducting public meetings
and hearings, processing and recording documents, and updating county land use
maps. The application fee shall not exceed the actual costs of processing the
application, in compliance with Idaho Code § 67-9704(e).
(Ord. No. 2024-20, § 2, 11-18-2024)
Sec. 114-34. Enforcement, prohibitions, and penalties.
   (a)   Designation. The Board of County Commissioners shall designate the
Planning and Zoning Director as the county official or department to enforce
the provisions of this chapter. Violations shall be referred to the county
compliance officer, sheriff or prosecuting attorney for civil or criminal
enforcement as appropriate.
   (b)   Appeals. Any person aggrieved by a decision made in the administration
of this chapter may appeal such decision to the Board of County Commissioners
within 30 days of the decision. The Board of County Commissioners shall hold a
public hearing on any such appeal within 60 days of its filing.
   (c)   Reconsideration and appeals. The procedure for reconsideration and
appeals shall be governed by the provisions of Chapter 112.
   (d)   Penalties for violation. Any person who violates the provisions of
this chapter, including unauthorized modifications to an APA or failure to
comply with conditions imposed by the Board, shall be subject to a fine of up
to $500 per day for each day the violation continues. The county may also seek
injunctive relief to enforce compliance.
   (e)   Dispute resolution. In cases of dispute regarding the interpretation
or enforcement of this chapter, landowners may request mediation facilitated by
the county's Planning Department before appealing to the Board of County
Commissioners.
(Ord. No. 2024-20, § 2, 11-18-2024)
Appendix A
IMPACT AREA AGREEMENT
AN ORDINANCE OF JEFFERSON COUNTY AND AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF RIGBY, IDAHO,
PURSUANT TO IDAHO CODE § 67-6526, ESTABLISHING AND DEFINING A GEOGRAPHICAL AREA
OF CITY IMPACT; ADOPTING AN APPLICABLE PLAN, AND ORDINANCE REQUIREMENTS;
APPOINTING AN IMPACT AREA PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION; AND ADOPTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES FOR SAID COMMISSIONS.
WHEREAS, Idaho Code § 67-6526 requires, among other things, that cities and
counties negotiate and agree upon an area of city impact. The purpose of
establishing an area of impact is to identify an area of land adjacent to the
current city limits wherein expected growth and development will extend. The
area of city impact ("AOI") recognizes trade area, geographical factors, and
the necessity for appropriate planning of public services as being associated
with the City of Rigby and comprised of areas that may be annexed into the City
in the future. The creation and administration of the Impact Area provides an
opportunity for Jefferson County and the City of Rigby to jointly plan for
growth and development around the city;
WHEREAS, the City of Rigby, Idaho, and the County Commissioners for the County
of Jefferson, Idaho, have complied with the negotiation procedures as outlined
in Idaho Code § 67-6526;
WHEREAS, the City Council for the City of Rigby, Idaho, and the County
Commission for Jefferson County did submit to their respective Planning and
Zoning Commissions the questions of the proposed city impact area, plan, and
ordinance requirement; and said Planning and Zoning Commissions have made their
recommendations to their respective governing boards;
WHEREAS, the City Council for the City of Rigby held a public hearing regarding
the proposed area of City Impact, Plan, and Ordinance Requirements on the ___
day of ___________, 2019; and the Jefferson County Commissioners held a public
hearing regarding the area of City Impact, Plan, and Ordinance Requirements on
the ___ day of ___________, 2019;
THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNTY OF JEFFERSON, STATE OF IDAHO, AND BY
THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF RIGBY, IDAHO:
The City of Rigby Impact Area is hereby established and shall include:
         1.   City of Rigby Area of Impact Narrative Agreement (Below).
         2.   City of Rigby Area of Impact Map. (Exhibit "A").
         3.   Legal description of the Area of Impact. (Exhibit "B").
         5.   The current City of Rigby, ID. Ordinance #2019-603 at the time of
adoption of the AOI (Exhibit "D").
CITY OF RIGBY AREA OF IMPACT NARRATIVE AGREEMENT
Section 1. Definitions.
1.1   AGREEMENT shall mean this Agreement as adopted by the Ordinances by both
the Jefferson County Commissioners, and the Mayor and City Council for the City
of Rigby.
1.2   CITY shall mean the City of Rigby.
1.3   COMMISSIONERS shall mean Jefferson County Board of Commissioners.
1.4   COUNTY shall mean Jefferson County.
1.5   IMPACT AREA shall mean the City of Rigby Area of Impact as described in
Section 2 of this Agreement and as outlined in the Map.
1.6   MAP shall mean the diagrammatic representation of the IMPACT AREA
displaying roads, geographical and other physical elements that define the
IMPACT AREA. (See Exhibit A attached to this agreement.)
Section 2. Area of impact.
2.1   The officially adopted and agreed upon City Area of Impact (AOI) is
established by this Ordinance, and is set forth herein on the attached map
marked "Exhibit A" and is verbally defined in "Exhibit B."
2.2   In the event of a discrepancy between the official map and the legal
description, the map shall control, subject to any other provisions of this
ordinance. In the event of any ambiguity, the map and description shall be read
together to effectuate the will of the governing body.
2.3   In situations where the boundary is a road, the AOI shall only include
those parcels of land that lie interior to the road boundary.
Section 3. Governing plan and ordinances.
3.1   The County Comprehensive Plan, Subdivision Ordinance, Zoning Ordinance,
Land Use Table, and Capital Improvement Plan shall govern in the AOI, subject
to the selected City ordinances and other requirements specific to the AOI
Agreement as outlined in "Exhibit C" and "Exhibit C." The AOI Agreement
Ordinance shall be the governing ordinance for the AOI.
Section 4. Administration of the area of city impact.
4.1   The COUNTY shall administer the Plan and Ordinances for the AOI, as
identified in Section 3.1 of this AGREEMENT, and will review and make
recommendations regarding applications and inquires made regarding property
within the AOI.
4.2   All applications, requests for permits, and inquiries regarding property
located within the AOI, which are made pursuant to the ordinances adopted under
this AGREEMENT, shall be made to the COUNTY. The COUNTY shall receive all fees
associated with administration of the AOI. This includes but is not limited to
items such as permit fees, costs of inspection, administration, and legal
publications. This does not include fees to be charged for the connection to
city services that will be paid to the CITY.
4.3   The COUNTY shall issue all building permits and shall be responsible for
construction inspections within the AOI.
4.4   Prior to issuance of a land use building permit within the AOI, the
COUNTY shall provide the CITY a copy of the application for review. The CITY
shall respond back to the COUNTY within five working days of receipt of the
application; non-response from the CITY will be considered as concurrence with
the request. Comments provided by the CITY shall be considered by the COUNTY
prior to issuance of a permit.
4.5   The authority to enter into and execute development agreements with a
developer and to accept required bonding or other forms of security to
guarantee AOI Agreement construction requirements shall rest with the COUNTY.
The CITY shall be given a fifteen-day notice of an application hearing in order
to provide input at any hearing.
4.6   Maintenance of public roads located within the AOI shall be the exclusive
responsibility of the COUNTY.
Section 5. Planning and Zoning Commission requirements.
5.1   A Joint COUNTY and CITY Planning and Zoning Commission shall be formed to
review applications for subdivision plats and other land use issues including
but not limited to high density housing (i.e. Apartments and Care Facilities),
zoning map amendments, comprehensive plan amendments, and plat amendments.
5.2   Pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-6526(g), persons living within the IMPACT
AREA shall be entitled to representation on the Joint Planning and Zoning
Commission for the AOI. The Joint County and City Planning and Zoning
Commission shall consist of the COUNTY Planning and Zoning Commission with the
addition of two (2) additional commissioners. The County Commissioners shall
appoint two (2) members residing in the AOI, with at least one (1) member being
appointed from recommendations of the Rigby City Council. Planning and Zoning
Commissioners currently serving on the County Planning and Zoning Commission or
City of Rigby Planning and Zoning Commission and who are living within the AOI
may serve as the additional two commissioners described above, at the
discretion of the Jefferson County Commissioners.
5.3   The length of term for commissioners on the Joint Commission is the
regular term as identified in COUNTY ordinance.
5.4   The CITY has no Zoning authority within the AOI. Changes to zoning within
the AOI shall be compliant to the COUNTY Zoning Ordinance.
Section 6. Appeals process.
6.1   The COUNTY shall administer and enforce the adopted AOI Agreement
Ordinance. Appeals from COUNTY action shall be governed by the appeal
provisions of COUNTY ordinances.
6.2   Final decisions by Commissioners made under this AGREEMENT shall be
subject to judicial review.
Section 7. Enforcement.
7.1   The COUNTY Planning and Zoning department in conjunction with the CITY,
will identify violations of land use regulations within the AOI and will demand
compliance with the applicable land use regulations and ordinances.
7.2   The COUNTY Prosecuting Attorney may take legal action to enforce land use
regulations within the AOI. The CITY will make its staff available and will
fully cooperate with the COUNTY's enforcement efforts. In certain
circumstances, the COUNTY Prosecuting Attorney may, upon consent of the CITY,
appoint the CITY Attorney to take enforcement action in the AOI. Any
enforcement action taken by the CITY Attorney shall be on behalf of, and
pursuant to the direction of, the COUNTY.
Section 8. Conflict with other ordinances.
8.1   Where application differences or conflicts occur between COUNTY ordinance
and ordinances delineated in the AOI AGREEMENT, COUNTY ordinance shall apply.
Section 9. Renegotiation.
9.1   This AGREEMENT shall be renegotiated at any time upon written request of
either party in accordance with Idaho Code § 67-6526(d).
9.2.   It is the intent of the parties that the Governing Boards shall, at
least every five (5) years, undertake a review of this AGREEMENT to determine
whether renegotiations are in the best interests of constituents of the CITY
and COUNTY.
Section 10. Severability.
10.1   This ordinance is severable, and in the event any portion of this
ordinance is deemed unenforceable under the law for any reason, the remaining
portions of this AGREEMENT not so affected shall remain in full force and
effect.
Section 11. Prior ordinances superseded.
11.1   This Ordinances shall be deemed to supersede all prior impact area
agreements of the CITY and COUNTY.
PASSED BY THE RIGBY CITY COUNCIL AND APPROVED BY THE MAYOR
THIS ___ DAY OF ___________, 2019.
 

Mayor, City of Rigby, Idaho
 
Attest:
 

City Clerk, City of Rigby, Idaho
 
PASSED BY JEFFERSON COUNTY AND APPROVED BY THE COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
THIS ___ DAY OF ___________, 2019.
 

Chairman, Jefferson County Commissioner
 
Attest:
 

County Clerk, Jefferson County
 
"Exhibit A" Rigby—Jefferson County Area of Impact Map
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/325843b5aeb9be70ae28a66ea37e96d9dc6ad349/
IMAGES/0-0-0-568.png]
 
"Exhibit B" Legal description for the Rigby-Jefferson County Area of Impact
LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR PROPOSED RIGBY IMPACT AREA
An area of land around the City of Rigby situated in Jefferson County, State of
Idaho, Townships 4 North, Range 38 East, and 4 North, Range 39 East, of the
Boise Meridian, described as follows:
Commencing at the Northwest Corner of Section 12, Township 4 North, Range 38
East of the Boise Meridian, thence South 4 miles, more or less, to the
Southwest Corner of Section 25, Township 4 North, Range 38 East B.M.; thence
East approximately 3 miles to the Southeast corner of Section 29, Township 4
North, Range 39 East B.M.; thence North approximately 1 mile to the Northeast
corner of Section 29, Township 4 North, Range 39 East B.M.; thence East 1 mile
more or less to the Southeast corner of Section 21, Township 4 North, Range 39
East B.M.; thence North approximately 2 miles along the section line to the
Northeast corner of Section 16, Township 4 North, Range 39 East B.M.; thence
West approximately 1 mile to the Southwest corner of Section 9, Township 4
North, Range 39 East B.M.; thence north 1 mile more or less to the Northwest
corner of Section 9, Township 4 North, Range 39 East B.M.; thence West along
the northerly section line of Section 8, Township 4 North, Range 39 East B.M.
to the centerline of the North Yellowstone Highway; thence following the
centerline of said highway in a Southwesterly direction to the centerline of
the Great Feeder Canal; thence following the meanderings of said canal in a
Northwesterly direction to the Western right-of-way boundary of U.S. Highway
20; thence following said westerly Right-of-Way boundary of U.S. Highway 20 in
a Southwesterly direction 700 feet, more or less, to a point that is due East
of the Southernmost portion of the private road, Rigby Lake Dr.; thence in a
westerly direction following the Southern and Western right-of-way boundary of
Rigby Lake Dr. to its intersection with the North Section line of Section 7,
Township 4 North, Range 39 East B.M.; thence West along said Section line to a
point of intersection with the South bank of the Great Feeder Canal; thence
following the Southern bank of the Great Feeder Canal in a westerly direction
until a point of intersection with the western line of Section 6, Township 4
North, Range 39 East B.M.; thence South following the western line of Sections
6 to the Northeast corner of Section 12, Township 4 North, Range 38 East B.M.;
thence West approximately 1 mile to the POINT OF BEGINNING.
"EXHIBIT C"
The purpose of this Exhibit is to define governing levels of development, to
identify applicable CITY Ordinances, and to detail specific requirements needed
to manage high density developments, (as defined in "Exhibit C, Section 3", of
this agreement), and other land use within the AOI.
   1.   Governing Levels of Development Definitions
      o   LEVEL I shall mean any and all high density developments, undeveloped
and un-platted land that has not been submitted to the COUNTY for further land
use permitting prior to the effective date of this AGREEMENT.
      o   LEVEL II shall mean permitted developments in which construction has
not commenced or is not complete at the effective date of this agreement. The
owner/developer may request a plat amendment or re-plat of the subdivision or
development at any time; however, LEVEL 1 development items may be included as
negotiable items in the plat amendment or re-plat.
      o   LEVEL III shall mean previously developed or platted land at the time
this ordinance is passed.
   2.   LEVEL I Developments
Applicable CITY Ordinances: All applicable CITY ordinances below are current
CITY codes, ordinances, and requirements and can be found in the CITY Code
sections as indicated.
These specifications and improvements are more clearly defined in the City of
Rigby, ID Ordinance Number 2019-603, and are shown as "Exhibit D" to the AOI
agreement. City of Rigby, ID Ordinance #2019-603 is adopted as of the effective
date of this AOI, as currently adopted. Any amendments from the current
ordinance will not be valid to the AOI agreement until ratified and adopted by
Jefferson County.
2.1   Curb and gutter
Title 11-6-2 (c) Ord. #508, 4-6-2004 amend. Ord. 2013-564, 8-20-2013
2.2   Mow strip
Title 11-5-11(E) Ord. 403, 7-21-1987
2.3   French Drains
Title 8-2-57; 11-6-2 (l) Ord. 403, 7-21-1987
2.4   Street lights at each intersection
Title 11-6-2 (o) Ord. 455, 5-7-1996
2.5   Geotextile fabric installed under road base on new asphalt roads, if
deemed necessary after evaluation by the Jefferson County Public Works
Department in cooperation with the City of Rigby Public Works Department.
Adopted by the City of Rigby Ordinance #2019-603
2.6   New roads to include at least 3" (compacted to 2.5") minimum of asphalt
Title 11-6-8 (O) Title 11-5-7 (A)
2.7   60' Right of way, Forty-two (42) foot minimum width of all new roads,
back of curb to back of curb
Title 11-5-1
2.8   Sixty (60) foot width right-of-way on all roads
Title 11-5-3
2.9   Water service pits installed on each service line
Title 8-1-23(c) Ord. # 2018-593, 2-15-2018
2.10   Water service installed in front yards
Title 8-1-23(c) Ord. # 2018-593, 2-15-2018
2.11   Sewers installed in rear yards (to include ten (10) foot easement)
Title 11-6-2(H) ORD. 403, 7-21-1987 Amend. 1999
2.12   Cul-de-sac size: circle to be one hundred five (105) feet wide curb to
curb and one hundred seventeen (117) deep
Title 11-5-2(g) Ord. # 403, 7-21-1987, Amend. 1999 code
2.13   Fifty-five (55) foot minimum property frontage.
Title 11-5-16(f); Ord. # 2019-603
2.14   Reserved for later review and adoption -Fiber Optic Conduit
3   High Density Development
For High Density Development (defined as more than one single family home per
acre of land), where CITY water and/or sewer is not available, the following
requirements shall apply:
3.1   A community well system is required. The well, and water delivery system
shall be constructed to meet CITY requirements and specifications to provide
adequate pressure for domestic and fire suppression purposes.
3.2   All wells shall be located to meet all public health requirements with
respect to sewer/water system separation, and other applicable regulations.
3.3   At the time of CITY annexation, ownership of community well systems and
associated water rights shall be transferred to the CITY. Transfer is
contingent upon the well or other infrastructure being built to CITY
specifications.
3.4   If the development area has attached surface water irrigation from canals
or ditches, such water shall be used to water associated yards and acreages.
Water rights associated with surface water irrigation shall remain with the
development owners, property owner, share-holder or any new purchaser of the
land where the shares are assigned at the time of the adoption of this "AOI"
agreement.
4   LEVEL II Developments:
4.1   Applicable CITY Ordinances:
Since development within LEVEL II areas will be in various phases of
completion, the developer and COUNTY may meet to negotiate application
advantages of various LEVEL I requirements. Although encouraged to be compliant
with all of the listed requirements, neither the COUNTY nor the CITY can
require compliance if the Development was previously platted and authorized,
unless a re-platting or plat amendment is requested by the property owner(s).
4.1.1   If connection to the CITY water and sewer services is practical, the
developer may approach the COUNTY for zoning that would allow higher density
housing within undeveloped areas of the development project.
4.1.2   Installation of a community well system as described in paragraph (3)
above could allow the developer to increase development density.
4.1.3   LEVEL II developments are encouraged, but are not required to connect
to CITY water and sewer as these services become available.
         5.   LEVEL III Developments
5.1   There are no requirements for residents in LEVEL III areas to comply with
development ordinances of this AOI agreement.
5.2   At such time that CITY water and sewer services become available, the
resident may choose to connect or to remain on their individual water and sewer
system.
5.3   At such time that a resident connects to CITY water and sewer, the
resident may retain their private well and septic system. Private wells and
septic systems must not be connected to the CITY water and sewer service. In
addition, all private well and septic systems maintenance and operation will be
at the individual owner's expense.
5.4   Transfer of private septic systems; and well and surface water rights
will be negotiated at the time of annexation.
         6.   City Services:
For all properties located within the AOI but not annexed, the following
guidelines will apply:
6.1   When CITY services become available to a property location, a landowner
may at that time choose one of the following options:
6.1.1   No connection with CITY services
6.1.2   Connection without annexation to the CITY.
6.1.3   Connection with annexation to the CITY.
6.2   If projected CITY services are not available to a developer within the
AOI by the beginning of construction, the developer may appeal the
applicability of these conditions to the COUNTY for special condition
requirements. The County shall consider the likelihood and timeframe when CITY
services will become available.
"EXHIBIT D"
ORDINANCE NO. 2019-603
CITY OF RIGBY, Jefferson County, Idaho
Amending section 11-5-4 road width for curbed or paved roads for minor and cul-
de-sac roads from 38 feet to 42 feet and change the depth and circle size of a
cul-de-sac; Amending Section 11-6-2 (c)-Required Public Improvements, deleting
exemptions; Amending section 11-6-8; Adding Geotextile Fabric to selected
streets and roads within the City of Rigby and providing a table of the
amendments; Extending the width and size of roadways.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF RIGBY, IDAHO as follows:
Chapter 6
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
11-6-2:   REQUIRED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
C.   Curbs and Gutters: Curb and gutter shall be constructed on all collector
and arterial streets. Curb and gutter shall be constructed on all minor
streets.
(Ord. 508, 4-6-2004: Amd. Ord. 2013-564, 8-20-2013)
11-6-8:   BRIDGES, STREETS AND ALLEYS:
The responsibilities of the developer and of the City regarding the
construction of bridges, streets, and alleys shall be as follows:
A.   Cost Borne by Developer: Bridges, pipes or culverts which are required
across canals, ditches, and streams lying entirely within a single subdivision
and primarily for the benefit of circulating local
B.   City Responsibility: The City shall construct all bridges and all pipes or
culverts having an inside diameter of six feet (6') or more on local,
collector, and arterial streets when such bridges, pipes, or culverts are
deemed necessary by the City, except where such are the responsibility of the
developer as defined in subsection A above. Pipes or culverts having an inside
diameter of less than six feet (6') shall be the responsibility of the
developer.
(Ord. 403, 7-21-1987)
C.   Controlled Access Streets: Construction of controlled access streets shall
be the responsibility of the City. However, the developer shall be responsible
for obtaining and dedicating to the public a maximum of fifty-seven feet (57')
of width for right-of-way purposes for such streets. Standards and typical
sections for controlled access or major arterial street construction are on
file in the office of the Public Works Director and all construction shall
comply therewith.
(Ord. 403, 7-21-1987; Amd. 1999 Code).
D.   Arterial and Collector Streets: The development and construction of
arterial and collector streets, where local individual property access is
allowed, shall be primarily the owner's or developer's responsibility. The
owner or developer shall be responsible for the dedication of the right of way
for said arterial street up to a maximum width of fifty-seven feet (57') per
each side of the street along which the subdivision borders. The owner or
developer shall be responsible for the construction of the sidewalk, curb and
gutter, and a two and one-half foot (2½ ') width of street surface (per each
side of the street along which the subdivision has frontage).
Geotextile Fabric
The owner or developer shall install geotextile fabric over the road surface
prior to installation of asphalt plant mix. Such geotextile fabric shall meet
the most recent requirements of AASHTO M 288 with Class 2 survivability. No
slit film and/or heat rolled geotextiles shall be allowed. The geotextile type
(Subgrade Separation, Drainage, Erosion Control) shall be specified in the
Plans and/or Special Provisions.
The ballast depth of the paved street surface for which the owner or developer
has responsibility shall consist of up to a three-tenths of a foot (0.3') depth
of asphalt plant mix and an eight-tenths of a foot (0.8') depth of three-
fourths inch (¾") crushed gravel (¾-inch aggregate for base) irrespective of
the type of development or zoning designation. The City shall be responsible
for the costs of the extra width of street paving (over and above the 21.5-foot
width per side of the street defined above as the developer's responsibility)
and the extra depth of street paving and crushed gravel (over and above that
maximum ballast depth defined above as the owner or developer's responsibility)
required to complete the street construction in conformance with the approved
typical section for the street; provided, however, that:
         1.   If the developer chooses to develop his subdivision in such
manner that there is no individual private access to an adjacent arterial
street (even though said arterial street has not been designated as one of the
controlled access streets defined above), the developer shall only be
responsible for the cost of the construction of the curb and gutter, sidewalk
and storm drainage facilities along said arterial street frontage; and the City
shall be responsible for the cost of the construction of the entire paved
street surfacing along said arterial street frontage.
         2.   If the developer chooses to develop his subdivision in such
manner that there is no individual private access to an adjacent collector or
local street, the developer shall still be responsible for the costs of
constructing the sidewalk, curb and gutter, paved street surfacing and storm
drainage facilities along said collector or local street frontage even though
he may have chosen to not provide individual property access to said street.
         3.   If the developer chooses to develop his subdivision in such a
manner that any street therein is roughly parallel with and immediately
adjacent to a canal, river, freeway, controlled access arterial street or other
such similar facility whereby the access to and use of said subdivision street
is from one side only, the developer shall be entirely responsible for the
complete development (including all sidewalk and curb and gutter along both
sides of the street, full width street paving and storm drainage facilities) of
said street.
(Ord. 403, 7-21-1987)
11-5-4:   STREET CURBED OR PAVED WIDTHS:
Minimum width of streets measured from back-of-curb to back-of-curb or edge-of-
oil shall be as shown on the approved typical section sheets on file in the
Public Works Director's office and/or as shown on the approved subdivision
improvement drawings. In general, these widths are as follows:
Highway and Street Types Widths
Highway and Street Types                     Widths
Major arterial                               90 feet or more
Section line road and other arterial streets 70 feet
Existing arterial in existing built-up area  67 feet
Collector or secondary streets               48 feet
Minor streets or cul-de-sacs                 42 feet
Uncurbed streets (collector or secondary)    48 feet pavement
Uncurbed streets (minor or cul-de-sac)       42 feet pavement
 
The above stated widths may be increased at intersections to provide the
additional lane widths and lengths necessary.
(Ord. 403, 7-21-1987; Amd. 1999 Code).
11-5-2:   GENERAL STREET LOCATION, ARRANGEMENT AND MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS:
G.   Cul-de-sac Streets: Cul-de-sac streets shall not be more than four hundred
feet (400') in length and shall terminate with an adequate turnaround having a
minimum curb diameter of one hundred five (105') back-of-curb to back-of-curb
and a street property line diameter of at least one hundred feet (100'). Other
special turnaround layouts or arrangements may be allowed with the approval of
the Public Works Director and City Council, provided said other layouts or
arrangements provide for turnaround capabilities at least equal to that of the
referenced one hundred seventeen diameter cul-de-sacs.
(Ord. 403, 7-21-1987; Amd. 1999 Code).
MATERIALS-Geotextile Fabric
The geotextile shall meet the most recent requirements of AASHTO M 288 with
Class 2 survivability. No slit film and/or heat rolled geotextiles shall be
allowed. The geotextile type (Subgrade Separation, Drainage, Erosion Control)
shall be specified in the Plans and/or Special Provisions.
During periods of shipment and storage, the geotextile shall be placed in a dry
area off the ground and protected from damage and it shall also be kept in an
opaque, heavy-duty protective covering.
Sewn seams may be used in lieu of overlaps and shall meet the most recent
requirements of AASHTO M 288.
Certification-The Contractor shall furnish the geotextile manufacturer's
certified test results attesting that the geotextile meets the requirements
stated in these Specifications. The certification shall include the following
information about each geotextile to be used.
Manufacturer's name and current address;
Full product name;
Style, merge, or product code number;
Geotextile roll number;
Geotextile polymer type;
Proposed geotextile use(s); and
Certified test results.
The certification shall give the name and address of the testing agency and the
date of tests, and shall set forth the means of identification, including lot
number, which will permit field determination of the product delivered to the
project as being the product covered by the certification.
All geotextile property requirements stated herein are minimum average roll
values. The tensile strengths shall be determined in both machine and cross-
machine directions.
APPROVED by the City Council at its regularly scheduled meeting on the ___ day
of May, 2019.
 

Jason Richardson, Mayor
 
 
Attest:
David Swager, City Clerk
 
Appendix B
PRIVATE ROAD CONDITIONS 1
Sec. 0.   Purpose and authority.
The purpose of this appendix is to guide development on a private road, such as
road access, building, land use permits, and land divisions. This section
summarizes the characteristics that render a road sufficiently safe for fire
and other emergency vehicles to access them, consistent with Appendix D, fire
apparatus access roads, in the 2018 International Fire Code and laws governing
nonconforming uses.
(Ord. No. 2024-05, § 2, 4-22-2024)
Sec. 1.   Applicability.
This division outlines certain conditions that must be met before any new
building, road access, or land use permits may be issued, and before any land
division application (of any type) may be approved that would cause
construction of new private roads, would extend or expand the use of an
existing private road, or would add buildings, lots, or parcels to existing
private roads. New building permits, land uses, or divisions of property may
occur only as any private roads associated with the application are consistent
with this Appendix B.
(Ord. No. 2024-05, § 2, 4-22-2024)
Sec. 2.   Definitions.
(a)   Lawfully created vacant lots or parcels on private roads as they exist in
Jefferson County prior to the date of this appendix are deemed to be conforming
as that term is used in law and land use regulations.
(b)   Private road means a right-of-way which provides access to two or more
adjacent properties under separate ownership and which is not dedicated to or
officially accepted by a public entity, but not including a driveway.
(Ord. No. 2024-05, § 2, 4-22-2024)
Sec. 3.   Existing private roads.
An existing private road shall not be deemed acceptable for further development
or any expansion unless the private road:
   (1)   Is traversable by a 75,000 pound firefighting vehicle, requiring (per
the International Fire Code) that the full length of the road is built with:
      a.   A stable, compacted base;
      b.   A crown or transverse slope of two percent to drain water from the
travelway;
      c.   An improved surface with a minimum of six inches of compacted three-
fourths inch minus crushed gravel or other materials approved by the public
works administrator.
   (2)   Originates from a single public street and has an entrance that is
paved or has a concrete apron to protect that public street;
   (3)   Exists in a 60-foot wide perpetual access easement or a single platted
lot that has been dedicated either to a homeowner's association or to the
public, and that provides access to all applicable properties;
   (4)   Have a minimum improved width of 20 feet for a road up to 500 feet in
length with the required turnaround;
   (5)   Have a minimum improved width of 26 feet for a road between 500 feet
and 750 feet in length with the required turnaround;
   (6)   Require approval from the board of county commissioners for a road
longer than 750 feet (see section 6);
   (7)   Is laid out and designed in conformance with both the transportation
portion of the comprehensive plan and the road and bridge adopted five-year
transportation plan;
   (8)   Does not connect to another private road;
   (9)   Is not in a development that has a mix of public and private roads;
   (10)   Is located, in relation to other features of the land, to minimize
disruption of existing agricultural practices;
   (11)   Is the subject of a recorded road users' agreement that (i)
identifies the parties responsible for construction and/or maintenance of the
private road, including any repairs or improvements that are necessary to cause
the private road to have the characteristics identified in this section 3 of
this Appendix B, (ii) lists any construction warranties applicable to the
specific private road, and (iii) includes a clause showing agreement of all the
road users that when the road is to become a public road, all property owners
will either participate in the construction of the county road or in a local
improvement district (LID); and
   (12)   Ends with a dead end that is one of the following:
      a.   A 96-foot diameter cul-de-sac;
      b.   A 60-foot "Y";
      c.   A 120-foot hammerhead turnaround; or
      d.   An "acceptable alternative to a 120-foot hammerhead turnaround" as
depicted below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/325843b5aeb9be70ae28a66ea37e96d9dc6ad349/
IMAGES/0-0-0-558.png]
(Ord. No. 2024-05, § 2, 4-22-2024)
 
Sec. 4.   Proposed new private roads.
Any proposed new private roads shall not be permitted in the county unless the
proposed new private road has all of the characteristic outlined in section 3
of this [appendix], and also shall:
   (1)   Exist in a 60-foot wide perpetual access easement or a single platted
lot that has been dedicated either to a homeowner's association or to the
public, and that provides access to all applicable properties;
   (2)   Have a minimum improved width of 20 feet for a road up to 500 feet in
length with the required turnaround;
   (3)   Have a minimum improved width of 26 feet for a road between 500 feet
and 750 feet in length with the required turnaround;
   (4)   Require approval from the board of county commissioners for a road
longer than 750 feet (see section 6);
   (5)   Be built with an asphalt, concrete, or other driving surface approved
by the county road and bridge department with a stable, compacted base capable
of supporting the imposed load of a fire apparatus weighing up to 75,000
pounds;
   (6)   Will not exceed ten percent in grade;
   (7)   Not create "flags lots," with a long slender strip of land serving as
a driveway;
   (8)   New roads serving residential subdivisions shall be designed to
connect to county roads;
   (9)   New gates or other travelway obstacles shall not be allowed except in
exceptional circumstances when the administrator, in consultation with the
public works director, determines the gate or gates are necessary to improve
safety or to halt environmental degradation in the area. Before approving a new
gate or other obstacle, the administrator shall provide the public works
director, the fire district (or if no fire district, the Jefferson County
Sheriff, with advice from the Idaho State Fire Marshal's Office), the
opportunity to review the proposal and offer recommendations.
      a.   Approved gate openings shall be a minimum of 20 feet wide, be
located a minimum of 30 feet from the public right-of-way, and when the gate is
open, the travelway, for its entire width, shall be clear and unobstructed.
      b.   Gates located on one-way roads shall open in the same direction that
traffic moves. Gates located on two-way roads must open in both the directions
that traffic moves. Gates that open upward or slide shall be encouraged.
      c.   Gates shall have a fail-open lock in the event of a loss of power.
      d.   Construction of gates shall be of materials that allow manual
operation by one person.
      e.   Gate components shall be maintained in an operative condition at all
times and replaced or repaired when defective.
      f.   Electric gates shall be equipped with a means of opening the gate by
the fire district personnel for emergency access. Emergency opening devices
shall be approved by the fire chief of the applicable fire       district.
      g.   Methods of locking shall be submitted for approval by the fire chief
of the applicable fire district.
      h.   Electric gate operators, where provided, shall be listed in
accordance with UL 325.
      i.   Gates intended for automatic operation shall be designed,
constructed and installed to comply with the requirements of ASTM F2200.
(Ord. No. 2024-05, § 2, 4-22-2024)
Sec. 5.   Additional considerations.
As applicable, the following are among (but not a comprehensive list of)
requirements that may need to be met to conform with the comprehensive plan,
zoning ordinances, road access ordinance, building codes, and other applicable
laws:
   (1)   New roads serving residential subdivisions must be designed to connect
to county roads.
   (2)   Subdivisions, as defined by chapter 110 of the Jefferson County Code,
shall only include public roads; private roads are not permitted in a
subdivision, excepting those private roads shall be built to county public road
standards per chapter 53, roads and bridges, of the Jefferson County Code.
   (3)   If the private road is a single platted parcel, the primary function
of which is to accommodate the private road, then minimum lot size requirements
shall not apply to this specific parcel.
   (4)   If the point of connection of the private road and the public street
abuts a state highway, then it must be approved by the public works
administrator and the Idaho Transportation Department.
   (5)   New building permits, land uses, or divisions of property shall not be
issued, approved, or granted if the person(s) or group responsible for the
maintenance of any private road associated with the permit or application, as
identified in the recorded road users' agreement, has not consistently
maintained and kept the private road in an unobstructed condition for at least
the prior three years.
(Ord. No. 2024-05, § 2, 4-22-2024)
Sec. 6.   Modifications.
   (1)   Where there are practical difficulties involved in carrying out the
provisions of this Appendix B, the board of county commissioners shall have the
authority to grant modifications for individual cases, provided that:
      a.   The applicant for the modification provides a letter signed by those
property owners who access the private road indicating understanding and
agreeance with the proposed modification.
      b.   The fire chief from the applicable fire district provides a letter
finding that a special individual reason makes the strict letter of this code
impractical and the modification is in compliance with the intent and purpose
of this appendix and that such modification does not lessen health, life and
fire safety requirements.
      c.   The public works administrator provides a letter finding the layout
and design is not in conflict with both the transportation portion of the
comprehensive plan and the road and bridge adopted five-year transportation
plan.
   (2)   Upon reviewing these findings, the board may approve the modification
at a regular business meeting. This decision shall be recorded and entered in
the files of the applicable fire district and the planning, zoning and building
department.
(Ord. No. 2024-05, § 2, 4-22-2024)
CODE COMPARATIVE TABLE
LEGISLATION
   This is a chronological listing of the ordinances and other legislation
codified.
Legislation Date Section  Section this Code
Legislation        Date       Section        Section this Code
Ord. No. 1         11-9-1970  1             14-1
                            2             14-2
                            3             14-3
                            4             14-4
                            5             14-5
                            6             14-6
                            7             14-7
                            8             14-8
                            9             14-9
Ord. No. 2         11-9-1970  1             12-2
                            2             12-2
                            3             12-2
                            4             12-2
                            5             12-2
                            6             12-2
Ord. No. 3         6-26-1972  1             53-1
                            2             53-1
                            3             53-1
                            4             53-1
                            5             53-1
                            6             53-1
                            7             53-1
                            8             53-1
Ord. No. 6         6-11-1973  2             55-22
                            3             55-23
                            4             55-24
                            5             55-25
                            6             55-26
                            7             55-27
                            8             55-28
                            9             55-29
                            10            55-30
                            13            55-31
                            15            55-32
                            17            55-21
Ord. No. 10        1-13-1975  1             12-1
                            2             12-1
                            3             12-1
                            4             12-1
                            5             12-1
                            6             12-1
                            7             12-1
                            8             12-1
Ord. No. 23        7-28-1980  1             18-1
                            2             18-1
                            3             18-1
                            4             18-1
Ord. No. 27        1-12-1981  1             55-1
                            2             55-1
Ord. No. 30(1)     2-14-1983               104-2
Ord. No. 30(2)     4-23-1984               10-1
Ord. No. 32        11-6-1985               16-1
Ord. No. 35        11-9-1987  I             18-3
                            III           18-3
                            IV            18-3
Ord. No. 36        6-13-1988  8-1-1         55-55
                            8-1-2         55-56
                            8-1-3         55-57
                            8-1-4         55-58
                            8-1-5         55-59
                            8-1-6         55-60
                            8-1-7         55-61
                            8-1-8         55-62
                            8-1-9         55-63
Ord. of 4-24-2006  4-24-2006  1(3-1-4)      110-4
                            1(3-1-5)      110-5
                            1(3-1-6)      110-6
                            1(3-2-1)      110-1
                            1(3-2-2)      110-2
                            1(3-2-3)      110-3
                            2(3-2-1)      110-59
                            2(3-2-2)      110-60
                            2(3-2-3)      110-61
                            2(3-2-4)      110-62
                            2(3-2-5)      110-63
                            2(3-2-6)      110-64
                            2(3-2-7)      110-65
                            2(3-2-8)      110-66
                            3-3-1         110-91
                            3-3-2         110-92
                            3-3-3         110-93
                            3-3-4         110-94
                            3-3-5         110-95
                            3-3-6         110-96, 110-97
                            3-3-7         110-98
                            3-3-8         110-99
                            3-4-1         110-127
                            3-4-2-1       110-128
                            3-4-2-2       110-129
                            3-4-2-3       110-130
                            3-4-2-4       110-131
                            3-4-5-2       110-215
                            3-5-1         110-161
                            3-5-1         110-162
                            3-5-3-1       110-187
                            3-5-3-2       110-188
                            3-5-3-3       110-189
                            3-5-3-4       110-190
                            3-5-3-5       110-191
                            3-5-3-6       110-192
                            3-5-3-8       110-193
                            3-5-3-9       110-197
                            3-5-4-0       110-213
                            3-5-4-1       110-214
                            3-5-4-3       110-216
                            3-5-4-4       110-217
                            3-5-4-5       110-218
                            3-5-4-6       110-219
                            3-5-4-7       110-220
                            3-5-4-8       110-221
                            3-5-4-9       110-222
                            3-5-4-10      110-223
                            3-5-5         110-163
                            3-5-6         110-164
                            3-5-7         110-165
                            3-5-8         110-166
                            3-6-1         110-31
                            3-6-2         110-32
                            3-6-3         110-33
                            3-6-4         110-34
                            3-6-5         110-35
Ord. No. 07-01     3-26-2007  1             110-255
                            2             110-256
Ord. No. 07-05     7-23-2007  1             53-21
                            2             53-22
                            3             53-23
                            5             53-24
Ord. No. 08-03     7-28-2008               110-6
                                         110-60
Ord. No. 09-02     9-14-2009  3-5-1         108-1
                            3-5-2         108-2
                            3-5-3         108-3
                            3-5-4         108-4
                            3-5-5         108-5
                            3-5-6         108-6
                            3-5-7         108-7
                            3-5-8         108-8
                            3-5-9         108-9
                            3-5-10        108-10
                            3-5-11        108-11
                            3-5-12        108-12
Res. No. 09-06     9-14-2009               108-13
Ord. No. 09-03     9-29-2009  1             53-52
                            2             53-53
                            3             53-54
                            4             53-55
                            5             53-56
                            7             53-57
Ord. No. 10-02     8-23-2010  2.1.1         53-111
                            2.1.2         53-112
                            2.1.3         53-113
                            2.1.4         53-114
                            2.1.5         53-115
                            2.1.6         53-116
                            2.1.4         53-117
                            2.1.5         53-118
                            2.1.10        53-119
                            2.1.11        53-120
Ord. No. 10-03     10-25-2010 1             104-1
                            2             104-1
                            3             104-1
                            4             104-1
                            5             104-1
                            6             104-1
                            7             104-1
                            8             104-1
                            9             104-1
                            10            104-1
                            11            104-1
                            12            104-1
                            13            104-1
Ord. No. 11-04     9-12-2011               53-54
Ord. No. 12-01     12-12-2011 1-6-1         4-1
                            1-6-2         4-2
                            1-6-3         4-3
                            1-6-4         4-4
                            1-6-5         4-5
                            1-6-6         4-6
                            1-6-7         4-7
                            1-6-8         4-8
                            1-6-9         4-9
                            1-6-10        4-10
                            1-6-11        4-11
                            1-6-12        4-12
                            1-6-13        4-13
                            1-6-14        4-14
                            1-6-15        4-15
                            1-6-16        4-16
                            1-6-17        4-17
Ord. No. 2014-05   10-14-2014 I             110-6
                            II            110-66
Ord. No. 16-03     1-25-2016  1             106-1
                            2             106-2
                            3             106-3
                            4             106-4
                            5             106-5
                            6             106-6
                            7             106-7
Ord. No. 2016-06   2-27-2017  3-7-1         102-19
                            3-7-2         102-20
                            3-7-3         102-21
                            3-7-4         102-22
                            3-7-5         102-23
                            3-7-6         102-24
                            3-7-7         102-25
                            3-7-8         102-26
                            3-7-9         102-27
                            3-7-10        102-28
                            3-7-11        102-29
                            3-7-12        102-30
                            3-7-13        102-31
                            3-7-14        102-32
                            3-7-16        102-33
Ord. No. 2017-01   2-27-2017  1             104-23
                            2             104-24
                            3             104-25
                            4             104-26
                            5             104-27
                            6             104-28
Ord. No. 17-02     6-26-2017  1             53-90
                            2             53-91
                            3             53-92
                            4             53-93
                            5             53-94
                            6             53-95
                            7             53-96
                            8             53-97
Ord. of 8-3-2017   8-3-2017                18-3
Ord. of 7-1-2019   7-1-2019   6-1-1         6-19
                            6-1-2         6-20
                            6-1-3         6-21
                            6-1-4         6-22
                            6-1-5         6-23
                            6-1-6         6-24
                            6-1-7         6-25
                            6-1-8         6-26
                            6-1-9         6-27
                            6-1-10        6-28
                            6-1-11        6-29
                            6-1-12        6-30
                            6-1-13        6-31
                            6-1-15        6-32
                            6-1-16        6-33
Ord. No. 2019-5    12-9-2019               12-3
Ord. of 12-21-2020 12-21-2020              110-1 110-6
                                         110-31 110-35
                                    Added 110-36
                                         110-59 110-62
                                    Added 110-63, 110-64
                                    Rnbd  110-63 110-66
                                    as    110-65 110-68
                                         110-91
                                    Rpld  110-92
                                    Added 110-92
                                         110-93 110-98
                                    Rpld  110-99
                                         110-127
                                          
                                    Rpld  110-128
                                         110-129 110-131
                                    Added 110-132
                                         110-161, 110-162
                                    Rpld  110-163
                                    Rnbd  110-164 110-166
                                    as    110-163 110-165
                                    Rpld  110-186 110-194
                                         110-212 110-223
                                    Rpld  110-255
                                    Rnbd  110-256
                                    as    110-255
                                         110-1 110-6
                                         110-31 110-36
                                         110-59 110-68
                                         110-91 110-98
                                         110-127
                                         110-129 110-132
                                         110-161 110-165
                                         110-212 110-223
                                         110-255
Ord. No. 2021-04   6-21-2021               Adopting Ord.
Ord. No. 2022-02   3- 7-2022  1 6      Added 104-23 104-28
                            7        Rpld  104-23 104-28
Ord. No. 2022-05   5-23-2022          Added 18-4
Ord. No. 2022-11   9-6-2022   1             110-5, 110-6
                                         110-31 110-35
                                         110-61 110-64
                                         110-66
                                         110-96
                                         110-98
                                         110-127
                                         110-129 110-131
                                         110-165
                                         110-215 110-219
                                         110-221, 110-222
                                         110-255
Ord. No. 2022-12   10-3-2022  1-7      Rpld  104-23 104-28
                                    Added 104-23-104-29
                            Att.     Added 104-30
Ord. No. 2023-01   1-23-2023  1             110-6
                                    Rpld  110-59 110-68
                                    Added 110-59 110-70
Ord. No. 2023-07   8-7-2023   2        Rpld  110-31 110-36
                                    Added 110-31 110-40
                                         110-60
                                         110-66, 110-67
Ord. No. 2023-14   10-2-2023  2        Rpld  108-1-108-13
                                    Added 108-1 108-18,
                                         108-101 108-118
Ord. of 11-21-2022 11-21-2022 2        Added 14-1 14-13
                            3        Rpld  14-1 14-9
Ord. No. 2024-04   4-22-2024  2             8-1
Ord. No. 2024-05   4-22-2024  2        Added App. B, 0-6
                                         110-6
                                         110-93
                                    Added 110-96(4), (5)
Ord. No. 2024-06   4-22-2024  2             53-22(b)
                                         53-53, 53-54
                                         53-94, 53-95
                                         53-111
                                         53-113
Ord. No. 2024-07   5-6-2024   2             110-6
                                         110-34
                                         110-61
Ord. No. 2024-10   7-15-2024  3        Added 8-2 8-5
                                    Rpld  6-29, 6-30
Ord. No. 2024-13   9-9-2024   3        Rpld  53-1
                                    Added 53-1 53-5
Ord. No. 2024-14   10-15-024  -        Added Ch. 112
Ord. No. 2024-19   11-4-2024  2        Rpld  14-1 14-12
                                    Added 14-1 14-4
                                         14-10 14-19
                                         14-31 14-39
Ord. No. 2024-20   11-18-2024 2        Added Ch. 114
Ord. No. 2025-02   6-16-2025  2        Rpld  110-1 110-5, 110-212 110-223, 110-
                                             255, 110-256
                                         110-34, 110-62
                                             112-4, 112-108, 112-370, 112-374,
Ord. No. 2025-05   7-14-2025  2             112-391, 112-416, 112-441, 112-
                                             501, 112-526
                                    Added 112-382
                                          
 
 
STATE LAW REFERENCE TABLE
This table shows the location within this Code, either in the text or notes
following the text, of references to the Idaho Code.
Idaho Code Section Section this Code
Idaho Code Section Section this Code
18-111             1-7
                  14-39
—                16-29
18-113             104-29
18-3302J(3)(c)     112-468
18-3906            53-4
18-3907            Ch. 53, Art. III
                  53-4
18-3908            53-4
18-7031            Ch. 55 (note)
—                Ch. 55, Art. II
—                55-26
19-5101 et seq.    Ch. 10 (note)
20-601 et seq.     Ch. 10 (note)
—                10-1
title 21           102-20
—                102-22
21-501 et seq.     Ch. 102 (note)
—                Ch. 102, Art. II
—                102-19
title 22           14-14
title 22, ch. 24   14-16
title 22, ch. 45   14-1
                  114-31
22-4502            112-393
title 23           4-15
—                4-16
23-101 et seq.     Ch. 4 (note)
—                4-3
23-603 et seq.     4-15
23-605             4-15
23-903             112-530
23-905(7)          4-5
23-912             4-7
23-916             4-10
23-927             4-13
23-1012            4-13
title 27           110-163
27-401             112-419
28-22-104          108-4
                  108-10
                  108-17
                  108-104
                  108-110
                  108-117
title 31, ch. 7    110-32
31-128             Ch. 2 (note)
31-601 et seq.     Ch. 2 (note)
31-714             1-7
—                Ch. 8 (note)
—                Ch. 12 (note)
31-701 et seq.     Ch. 2 (note)
31-709             114-19
—                Ch. 16 (note)
—                16-29
—                53-90
—                Ch. 55 (note)
—                Ch. 55, Art. II
—                Ch. 104 (note)
                  108-101
31-714             14-1
                  14-4
31-715             1-1
31-715A            18-4
title 31, ch. 7    110.32
title 31, ch. 8    53-90
                  112-26
31-801             14-1
—                14-4
31-801 et seq.     Ch. 2 (note)
—                53-90
31-828             14-4
title 31, ch. 14   8-2
                  108-2
                  108-102
                  108-103
31-1401 et seq.    Ch. 8 (note)
                  108-101
31-1506            108-13
                  108-113
31-2201 et seq.    Ch. 10 (note)
31-3805            110-127
31-4401 et seq.    Ch. 55 (note)
—                Ch. 55, Art. II
38-115             8-2
39-114             Ch. 8 (note)
title 39, ch. 26   8-4
—                14-38
39-2601 et seq.    Ch. 8 (note)
39-2602(1)         8-4
39-2604            8-4
39-2605            8-4
39-4101 et seq.    Ch. 104, Art. II
39-4116            Ch. 104, Art. II
39-4116(5)         104-1
39-6501 et seq.    Ch. 55, Art. III
39-6505            55-58
39-7101 et seq.    Ch. 8 (note)
39-7105            6-23
39-7401            Ch. 55 (note)
—                Ch. 55, Art. II
title 40           Ch. 53 (note)
40-313             112-507
40-601 et seq.     Ch. 53 (note)
40-1301 et seq.    Ch. 53 (note)
40-1401 et seq.    Ch. 53 (note)
40-1501 et seq.    Ch. 53 (note)
40-1701 et seq.    Ch. 53 (note)
40-1801 et seq.    Ch. 53 (note)
40-1901 et seq.    112-339
40-1919 et seq.    12-2
title 40, ch. 20   53-90
40-2001 et seq.    53-90
title 40, ch. 203  110-40
title 30, ch. 203A 110-40
40-2319            Ch. 53, Art. III
41-253             8-1
title 42, ch. 38   106-4
title 44, ch. 22   104-25
44-2201 et seq.    112-379
title 44, ch. 25   104-25
44-2502            112-377
title 45, ch. 5    108-4
                  108-104
46-1001            6-26
46-1001 et seq.    Ch. 6, Art. II
46-1002            6-20
46-1009            Ch. 6, Art. II
46-1011            Ch. 6, Art. II
—                6-24
46-1020-46-10 24   106-1
46-1020 et seq.    Ch. 106 (note)
46-1021(7)         106-2
47-1501 et seq.    112-511
title 49           Ch. 18 (note)
                  112-532
title 49, ch. 1    18-4
49-102(2)          16-28
—(4)             16-28
49-208             Ch. 18 (note)
49-221             Ch. 53, Art. III
49-1232            18-1
49-1804            16-28
title 50           110-6
                  112-4
title 50, ch. 13   110-32
                  110-34
                  110-37
                  110-40
50-1301—50-1 334 108-2
                  108-102
50-1301 et seq.    Ch. 110 (note)
—                110-65
50-1303            110-6
—                110-127
50-1304            110-66
50-1306A(5)        110-69
50-1307            110-66
50-1317 et seq.    110-32
50-1326            110-66
—                110-127
50-1702(h)         108-2
                  108-102
title 55, ch. 13   110-69
title 55, ch. 16   110-66
55-2903            112-418
57-127             108-11
                  108-111
63-602NN           12-3
63-602NN(2)(g)     12-3
63-604             104-1
                  114-3
                  114-17
63-1701            114-17
title 67, ch. 52   8-4
67-5201 et seq.    112-400
67-5909            6-32
title 67, ch. 65   108-2
                  108-9
                  108-102
                  108-109
—                110-6
                  110-32
                  112-28
                  112-32
                  112-33
67-6501 et seq.    Ch. 110 (note)
                  Ch. 112 (note)
                  112-1
                  112-339
67-6504            112-28
67-6504(a)         112-28
67-6504(b)         112-28
67-6506            112-32
67-6508            114-30
67-6509            110-6
                  112-4
                  112-61
                  114-18
                  114-21
67-6510            112-35
67-6511            Ch. 112 (note)
67-6513            Ch. 110 (note)
67-6520            112-29
67-6529            112-400
67-6529C           112-400
67-6529G           112-400
67-6529(H)         112-400
67-6531            112-373
67-6535            112-134
67-6536            112-132
67-6536            112-32
67-6537            110-127
67-8201 et seq.    108-101
67-8204A           108-101
67-8205            108-2
                  108-16
                  108-102
                  108-116
67-8205(3)         108-16
                  108-116
67-8206            108-14
                  108-114
67-8207            108-5
                  108-6
                  108-7
                  108-102
                  108-105
                  108-106
                  108-108
67-8208            108-2
                  108-3
                  108-12
                  108-102
                  108-103
                  108-112
67-8209(3)         108-2
                  108-102
67-8210(1)         108-2
                  108-11
                  108-102
                  108-111
67-8213(4)         108-4
                  108-104
67-8214(2)         108-2
                  108-2
67-8214(3)         108-3
                  108-103
title 67, ch. 97   114-1
67-9703(5)         114-21
67-9704(e)         114-33
67-9705            114-3
67-9706(2)         114-18
title 74, ch. 2    112-32
74-201 et seq.     108-16
                  108-116
74-204             112-32
 
 
 
