CITY CODE
of
KENDRICK, IDAHO
2009
Contains ordinances up to and including Ordinance 754, passed January 19, 2016
Published by:
STERLING CODIFIERS
an
American Legal Publishing Company
One West Fourth Street  *  3rd Floor  *  Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This City Code of the City of Kendrick, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including Ordinance 754, passed January 19, 2016. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this City Code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the Code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
Sterling Codifiers
Coeur d'Alene, Idaho
PENDING ORDINANCES
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 727
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING
   THE KENDRICK, IDAHO CITY CODE
BE IT ORDAINED by the mayor and city council of the city of Kendrick, Idaho, as
follows:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the city
code of the city of Kendrick, Idaho prepared by Sterling Codifiers containing
the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with the changes
made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body of the city,
shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official code and law
of the city as enacted by the mayor and city council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official city code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which shall be
maintained in the office of the city clerk, certified as to correctness and
available for inspection at any and all times that said office is regularly
open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official city
code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official city code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the city code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official city code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication as provided by law.
PASSED this 14th day of September, 2009.
APPROVED this 14th day of September, 2009.
   Mayor
ATTEST:
   City Clerk
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
KENDRICK CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-5: General Powers Of City
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the city council, this code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official city code of Kendrick. This code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the KENDRICK CITY CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the city council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (2009 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2009 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in its
proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(2009 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface,
in any way, any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code books,
while in actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be
and remain the property of the city and shall be returned to the office of the
city clerk when directed to do so by order of the city council. (2009 Code)
1-1-5: GENERAL POWERS OF CITY:
The city shall have all the powers provided for in Idaho Code title 50, chapter
2, as it now exists or is hereafter amended and Idaho Code title 50, chapter 2,
is hereby adopted by reference as though set forth fully herein. (2009 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city; all special ordinances. (2009 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such
matters; in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances with respect to such provisions only. (2009 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.    Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.    Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals,
either by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance
making any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.    Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2009 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof or any portion adopted by reference therein is
for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof or
any portion adopted by reference therein. The city council hereby declares that
it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph,
sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or
phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2009 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.    Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this code by words importing the singular number only,
or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the opposite
gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided, that
these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this code
which contains any express provision excluding such construction or where the
subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.    The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city has been
changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2009 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CITY: The city of Kendrick, county of Latah, state of Idaho.
CLERK: The city clerk of the city of Kendrick.
CODE: The city code of the city of Kendrick.
COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the council of the city of Kendrick.
COUNTY: The county of Latah, state of Idaho.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Kendrick".
FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal year of the city shall commence on October 1 of each
year 1 .
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
INFRACTION: A civil public offense, not constituting a crime, punishable by a
penalty not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) and for which no
incarceration may be imposed 2 .
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MAYOR: The mayor of the city of Kendrick, Idaho.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense not defined as a felony or infraction under state law
3 .
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the city, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Kendrick".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of Idaho.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER, WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, these
terms shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles
or things to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (2009 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-1001.
2 2. IC §§ 18-111, 18-113A.
3 3. IC §§ 18-111, 18-113. See section
  1-4-1 of this title.
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2009
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.    Misdemeanor 1 :
      1.    Definition: When an act or omission is declared by ordinance to be
a public offense, or to be unlawful, said act or omission is hereby declared to
be a misdemeanor, and the act or omission is punishable as a misdemeanor.
      2.    Penalty: Every person who shall be convicted of a misdemeanor,
shall, unless a different punishment be prescribed by the ordinance, be
punished by paying a fine of not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00),
and/or confinement in jail for a period not to exceed six (6) months for any
one offense, recoverable with costs, and in default of payment of the fine,
shall be confined in jail at the rate of one day for each thirty five dollars
($35.00) of such fine and costs until the same, by such rate per day, shall
equal the amount of the fine and costs.
   B.    Infraction 2 : When the offense is designated as an infraction by any
section or provision of this code or by state law, it is punishable only by a
penalty not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) and no incarceration may be
imposed.
   C.    Federally Mandated Programs: When this city is participating in a
federally mandated program, wherein penalties or enforcement remedies are
required by the terms of participation in the program, the city may enforce
such requirements by ordinance, to include a criminal or civil monetary penalty
not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or imprisonment for criminal
offenses not to exceed six (6) months, or to include both a fine and
imprisonment for criminal offenses. (2009 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §§ 18-111B, 18-113, 50-302.
2 2. IC § 18-113A.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.    Application Of Penalty Provisions:
      1.    The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this
code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed or where any action
which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor unless otherwise provided. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains
unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in
this code.
      2.    Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code, and there shall
be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of
this chapter shall apply.
   B.    One Recovery For Same Offense: In all cases where the same offense is
made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this code,
the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced. (2009 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (2009
Code)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR
SECTION:
1-5-1: Duties
1-5-2: Sign Documents
1-5-3: Borrow Money
1-5-4: Police Power
1-5-5: Veto Power
1-5-6: Accounts And Reports Of Officers
1-5-7: Require Aid
1-5-8: Salary
1-5-1: DUTIES:
   A.    Superintending And Administrative Officer: The mayor, the
superintending and administrative officer of the city, shall devote so much of
his time to the duties of his office as an efficient and faithful discharge
thereof may require.
   B.    Meetings: The mayor shall preside at all meetings of the council and
shall have a vote when the council is equally divided, and may call special
meetings of the council when necessary.
   C.    Appoint Officers And Employees; Other Powers: The mayor shall appoint
all officers and employees of the city, subject to the approval of the council,
and have such other powers as provided by law. (Ord. 542, 3-18-1968)
   D.    Provide Information And Recommendations: The mayor shall, from time to
time, communicate to the city council such information and recommend such
measures as, in his opinion, may tend to the improvement of the finances, the
protection, the health, the security, the ornament, the comfort, and the
general welfare and prosperity of the city. (2009 Code)
   E.    Examine Grounds Of Complaints: The mayor shall examine the grounds of
all complaints against any officer of the city to determine existence of a
violation or neglect of duty and report to the council the evidence thereof, if
deemed sufficient for the removal of said officer.
   F.    Require Delivery Of Assets: The mayor shall require that every
officer, on the expiration of his term of office or resignation or removal,
deliver to his successor all assets belonging to such office.
   G.    Other Duties: The mayor shall perform all other duties required and
necessary for the efficient operation of the business of the city, as well as
all other duties imposed by the laws of the state of Idaho. (Ord. 542, 3-18-
1968)
1-5-2: SIGN DOCUMENTS:
The mayor is authorized and empowered to sign, for and on behalf of the city,
all contracts, documents and papers to which the city is a party, and to
require that the conditions and obligations in any such instrument are
faithfully performed. (Ord. 542, 3-18-1968)
1-5-3: BORROW MONEY:
The mayor may borrow money on the credit of the city when so authorized, but
only when so authorized by the council as provided by law. (Ord. 542, 3-18-
1968)
1-5-4: POLICE POWER:
The mayor shall have jurisdiction over all places within five (5) miles of the
corporate limits of the city for the enforcement of any health or quarantine
ordinance or regulation and shall have jurisdiction in all matters, excepting
taxation, within one mile of the corporate limits, as provided by law. (Ord.
542, 3-18-1968)
1-5-5: VETO POWER:
The mayor shall have power to veto or sign any ordinance passed by the city
council; provided, that any ordinance vetoed by the mayor may be passed over
his veto by vote of one-half (1/2) plus one of the members of the full council,
notwithstanding the veto and, should the mayor neglect or refuse to sign any
ordinance and return the same with his objections, in writing, at the next
regular meeting of the council, the same shall become a law without his
signature. (Ord. 542, 3-18-1968)
1-5-6: ACCOUNTS AND REPORTS OF OFFICERS:
The mayor shall have the power, when he deems it necessary, to require any
officer of the city to exhibit his accounts or other papers, or to make reports
to the council, in writing, touching any subject or matter pertaining to his
office. (Ord. 542, 3-18-1968)
1-5-7: REQUIRE AID:
The mayor is hereby authorized to call on every resident in the city over
twenty one (21) years of age to aid in enforcing the laws. (Ord. 542, 3-18-
1968; amd. 2009 Code)
1-5-8: SALARY:
The mayor shall receive a monthly salary in the sum of one hundred dollars
($100.00). (Ord. 689, 8-27-2002)
CHAPTER 6
CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Composition
1-6-2: President Of Council
1-6-3: Duties
1-6-4: Meetings
1-6-5: Records
1-6-6: Examination Of Accounts Of Officers
1-6-7: Ordinances
1-6-8: Vacancy
1-6-9: Salary
1-6-1: COMPOSITION:
The legislative authority of the City shall be vested in a Council consisting
of four (4) members, qualified as provided by law. (Ord. 541, 3-18-1968)
1-6-2: PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL:
   A.    Election: At the first meeting of the Council in January following a
general City election, the Council shall, from its members, elect one Council
member to be styled President of the Council.
   B.    Powers In Absence Of Mayor: The President of the Council shall have
all powers of the Mayor when serving to that office due to absence of the Mayor
or vacancy to the Office of Mayor. (Ord. 541, 3-18-1968)
1-6-3: DUTIES:
The members of the City Council, the legislative and policymaking branch of the
government of the City, shall devote so much of their time to the duties of
their office as an efficient and faithful discharge thereof may require. They
shall attend all meetings of the Council unless lawfully excused therefrom by
the Mayor or by a majority of the remaining members, perform all duties
required of them by law and as may be assigned committees to which they may
severally be appointed by the Mayor. (Ord. 541, 3-18-1968)
1-6-4: MEETINGS:
   A.    Regular Meetings: The Council shall hold regular meetings on the third
Tuesday of each month at the City Hall at six o'clock (6:00) P.M. If the
meeting date falls on a Federally approved holiday, the meeting will be held on
the next day or rescheduled to another agreed upon day. (Ord. 541, 3-18-1968;
amd. Ord. 696, 5-24-2004; 2009 Code; Ord. 726, 9-14-2009; Ord. 736, 8-21-2012;
Ord. 748, 11-17-2014; Ord. 751, 11-17-2015)
   B.    Special Meetings: The Mayor or one-half (1/2) plus one of the
membership of the Council may call special meetings, the object of which must
be submitted to the members, in writing, and the call, object and the
disposition thereof shall be entered upon the journal by the Clerk. (Ord. 541,
3-18-1968)
1-6-5: RECORDS:
The City Council shall make provisions for an adequate record system. (Ord.
541, 3-18-1968)
1-6-6: EXAMINATION OF ACCOUNTS OF OFFICERS:
At least once in each quarter of each year, the Council shall examine, either
in open session or by committee, the accounts and doings of all officers or
other persons having the care, management or disposition of monies, property or
business of the City. (Ord. 541, 3-18-1968)
1-6-7: ORDINANCES:
   A.    Presentation: All ordinances of the City shall be typewritten or
printed and presented to the Council by a member at any regular or special
meeting. Every such ordinance shall be read at the meetings of the Council on
three (3) different days. At each reading, it shall be open to discussion and
amendment or may be referred to a committee unless, by majority vote, other
disposition is made. All ordinances which have been amended shall, after the
second reading, be engrossed by the Clerk as amended.
   B.    Voting; Dispense Reading On Three Days: On final passage, the yeas and
nays shall be called and recorded and a concurrence of a majority of the full
council shall be required for passage; provided, however, that on the vote of
one-half (1/2) plus one of the members of the council, the council may dispense
with the portion of this section requiring all ordinances to be read on three
(3) different days, and the vote upon the motion to dispense with this rule,
the yeas and nays shall be called and recorded.
   C.    Passage; Required Signatures: When any such ordinance is passed, it
shall be signed by the clerk, and the date of its passage by the council shall
be added thereto, and it shall, within three (3) days thereafter, be presented
to the mayor, or, in case of his absence from the city, to the president of the
council for his approval. If he approves the same, he shall attach his
signature thereto.
   D.    Passage Over Veto:
      1.    Mayor Returns Ordinance With Objections: Should the mayor not
approve the ordinance, he shall, before the next regular meeting after such
ordinance is presented to him for his approval, return the ordinance to the
council with his objections, in writing.
      2.    Reconsideration; Passage: When any ordinance is so returned by the
mayor, it shall be reconsidered by the council at the first regular meeting
thereafter. If, on such reconsideration, one-half (1/2) plus one of the members
of the full council shall vote in the affirmative, the ordinance shall become a
law notwithstanding the mayor's veto.
      3.    Certificate Of Veto: The clerk, in such cases, shall annex a
certificate to the ordinance stating the same was vetoed by the mayor and that,
on its reconsideration, it received the required majority of votes.
   E.    Failure To Sign Or Return: Should the mayor refuse or neglect to sign
such ordinance or return the same with his objections, in writing, at the next
regular meeting after the same has been presented to him, it shall become law
without his signature. The clerk shall annex to such ordinance a certificate to
the effect that the mayor has failed to sign or veto the same, and it has
therefore become a law without his signature.
   F.    Preservation: It shall be the duty of the city clerk to safely keep
the original ordinances as engrossed, and, after final passage, the clerk shall
copy the same at length in a book to be known as ordinance book 1, which book
is to be provided by the council for that purpose and shall be kept as a
permanent record of the city. (Ord. 541, 3-18-1968)
1-6-8: VACANCY:
In the event an office on the council shall become vacant through death,
removal of residence, or any other cause, the mayor shall appoint, with the
approval of the council, a resident of the city to fill the unexpired portion
of the term until the next general election, at which time, the unexpired term
shall be filled by regular election. (Ord. 541, 3-18-1968)
1-6-9: SALARY:
Each member of the council shall receive a monthly salary in the sum of one
hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 689, 8-27-2002)
CHAPTER 7
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Salaries
1-7-1: SALARIES:
The salaries of the appointed city officers and employees shall be as
established from time to time by resolution of the city council. (2009 Code)
CHAPTER 8
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Poll Hours
1-8-1: POLL HOURS:
The polls of the city, for all general and special elections, shall open at
twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and remain open until eight o'clock (8:00) P.M., at
which time they shall close. (Ord. 673, 8-12-1997)
CHAPTER 9
FINANCES; MISCELLANEOUS ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-9-1: Official Depository
1-9-2: Official Newspaper
1-9-3: Fire Hall Rental Rates
1-9-1: OFFICIAL DEPOSITORY:
Wells Fargo Bank, Kendrick office, be and is hereby designated as the official
depository for funds of the city, and the city treasurer is hereby ordered,
required and directed to keep monies belonging to the city and in the care of
the city treasurer in the above named and designated depository; provided,
however, that when so authorized by the mayor and council, funds of the city
may be invested by the city treasurer as authorized by law. (Ord. 543, 3-18-
1968; amd. 2009 Code)
1-9-2: OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER:
The "Lewiston Morning Tribune", which is the nearest Idaho newspaper of general
circulation, is henceforth designated as the official newspaper of record for
the city. (Ord. 679, 9-8-1998; amd. 2009 Code; Ord. 728, 7-20-2010)
1-9-3: FIRE HALL RENTAL RATES:
The following rental fees shall be applicable to the rental of the fire hall
meeting room:
                          Meeting Room Only With Kitchen
4 hour rate               $35.00            $40.00
1 day rate (over 4 hours) 55.00             70.00
Civic nonprofit groups    $5.00 per meeting
Other regular group rates $20.00 per meeting (meeting once per week)
                          $15.00 per meeting (meeting twice per week)
 
(Ord. 711, 10-9-2006; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 10
AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
1-10-1: Area
1-10-2: Definitions
1-10-3: Governing Plan And Ordinances
1-10-4: Administration
1-10-5: Enforcement
1-10-1: AREA:
This chapter shall affect the unincorporated area of Latah County within the
following sections:
The E1/2 of Section 13, the S1/2 of Section 23, and all of Sections 24, 25, 26,
and 35 Township 38 North, Range 3 West, B.M., the S1/2 of Section 17, the S1/
2 of Section 18 and all of Sections 19, 20, and 30 Township 38 North, Range 2
West, B.M.
A map of this area, is hereby incorporated as a part of this chapter by
reference, as may be amended from time to time. Land outside the City limits,
but within the above described area, shall be deemed within the Area of City
Impact. (Ord. 654, 5-9-1995; amd. Ord. 752, 1-19-2016; Ord. 754, 1-19-2016)
1-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words when used herein shall have these meanings:
AREA: City of Kendrick Area of City Impact.
BOARD: Board of Latah County Commissioners.
CITY COUNCIL: Kendrick City Council. (Ord. 653, 4-25-1995; amd. 2009 Code)
1-10-3: GOVERNING PLAN AND ORDINANCES:
The County comprehensive plan and Land Use Ordinances shall be applied to this
area. (Ord. 653, 4-25-1995)
1-10-4: ADMINISTRATION:
The area shall be administered by the County which shall have final authority
for approval of applications for conditional use permits, planned unit
developments, variances, rezones, or platted subdivisions. All applications
shall first be submitted by the applicant to the City Council for review prior
to hearing before the Latah County Planning and Zoning Commission.
The County shall provide the City a period of fifteen (15) days prior to a
hearing to consider the request and submit a reply or comment to the County. If
the City needs additional time to consider the request and no regular Council
meeting has been scheduled within this fifteen (15) day period, the City may
request that the County extend the time period and the County shall extend it
to the day after the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting to
accommodate the City. If the City submits comment or a letter stating it has no
comment prior to the fifteen (15) day time period, the period shall terminate
upon the date of receipt by the County. The County shall consider any comment
or reply from the City as part of its hearing process.
The City may require that platted subdivisions within the area conform to
reasonable standards for public improvements set forth in the City Subdivision
or other Ordinances. (Ord. 653, 4-25-1995; amd. Ord. 752, 1-19-2016)
1-10-5: ENFORCEMENT:
The City or County may enforce compliance with conditions set by the County
prior to the effective date hereof. The County or the City may take legal
action to enforce land use regulations within the area. (Ord. 653, 4-25-1995)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
KENDRICK-JULIAETTA PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Established; Authority
2-1-2: Membership
2-1-3: Officers
2-1-4: Meetings
2-1-5: Purposes And Duties
2-1-6: Funding And Support
2-1-1: ESTABLISHED; AUTHORITY:
The Kendrick-Juliaetta planning and zoning commission is hereby established,
and its members are hereby granted the authority to do such acts as necessary
to carry out the purposes of the commission set forth in this chapter. The
commission shall serve as the planning and zoning commission for the city.
(Ord. 668, 5-13-1997)
2-1-2: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.    Appointment: The membership of the commission shall consist of eight
(8) members, three (3) from the city of Kendrick and one from the Kendrick
impact area, who shall be appointed by the mayor of Kendrick, with the consent
of the city council of Kendrick, and three (3) from the city of Juliaetta and
one from Juliaetta's impact area, who shall be appointed by the mayor of
Juliaetta, with the consent of the city council of Juliaetta.
   B.    Terms: Members shall serve a term of four (4) years; however, initial
terms shall be staggered so that each year a term of one member of each city
expires. Terms shall expire on May 1 of the expiring year.
   C.    Qualifications: Members shall have been Latah County residents for at
least two (2) years prior to appointment.
   D.    Removal: Members may be removed by the mayor, with the consent of the
city council of the city who appointed them, with or without cause. (Ord. 668,
5-13-1997)
2-1-3: OFFICERS:
The commission shall elect a chairperson and a vice chairperson. The
chairperson shall conduct meetings. The vice chairperson shall conduct meetings
in the absence of the chairperson. (Ord. 668, 5-13-1997)
2-1-4: MEETINGS:
The meeting days of the planning and zoning commission shall be at the
discretion of the commission. (Ord. 705, 9-12-2005; amd. 2009 Code)
2-1-5: PURPOSES AND DUTIES:
The purposes of the planning and zoning commission shall be:
   A.    To assist in drafting and revision of land use ordinances, maps, and
the comprehensive plan.
   B.    To conduct public hearings on and make recommendations regarding
zoning, subdivisions, special use permits and variances.
   C.    To advise the city council on land use issues.
   D.    To perform other duties as required by law. (Ord. 668, 5-13-1997)
2-1-6: FUNDING AND SUPPORT:
   A.    Funding: The expenses of the planning and zoning commission shall be
funded by the cities of Kendrick and Juliaetta.
   B.    Support: The cities shall support the activities of the commission by
providing support and assistance from staff and outside professional assistance
as required. (Ord. 668, 5-13-1997)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
LIQUOR, BEER AND WINE
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: License Required
3-1-3: License Personal Privilege
3-1-4: License Fees; Categories
3-1-5: Term Of License
3-1-6: Issuance And Renewal
3-1-7: Issuance By Clerk
3-1-8: Eligibility
3-1-9: Violation By Employee
3-1-10: Inspection
3-1-11: Underage Persons
3-1-12: Hours Of Operation
3-1-13: Revocation Or Suspension
3-1-14: Violation; Penalty
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS: Shall be defined as set forth in Idaho Code.
BEER: Shall be defined as set forth in Idaho Code.
LICENSE: A license to sell beer, wine, or alcoholic liquors within the
corporate limits of the city, whether that license be for on premises or off
premises consumption.
LICENSEE: Person having or seeking license required by this chapter.
MINOR: Any person under twenty one (21) years of age.
PERSON: Shall include partnerships, corporations and associations seeking
licenses.
WINE: Shall be defined as set forth in Idaho Code. (Ord. 630, 4-9-1991; amd.
2009 Code)
3-1-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.    Required: No person or business shall serve or sell beer, wine, or
alcoholic liquors at any location within the corporate limits of the city
without having first obtained a license therefor for each location in
accordance with the terms of this chapter.
   B.    Display: Said license(s) shall be displayed in a conspicuous place on
the premises at all times. (Ord. 630, 4-9-1991)
3-1-3: LICENSE PERSONAL PRIVILEGE:
There shall be no vested right to a license or the transfer or renewal thereof.
It is hereby declared to be the public policy of the city to make the
possession of a license a personal privilege, revocable or nonrenewable or
suspendible upon any violation or conviction of any law set forth in this
chapter or for violation of any federal, state or city ordinance pertaining,
regulating, governing or prohibiting the sale, manufacturing, transportation or
possession of any alcoholic beverage or intoxicating liquor. (Ord. 630, 4-9-
1991)
3-1-4: LICENSE FEES; CATEGORIES:
   A.    Required: Every person licensed under the provisions of this chapter
shall pay the city an annual license fee, for each location, as established or
amended by ordinance or resolution of the council. Categories of licenses shall
include:
      1.    For consumption of beer on premises;
      2.    For sale of beer to be consumed off premises;
      3.    For consumption of wine on premises;
      4.    For sale of wine to be consumed off premises;
      5.    For consumption of alcoholic liquors on premises.
   B.    Prorated Fee: Every business or nonprofit organization serving less
than ninety (90) days during the year shall pay one-half (1/2) of the rates
established by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 647, 12-14-1993; amd. 2009
Code)
3-1-5: TERM OF LICENSE:
Each license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be granted for a
period of one year, beginning February 1 and expiring at twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight on January 31 of the following year. (Ord. 630, 4-9-1991; amd. 2009
Code)
3-1-6: ISSUANCE AND RENEWAL:
   A.    Application: All licenses must be requested through written
application for renewal submitted to the clerk, which must be accompanied by an
affidavit of the applicant showing such applicant to be qualified by the
provisions of this chapter and the laws of the state. Said application must
state the place of business with respect to which the license is to be renewed
and must contain a simple floor plan for the building for which the permit or
license is requested. In the event no changes in said matters have taken place
since certification of the previous application, then the licensee may so state
and need not attach said documents. (Ord. 630, 4-9-1991)
   B.    County And State Licenses: No license shall be issued until the
applicant has first obtained the appropriate county and state license(s).
   C.    Denial: Whenever the council denies an application, they shall
specify, in writing:
      1.    The laws, ordinances and standards used in evaluating the
application;
      2.    The reasons for the denial; and
      3.    The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain the
license, transfer of renewal thereof. (Ord. 630, 4-9-1991; amd. 2009 Code)
3-1-7: ISSUANCE BY CLERK:
Licenses shall be issued to qualified applicants by the clerk, but only with
the approval of and at the direction of the city council. (Ord. 630, 4-9-1991)
3-1-8: ELIGIBILITY:
Every application shall contain the following information:
   A.    Information Regarding Applicant: The name and place of residence of
the applicant and length of his residence within the state; and, if the
applicant is a partnership, the names, places of residence and lengths of
residence within this state of each partner; and, if the applicant is a
corporation or association, the date and place of incorporation or
organization, the location of its principal place of business in Idaho and the
names and places or residence of its officers and directors or members of its
governing board, and the person who manages or will manage the business of
selling liquor, beer and/or wine at retail; (Ord. 630, 4-9-1991; amd. 2009
Code)
   B.    Location: The particular place for which the license is desired,
designating the same by a street and number, if practicable, or by such other
description as definitely locates such place, and the name of the owner of the
premises;
   C.    Additional Information: The application shall affirmatively show that:
(Ord. 630, 4-9-1991)
      1.    The applicant is the bona fide owner of the business which will be
engaged in the sale of liquor, beer or wine at retail and with respect to which
license is sought;
      2.    The condition and location of the place or building where it is
proposed to sell liquor, beer or wine at retail conforms to all laws and
regulations of the state and to the ordinances of the county of Latah, Idaho,
and the city applicable thereto relating to public health and safety and to the
zoning ordinances of the city; (Ord. 630, 4-9-1991; amd. 2009 Code)
      3.    The applicant or the person who is to be manager shall have been a
bona fide resident of the state for at least thirty (30) days prior to the date
of application;
      4.    Neither the applicant nor his manager has been convicted of any
violation of any law of the state, or any other state, or of the United States,
or of any ordinance of the county or city regulating, governing or prohibiting
the sale, manufacture, transportation or possession of alcoholic beverages,
intoxicating liquors, narcotic drugs or controlled substances, or within said
time, suffered the forfeiture of a bond for failure to appear in answer to
charges of any such violation;
      5.    The applicant has not, within five (5) years immediately preceding
the date of filing the application, been convicted of any felony or paid any
fine or completed any sentence of confinement therefor within said time;
      6.    Such affirmative showing shall be required with respect to each
partner, officer, director and member of the governing board of a corporation
or association applicant, each manager and every person employed whose duties
include the serving or dispensing of beer, wine or alcoholic liquors;
      7.    The zoning for the location of the premises is appropriate for said
use.
   D.    Disqualification: If an applicant shall be unable to make any
affirmative showing required in this chapter, or if an application shall
contain a false material statement, knowingly made, the same shall constitute a
disqualification for license and license shall be refused. If a license is
issued to any applicant on any application containing a false material
statement, knowingly made, such license shall be revoked. The licensee and
licensed premises shall at all times during the period for which the license is
issued, continue to have all of the qualifications and none of the
disqualifications set forth in this section. If at any time during the period
for which license is issued, a licensee becomes unable to make the affirmative
showings as required in this section, the license shall be suspended until the
same shall be removed. The procedure to be followed upon refusal, revocation or
suspension of license shall be in accordance with state law. (Ord. 630, 4-9-
1991)
3-1-9: VIOLATION BY EMPLOYEE:
A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter by an employee, agent,
servant, or other person in any way acting on behalf of the licensee shall be
deemed to be a violation by the licensee. (Ord. 630, 4-9-1991)
3-1-10: INSPECTION:
Any law enforcement officer or city inspector shall have the right to inspect
the premises during any hour the premises is open for business; refusal to
permit inspection shall constitute a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 630, 4-9-
1991; amd. 2009 Code)
3-1-11: UNDERAGE PERSONS:
It shall be unlawful to sell to, serve to, procure for, or give to any minor
any beer, wine or alcoholic liquor. It shall be unlawful for any person under
twenty one (21) years of age to purchase, attempt to purchase or otherwise
procure, consume, or possess beer, wine or alcoholic liquors. A valid driver's
license shall be acceptable as proof of age, and the licensee shall require
proof of age from any customer whose age may be less than twenty one (21). It
shall be unlawful for any underage person to represent that he or she is twenty
one (21) years of age or older. (Ord. 630, 4-9-1991; amd. 2009 Code)
3-1-12: HOURS OF OPERATION:
   A.    Beer Or Wine: No beer or wine shall be sold, offered for sale, given
away or dispensed by any licensee between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. (Ord. 740, 11-19-2012)
   B.    Alcoholic Liquors: No alcoholic liquors may be sold, offered for sale,
given away or dispensed by any licensee between the hours of two o'clock (2:00)
A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. (Ord. 742, 1-28-2013)
3-1-13: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION:
   A.    Power To Revoke Or Suspend: The city council may revoke or suspend any
license upon a showing that the licensee has ceased to be qualified under any
provision.
   B.    Request For Hearing: The licensee shall have a right to a hearing
before the council regarding such revocation or suspension by filing a written
request for hearing with the clerk.
   C.    Hearing: The council shall hold such hearing within thirty (30) days
of receipt of a request for hearing.
   D.    Due Process Rights: The licensee shall be afforded the following due
process rights at such hearing: 1) five (5) working days' written notice of
hearing; 2) the reasons for revocation or suspension shall be set forth by the
clerk; 3) the right to be represented by counsel; and 4) the right to rebut any
evidence presented against him.
   E.    Recording Of Hearing: A recording shall be made of the hearing, and
the licensee shall have the right to record or have the hearing transcribed.
(Ord. 630, 4-9-1991)
3-1-14: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof in a court of competent jurisdiction,
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Violation shall also be grounds for suspension and/or
nonrenewal of license. (Ord. 630, 4-9-1991; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
3-2-1: License Required
3-2-2: Application; Fee
3-2-3: Exceptions
3-2-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in the
business, endeavor or activities of a peddler, hawker, itinerant or transient
vendor for the sale of goods, wares or other commodities or merchandise, either
at public or private sale, or to engage in the business, endeavor or activity
of a transient or itinerant solicitor for the sale or delivery of any goods,
wares, merchandise or other commodities sold or delivered, or for the
transaction of any business connection therewith, within the city, without
having first obtained a license to do so as hereinafter provided, and otherwise
complying with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 278, 2-2-1955)
3-2-2: APPLICATION; FEE:
   A.    Written Application: Any person desiring to engage in or conduct the
business, endeavor or activity of a peddler, hawker, itinerant or transient
vendor, or transient or itinerant solicitor, as hereinbefore mentioned, within
the city, shall make an application, in writing, to the city clerk for the
license so to do, which application shall be filed with the clerk.
   B.    Required Information: Such application shall state the name and
residence of the applicant, the name and residences of the owners or parties in
whose interest said business is conducted, the place where such business,
endeavor or activity is to be engaged in or conducted, the kind and type of
goods, wares, merchandise or other commodities to be sold or for which orders
are to be taken or solicited and the length of time for which the license is
desired.
   C.    Bond: No license shall be issued until there is deposited with the
clerk, a bond in the penal sum of three hundred dollars ($300.00), executed by
a surety company or two (2) responsible freeholders residing within the city,
which said bond shall first be approved by the mayor and city council, or in
lieu thereof, a cash bond of equal amount, which said bond shall be conditioned
that all goods, wares, merchandise or other commodities sold, or for which
orders are taken or solicited, shall be as represented by him, and that he will
refund any monies or purchase price paid thereon which is not as represented,
and so as to indemnify and reimburse any person dealing with him in a sum equal
to at least the amount of any payment or payments such purchaser or person
solicited may have been induced to make through misrepresentations as to the
kind, character and quality thereof. Any person misled or aggrieved by the
representations of any licensee hereunder shall have a right of action on said
bond for the recovery of the amount of his or her payment or payments or sums
deposited or paid and for damages suffered, or both. In the event a cash bond
is deposited, the same shall be retained by the clerk for a period of one
hundred twenty (120) days after expiration of any such license. (Ord. 278, 2-2-
1955)
   D.    Fee: After filing of such application and upon the approval thereof by
the chairman and board of trustees of the city, a license shall be issued by
the clerk to such applicant, upon the payment of a license fee (for each day or
fraction of a day) as determined from time to time by resolution of the city
council for each day or fraction of a day. (Ord. 278, 2-2-1955; amd. 2009 Code)
   E.    Renewal Of License; Transferability: All such license fees shall be
paid in advance, and if any such licensee desires to continue his business,
endeavor or activity after the expiration of such license, a new license shall
be secured in the same manner and upon the same terms as the original license.
All such licenses shall not be transferable. (Ord. 278, 2-2-1955)
3-2-3: EXCEPTIONS:
There are excepted from the provisions of this chapter persons peddling or
soliciting the sale of Bibles or religious tracts, or horticultural or
agricultural products, or persons selling or soliciting the sale of other items
where the entire proceeds of such sales shall be used exclusively for
charitable purposes; and the provisions of this chapter shall not apply to
social, religious or patriotic organizations. (Ord. 278, 2-2-1955)
CHAPTER 3
FREIGHT DELIVERY 1
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definition
3-3-2: License Required
3-3-3: Fee
3-3-4: Issuance
3-3-5: Violation; Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. This chapter is no longer enforced by the city but has been retained in
  the code without being updated only for historical purposes.
3-3-1: DEFINITION:
Any person delivering freight of any description from the cars or depot, or
baggage of any description or transferring household goods from house to house,
or delivering any goods, wares or merchandise from any of the stores or shops,
or moving pianos or organs, or handling any personal property and transferring
the same from a point within the corporate limits to a point within the limits,
shall be deemed to be a drayman's business.
Hauling rock, earth, sand, manure, or building material shall not be deemed a
drayman's business, provided it is done by the day and paid for by the day,
unless done by contract which lasts longer than one day, and ice to be handled
by anyone at any time. (Ord. 98, 6-7-1905)
3-3-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the drayage business within
the corporate limits of the city without first having a license from the city
clerk. (Ord. 98, 6-7-1905)
3-3-3: FEE:
Each person desiring to dray within the corporate limits of the city must pay
to the city clerk the sum of twenty dollars ($20.00) per year for each two (2)
horse vehicle, the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) per year for each one horse
vehicle, and the sum of twenty dollars ($20.00) for each motor truck or car,
payable in advance, and no license shall be granted for a shorter or longer
period than one year. (Ord. 98, 6-7-1905)
3-3-4: ISSUANCE:
It is hereby the duty of the city clerk to give each person paying his license,
an annual drayman's license, which license shall state the name of the person
draying, the dates covered by said license, and the amount paid for the same
and whether it be a one horse, two (2) horse team, or motor truck or car. (Ord.
98, 6-7-1905)
3-3-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in the sum
of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) and no more than one hundred
dollars ($100.00), together with the cost of suit and, upon default of the
same, shall be confined in the city jail at the rate of two dollars ($2.00) per
day until such fine and costs are paid. (Ord. 98, 6-7-1905)
TITLE 4
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
SOLID WASTE AND DISPOSAL SYSTEM
SECTION:
4-1-1: Short Title
4-1-2: Definitions
4-1-3: Solid Waste Collection
4-1-4: Separation Of Solid Waste
4-1-5: Compulsory Service
4-1-6: Regulations
4-1-7: Hauling Regulations
4-1-8: Solid Waste Accumulation Unlawful
4-1-9: Collection From Private Property
4-1-10: Solid Waste Produced By Business Units
4-1-11: Burning
4-1-12: Solid Waste Disposal Prohibited
4-1-13: Theft Of Services
4-1-14: Nuisance
4-1-15: Violation; Penalty
4-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the SOLID WASTE ORDINANCE OF THE CITY
OF KENDRICK, IDAHO. (Ord. 611, 2-10-1987, eff. 2-10-1987)
4-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely
directory. These definitions shall apply to all rules, regulations or
agreements entered into pursuant to this chapter.
ASHES: The residue from the burning of wood, coke or other combustible
material.
BAGS: See definition of Containers.
BULKY WASTE: Stoves, refrigerators, water tanks, washing machines, furniture,
appliances, springs, mattresses, carpets, demolition, commercial, industrial,
tree stumps, tree trunks, logs, vehicle bodies and parts, wire, large dead
animals (over 10 pounds), cement, sheetrock, sod, dirt, tires, rock, loose
branches, any item weighing over sixty (60) pounds, and other solid waste and
any materials over four feet (4') in length.
BUNDLE: Small trees, branches, shrub and brush trimmings or newspapers and
magazines securely tied together forming an easily handled package not to
exceed four feet (4') in length and/or thirty five (35) pounds in weight.
BUSINESS: An individual, partnership, association, corporation, company, trust,
firm, estate, joint venture, unit, agent, public agency, industry or other
legal entity operating as a self- contained independent enterprise, such as a
beauty shop, retail shop, professional office, etc.
BUSINESS UNIT: Each space occupied by an individual business. A business unit
shall be deemed occupied when either occupied or producing solid waste.
COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL SOLID WASTE: Waste building materials resulting from
excavations, construction, remodeling, repair or demolition operations.
Examples include tree trunks, logs, concrete, bulky waste, wood materials and
sod exceeding sixty (60) pounds.
CONTAINERS:
  Bag: Plastic sacks designed to store solid waste with sufficient wall
strength to maintain physical integrity when lifted by top. Total weight of bag
and its contents shall not exceed thirty five (35) pounds for collection
services.
  Compactor Container: A receptacle designed to be lifted by mechanical means
so that its contents can be emptied and that is designed to hold compacted
solid waste yardage.
  Manual Container (Garbage Can): A receptacle with a capacity of greater than
twenty (20) gallons, but less than thirty six (36) gallons tapered so that it
is larger at the top than at the bottom, made of metal, plastic or fiberglass,
having a tightfitting lid which completely covers the top of the container,
rodentproof and having handles of adequate strength for lifting.
  Mechanical Containers: A receptacle designed to be lifted by mechanical means
so that its contents can be emptied and that is designed to hold loose solid
waste yardage.
CURB LINE/CURBSIDE: That portion of right of way or private property adjacent
to the traveled portion of the city rights of way, including alleys, used for
the placement of all solid waste containers on collection days. Containers
shall be placed as close as is reasonably possible to the traveled right of way
without obstructing parking lanes or public sidewalks.
DISPOSAL: Disposing of solid waste at a disposal site; disposal of solid waste
for resource recovery or transportation to another site or facility.
DISPOSAL SITE: Waste facility or site where solid waste is disposed of, reduced
or recovered, such as sanitary landfills, transfer stations, incinerators and
resource recovery facilities which are licensed or approved to receive for
processing solid waste by all governmental bodies or agencies having
jurisdiction.
EQUIPMENT: Equipment used within the city for the collection or disposal of
solid waste.
FRANCHISEE: The person, persons or corporation holding a contract and/or
franchise issued or granted by the city authorizing such person to operate,
conduct or maintain a municipal solid waste collection and disposal system upon
or over any streets, alleys and public ways of the city.
GARBAGE CAN: See definition of Containers.
GENERATOR: Any resident of a residential unit or business unit who creates or
produces any waste.
HAUL: An individual trip transporting solid waste from the producer, or any
other point within the city, to a disposal site.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: Any chemical, compound, mixture, substance or article, which
is designated by the United States environmental protection agency or other
appropriate agency of the federal government or state of Idaho to be
"hazardous" as that term is defined by or pursuant to law.
HOUSEHOLD SOLID WASTE: Does not include bulky wastes or any type of solid waste
that is not normally collected by the franchisee at residential or business
units on the regular collection routes.
INFECTIOUS SOLID WASTE: Any material, chemical, compound, mixture, substance or
article known to be infectious by the producer or which is designated by the
United States environmental protection agency or other appropriate agency of
the federal government or the state of Idaho to be "infectious" as that term is
commonly defined or defined by or pursuant to law.
PREMISES: Land and all buildings and structures thereon including, but not
excluding by terms of enumeration, single- or multi-family dwellings, rooming
houses, apartment houses, hospitals, convalescent and nursing homes, hotels and
motels, restaurants, drive-in establishments, schools (kindergartens, academic,
trade or industrial), and any other place of habitation, office, shop or
establishment or place of conducting a business, trade or occupation.
PRODUCER: "Residential unit" or "business unit", as defined herein.
PUTRESCIBLE SOLID WASTE: Solid waste which has the capacity to become rotten or
foul.
RESIDENT: Every person, as herein defined, in possession, charge, custody or
control of any premises where solid waste is created or accumulated.
RESIDENTIAL UNIT: A dwelling within the corporate limits of the city occupied
by a person or group of persons. A residential unit shall be deemed occupied
when either occupied or producing solid waste. Each unit within an apartment or
condominium shall be treated as an individual dwelling unit, unless served by a
mechanical container or compactor.
SERVICE: Solid waste collection and disposal of, or resource recovery from,
solid waste, as further defined by agreement.
SOLID WASTE: All solid waste or semisolid waste including, without limitation,
bulky, household, hazardous, infectious, garbage, rubbish, refuse, trash, ashes
or swill, newsprint or wastepaper, corrugated or cardboard, grass clippings,
compost, discarded appliances, equipment, furniture, vehicle parts, tires,
resource recovery, vegetable or animal wastes, wire, cement, putrescible,
demolition or other wastes resulting from industrial, commercial, agriculture,
institutional and residential activities. May include material that is no
longer directly usable by the producer, owner, resident or possessor of the
material, which material is to be disposed of or to be resource recovered by
another person. Solid waste shall include materials that may have value and
thus be recovered. The fact that materials are separated or segregated from
other solid waste does not remove the materials from this definition. Solid
waste shall include waste presently in liquid form. No material shall be
considered solid waste until placed for collection. (Ord. 611, 2-10-1987, eff.
2-10-1987)
4-1-3: SOLID WASTE COLLECTION:
   A.    Applicability: All solid waste from the entire confines of the city
shall be placed for collection as provided in this chapter and such regulations
as the city may approve, and shall be collected by a duly authorized franchisee
in order to maintain and preserve the sanitation and thereby the health and
welfare of the city.
   B.    Right To Issue Franchise: The city reserves the right to issue a
franchise to such franchisees as are necessary to carry out the terms of this
chapter. The city reserves the right to award an exclusive franchise for the
entire city, if deemed to be in the public interest. The city may advertise for
proposals or bids to provide collection services and may award one or more
franchises within the city, based on cost and a subjective evaluation of the
services offered by the proponent or bidder. The city may enter into a
franchise agreement for solid waste services after reviewing and giving fair
consideration to proponents. (Ord. 611, 2-10-1987, eff. 2-10-1987)
   C.    Franchise Fee; Exception:
      1.    The city may charge a franchise fee to all franchisees. Said fee
shall initially be set at five percent (5%) of gross receipts, but may be
revised by the city from time to time by resolution. Fees shall be payable on a
monthly basis based on the franchisee gross revenue from the city. Revenues
retained by the city shall be used exclusively for costs related to the city
management of the solid waste system. Such revenues may be utilized for
administration, code enforcement, maintenance of rights of way, for cleaning
programs and for costs incurred in enforcing this chapter.
      2.    The city may waive a franchise fee where the franchisee is
providing a public service worthy of such subsidy. (Ord. 611, 2-10-1987, eff.
2-10-1987; amd. 2009 Code)
   D.    Power To Regulate Maximum Rate; Bond: The city shall have the power to
regulate the maximum rate which a franchisee may charge subject to the
provisions contained in any agreement between the city and franchisee.
Franchisee shall maintain records of estimated tonnage or yardage of solid
waste hauled from the city through actual weighing of trucks or spot check
weighing at reasonable intervals or estimated yardage. The city may require
that franchisee be bonded and maintain minimum levels of liability insurance.
   E.    Billing And Collection Of Fees: The city shall bill and collect all
fees for solid waste collection within the city unless otherwise agreed. It
shall be unlawful for any franchisee to discount or "kickback" funds to any
city official or an agent or employee of the city. Franchisee retains the right
to provide benefits, funds or gifts to any employee of the franchisee even if
such employee is a city official or an agent or employee of such city. (Ord.
611, 2-10-1987, eff. 2-10-1987)
4-1-4: SEPARATION OF SOLID WASTE:
All solid waste shall be drained of excess water and all wet household solid
waste or putrescible solid waste and any animal defecation shall be separately
wrapped in tightly secured plastic bags before being placed in a container.
(Ord. 611, 2-10-1987, eff. 2-10-1987)
4-1-5: COMPULSORY SERVICE:
No producer shall be permitted to refuse solid waste collection services
provided for herein, and the failure of any producer to receive such service
shall not exempt such producer from payment of charges herein provided for,
save and except any of those producers residing in areas in which collection
service is not available for the entire area, and in such areas where no
service is rendered. The boundaries within the municipality exempted from such
charges shall be established by the city. (Ord. 611, 2-10-1987, eff. 2-10-1987)
4-1-6: REGULATIONS:
The city is hereby empowered to prepare rules and regulations from time to time
in connection with the preparation, handling, collection and disposal of solid
waste within the city, subject to the approval of the city council. Three (3)
copies of said rules and regulations shall be retained at city hall for use by
the public and the franchisee shall be immediately notified of all changes. The
city may direct that the franchisee shall not collect solid waste from any
premises where said rules and regulations are not complied with and the failure
to collect the same by such direction shall not relieve the producer of such
solid waste from the payment of fees or penalties as provided for herein. (Ord.
611, 2-10-1987, eff. 2-10-1987)
4-1-7: HAULING REGULATIONS:
   A.    Cover Required: No person shall be permitted to haul solid waste over
the streets of the city unless such vehicle so conveying such solid waste is
equipped with a canvas top or some other device effective to prevent the solid
waste from being strewn and littered about the streets and alleys.
   B.    Franchise Required: No person shall convey solid waste over and across
the streets or alleys of the city for hire, or for any person other than
himself, unless he shall have first filed a written application and received a
franchise to haul from the city.
   C.    Watertight Container: No person, whether having entered into an
agreement with the city for collection of solid waste, or not, shall be
permitted to transport the solid waste over public thoroughfares in anything
other than a watertight container. (Ord. 611, 2-10-1987, eff. 2-10-1987)
4-1-8: SOLID WASTE ACCUMULATION UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or to allow to accumulate in or
about any yard, lot, place or premises; or upon any street, alley or sidewalk
adjacent to such lot, yard, place or premises owned or occupied by such person,
any solid waste so as to cause such yard, lot, premises, street, alley or
sidewalk adjacent thereto, to be or remain in such condition as to cause or
create a nuisance, obstruction, hazard to public health, or offensive odor or
rodent harborage, or thereby to be or to become, or to cause or create, a
public or private nuisance within the limits of the city. (Ord. 611, 2-10-1987,
eff. 2-10-1987)
4-1-9: COLLECTION FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.    Placement Of Containers: All solid waste, except ashes, shall be
placed in authorized containers. All solid waste shall be at the curb line, as
defined in section
4-1-2 of this chapter, in a manner whereby it may be easily seen.
   B.    Alternate Access: Solid waste producers not abutting public streets or
alleys shall permit access to the franchisee for collection and disposal of
solid waste placed in containers.
   C.    Size, Condition Of Containers: Solid waste shall not be placed in any
type of "container" except those defined herein. No manual container (garbage
can) may be filled to a weight exceeding sixty (60) pounds. Worn out manual
containers may not be utilized. Solid waste shall not be compacted in a
container to the extent of obstructing easy removal from the container.
   D.    Ashes: Ashes placed for collection shall be cold and free from any
fire, live coals, or other substances which might ignite. Ashes shall be placed
in tightly secured plastic bags, and placed in a separate metal container away
from any flammable materials.
   E.    Tree Limbs: Small tree limbs, when tied in bundles not over four feet
(4') long and weighing less than thirty five (35) pounds, will be collected.
   F.    Magazines And Papers: Magazines and papers may be tied in bundles, but
must not be put out in wet weather or any earlier than twelve (12) hours before
collection time unless in a sealed container.
   G.    Concrete; Rocks; Other Bulky Wastes: Broken concrete, rocks, plaster,
discarded building materials, trees, large tree limbs and other bulky wastes
may not be placed for collection as household waste.
   H.    Time, Size Of Bags For Collection: Bags containing solid waste will be
collected but may not be set out for service until the morning of the
collection day. Bags may be placed for collection in advance of the collection
day if they contain only leaves, grass cuttings, weeds and hedge trimmings.
Bags containing solid waste must weigh less than thirty five (35) pounds.
   I.    Loose Paper, Materials: Loose paper, wastebasket material, wastepaper,
etc., must be placed in covered containers.
   J.    Dead Animals: Dead animals or portions thereof placed for collection
must weigh less than ten (10) pounds and must be placed in a securely tied
plastic bag, then in a container with a tightfitting lid.
   K.    Hazardous Waste:
      1.    Compliance Required: Hazardous waste must be disposed of in a
manner consistent with federal, state of Idaho and city regulations.
      2.    Responsibility Of Generator: Anyone needing to dispose of hazardous
waste must contact the city and franchisee. All fees and charges regarding
hazardous waste shall be the responsibility of the generator. A deposit shall
be required of the generator prior to pick up of hazardous waste. Title to
hazardous waste shall remain with the generator.
   L.    Infectious Solid Waste: Infectious solid waste must be disposed of in
a manner consistent with federal and state of Idaho regulations. Such waste
must be double bagged and placed in securely tied plastic bags, inside clearly
marked puncture proof plastic containers in a manner approved by the city and
the franchisee who shall be notified by the producer of the fact that such
waste is being placed for pick up. Title to infectious wastes shall remain with
the producer.
   M.    Owner Responsible For Payment Of Service: Owners of premises,
residential units and business units where solid waste is produced or generated
shall be responsible for payment of all solid waste service provided at such
premises, if such service is not paid by the renter or lessee of such premises.
(Ord. 611, 2-10-1987, eff. 2-10-1987)
4-1-10: SOLID WASTE PRODUCED BY BUSINESS UNITS:
   A.    Every owner, lessee or person in charge of any commercial or
industrial establishment or other similar place where solid waste is produced
or accumulated shall provide, or cause to be provided for such producer, a
metal, watertight container into which all solid waste which has been properly
and sanitarily prepared for disposal shall be placed. Said container shall have
a tightfitting cover and shall be kept covered. Individual arrangements shall
be reviewed by the city and franchisee.
   B.    Loose paper, wastebasket material, wastepaper, etc., must be placed in
covered containers.
   C.    Solid waste resulting from the construction, reconstruction or repair
of premises shall not be placed with other solid waste for collection, but
shall be disposed of directly by the producer owning, occupying or leasing the
premises unless specific arrangements can be made with the city and franchisee.
   D.    Residents having a commercial use in their home shall be billed a
commercial rate.
   E.    Hazardous and infectious waste must be disposed of in a manner
consistent with federal, state of Idaho, and city regulations and as set forth
elsewhere in this chapter.
   F.    Mechanical and compactor containers shall not be filled in a manner
which exceeds safe loading weights and volumes. (Ord. 611, 2-10-1987, eff. 2-
10-1987)
4-1-11: BURNING:
   A.    Restricted: The burning of substances of any kind within the city is
hereby prohibited during those periods when burning is prohibited or restricted
by the department of lands and/or department of forestry of the state of Idaho,
or it is determined that burning could be detrimental to the health or well
being of city inhabitants.
   B.    Violation; Penalty: Any violations of this section shall be deemed a
public nuisance and a violation of this chapter and shall be subjected to the
penalties for the same as herein provided. (Ord. 611, 2-10-1987, eff. 2-10-
1987)
4-1-12: SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL PROHIBITED:
   A.    It shall be unlawful for any person to incinerate solid waste or to
deposit the same on vacant lots or private property.
   B.    No person, including the franchisee, shall drop, spill or permit solid
waste to fall upon any private property, public street, alley or right of way
without immediately cleaning up said waste.
   C.    After emptying any container (except bags), franchisee's employee
shall return containers to the location from which such containers were taken
and shall replace the covers. Space about the containers shall be left free
from any solid waste spilled during the collection. This shall not be
interpreted to mean that the collector is responsible for cleaning up
conditions about solid waste containers caused by the carelessness of the owner
or others. (Ord. 611, 2-10-1987, eff. 2-10-1987)
4-1-13: THEFT OF SERVICES:
   A.    Authorization Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit
solid waste in any commercial container placed for a private or public
individual, business, or agency unless the person has been authorized by the
owner of individual in charge of the container.
   B.    Use By Nonresidents: It shall be unlawful for any person not a
resident of the city to leave solid waste with a city resident for pick up
pursuant to this chapter.
   C.    Violation: Violation of this section shall be construed as a "theft of
services". (Ord. 611, 2-10-1987, eff. 2-10-1987)
4-1-14: NUISANCE:
   A.    Declared Nuisance: The improper collection, disposal or discharge into
the atmosphere of hazardous material is hereby declared to be a nuisance and is
unlawful.
   B.    Abatement: The city shall take cognizance of all solid waste related
nuisances within the limits of its jurisdiction and shall take such measures as
may be effectual to suppress and abate the same, including contracting to abate
such nuisances and billing the property owner for the expenses of abatement.
(Ord. 611, 2-10-1987, eff. 2-10-1987)
4-1-15: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to
continue and each separate "haul" shall constitute a separate offense and shall
be punishable as such hereunder. (Ord. 611, 2-10-1987, eff. 2-10-1987; amd.
2009 Code)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
LAW ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Law Enforcement Contracted With County
5-1-1: LAW ENFORCEMENT CONTRACTED WITH COUNTY:
Pursuant to an intergovernmental agreement, the city has contracted with the
Latah County sheriff's department to enforce state statutes and county and city
ordinances, including, but not limited to, traffic enforcement and criminal and
civil enforcement. (2009 Code)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-2-1: State Law Adopted
5-2-2: Disorderly Conduct
5-2-3: Discharge Firearms
5-2-4: Disturbing The Peace
5-2-5: Barbwire Fence
5-2-1: STATE LAW ADOPTED:
   A.    Adoption: There is hereby adopted by the city, Idaho Code title 18,
crimes and punishments, as presently in effect or as may hereafter be amended,
a copy of which is on file in the office of the city clerk for public
inspection.
   B.    Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this chapter, or the
statutes adopted herein, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
5-2-2: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
It shall be unlawful, within the corporate limits, for any person to be in a
state of drunkenness, engage in disorderly conduct, make any unseemly loud or
boisterous noise, or harbor upon their premises any unnecessary noise or
disturbances, or to use any profane or indecent language towards or in the
presence of another or to challenge any person to fight or to apply to any
person in their presence any language calculated to provoke an assault or
breach of the peace. Every person so offending shall, upon conviction thereof,
be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 3, 11-24-1890; amd. 2009 Code)
5-2-3: DISCHARGE FIREARMS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any firearms within the
corporate limits or unlawfully carry on their person any concealed weapon, and
any person so offending shall, upon conviction, be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 3, 11-24-1890; amd. 2009 Code)
5-2-4: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to disturb the
peace and quiet of any neighborhood, family or person by any loud or unusual
tumultuous or offensive conduct, and any person so offending shall, upon
conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 3, 11-24-1890; amd. 2009 Code)
5-2-5: BARBWIRE FENCE:
   A.    Prohibited: it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, board or
corporation to build, construct or maintain any barbwire fence within the
corporate limits. (Ord. 130, 11-6-1914)
   B.    Notice To Remove: It shall be the duty of the city clerk to serve
written notice to any person, firm, board or corporation owning any barbwire
fence or having control thereof to remove the same within thirty (30) days from
said notice, and if said barbwire fence is not removed within thirty (30) days,
it is hereby made the duty of the maintenance supervisor to remove the same and
charge the cost of the removing to the owner of the land, lots or premises
enclosed by said fence, and the same shall be certified by the city council and
charged up against said land, lots or premises as taxes to be collected in the
same manner as other taxes are collected.
   C.    Violation; Penalty: Any person, firm, board or corporation violating
any provision of this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each and every offense, including costs of suit, and
upon a failure to pay said fine and costs, the offender shall be confined in
the jail at the rate of thirty five dollars ($35.00) per day until said fine
and costs are paid. (Ord. 130, 11-6-1914; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: License Required
5-3-3: Animals At Large; Impoundment
5-3-4: Nonresidents And New Residents
5-3-5: Liability For Damage To Property
5-3-6: Animals Causing Damage Or Injury
5-3-7: Howling Or Barking Dogs
5-3-8: Impoundment
5-3-9: Disposition Of Unclaimed, Dangerous Or Rabid Animals
5-3-10: Animal Waste
5-3-11: Number; Limitations
5-3-12: Pen And Premises; Sanitary Requirements
5-3-13: Vicious Animals; Restraint
5-3-14: Livestock And Fowl
5-3-15: Wild Animals
5-3-16: Revision Of Fees
5-3-17: Citation To Owner
5-3-18: Violation; Penalty
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: Includes Latah County sheriff deputies, dog catcher,
and/or any animal control officer so designated by the city.
AT LARGE: Off the premises of the owner and not under the control of the owner
or a member of his immediate family or an agent or employee of the owner by
leash, cord, chain or otherwise. For purposes of defining "at large", a dog in
the owner's or keeper's vehicle shall not be considered to be "at large".
DOG: Any member, male or female, of the genus Canis familiaris.
HARBORING: Maintaining any premises on which an animal remains or to which it
customarily returns daily for food. Care of an animal for a period of five (5)
days or longer is presumed to be harboring or keeping the animal within the
meaning of this chapter.
KEEPER: The owner or person caring for or harboring an animal, or a person or
entity having the immediate care, custody, or control of an animal, or any
person apparently acting on behalf of a keeper with the express or implied
permission or the keeper.
KENNEL: Any lot or premises or portion thereof, other than a veterinary
hospital, on which four (4) or more dogs or cats are maintained, harbored,
possessed, boarded, bred, or cared for shall be deemed a kennel for purposes of
this chapter.
LEASH: A cord, chain, or rope of the length sufficient to restrict the dog to
the owner's property and; when the dog is off the owner's property, the leash
shall not be more than eight feet (8') in length.
LIVESTOCK: Any animal normally kept for breeding, product or work including,
but not limited to: cow, calf, ox, steer, bull, horse, mare, colt, stallion,
mule, jack, jenny, hog, pig, goat, kid, llama, emu, sheep, lamb, rabbit or
guinea pig.
PREMISES: Any real property and its appurtenances.
PUBLIC NUISANCE ANIMAL: Any animal which unreasonably: a) annoys humans, b)
endangers the life or health of other animals or persons, c) gives offense to
human senses, or d) which substantially interferes with the rights of citizens
other than its owner, to enjoyment of life or property. The term "public
nuisance animal" shall mean and include, but is not limited to, any animal
which:
A. Is repeatedly found at large; or
B. Damages the property of anyone other than its owner; or
C. Chases vehicles; or
D. Excessively makes disturbing noises including, but not limited to, continued
and repeated howling, barking, whining, or other utterances causing
unreasonable annoyance, disturbance, or discomfort to neighbors or others; or
E. Causes fouling of the air by odor and causing thereby unreasonable annoyance
or discomfort to neighbors or others; or
F. Causes unsanitary conditions in enclosures or other surroundings where the
animal is kept or harbored; or
G. By virtue of the number or types of animals maintained, is offensive or
dangerous to the public health, safety, or welfare; or
H. Attacks other domestic animals.
UNDER CONTROL: The restraint of any animal by means of a leash or other device
that physically restrains the animal to the keeper's immediate proximity, thus
preventing the animal from trespassing upon the property of others or chasing
other persons, animals, or motorized or nonmotorized vehicles of any sort. An
animal, which is otherwise securely confined in or upon any motor vehicle,
shall be deemed to be under control.
VICIOUS DOG: A. Any dog with a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to
attack unprovoked, to cause injury to, or otherwise threaten the safety of
human beings or domestic animals; or
B. Any dog which, because of its size, physical nature, or vicious propensity,
is capable of inflicting serious physical harm or death to humans and which
would constitute a danger to human life or property if it were not kept in the
manner required by this chapter; or
C. Any dog which, without provocation, attacks or bites, or has attacked or
bitten, a human being or domestic animal; or
D. Any dog owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of
dogfighting, or any dog trained for dogfighting.
WILD ANIMAL: Any live monkey or ape, raccoon, skunk, fox, snake or other
reptile, leopard, wolf, coyote, panther, tiger, bear, lion, lynx or any other
animal or any bird of prey which can normally be found in a wild state. (Ord.
707, 10-10-2005; amd. 2009 Code)
5-3-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.    License Required: All dogs kept, harbored or maintained by their
owners in the city shall be registered and licensed.
   B.    Application: The owner shall state, at the time application is made
for such license and upon printed forms provided for such purpose, his name and
address and description of the dog to be licensed in such manner that the dog
may be identified with reasonable certainty, and the name to which the dog
answers.
   C.    Term Of License; Renewal: Each license issued under the provisions of
this chapter shall be valid until and including December 31 of the year for
which it was issued, and shall be renewed annually. Such renewal shall be
effective as of January 1 and shall be made not later than February 1 of each
year.
   D.    Metal Tag: All dogs in excess of six (6) months of age kept, harbored
or maintained in the city shall wear a metal tag evidencing such licensing at
all times.
   E.    Evidence Of Rabies Inoculation, Spaying Or Neutering: Each applicant
for a license shall present to the city clerk satisfactory evidence that every
dog over six (6) months of age has been inoculated against rabies according to
standard veterinary practices, and such applicant for the license of a spayed
female or neutered male shall present evidence satisfactory to the city clerk
that said female/male has been spayed or neutered prior to issuing any license.
   F.    Receipt: Upon application, payment of fees and submission of evidence
of rabies inoculation and spaying as required, the city clerk shall issue to
the applicant a receipt designating the name of the applicant, the number of
the license to be issued, sex of the dog, amount paid by the applicant and a
metal tag bearing the number corresponding to that on the receipt. It shall be
unlawful for anyone to make false statements on said application for license.
   G.    Duplicate Tag: A charge of one dollar ($1.00) shall be made for each
lost license tag replaced and issued by the city clerk when requested by the
person having charge of any licensed dog. (Ord. 707, 10-10-2005)
   H.    Exemption: Assistance dogs properly trained to assist people with
disabilities when such dogs are actually used by such disabled person for the
purpose of aiding them in going from place to place, shall be licensed without
charge and, except for this licensing provision shall be exempt from the
provisions of this chapter.
   I.    License Fees: The clerk shall collect from each applicant, the license
fee established from time to time by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 707,
10-10-2005; amd. 2009 Code)
5-3-3: ANIMALS AT LARGE; IMPOUNDMENT:
No owner or keeper of any animal shall allow or permit such animal to be at
large within the corporate limits of the city whether licensed or unlicensed at
any time. No animal of fierce, dangerous or vicious propensities, whether
licensed or unlicensed, shall be permitted to run at large within the corporate
limits of the municipality at any time during the year. Any animal that is so
at large is hereby declared to be a nuisance. Any person may take up said
animal and deliver it to animal control in Latah County. In any prosecution
under this section, it shall not be necessary to allege or prove any intent on
the part of the owner or keeper of an animal to allow or permit such animal to
run at large. Owners or keepers of animals shall pay all impound fees owing
prior to release of such animal. If an owner is known or may be determined, an
officer may, as an alternative, or in addition, to impoundment, issue to the
owner or keeper of the dog a citation and complaint in the form and manner
prescribed by law. (Ord. 707, 10-10-2005)
5-3-4: NONRESIDENTS AND NEW RESIDENTS:
Any licensing provision of this chapter shall not apply to any dog owned by
nonresidents, or to dogs brought into the city for temporary purposes. New
residents and new owners shall purchase licenses at the regular fee within
thirty (30) days of their bringing a dog into the city. (Ord. 707, 10-10-2005)
5-3-5: LIABILITY FOR DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
The owner, harborer or keeper of any animal that does damage to property other
than his own, shall be liable to that property owner for the damages suffered
and costs of suit, if any, in the prosecution of sanctions for such damages. It
is not necessary for the plaintiff to show that the owner who harbored or kept
such animal had knowledge of the fact that such animal was doing said damage to
the property. (Ord. 707, 10-10-2005)
5-3-6: ANIMALS CAUSING DAMAGE OR INJURY:
   A.    Notice: After complaint of an attack by an animal on a person or
injury caused by an animal either on or off the owner's property, with evidence
of such injury or damage, has been made to the animal control officer, he or
she shall serve a notice, either in writing or in person, upon the owner or
keeper of the animal complained upon. Such notice shall inform the owner or
keeper of the damage or injury caused by such animal.
   B.    Animal Quarantined:
      1.    Animal Bite: In the case of a citizen being bitten by an animal,
the animal shall be held in quarantine for a period of fifteen (15) days during
which said animal shall be observed to determine whether the animal has rabies.
      2.    Positive For Rabies: If the animal is determined to have rabies,
the animal shall be destroyed.
      3.    Negative For Rabies: If the animal is found not to have rabies, the
animal shall be returned to the owner or keeper upon the payment of all costs
and expenses incurred, including any veterinarian charges incurred in
determining whether the animal has rabies.
      4.    Place Of Quarantine: The place of quarantine shall be at the
discretion of the animal control officer.
   C.    Secure Confinement Required: After being so notified, any owner or
keeper of such animal shall thereafter keep such animal securely confined
within an adequate enclosure.
   D.    Subsequent Bite: Upon a finding by a court based upon a preponderance
of the evidence that an animal has twice bitten a person or persons without
provocation or justification within a consecutive twenty four (24) month
period, the court may order such action which the court, in its discretion,
believes is appropriate, up to and including euthanasia, in order to assure
that the animal does not bite persons in the city again. (Ord. 707, 10-10-2005)
5-3-7: HOWLING OR BARKING DOGS:
It is unlawful for any person or entity to keep on their premises or under
their control any dog which, by loud and frequent barking and howling, disturbs
the peace and quiet of any person who may reside within reasonable proximity of
the place where such dog is kept. Such barking or howling is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance. The animal control officer may order the owner or keeper
of such a dog to immediately abate such public nuisance, and the failure of an
owner or keeper of such a dog to comply with such an order shall be a violation
of this chapter. (Ord. 707, 10-10-2005)
5-3-8: IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.    Power To Impound: Any animal, whether licensed or unlicensed, running
at large in the city may be impounded whenever such animal may be found by the
animal control officer.
   B.    Owner Known: If the owner of such animal be known, the officer shall
notify him/her in person, by telephone or in writing and may release the animal
to the owner, after the proper fees have been collected, and may issue an
appropriate citation. The officer may issue an appropriate citation to the
owner of such animal without obtaining possession of said animal.
   C.    Owner Unknown: In the event the animal is impounded and the owner or
person in charge of the animal be unknown, a public notice shall be given
promptly, in writing, by posting said notice in two (2) public places within
the city, with one of the places being at the front of city hall.
   D.    Impound Fees: The owner or person in charge of any animal impounded
under the provisions of this chapter may recover possession of such animal by
payment of the annual license fee, if any, and an additional sum of twenty
dollars ($20.00) to cover costs of impounding and giving notice, and an
additional sum of five dollars ($5.00) per day for care and feeding of such
animal. The fees as stated in this section shall be in addition to whatever
penalty may be imposed as a result of any citation which may be issued for a
violation of this chapter which penalty is prescribed by section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 707, 10-10-2005)
5-3-9: DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED, DANGEROUS OR RABID ANIMALS:
   A.    Duty To Keep And Impound: It shall be the duty of the animal control
officer to keep all impounded animals for a period of a least five (5) days
after the posting and giving of all required notices of the impounding of any
animal.
   B.    Disposition:
      1.    Unclaimed Animals: Any notice given by mail shall be deemed given
on the date of such mailing. If, at the expiration of five (5) days from the
date of posting or giving of such notice, the animal shall not have been
redeemed by the owner, it may be disposed of or sold for the sum of money
sufficient to cover the costs and charges incurred by the city for impounding
and keeping the animal along with the annual license fee for the current year.
      2.    Rabid Or Dangerous Animals: Provided, that no such animal which
appears to be suffering from rabies or any animal of fierce, dangerous or
vicious propensities shall be released from the pound but shall be disposed of
in a proper manner.
   C.    Ownership Of Adoptee: The adoptee of animals under the provisions of
this section shall become the owner of the animal free from any claim or title
of the original owner or keeper. (Ord. 707, 10-10-2005)
5-3-10: ANIMAL WASTE:
   A.    Removal Required: The owner or keeper of any animal shall immediately
remove any solid excreta deposited by any animal which he or she owns or keeps
on public walks and streets, in any park or other recreation area, or on
private property.
   B.    Failure To Remove: Failure to remove such waste shall constitute a
nuisance and the owner or keeper of such animal who knowingly fails to remove
such waste shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 707, 10-10-2005)
5-3-11: NUMBER; LIMITATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor more than four (4)
dogs, cats, rabbits and guinea pigs over six (6) months old within the
corporate limits of this city; except, that this provision shall not apply to
dog hospitals and veterinarians when dogs, cats, rabbits or guinea pigs are
kept on the premises used by hospital and veterinarians as their normal place
of business; nor shall these provisions apply when the person is the owner or
operator of a kennel at a location permitted for such use by the city zoning
ordinance. The keeping of more than four (4) dogs, cats, rabbits or guinea pigs
on the premises of the owner or keeper shall be prima facie evidence of a
violation of this section and the burden of proof shall be on the owner or
keeper to show the ages of such dogs, cats, rabbits or guinea pigs. (Ord. 712,
6-25-2007)
5-3-12: PEN AND PREMISES; SANITARY REQUIREMENTS:
It is unlawful for any person or entity keeping or harboring animals to fail to
keep the premises where such animals are kept free from offensive odors to the
extent that such odors are disturbing to the person(s) residing within a
reasonable proximity to the premises. It is unlawful to allow premises where
animals are kept to become unclean and a threat to the public health by failing
to diligently and systematically remove all animal waste from the premises.
(Ord. 707, 10-10-2005)
5-3-13: VICIOUS ANIMALS; RESTRAINT:
All animals which are known or suspected of being vicious must be properly kept
in an enclosure or securely tied and fastened, muzzled, and chained, if
necessary, to restrain said animal and must be restricted to the owner's
premises. Printed notices shall be conspicuously displayed whereby passing
persons in the vicinity of where such animals may be kept may see the same.
(Ord. 707, 10-10-2005)
5-3-14: LIVESTOCK AND FOWL:
   A.    Compliance With Zoning Ordinance: No person shall keep or maintain any
livestock or fowl within the city except as authorized by city zoning
ordinances.
   B.    Sanitary Regulations: Every person keeping or maintaining livestock
and fowl within the city shall keep and maintain the same in a clean and
sanitary condition, shall at all times comply with the sanitary regulations
imposed by the animal control officer, and shall not permit such livestock or
fowl to become or remain public nuisance animals.
   C.    At Large: No person shall permit any livestock or fowl to be at large
in or upon any street, avenue, alley or public grounds of the city or upon the
premises of another within the city without the consent of the owner of such
premises. (Ord. 707, 10-10-2005)
5-3-15: WILD ANIMALS:
   A.    Prohibited; Exception: No person shall keep or permit to be kept on
his premises any wild animal for display or exhibition purposes. This shall not
be construed to apply to humane research programs, zoological parks, or
circuses.
   B.    Fish And Game Permit Required: No person shall keep or permit to be
kept any wild animal as a pet unless a permit has been granted by the director
of the state department of fish and game.
   C.    Secure Enclosure And Safeguards: The animal control officer is
authorized to require such person to provide such secure enclosures and
safeguards as are necessary to protect residents from injury and ensure the
peaceful enjoyment of their property.
   D.    Liability For Damages: Any person owning or harboring any wild animal
shall be strictly liable for damages caused by such animal. (Ord. 707, 10-10-
2005)
5-3-16: REVISION OF FEES:
Any fee required by this chapter may be revised by the city council by
resolution. (Ord. 707, 10-10-2005)
5-3-17: CITATION TO OWNER:
It is hereby declared to be an infraction for any person to permit an animal to
run at large in violation of the provisions of this chapter. Such infraction
shall be punishable by a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00), plus court
costs. It shall be the duty of every law enforcement officer who sees an animal
running at large during a period of time when said animal should be confined or
restrained by the owner or keeper thereof as provided herein, to cite the owner
of said animal, if the owner of the animal is known, with a citation. In the
event that the owner is cited with a misdemeanor, the officer is not required
to impound the dog. If the owner of the dog running at large is not known, the
dog shall, in all cases, be impounded. (Ord. 717, 2-25-2008; amd. 2009 Code)
5-3-18: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Each day of any unlawful activity specified under this chapter shall constitute
a separate violation. Any person who violates any provision of this chapter,
other than the provisions for sections
5-3-3 and
5-3-17 of this chapter, or fails to comply with the provisions of this chapter
is guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisonment of not more than thirty (30) days in jail,
or both. (Ord. 717, 2-25-2008; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 4
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definition
5-4-2: Discharge Prohibited
5-4-3: Sale Prohibited
5-4-4: Violation; Penalty
5-4-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this chapter, "fireworks" shall mean any explosive composition, or
any substance or combination of substances, or article prepared for the purpose
of producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration
or detonation. Fireworks include items classified as common or special
fireworks by the United States bureau of explosives or contained in the
regulations of the United States department of transportation and designated as
UN 0335 1.3G or UN 0336 1.4G. The term "fireworks" shall not include any
automotive safety flares, toy guns, toy cannons, caps or other items designed
for use with toy guns or toy cannons, party poppers, pop-its or other devices
which contain twenty five hundredths (0.25) of a grain or less of explosive
substance. (2009 Code)
5-4-2: DISCHARGE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to fire or discharge any
"fireworks" as defined in section
5-4-1 of this chapter; provided, however, that the city council may permit the
public display by responsible persons or organizations of fireworks of such
character and in such location as in their judgment shall not be hazardous to
the surrounding property or endanger public safety. (Ord. 244, 3-4-1941; amd.
2009 Code)
5-4-3: SALE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation in the city to sell or
offer for sale at retail any "fireworks" as defined in section
5-4-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 244, 3-4-1941; amd. 2009 Code)
5-4-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 244, 3-4-1941; amd. 2009 Code)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: State Laws Adopted
6-1-2: Title
6-1-3: Exercise Of Police Powers
6-1-4: Definitions
6-1-5: Caution To Be Observed
6-1-6: Turning
6-1-7: Right Of Way Of Vehicles And Pedestrians
6-1-8: Limitations On Backing
6-1-9: Truck Parking
6-1-10: Violation; Penalty
6-1-1: STATE LAWS ADOPTED:
   A.    Intent: It is hereby declared to be the intent of the city council to
aid and assist by whatever means possible, for the utmost consistency in
traffic regulation among and between agencies of Idaho having jurisdiction.
Towards that end, adoption of the Idaho motor vehicle laws by the cities of
Idaho is a necessary means of assuring maximum uniformity within the state.
   B.    Adoption: There is hereby adopted, therefore, for the purpose of
establishing rules and regulations for the use of all streets and public
thoroughfares of the city, that certain code, identified as Idaho motor vehicle
laws, more particularly title 49, Idaho Code, published by the department of
law enforcement, latest edition, and as the same may hereafter be revised by
the Idaho legislature, or amended by the city council, and the same is hereby
adopted and incorporated as an ordinance of the city as fully as though set
forth at length herein.
   C.    Copy On File: One copy of the Idaho motor vehicle laws, together with
any revisions or amendments, duly certified by the clerk, shall be kept on file
in her office for use and examination of and by the general public. (2009 Code)
6-1-2: TITLE:
This chapter shall constitute the "traffic code" of the city and may be cited
as such. It comprises all general regulations relating to travel and traffic
and parking and standing upon the streets and public highways and all other
places open to the public for the use of vehicles, and the rights, duties and
restraints of persons as the same pertains therein. (Ord. 252, 11-29-1945)
6-1-3: EXERCISE OF POLICE POWERS:
This chapter is hereby declared to be an exercise of the police power of the
state of Idaho and the city for the public safety, and its provisions shall be
liberally construed for the accomplishment of that purpose. (Ord. 252, 11-29-
1945)
6-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
The words and phrases herein used unless the same shall be clearly to the
contrary of, or inconsistent with, the context of this chapter or of the
section in which it is used shall be construed as follows:
AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Vehicles operated by any fire department or law
enforcement agency of the state of Idaho or any political subdivision of the
state, ambulances, vehicles belonging to personnel of voluntary fire
departments while in performance of official duties only, vehicles belonging
to, or operated by EMS personnel certified or otherwise recognized by the EMS
bureau of the Idaho department of health and welfare while in the performance
of emergency medical services, sheriff's search and rescue vehicles which are
under the immediate supervision of the county sheriff, wreckers which are
engaged in motor vehicle recovery operations and are blocking part or all of
one or more lanes of traffic, other emergency vehicles designated by the
director of the Idaho state police or vehicles authorized by the Idaho
transportation board and used in the enforcement of laws specified in Idaho
Code section 40-510, pertaining to vehicles of ten thousand (10,000) pounds or
greater.
CROSSING AT STREET INTERSECTIONS: Those pedestrians crossing areas at street
intersections bounded by parallel yellow lines marked on the surface of the
street.
CROSSWALK: That street crossing area located on the street between which there
are diagonal lines marked with white or yellow paint.
CURB: The boundary of that portion of the street open to the public for the use
of vehicles.
HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part is open to the use of the public for vehicular travel,
with jurisdiction extending to the adjacent property line, including sidewalks,
shoulders, berms and rights of way not intended for motorized traffic. The term
"street" is interchangeable with "highway" as defined herein.
  Arterial: Any highway designated by the local authority as part of a major
arterial system of highways within its jurisdiction.
  Controlled Access: Any highway or roadway in respect to which owners or
occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal right of access to
or from the highway except at such points only or in such manner as may be
determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over the highway.
  Through: Any highway or portion of it on which vehicular traffic is given
preferential right of way, and at the entrances to which vehicular traffic from
intersecting highways is required by law to yield the right of way to vehicles
on the through highway in obedience to a stop sign, yield sign, or other
traffic control device.
INTERSECTION: A. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two (2) highways which join one another at, or approximately at,
right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
B. Where a highway includes two (2) roadways thirty feet (30') or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event an
intersecting highway also includes two (2) roadways thirty feet (30') or more
apart, then every crossing of two (2) roadways of the highways shall be
regarded as a separate intersection.
C. The junction of an alley with a street or highway shall not constitute an
intersection.
MOPED: A limited speed, motor driven cycle having:
A. Both motorized and pedal propulsion that is not capable of propelling the
vehicle at a speed in excess of thirty (30) miles per hour on level ground,
whether two (2) or three (3) wheels are in contact with the ground during
operation. If an internal combustion engine is used, the displacement shall not
exceed fifty (50) cubic centimeters. The moped shall have a power drive system
that functions directly or automatically without clutching or shifting by the
operator after the drive system is engaged; or
B. Two (2) wheels or three (3) wheels with no pedals, which is powered solely
by electrical energy, has an automatic transmission, a motor which produces
less than two (2) gross brake horsepower, is capable of propelling the device
at a maximum speed of not more than thirty (30) miles per hour on level ground
and as originally manufactured, meets federal motor vehicle safety standards
for motor driven cycles. A moped is not required to be titled and no motorcycle
endorsement is required for its operator.
MOTOR DRIVEN CYCLE: A cycle with a motor that produces five (5) brake
horsepower or less as originally manufactured that meets federal motor vehicle
safety standards as originally designed, and does not include mopeds. Such
vehicle shall be titled and a motorcycle endorsement is required for its
operation.
MOTORBIKE: A "vehicle" as defined in Idaho Code section 67-7101. Such vehicle
shall be titled and may be approved for motorcycle registration pursuant to
(under) Idaho Code section 49-402, upon certification by the owner of the
installation and use of conversion components that make the motorbike compliant
with federal motor vehicle safety standards.
MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with
the ground that meets the federal motor vehicle safety standards as originally
designed, and includes a converted motorbike, but does not include a motor
driven cycle, a motorbike, a tractor or a moped.
OWNER: A person, other than a lien holder, having the property in or title to a
vehicle. The term includes a person entitled to the use and possession of a
vehicle subject to a security interest in another person, but excludes a lessee
under a lease not intended as security. "Owner", for the purposes of this
title, means the person legally responsible for the operation of a vehicle upon
the highways of the state of Idaho, whether as owner, lessee or otherwise.
PARK OR PARKING: The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, other than
temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading property or passengers.
PERSON: Every natural person, firm, fiduciary, copartnership, association,
corporation, trustee, receiver or assignee for the benefit of creditors,
political subdivision, state or federal governmental department, agency, or
instrumentality, and for the purposes of this title shall include a private,
common or contract carrier operating a vehicle on any highway of this state.
SAFETY ZONE: The area or space officially set apart within a highway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
STANDING: The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise than
temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in receiving or
discharging passengers.
STREET: See definition of Highway.
TRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying persons or
property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle.
  Fifth Wheel Trailer: A vehicular unit equipped in the same manner as a travel
trailer but constructed with a raised forward section that allows a bilevel
floor plan. This style is designed to be towed by a vehicle equipped with a
device known as a fifth wheel hitch, which is typically installed in the bed of
a pickup truck.
  Fold Down Camping Trailer: A vehicular portable unit mounted on wheels and
constructed with collapsible partial side walls, which fold for towing by
another vehicle and unfold at the campsite to provide temporary living
quarters, for recreational, camping or travel use.
  Park Trailer: A trailer designed to be towed by a motorized vehicle, and of
such size and weight as not to require a special highway movement permit. It is
designed for seasonal or temporary living quarters and may be connected to
utilities necessary for operation of installed fixtures and appliances. It is
built on a single permanent chassis and constructed to permit setup by persons
without special skills.
  Pole Trailer: Every vehicle without motive power designed to be drawn by
another vehicle and attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach or pole,
or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing vehicle, and ordinarily
used for transporting long or irregularly shaped loads such as poles, pipes, or
structural members capable, generally, of sustaining themselves as beams
between the supporting connections.
  Semitrailer: Every vehicle without motive power, designed for carrying
persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed
that some part of its weight and that of its load rests upon or is carried by
the towing vehicle.
  Travel Trailer: A vehicular unit, mounted on wheels designed to provide
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or emergency use
and of such size or weight as not to require special highway movement permits
when towed by a motorized vehicle.
  Utility Trailer: See definition of "utility trailer", Idaho Code section 49-
122.
TRUCK: Every motor vehicle exceeding eight thousand (8,000) pounds' gross
weight designed, used or maintained primarily for the transportation of
property.
  Pickup Truck: Every motor vehicle eight thousand (8,000) pounds' gross weight
or less which is designed, used or maintained primarily for the transportation
of property.
  Refuse/Sanitation: Any vehicle designed and used solely for the purpose of
transporting refuse.
  Truck Camper: A portable unit constructed to provide temporary living
quarters for recreational, travel or camping use, consisting of a roof, floor,
and sides, designed to be loaded onto and unloaded from the bed of a pickup
truck.
  Truck Tractor: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles but not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks.
  Authorized Emergency Vehicle: See definition in this section.
  Commercial Vehicle Or Commercial Motor Vehicle: A. For the purposes of Idaho
Code title 49, chapters 3 and 9, driver's licenses and vehicle equipment, a
motor vehicle or combination of motor vehicles designed or used to transport
passengers or property if the motor vehicle:
  1. Has a manufacturer's gross combination weight rating (GCWR) in excess of
twenty six thousand (26,000) pounds inclusive of a towed unit with a
manufacturer's gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of more than ten thousand
(10,000) pounds; or
  2. Has a manufacturer's gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) in excess of
twenty six thousand (26,000) pounds; or
  3. Is designed to transport sixteen (16) or more people, including the
driver; or
  4. Is of any size and is used in the transportation of materials found to be
hazardous for the purposes of the hazardous material transportation act and
which require the motor vehicle to be placarded under the hazardous materials
regulations (49 CFR part 172, subpart F).
B. For the purposes of Idaho Code title 49, chapter 4, motor vehicle
registration, a vehicle or combination of vehicles of a type used or maintained
for the transportation of persons for hire, compensation or profit, or the
transportation of property for the owner of the vehicle, or for hire,
compensation, or profit, and shall include fixed load specially constructed
vehicles exceeding the limits imposed by Idaho Code title 49, chapter 10, and
including drilling rigs, construction, drilling and wrecker cranes, log
jammers, log loaders, and similar vehicles which are normally operated in an
overweight or oversize condition, or both, but shall not include those vehicles
registered pursuant to Idaho Code sections 49-402 and 49-402A, or exempted by
Idaho Code section 49-426. A motor vehicle used in a ridesharing arrangement
that has a seating capacity for not more than fifteen (15) persons, including
the driver, shall not be a "commercial vehicle" under the provisions of this
title relating to equipment requirements, rules of the road, or registration.
  Farm Vehicle: A vehicle or combination of vehicles owned by a farmer or
rancher, which are operated over public highways, and used exclusively to
transport unprocessed agricultural, dairy or livestock products raised, owned
and grown by the owner of the vehicle to market or place of storage; and shall
include the transportation by the farmer or rancher of any equipment, supplies
or products purchased by that farmer or rancher for his own use, and used in
the farming or ranching operation or used by a farmer partly in transporting
agricultural products or livestock from the farm of another farmer that were
originally grown or raised on the farm, or when used partly in transporting
agricultural supplies, equipment, materials or livestock to the farm of another
farmer for use or consumption on the farm but not transported for hire, and
shall not include vehicles of husbandry or vehicles registered pursuant to
Idaho Code sections 49-402 and 49-402A.
  Foreign Vehicle: Every vehicle of a type required to be registered under the
provisions of Idaho Code title 49 brought into this state from another state,
territory or country other than in the ordinary course of business by or
through a manufacturer or dealer and not registered in this state.
  Glider Kit Vehicle: Every large truck manufactured from a kit manufactured by
a manufacturer of large trucks which consists of a frame, cab complete with
wiring, instruments, fenders and hood and front axles and wheels. The "glider
kit" is made into a complete assembly by the addition of the engine,
transmission, rear axles, wheels and tires.
  Motor Vehicle: Every vehicle which is self-propelled, and for the purpose of
titling and registration meets federal motor vehicle safety standards as
defined in Idaho Code section 49-107. Motor vehicle does not include vehicles
moved solely by human power, electric personal assistive mobility devices and
motorized wheelchairs or other such vehicles that are specifically exempt from
titling or registration requirements under Idaho Code title 49.
  Multipurpose Passenger Vehicle (MPV): A motor vehicle designed to carry ten
(10) or fewer persons which is constructed either on a truck chassis or with
special features for occasional off road operation.
  Neighborhood Electric Vehicle (NEV): A self-propelled, electrically powered,
four (4) wheeled motor vehicle which is emission free and conforms to the
definition and requirements for low speed vehicles as adopted in the federal
motor vehicle safety standards for low speed vehicles under federal regulations
at 49 CFR part 571. An NEV shall be titled, registered and insured according to
law as provided respectively in Idaho Code title 49, chapters 4, 5 and 12, and
shall only be operated by a licensed driver. Operation of an NEV on a highway
shall be allowed as provided in Idaho Code section 49-663.
  Noncommercial Vehicle: Shall not include those vehicles required to be
registered under Idaho Code sections 49-402 and 49-402A, and means all other
vehicles or combinations of vehicles which are not commercial vehicles or farm
vehicles, but shall include motor homes. A noncommercial vehicle shall include
those vehicles having a combined gross weight not in excess of sixty thousand
(60,000) pounds and not held out for hire, used for purposes related to private
use and not used in the furtherance of a business or occupation for
compensation or profit or for transporting goods for other than the owner.
  Passenger Car: A motor vehicle, except a multipurpose passenger vehicle,
motorcycle or trailer, designed to carry ten (10) or fewer persons.
  Rebuilt Salvage Vehicle: Every vehicle that has been rebuilt or repaired
using like make and model parts and visually appears as a vehicle that was
originally constructed under a distinctive manufacturer. This includes a
salvage vehicle which is damaged to the extent that a "rebuilt salvage" brand
is required to be added to the title.
  Reconstructed Vehicles: Vehicles which have been reconstructed by the use of
a kit designed to be used to construct an exact replica of a vehicle which was
previously constructed under a distinctive name, make, model or type by a
generally recognized manufacturer of vehicles. A glider kit vehicle is not a
reconstructed vehicle.
  Replica Vehicle: A vehicle made to replicate any passenger car or truck
previously manufactured, using metal, fiberglass or other composite materials.
Replica vehicles must look like the original vehicle being replicated but may
use a more modern drive train. At a minimum, replica vehicles shall meet the
same federal motor vehicle safety and emission standards in effect for the year
and type of vehicle being replicated.
  Salvage Vehicle: Any vehicle for which a salvage certificate, salvage bill of
sale or other documentation showing evidence that the vehicle has been declared
salvage or which has been damaged to the extent that the owner, or an insurer,
or other person acting on behalf of the owner, determines that the cost of
parts and labor minus the salvage value makes it uneconomical to repair or
rebuild. When an insurance company has paid money or has made other monetary
settlement as compensation for a total loss of any vehicle, such vehicle shall
be considered to be a salvage vehicle.
  Specially Constructed Vehicle: A. Every vehicle of a type required to be
registered not originally constructed under a distinctive name, make, model or
type by a generally recognized manufacturer of vehicles and not materially
altered from its original construction and cannot be visually identified as a
vehicle produced by a particular manufacturer. This includes:
  1. A vehicle that has been structurally modified so that it does not have the
same appearance as a similar vehicle from the same manufacturer; or
  2. A vehicle that has been constructed entirely from homemade parts and
materials not obtained from other vehicles; or
  3. A vehicle that has been constructed by using major component parts from
one or more manufactured vehicles and cannot be identified as a specific make
or model; or
  4. A vehicle constructed by the use of a custom kit that cannot be visually
identified as a specific make or model.
B. All specially constructed vehicles of a type required to be registered shall
be certified by the owner to meet all applicable federal motor vehicle safety
standards in effect at the time construction is completed, and all requirements
of Idaho Code title 49, chapter 9.
  Total Loss Vehicle: Every vehicle that is deemed to be uneconomical to
repair. A total loss shall occur when an insurance company or any other person
pays or makes other monetary settlement to the owner when it is deemed to be
uneconomical to repair the damaged vehicle. The compensation for total loss as
defined herein shall not include payments by an insurer or other person for
medical care, bodily injury, vehicle rental or for anything other than the
amount paid for the actual damage to the vehicle. (Ord. 252, 11-29-1945; amd.
Ord. 503, 8-1-1961; 2009 Code)
6-1-5: CAUTION TO BE OBSERVED:
   A.    Drivers To Exercise Due Care: Notwithstanding other provisions of this
title or the provisions of any local ordinance, every driver of a vehicle shall
exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian or any person
propelling a human powered vehicle and shall give an audible signal when
necessary. Every driver shall exercise proper precaution upon observing any
child or any obviously confused, incapacitated or intoxicated person.
   B.    Emerging From Alley, Driveway Or Building: The driver of a vehicle
emerging from an alley, building, private road or driveway within a business or
residential district shall stop the vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a
sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across the alley, building
entrance, or driveway, or, in the event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop
at the point nearest the highway to be entered where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic. (2009 Code)
6-1-6: TURNING:
   A.    Vehicle Turning Left: The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the
left within an intersection or into an alley, private road or driveway shall
yield the right of way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction
which is within the intersection, or so close as to constitute an immediate
hazard.
   B.    Limitations On Turning Around:
      1.    The driver of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to
proceed in the opposite direction unless such movement can be made in safety
and without interfering with other traffic.
      2.    No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite
direction upon any curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade,
where the vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle approaching
from either direction within five hundred feet (500'), or where a no passing
zone has been established.
   C.    Driving On Highways Laned For Traffic: Whenever any highway has been
divided into two (2) or more clearly marked lanes for traffic the following, in
addition to all else, shall apply:
      1.    A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within
a single lane and shall not be moved from that lane until the driver has first
ascertained that the movement can be made with safety.
      2.    Upon a highway which is divided into three (3) lanes and provides
for two-way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center
lane except when overtaking and passing another vehicle traveling in the same
direction when the center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance, or
in preparation for making a left turn or where the center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the same direction that the vehicle
is proceeding and the allocation is designated by a traffic control device.
      3.    Traffic control devices may be erected directing specified traffic
to use a designated lane, or designate those lanes to be used by traffic moving
in a particular direction, regardless of the center of the highway and drivers
of vehicles shall obey the directions of every device.
      4.    Traffic control devices may be installed prohibiting the changing
of lanes on sections of highways and drivers of vehicles shall obey the
directions of every device.
   D.    Required Position And Method Of Turning: The driver of a vehicle
intending to turn shall do so as follows:
      1.    Both the approach for a right turn and the right turn shall be made
as close as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      2.    The driver of a vehicle intending to turn left shall approach the
turn in the extreme left hand lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the
direction of travel of the vehicle. Whenever practicable the left turn shall be
made to the left of the center of the intersection and so as to leave the
intersection or other location in the extreme left hand lane lawfully available
to traffic moving in the same direction on the highway being entered.
      3.    Where a special lane for making left turns by drivers proceeding in
opposite directions has been indicated by traffic control devices:
         a.    A left turn shall not be made from any other lane;
         b.    A vehicle shall not be driven in the lane except when preparing
for or making a left turn from or into the highway or when preparing for or
making a U-turn when otherwise permitted by law. (2009 Code)
6-1-7: RIGHT OF WAY OF VEHICLES AND PEDESTRIANS:
   A.    Pedestrian Right Of Way In Crosswalks:
      1.    When traffic control signals are not in place or not in operation
the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way, slowing down or stopping,
if need be, to yield to a pedestrian crossing the highway within a crosswalk.
      2.    No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety
and walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close as to constitute
an immediate hazard.
      3.    Subsection A1 of this section shall not apply under the conditions
stated in Idaho Code section 49-704(2).
      4.    Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at an
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
highway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
      5.    Except where otherwise indicated by a crosswalk or other traffic
control devices a pedestrian shall cross the highway at right angles to the
curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb.
   B.    Pedestrian Right Of Way On Sidewalks: The driver of a vehicle crossing
a sidewalk shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian and all other traffic
on the sidewalk.
   C.    Crossing At Other Than Crosswalks:
      1.    Every pedestrian crossing a highway at any point other than within
a marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall
yield the right of way to all vehicles upon the highway.
      2.    Any pedestrian crossing a highway at a point where a pedestrian
tunnel or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right
of way to all vehicles upon the highway.
      3.    Between adjacent intersections at which traffic control signals are
in operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
      4.    No pedestrian shall cross a highway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by traffic control devices. When authorized to cross diagonally,
pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the traffic control devices
pertaining to crossing movements. (2009 Code)
   D.    Violation; Penalty: Any person violating or failing to comply with any
of the provisions of this section, or any person who shall counsel, aid or abet
any such violation or failure to comply shall, upon conviction, be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 503, 8-1-1961; amd. 2009 Code)
6-1-8: LIMITATIONS ON BACKING:
   A.    When Permitted: The driver of a vehicle shall not back the vehicle
unless that movement can be made with safety and without interfering with other
traffic.
   B.    Controlled Access Highway: The driver of a vehicle shall not back it
upon any shoulder or lane of travel of any controlled access highway. (2009
Code)
6-1-9: TRUCK PARKING:
   A.    Definition: A "truck" within the terms of this section meaning a truck
of one ton and larger, ordinary pickup type trucks not being within the terms
hereof.
   B.    Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to park a truck on Main Street
between Sixth and Seventh Street and on the south side of Main Street between
Fifth And Sixth Street, within the city. (Ord. 252, 11-29-1945; amd. 2009 Code)
6-1-10: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm, corporation or association violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall, upon conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code; and in default of the payment of the fine and costs
incurred under any of the provisions of this ordinance, the offender shall be
confined in the county jail, one day for each thirty five dollars ($35.00),
until such fine and costs have been fully paid. (Ord. 252, 11-29-1945; amd.
2009 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Definitions
6-2-2: Nuisance; Owner Responsible
6-2-3: Limited Parking
6-2-4: City Public Works Director; Designation And Signs
6-2-5: Forty Eight Hour Parking; Abandoned Vehicles; Impoundment
6-2-6: Repairing Vehicle On Street
6-2-7: Double Parking
6-2-8: Ticketing Of Vehicles; Fines
6-2-9: Removal Of Vehicles; Towing; Storage
6-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
All terms used in this chapter shall have the meaning given to them by Idaho
Code. (Ord. 676, 4-14-1998)
6-2-2: NUISANCE; OWNER RESPONSIBLE:
Any vehicle parked in violation of the provisions of this chapter is hereby
declared to be a nuisance. It is further declared that the registered owner of
the vehicle shall be deemed the party responsible for the unlawful use of such
vehicle as to the provisions of this chapter and shall be prima facie
responsible for any violation as to the unattended standing or parking of his
or her vehicle. (Ord. 676, 4-14-1998)
6-2-3: LIMITED PARKING:
   A.    Power Of Council To Regulate Or Restrict: Where, in the public
interest, the city council determines that various parking areas on public
rights of way or property should have limited time duration parking, or utilize
coin operated parking meters, or have restricted hours of parking, the city
council may, by ordinance or resolution, regulate and restrict public parking
in such manner as it determines to be in the public interest. Maps setting
forth areas where parking is limited shall be on file in the office of the city
clerk and shall serve as additional notice of such limitations.
   B.    Authority Of Public Works Director: The city public works director is
hereby authorized to prohibit parking on narrow streets and to erect such signs
as are necessary to provide notice to the driving public of such zones.
   C.    Zone Establishment: The city council has heretofore established, and
shall hereafter establish, from time to time as it deems proper and necessary
for the control of traffic, parking zones upon the streets of the city. The
establishment of, and all changes in, such zones shall be only as duly ordered
by the city council and entered in the official minutes of its meetings.
   D.    Designation: The city shall designate all parking and loading zones by
causing the appropriate parking signs to be installed informing the public of
the location of the restricted parking and the parking time allowed therein.
(Ord. 676, 4-14-1998)
6-2-4: CITY PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR; DESIGNATION AND SIGNS:
The city public works director is hereby directed to designate such parking
areas as are necessary for the purposes of limited parking for, but not limited
to, the following purposes: handicapped parking, loading zones, bus stop zones,
taxi zones, or where the stopping or parking of vehicles would create hazardous
conditions or cause unusual delay in traffic. (Ord. 676, 4-14-1998)
6-2-5: FORTY EIGHT HOUR PARKING; ABANDONED VEHICLES; IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.    Time Restriction: No person who owns or has possession of, or custody
or control of, any vehicle shall park or leave standing such vehicle upon any
street or alley for a period in excess of forty eight (48) consecutive hours.
In the event a vehicle is parked or left standing upon a street in excess of
this time period, in addition to the other remedies contained in this chapter,
any law enforcement officer authorized by the Latah County sheriff may remove
the vehicle from the street in the manner and subject to the requirements of
Idaho Code.
   B.    Interference With Snow Removal: It is unlawful for any person to park
a motor vehicle or leave any other obstruction adjacent to or on a public
street in such a manner as to interfere with snow removal by the city. (Ord.
676, 4-14-1998)
6-2-6: REPAIRING VEHICLE ON STREET:
No construction, repairing, overhauling, remodeling or other type of work other
than in case of extreme emergency shall be performed on any vehicle or other
property upon any street, alley, park, parking lot or other public property
within the city. (Ord. 676, 4-14-1998)
6-2-7: DOUBLE PARKING:
Double parking shall be prohibited on the streets of the city and it shall be
unlawful for a vehicle to be left unattended on any street unless the same is
legally parked on the right hand side of the street. All vehicles parked on
Main Street shall park parallel with the curb, with the exception of those
portions of Main Street marked for diagonal parking. (Ord. 252, 11-29-1945)
6-2-8: TICKETING OF VEHICLES; FINES:
   A.    Notice Of Violation:
      1.    Issuance: Any motor vehicle, trailer, or other vehicle found parked
along a street or alley in violation of the parking restrictions imposed by
this chapter may be issued a notice of violation.
      2.    Payment: This violation may be paid within fifteen (15) days at
city hall pursuant to a fine schedule adopted by resolution of the city
council. (Ord. 676, 4-14-1998)
      3.    Nonpayment; Issuance Of Uniform Traffic Citation: If unpaid, a
uniform traffic citation shall issue in the same manner as uniform traffic
citations for other violations issued within the corporate limits. If the motor
vehicle, trailer or other vehicle is removed by the city as provided in
subsection 6-2-5A of this chapter, the amount of the fine for the traffic
citation shall be in addition to the cost of towing and impound or storage
fees. (Ord. 676, 4-14-1998; amd. 2009 Code)
      4.    Payment Of Fees: All traffic citations shall be paid in the amount
and within the times provided by law. The portion of collected fines received
by the city shall be deposited into the city general fund.
   B.    Exceptions: Any charge under this chapter shall be dismissed when the
person charged has made a bona fide sale or transfer of the vehicle and has
delivered possession thereof through the purchaser, and has advised the Latah
County sheriff's office, within twenty (20) days of notice of the violation, of
the name and address of the purchaser along with proof of the date of sale.
   C.    Separate Offense: Each limited time period for which a vehicle is
parked shall constitute a separate violation of this chapter (if a vehicle is
parked more than 6 hours in a 3 hour limited parking zone, 2 separate
violations have taken place). Either the registered owner of the vehicle or the
driver, if known, may be cited. However, only one citation may be issued for
each violation.
   D.    Violation; Infraction: Any violation of any provision of this chapter
cited by a uniform traffic citation shall be an infraction, punishable by a
fine not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 676, 4-14-1998)
6-2-9: REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; TOWING; STORAGE:
   A.    Towing; Storage: In addition to issuance of a uniform traffic citation
as provided in section
6-2-8 of this chapter, any motor vehicle, trailer or other vehicle parked upon
a street or alley in violation of the parking restrictions imposed by this
chapter may be removed at any time at the direction of any duly designated or
authorized representative, employee or agent of the city, and may be towed to a
storage area designated by the city without notice to the owner of the motor
vehicle, trailer or other vehicle. The public or private storage area used to
store such vehicles need not be an enclosed or secured area. The towing may be
done by any licensed towing service or by city personnel. All towing and
impound or storage fees shall be paid by the owner or operator of the motor
vehicle, trailer or other vehicle directly to the private towing service
operator or to the city before the motor vehicle, trailer or other vehicle is
released. The towing and impound or storage fees paid to the city shall be
deposited into the city general fund.
   B.    Unclaimed Vehicle: If unclaimed within five (5) days, the city clerk
or the towing company shall send a notice to the registered owner of the
vehicle stating that the vehicle has been towed and of the towing and storage
charges which have accrued. (Ord. 676, 4-14-1998)
CHAPTER 3
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT
SECTION:
6-3-1: Lights
6-3-2: Horns And Warning Devices
6-3-3: Mufflers, Prevention Of Noise
6-3-4: Restrictions As To Tire Equipment
6-3-5: Engine Brakes And Compression Brakes
6-3-1: LIGHTS:
   A.    When Lighted Lamps Are Required: Every vehicle upon a highway at any
time from sunset to sunrise and at any other time when there is not sufficient
light to render clearly discernible persons and vehicles on the highway at a
distance of five hundred feet (500') ahead shall display lighted lamps and
illuminating devices as respectively required by this section for different
classes of vehicles, subject to exceptions with respect to parked vehicles as
stated herein.
   B.    Visibility Distance And Mounted Height Of Lamps:
      1.    Whenever a requirement is stated as to the distance from which
certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible, or within which lamps
or devices shall be visible, those provisions shall apply during the times
stated in Idaho Code section 49-903 in respect to a vehicle without load when
upon a straight, level, unlighted highway under normal atmospheric conditions
unless a different time or condition is expressly stated.
      2.    Whenever a requirement is stated as to the mounted height of lamps
or devices, it shall mean from the center of the lamp or device to the level
ground upon which the vehicle stands when the vehicle is without a load.
   C.    Headlamps On Motor Vehicles:
      1.    Every motor vehicle other than a motorcycle or motor driven cycle
shall be equipped with at least two (2) headlamps with at least one on each
side of the front of the motor vehicle. The headlamps shall comply with the
requirements and limitations set forth in this subsection.
      2.    Every motorcycle and every motor driven cycle shall be equipped
with at least one and not more than two (2) headlamps which shall comply with
the requirements and limitations of this subsection.
      3.    Every headlamp upon every motor vehicle, including every motorcycle
and motor driven cycle, shall be located at a height measured from the center
of the headlamp of not more than fifty four inches (54") nor less than twenty
four inches (24") to be measured as set forth in Idaho Code subsection 49-904
(2).
      4.    No person shall operate any motor vehicle on the highways with
headlamps which are composed of, covered by, or treated with any material,
substance, system, or component which, when such headlamps are not in
operation, is highly reflective or otherwise opaque and nontransparent.
      5.    No person shall have for sale, sell, or offer for sale any motor
vehicles with headlamps that are in violation of the provisions of this
section.
      6.    Nothing in this section shall be construed to make illegal the
operation or sale of any motor vehicle, the headlamps of which are composed of,
covered by, or treated with any material, substance, system, or component with
which the motor vehicle was sold when new or could have been equipped for sale
when new as standard or optional equipment under any United States government
statute or regulation governing the sale at the time of manufacture.
      7.    Any person convicted of a violation of the provisions of this
subsection shall be guilty of an infraction.
   D.    Taillights:
      1.    Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, and pole trailer, and
any other vehicle which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles, shall
be equipped with at least one taillight mounted on the rear, which when lighted
as required, shall emit a red light plainly visible from a distance of five
hundred feet (500') to the rear. In the case of a train of vehicles only the
taillight on the rearmost vehicle need actually be seen from the distance
specified. Every mentioned vehicle, other than a truck tractor, registered in
this state and manufactured or assembled after December 31, 1955, shall be
equipped with at least two (2) taillights mounted on the rear, which when
lighted as required, shall comply with the provisions of this subsection.
      2.    Every taillight upon every vehicle shall be located at a height of
not more than seventy two inches (72") or less than twenty inches (20").
      3.    Any taillight shall be wired so to be lighted whenever the
headlamps or auxiliary driving lamps are lighted.
      4.    Nothing herein shall prohibit the display on any vehicle thirty
(30) years or older of taillamps containing a blue or purple insert lens not to
exceed one inch (1") in diameter, provided the taillights or lamps otherwise
comply with the requirements of this subsection. (2009 Code)
6-3-2: HORNS AND WARNING DEVICES:
   A.    Required: Every motor vehicle when operated upon a highway shall be
equipped with a horn in good working order and capable of emitting sound
audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than two hundred
feet (200'), but no horn or other warning device shall emit an unreasonably
loud or harsh sound or whistle. The driver of a motor vehicle shall when
reasonably necessary to ensure safe operation give audible warning with his
horn, but shall not otherwise use the horn when upon a highway.
   B.    Siren, Whistle Or Bell: No vehicle shall be equipped with nor shall
any person use upon a vehicle any siren, whistle, or bell, except as otherwise
permitted in this section.
   C.    Theft Alarm Signal Device: It is permissible, but not required for any
vehicle to be equipped with a theft alarm signal device, so arranged that it
cannot be used by the driver as an ordinary warning signal.
   D.    Authorized Emergency Vehicle: Any authorized emergency vehicle may be
equipped with a siren, whistle, or bell, capable of emitting sound audible
under normal conditions from a distance of not less than five hundred feet
(500') and of a type approved by the director of the Idaho transportation
department, but the siren shall not be used except when the vehicle is operated
in response to an emergency call or in the immediate pursuit of an actual or
suspected violator of the law, in which latter event the driver of the vehicle
shall sound the siren when reasonably necessary to warn pedestrians and other
drivers of the approach. (2009 Code)
6-3-3: MUFFLERS, PREVENTION OF NOISE:
   A.    Required: Every motor vehicle shall at all times be equipped with a
muffler in good working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or
unusual noise and annoying smoke, and no person shall use a muffler cutout,
bypass, or similar device upon a motor vehicle on a highway. When any motor
vehicle was originally equipped with a noise suppressing system or when any
motor vehicle is required by law or regulation of this state or the federal
government to have a noise suppressing system, that system shall be maintained
in good working order. No person shall disconnect any part of that system
except temporarily in order to make repairs, replacements or adjustments, and
no person shall modify or alter that system or its operation in any manner,
except to conform to the manufacturer's specifications. No person shall
knowingly operate and no owner shall knowingly cause or permit to be operated
any motor vehicle originally equipped or required by any law or regulation of
the state or the federal government to be equipped with a noise suppressing
system while any part of that system is disconnected or while that system or
its operation is modified or altered in any manner, except to conform to the
manufacturer's specifications.
   B.    Excessive Fumes Or Smoke: The engine and power mechanism of every
motor vehicle shall be so equipped and adjusted as to prevent the escape of
excessive fumes or smoke.
   C.    Modification Prohibited: No person shall modify the exhaust system of
a motor vehicle or a motorcycle in a manner which will amplify or increase the
noise of the vehicle or motorcycle above that emitted by the muffler originally
installed on the vehicle by the manufacturer.
   D.    Prima Facie Evidence: A showing that the sound made by a passenger
motor vehicle or motorcycle exceeds the maximum allowable decibel level shall
be prima facie evidence of a violation of subsection A of this section.
   E.    Excessive Or Unusual Noise: No person shall sell, offer for sale, or
install any noise suppressing system or device which will produce excessive or
unusual noise. (2009 Code)
6-3-4: RESTRICTIONS AS TO TIRE EQUIPMENT:
   A.    Thickness Of Rubber: Every solid rubber tire on a vehicle shall have
rubber on its entire traction surface at least one inch (1") thick above the
edge of the flange of the entire periphery.
   B.    Metal Tires Prohibited: No person shall operate or move on any highway
any motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer having any metal tire in contact
with the highway.
   C.    Protuberances; Studs: No tire on a vehicle moved on a highway shall
have on its periphery any block, stud, flange, cleat, spike, or any other
protuberance of any material other than rubber which projects beyond the tread
of the traction surface of the tire, except as allowed herein. It shall be
permissible to use farm machinery with tires having protuberances which will
not injure the highway, and it shall be permissible to use tire chains. Tires
with built in lugs of tungsten carbide or other suitable material, hereinafter
called studs, may be used upon any vehicle when required for safety because of
snow, ice, or other conditions tending to cause a vehicle to skid, that will
not unduly damage the highway. Motor vehicles, trailers and semitrailers with
tires having built in studs are prohibited on public highways between the dates
of May 1 and September 30, annually, except as follows:
      1.    Fire pumper/tanker trucks and ladder trucks belonging to fire
departments and firefighting agencies are exempt from the prohibited dates.
      2.    A vehicle may be equipped year round with tires that have
retractable studs if the studs retract pneumatically or mechanically to at or
below the wear bar of the tire when not in use, and the retractable studs
protrude beyond the wear bar of the tire only between October 1 and April 30.
Retractable studs may be made of metal or other material and are not subject to
the stud weight requirements of Idaho Code section 49-948(4).
      3.    Special exemptions from the prohibited dates may be granted by the
Idaho transportation board if it is found by the board that enhancements to
public safety outweigh the increased pavement wear. (2009 Code)
   D.    Violation; Penalty: Every person violating the provisions of this
section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 267, 2-6-1951; amd. 2009 Code)
6-3-5: ENGINE BRAKES AND COMPRESSION BRAKES:
   A.    Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use
or operate or cause to be used or operated within the city limits, any engine
brake, compression brake or mechanical exhaust device designed to aid in the
braking or deceleration of any vehicle that results in excessive, loud,
unusual, or explosive noise from such vehicle.
   B.    Violation; Penalty: The penalty for a violation of this section shall
be an infraction punishable by a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars
($100.00). (Ord. 700, 11-8-2004)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
ROADWAY CONSTRUCTION AND DRAINAGE
SECTION:
7-1-1: Application; Permit
7-1-2: Supervision
7-1-3: Removal Of Obstructions And Debris
7-1-4: Violation; Penalty
7-1-1: APPLICATION; PERMIT:
   A.    Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to construct, use, locate and establish, by any means whatsoever,
an access road, driveway or roadway, for the travel of vehicles of any nature,
leading to or from and intersecting with any city street or alley, whether
opened for public use or unopened, without first obtaining a permit therefor
from the city upon application therefor filed with the city clerk.
   B.    Application; Required Information: Such application shall contain the
name and address of the applicant, location of the roadway and legal
description of the real property upon which it is to be located, the purpose
for which the roadway is to be used, and such other information as the city
council may direct; and each application will be accompanied by a plat or map
showing clearly the aforesaid real property, adjacent streets and alleys, the
point of intersection of said roadway with the street or alley, and the
location and specifications of culverts or other drains to be used to provide
such drainage as may be required.
   C.    Issuance/Denial: Upon due consideration of said application, the city
council shall grant the permit or deny the permit or grant the permit subject
to such conditions as the council may deem required. (Ord. 534, 3-7-1967)
7-1-2: SUPERVISION:
The location and construction or establishment of the aforesaid roadway and the
construction and installation of such drainage facilities as may be required
shall be subject to the supervision and direction of the city. (Ord. 534, 3-7-
1967)
7-1-3: REMOVAL OF OBSTRUCTIONS AND DEBRIS:
   A.    Removal Required: The holder of the permit for the construction or
establishment of the roadway shall be responsible for and shall remove all
dirt, rocks, debris and obstructions of every nature on the city street or
alley resulting from such construction and location of the roadway and shall
keep the city street and alley free of all obstructions to traffic during the
construction of the roadway.
   B.    Failure To Remove: If the said dirt, rocks, debris and obstructions
are not removed and cleared from the street and alley, the city council may,
without notice, cause the same to be removed and cleared at the expense of the
permit holder, and the permit holder will tender to the city treasurer the
amount due immediately upon receiving notice of the proper amount owing for
such removal and clearing. (Ord. 534, 3-7-1967)
7-1-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating or failing to comply with any of the
provisions of this chapter, or counseling, aiding or abetting any such
violation or failure to comply, shall, upon conviction, be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 534, 3-7-1967; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 2
COMMUNITY TREE PLAN
SECTION:
7-2-1: Urban Forestry Committee
7-2-2: Comprehensive Urban Forest Plan
7-2-3: Applicability
7-2-4: Permit And Application Process
7-2-5: Obstruction; Trees Pruned
7-2-6: Abuse Or Mutilation Of Public Trees
7-2-7: Protection Of Trees
7-2-8: Dead Or Diseased Trees; Pruning, Removal
7-2-9: General Maintenance
7-2-10: Interference
7-2-11: Violation; Penalty
7-2-1: URBAN FORESTRY COMMITTEE:
   A.    Created; Established: There is hereby created and established, an
urban forestry committee for the city, which shall consist of no more than
seven (7), but a minimum of five (5) members, citizens and residents of this
community, as defined by the city limits, and at least one member of the city
council, who shall be an ex officio, nonvoting member.
   B.    Term Of Office; Vacancy: The term of the seven (7) persons to be
appointed by the mayor shall be three (3) years from their appointment. In the
event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any member, the successor
shall be appointed for the unexpired portion of the term.
   C.    Officers, Rules And Regulations, Records, Quorum: The committee shall
choose its own officers, make its own rules and regulations and keep a journal
of its proceedings. A majority of the current membership shall be a quorum for
the transaction of business.
   D.    Compensation: Members of the committee shall serve without
compensation.
   E.    Responsibilities: It shall be the responsibility of the committee to
study, investigate, counsel and develop and/or update annually, and administer
a written plan for the care, including planting, culture, and removal or
disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, streets, alleys, and other lands
owned or managed by the city. As a part of said plan, the committee may also,
upon request, provide guidance and make recommendations regarding planting and
tree care on private property within the city. Such plan will be presented
annually to the city council and, upon their acceptance and approval, shall
constitute the official comprehensive urban forest plan for the city. The
committee, when requested by the city council, shall consider, investigate,
make findings, report and recommend upon any special matter or question coming
within the scope of its work.
   F.    Duties And Authority:
      1.    Duties Of The Urban Forestry Committee:
         a.    To develop a comprehensive city forestry plan;
         b.    Maintain an accurate inventory of existing trees on city
property;
         c.    Assist the city in providing information to the public;
         d.    Assist the city in implementing Arbor Day celebrations and
activities;
         e.    Encourage and solicit donations and other funding for the city
tree program;
         f.    Identify and implement landscaping projects which improve the
city forest; and
         g.    Assist the council in planning, reviewing and making
recommendations to the city forestry budget.
      2.    Authority And Control Over Trees: The urban forestry committee will
have the power to meet and review and then recommend to the city council any
and all policies that pertain to the city urban forestry program. The mayor and
council will have complete authority and control over all trees on or within
the city properties. (Ord. 683, 11-14-2000; amd. 2009 Code)
7-2-2: COMPREHENSIVE URBAN FOREST PLAN:
Upon approval of the comprehensive urban forest plan by the city council, such
plan, including any subsequent amendments, shall become part of this chapter.
(Ord. 683, 11-14-2000)
7-2-3: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter applies to trees owned or managed by the city, including the
existing city tree inventory. A copy of the inventory is available at city
hall. (Ord. 683, 11-14-2000)
7-2-4: PERMIT AND APPLICATION PROCESS:
   A.    Maintenance Or Removal:
      1.    Permit Required:
         a.    Application: Any person desiring a permit to remove or in any
way damage a tree on or within the city properties shall file with the city an
application on forms to be provided by the urban forestry committee setting
forth therein in detail the work that is contemplated and the location and
address of same; provided, that no permit shall first be required in situations
where public inconvenience would result from the delay entailed in obtaining a
permit or where such delay would place life, limb or property in jeopardy.
         b.    Investigation; Issuance; Supervision: Upon filing of such an
application, the urban forestry committee shall investigate the contemplated
work and, if in their judgment it is desirable and should be done, shall issue
a written permit therefor; provided, that the work authorized in such permit
shall be done under the supervision of the urban forestry committee.
      2.    Work By Utility Company: All work on public trees by a utility
company should be under the direction of the urban forestry committee through
written specifications, permit and inspection. The cost of work performed by
recommendation of the urban forestry committee to clear lines should be charged
to the utility company on a prearranged schedule and by a licensed and bonded
contractor. Specifications shall include provision for cleanup of debris.
   B.    Topping: No citizen, private contractor or utility shall top trees
belonging to the city without prior approval of the urban forestry committee
through the permit process. This pertains only to trees on the city inventory.
   C.    Removal, Replanting And Replacement:
      1.    Removal From Lawns: Whenever it is necessary to remove a tree or
trees from a lawn in connection with road or sidewalk improvement, the city
shall replant such trees or replace them. Provided, that conditions prevent
planting on lawns, this requirement will be satisfied if any equivalent number
of trees of the same size and species or otherwise agreed to species will be
planted on the adjoining property.
      2.    Removal Of Inventoried Trees; Replacement; Cost: No person or
property owner shall remove city inventoried trees from city property for
purpose of construction or for any reason, without first filling out an
application and procuring a permit from the city and without replacing the
removed tree or trees. Such replacement shall meet the standards of size,
species and placement as recommended by literature available at city hall. The
person or property owner shall bear the cost of removal and replacement of all
trees removed.
   D.    Planting; Improper Planting: It shall be lawful for the city, under
recommendation of the urban forestry committee, to remove or cause removal of
any tree on city property.
   E.    Use Of Chemicals: If chemicals used to fertilize or spray for disease
are chemicals that require the commercial applicator to have a license when
using, then a permit is required. (Ord. 683, 11-14-2000)
7-2-5: OBSTRUCTION; TREES PRUNED:
   A.    Obstruction: It shall be the duty of any person or persons owning or
occupying real property bordering on any street, upon which property there may
be trees, to prune such trees in such a manner that they will not obstruct or
shade the streetlights, obstruct passage of pedestrians on sidewalks, obstruct
vision of traffic signs or obstruct view of any street or alley intersections.
The minimum clearance of any overhanging portions thereof shall be ten feet
(10') over sidewalk and twelve feet (12') over all streets, except truck
thoroughfares which shall have a clearance of sixteen feet (16').
   B.    Pruning:
      1.    Notice To Prune: Should any person owning real property bordering
on any street fail, upon request, to prune trees as hereinabove provided, the
city, under recommendation of the urban forestry committee, shall order such
person or persons, within thirty (30) days after receipt of written notice, to
so prune such trees.
      2.    Service Of Order: The order shall be then served by certified mail.
      3.    Failure To Comply: When a person to whom an order is directed shall
fail to comply within the specified time, it shall be lawful for the city to
pay to have trees pruned and the exact cost therefor shall be assessed to the
owner as provided by law in the case of special assessments. (Ord. 683, 11-14-
2000)
7-2-6: ABUSE OR MUTILATION OF PUBLIC TREES:
Unless work is approved by application and permit, no person shall
intentionally damage, transplant, or remove any tree; attach any ropes, wires,
nails, advertising posters or other contrivances to any tree, allow a gaseous,
liquid, or solid substance which is harmful to such trees to come in contact
with them or set fire or permit any fire to burn when such fire or the heat
thereof will injure any portion of any tree. (Ord. 683, 11-14-2000)
7-2-7: PROTECTION OF TREES:
All trees on any street or other publicly owned property near any excavation or
construction of any building, structure or street work, shall be guarded with a
good, substantial fence, frame, or box not less than four feet (4') high and
eight feet (8') square, or at a distance in feet from the tree equal to the
diameter of the trunk in inches (dbh), whichever is greater, and all building
material, dirt, or other debris shall be kept outside the barrier. No person
shall excavate any ditches, tunnels, trenches, or lay any drives within a
radius of ten feet (10') from any public tree without first filing an
application and a permit being issued. (Ord. 683, 11-14-2000)
7-2-8: DEAD OR DISEASED TREES; PRUNING, REMOVAL:
   A.    Removal: All trees and shrubs within the city shall be pruned or
removed when such trees and shrubs constitute a hazard to life and property, or
harbor insects or disease which constitute a hazard to life and property, or
harbor insects and disease which constitute a threat to other trees or shrubs
within the city.
   B.    Prune, Treat Or Remove:
      1.    Request By City: The city, under recommendation of the urban
forestry committee, shall have the power and authority to prune, treat or
remove, or request the property owner to prune, treat or remove any such trees
or shrubs on private property.
      2.    Notice: In the event of noncompliance with said request, the city
shall notify, in writing, the owner of such trees or shrubs. Pruning and
removal shall be done by said owner, at owner expense, within thirty (30) days
after the date of notification.
      3.    Failure To Comply; Cost: In the event of failure of owner to comply
with said notice, the city shall have the authority to prune, treat or remove
said tree or trees and charge the cost of said pruning or treatment or removal
on the owner's property tax notice. (Ord. 683, 11-14-2000)
7-2-9: GENERAL MAINTENANCE:
Cost of general maintenance, periodical pruning, fertilizing, disease treatment
or removal of city inventoried trees shall be the responsibility of the city.
(Ord. 683, 11-14-2000)
7-2-10: INTERFERENCE:
No person shall hinder, prevent, delay or interfere with the city, with
recommendation of the urban forestry committee, to carry out the execution of
any ordinance. (Ord. 683, 11-14-2000)
7-2-11: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating or failing to comply with any of the
provisions of the comprehensive city forestry plan shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 683, 11-14-2000; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 3
CITY PARK
SECTION:
7-3-1: Curfew In Park And Swimming Pool Area
7-3-1: CURFEW IN PARK AND SWIMMING POOL AREA:
   A.    Hours Restricted: No person shall enter into or be upon the city park
and public grounds of such city park and the area of the city swimming pool,
which are located at the intersection of Main Street and 6th Street, between
the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. unless said
person, individually or as a member of a group, body or organization has
permission to be on and within the boundaries of said public property by
written permit duly issued by the city, which permit may be revoked immediately
by the city for abuse of said grounds and property and for conduct deemed by
the city as disturbance of the peace.
   B.    Permit Required: Persons, firms and organizations desiring to use the
aforesaid park and public grounds during the aforesaid restricted period will
obtain a written permit for use from the city clerk on a written application
form provided by the clerk.
   C.    Liability For Damage: All persons using said public grounds shall be
jointly and severally liable to the city for all damage to public property
occurring during the period of the permit; and the permittee or permittees will
immediately pay to the city the sum of money equal to the monetary amount of
said damage upon receipt of notification of the amount of damages. (Ord. 580,
8-7-1978)
   D.    Violation; Penalty: Any person, firm or organization of every nature
who violates the provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and said punishment shall be in addition to and separate
from restitution for damages as provided in subsection C of this section. (Ord.
580, 8-7-1978; amd. 2009 Code)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
WATER AND SEWER SERVICES
SECTION:
8-1-1: Water And Sewer Service For Annexed Areas
8-1-2: Discontinue Water/Sewer Service
8-1-1: WATER AND SEWER SERVICE FOR ANNEXED AREAS:
   A.    Extension Of Water And Sewer Lines: If the boundaries of the city be
extended thereby including as part of the city an area without water and sewer
systems or if an area annexed to city is without water and sewer service of the
city systems, the city may, at the expense of the city or by cost sharing
arrangements with the owners of lands in the aforesaid area, extend city water
and sewer lines to and into the aforesaid areas along such routes and to such
points as are deemed most advantageous and convenient to the city.
   B.    Authority To Finance: The mayor and city council are hereby authorized
to finance the aforesaid construction of the water and sewer systems in such
manner as may be authorized by law. (Ord. 571, 8-3-1976; amd. 2009 Code)
8-1-2: DISCONTINUE WATER/SEWER SERVICE:
   A.    Discontinuing Service: The city council may discontinue water and/or
sewer services to any premises connected to the city water or sewer system for
any of the following reasons:
      1.    Failure to pay any outstanding bill which is past due.
      2.    When the premises violates any city code to the extent that, in the
council's opinion, the premises constitute a potential danger to the public
health, safety or welfare.
      3.    When the premises are in violation of any code relating to use of
the city water or sewer system.
   B.    Procedures For Discontinuing Services:
      1.    Notice Of Termination: Prior to discontinuing delivery of water
and/or sewer services to any premises within the city, a written notice that
services will be terminated shall be delivered to the owner by personal
delivery or certified mail, or shall be posted on the premises, at least three
(3) days prior to termination of service, unless it has been declared by the
council that an emergency exists which requires immediate termination of
services.
      2.    Right Of Appeal: The owner or any resident of the premises where
services are being discontinued shall have the right to file a written appeal
of said action with the city clerk. Such written appeal shall state the reasons
why the owner or resident believes that services should not be discontinued.
The council shall thereafter consider the written appeal at a regular or
special council meeting at the council's earliest convenience. Services will
not be discontinued to the premises until such time as the council makes a
decision unless an emergency exists requiring immediate shutoff.
      3.    Council Decision To Shut Off: Should the council continue to
require shutoff after considering the written appeal, three (3) days' notice of
discontinuance will be delivered in the manner described above. Such notice
shall state the actions that can be taken by the owner or resident to correct
deficiencies on the premises.
   C.    Connections And Reconnections: The city council shall not permit
connection or reconnection of any premises to the sewer or water system of the
city until all applicable fees have been paid to the city. The city council may
deny connection or reconnection of any premises to the water or sewer of the
city if the council determines the following circumstances exist:
      1.    The owner of the premises or the applicant for services has unpaid
arrearages owing to the city for utility services. Connection will be made only
after such arrearages are paid.
      2.    Where the council finds that the premises are in violation of any
city code, connection will be permitted only when the applicant demonstrates
that such code violations have been abated.
      3.    Where connection to the sewer or water system would endanger the
health, safety or welfare of the residents of the city or the premises.
      4.    Where the sewer or water system is not adequate to serve the
proposed uses on the premises.
      5.    Where the proposed use of the premises would injure the city sewer
system or treatment system.
   D.    Hearing: Should the city council decline to connect any premises to
the city sewer or water system, the owner or applicant for said services may
appeal said decision, in writing, stating the reason why the premises should be
connected. The council shall consider such appeal at a regular or special city
council meeting within sixty (60) days of receipt of said notice. The city
council may require that the owner provide certification from a building,
electrical, or plumbing inspector that the premises comply with city code.
Where appropriate, the council may require certification from an architect or
engineer that the premises are safe and habitable, or usable safely for the
proposed construction. (Ord. 631, 7-9-1991; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 2
WATER SERVICE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Application For Water Service
8-2-2: Service Connection Charges
8-2-3: Separate Connection For Each Premises
8-2-4: Pipe And Other Requirements For Service Connection
8-2-5: Licensed Plumber
8-2-6: Meters Required
8-2-7: Inspection Of Connections
8-2-8: Water Service Rates
8-2-9: Water Bill Charged To Owner
8-2-10: Lien For Charges, Penalties And Fees
8-2-11: Right To Shut Off Water
8-2-12: Charge For Turning On Water And Meter Reading
8-2-13: Unauthorized Connection To Water System
8-2-14: Right Of Inspection
8-2-15: Violation; Penalty
8-2-1: APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE:
Any owner or person complying with section
8-2-6 of this chapter or otherwise desiring to have premises connected to the
city water system shall present to the city clerk an application therefor in
such form as may be prescribed together with the following information:
description of the premises by lot and block number and official house number,
if any; number of persons, families and dwelling, business or commercial uses
to be supplied; size of the service pipe or connection deemed required; name
and address of applicant and whether owner, authorized agent, or contractor.
(Ord. 529, 11-2-1965)
8-2-2: SERVICE CONNECTION CHARGES:
Before a service connection is installed, the property owner shall pay to the
city clerk a service connection charge which shall be the cost of materials and
labor and any other costs incurred by the city in laying the service pipe to a
point inside the property line and furnishing and installing a water meter; the
charge will be paid on the basis of the city estimate and adjustment will be
made after actual costs are determined. In order that a uniform charge may be
made to the property owners abutting on opposite sides of the street, all
charges for laying service pipes to a point inside the property line shall be
calculated as if the water main were laid in the center of the street. (Ord.
529, 11-2-1965)
8-2-3: SEPARATE CONNECTION FOR EACH PREMISES:
Every separate premises supplied with water from the city system shall have its
own separate connection with the city water main. (Ord. 529, 11-2-1965; amd.
2009 Code)
8-2-4: PIPE AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS FOR SERVICE CONNECTION:
All persons connecting to the city water system or laying their private mains
thereto, are required to use approved galvanized standard pipe, up to and
including two inches (2") in nominal internal diameter, and cast iron water
main in case of larger sizes, all as approved by the city. That portion of all
service connections provided by the water consumer or private water mains laid
with permission of the city shall, before water is turned on thereto, be
inspected and approved by the representative of the city. (Ord. 529, 11-2-1965)
8-2-5: LICENSED PLUMBER:
It shall be unlawful, except as otherwise herein provided, for any person
except a licensed plumber to carry on the business of plumbing insofar as it
comprises the making of connections for any service connection, or the making
of repairs, additions or alterations of any pipe, stop and waste, or any other
device, connected with or designed to be connected with the city water supply
system. Such licensed plumber shall be required to deposit with the city clerk
such sum as the city council may from time to time designate as a guarantee of
the proper performance of his work and to indemnify the city for any charges or
penalties that may be imposed or accrue in connection with work done on his
account. (Ord. 529, 11-2-1965)
8-2-6: METERS REQUIRED:
All water furnished to consumers shall be furnished through meters, and each
consumer, dwelling unit, and each business or commercial site and business
premises shall have a separate meter. (Ord. 529, 11-2-1965; amd. 2009 Code)
8-2-7: INSPECTION OF CONNECTIONS:
Whenever the owner of any premises connected with the city water supply system
shall desire to use the water, he shall request the city clerk to have the
water turned on and the service begun. The owner shall leave his portion of the
trench containing the service connection open until the same has been properly
inspected and the water turned on, when he shall immediately and properly cover
the said pipe. (Ord. 529, 11-2-1965)
8-2-8: WATER SERVICE RATES:
The following monthly rates, fees, and charges for water services are hereby
fixed as follows:
   A.    Rates, Fees And Charges: The monthly rates, fees and charges shall be
as determined from time to time by resolution of the city council.
   B.    Unmetered Nonresidential Services: For unmetered nonresidential
services, the city council reserves the right to charge a rate representative
of water similar to nonresidential uses utilized in other cities.
   C.    Due Date: All rates and charges shall be paid before the twenty fifth
day of each month.
   D.    Past Due Accounts: Past due accounts shall include an additional
penalty and service fee of five dollars ($5.00) per month. Past due accounts
shall also be charged interest in an amount to be determined from time to time
by resolution of the city council.
   E.    Deposit: The city may require utility customers to pay a deposit of
fifty dollars ($50.00) to ensure payment of all utility accounts. (Ord. 662, 3-
12-1996, eff. 4-1-1996; amd. 2009 Code)
8-2-9: WATER BILL CHARGED TO OWNER:
When water has been turned on to any premises, the same shall continue to be
charged against the said premises until the city clerk is ordered, in writing,
by the owner to discontinue the same. All accounts for water shall be kept in
the name of the owner of the premises until some later owner shall notify the
city clerk of the change in ownership. No water shall be billed to any tenant
unless the lease to the latter is recorded and the owner of the premises
requests, in writing, that the water be charged to the tenant and the said
tenant deposits with the city clerk a sum determined by the city council to be
sufficient to protect the city against any and all delinquent and unpaid
charges for water, or other charges and penalties on account of such service.
All charges will be recorded against the premises for which the service was
installed. (Ord. 529, 11-2-1965)
8-2-10: LIEN FOR CHARGES, PENALTIES AND FEES:
Any charges for sewer connection, sewerage services, water services and all
penalties and fees charged in connection therewith by virtue of the provisions
of this chapter, and all other and prior ordinances, which are unpaid and
delinquent, shall become a lien upon the real property of the owner receiving
the service, and the city council will make and file a lien for the amount due
within the same time and in the same general manner and form as liens of
mechanics and materialmen are made and filed under the provisions of the laws
of the state of Idaho; and such liens shall bind the premises in the same
manner and to the same extent as such materialmen's or mechanic's liens are
binding under the said laws and shall be foreclosed in the same general manner,
and upon foreclosure thereof, attorney fees and costs shall be allowed in like
manner, or the city may, without filing such lien, sue to recover the amount
due from the person liable therefor. In like manner, a lien may be filed and
foreclosed or suit brought to enforce the payment for any labor or materials
furnished or supplied by the city. (Ord. 529, 11-2-1965)
8-2-11: RIGHT TO SHUT OFF WATER:
   A.    When any charges for water or sewer service or any charges or
penalties in connection therewith are unpaid and delinquent, the city may, as
an additional and concurrent remedy to secure payment, shut off the water
service without notice until such charges are paid.
   B.    When the water is shut off for delinquent charges or for any reason
whatsoever and the person occupying such premises shall proceed to take water
from any other premises connected with the city water supply system, such
person taking water, or any person permitting such taking of water, will be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
accordingly as elsewhere in this chapter provided. (Ord. 529, 11-2-1965)
8-2-12: CHARGE FOR TURNING ON WATER AND METER READING:
   A.    Turning On Water: Whenever water is turned off, it shall not be again
turned on until the user pays a fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00), plus a
deposit of a sum equal to the then current monthly minimum utility charge.
   B.    Meter Reading: If a special meter reading is requested at any time by
an owner or occupant, there shall be a charge of one dollar ($1.00); provided,
however, that the city reserves the right to waive the above charges for
reasons deemed proper by the mayor and council. (Ord. 615, 5-12-1987)
8-2-13: UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTION TO WATER SYSTEM:
If any person shall make, procure, or maintain any unauthorized connection to
the city water supply system or between any city water main and the meter
appertaining to the service connection, such person shall, in either instance,
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and, in addition, the water shall be shut off and shall not
be again turned on until the best adjustment possible shall have been made for
the water so illegally consumed insofar as the same can be approximately
determined and the charges for such water and all penalties incurred have been
fully paid. (Ord. 529, 11-2-1965; amd. 2009 Code)
8-2-14: RIGHT OF INSPECTION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, neglect or fail to afford any
duly authorized representative of the city free access at all reasonable hours
to any and all parts of buildings or premises supplied with sewer service or
with water from the city water supply system for the purpose of making records,
readings and inspections of the location, condition and sufficiency of pipes,
fittings, valves, traps, fixtures and appliances and noting the amount of water
used and the manner in which it is used. (Ord. 529, 11-2-1965)
8-2-15: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions at this chapter shall, in those
instances where a special penalty is not otherwise provided, be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 529, 11-2-1965; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Purpose
8-3-2: Definitions
8-3-3: Rules And Regulations
8-3-4: Connection Required
8-3-5: Sanitary Facilities Required
8-3-6: Sewers Property Of City
8-3-7: Extension Of Public Sewers
8-3-8: Construction Specifications Regulations
8-3-9: As Built Plans Required
8-3-10: Extensions Property Of City
8-3-11: Side Sewer Construction And Repair
8-3-12: Permit Required
8-3-13: Sewer Taps
8-3-14: Permit Fees
8-3-15: Right To Revoke Permission
8-3-16: Excavation Permit Required
8-3-17: Specifications For Side Sewers And Private Sewers
8-3-18: Notice Of Inspection
8-3-19: Sewage To Be Discharged Into Wastewater Treatment System
8-3-20: Use Restrictions; Prohibited Discharges
8-3-21: Interceptors
8-3-22: Sewer Rates
8-3-23: Billing Statements
8-3-24: Violation; Penalty
8-3-1: PURPOSE:
For the purpose of promoting health, safety and the general welfare of the
city, a system for the collection, transmission and disposal of sanitary sewage
shall be constructed, extended, maintained, repaired, replaced, operated and
removed within the city to provide an adequate system for the collection,
transmission and disposal of sanitary sewage from domestic, commercial,
industrial and such other uses and purposes for which said system may be used 1
. (Ord. 701, 5-9-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 42-3201.
8-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.    General Definitions: Terms used in this chapter shall have the
meanings herein given to them, as follows:
    BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quantity of oxygen, expressed in parts
per million by weight, utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter
under standard laboratory determinations made in accordance with procedures set
forth in "standard methods", for five (5) day BOD determination.
   BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the side sewer beginning two feet (2')
outside the building wall.
   CHLORINE REQUIREMENTS: The amount of chlorine, in parts per million by
weight, which must be added to the sewage to produce a specified residual
chlorine content, or to meet the requirements of some other objective, in
accordance with procedures set forth in "standard methods".
   COMMERCIAL USER: All persons not specifically classified as domestic or as
an industrial waste contributor.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE: Not less than twelve (12) individual samples taken at not
less than thirty (30) minute intervals for a period of not less than six (6)
hours.
   DWELLING UNIT: A building or structure, or portion thereof, that is
constructed and used primarily for residential purposes.
   GARBAGE: The residue from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food,
and from the handling, storage and sale of food products and produce.
   GROUND GARBAGE: The residue from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of
food that has been shredded to such degree that all particles will be carried
freely in suspension under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
   HOUSE SERVICE LINE: The extension from the building drain to the public
sewer and is sometimes referred to as a service connection or side sewer.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The liquid wastes from industrial processes as distinct
from sanitary sewage.
   INTERCEPTORS: Used in kitchens, restaurants, institutions and all types of
food processing areas where wastewater contains grease, fats and oils which
must be intercepted and collected before entering the drainage system.
Interceptors with extensions are installed recessed in the floor with cover
flush with finished floor.
   NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet in a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface or ground water.
   PARTS PER MILLION: A weight to weight ratio; the parts per million value
multiplied by the factor 8.345 shall be equivalent to pounds per million
gallons of water.
   pH: The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration expressed in moles per liter and is a measure of the acidity or
alkalinity of a solution. It shall be determined by one of the procedures
outlined in "standard methods".
   PRIVATE SEWER: A sewer serving one or more buildings, residences, or
properties, constructed by private contract.
   PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting property have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority that serves one or more persons
and ultimately discharges into the city sanitary sewer system, even though
those sewers may not have been constructed with city funds.
   SANITARY SEWAGE: Wastes that are derived principally from dwellings,
business buildings, institutions and industrial wastes, exclusive of storm and
surface waters.
   SANITARY SEWER: A sewer that conveys sanitary sewage or industrial wastes,
or a combination of the two (2), and into which storm, surface, and ground
waters or unpolluted industrial wastes are not admitted.
   SERVICE CHARGE: The charge levied on all users of the sewerage system.
   SERVICE TAP: A connection of side sewer to public sewer.
   SEWAGE: Wastewater.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: Wastewater treatment plant.
   SEWER: A pipe or conduit for conveying wastewater or any other waste
liquids.
   SEWERAGE SYSTEM: The facilities for the collection, transportation, pumping,
treatment and final disposition of sewage, or any and all such facilities.
   SIDE SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer and
shall mean house service line. The sewer line extending from the public sewer
line to a parcel of private property.
   STANDARD METHODS: The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of "Standard Methods For The Examination Of Water, Sewage,
And Industrial Wastes", published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association, and the Federation of Sewage
and Industrial Wastes Association.
   STANDARD SEWAGE: Sewage and acceptable wastes that are within specifications
regarding pH, BOD, dissolved oxygen, suspended solids, and grease.
   STORM SEWER OR STORM DRAIN: A pipe or conduit which carries ground water
drainage, surface stormwaters, and unpolluted cooling or process waters, but
excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS): Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or industrial waste, and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of suspended solids
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in "standard methods".
   UNPOLLUTED WATER: Any water or liquid containing none of the following: free
or emulsified grease or oil; acids or alkalis, substances that may impart taste
and odor or color characteristics; toxic or poisonous substances in suspension,
colloidal state or solution; odorous or otherwise obnoxious gases. It shall
contain not more than thirty milligrams per liter (30 mg/l) each of suspended
solids or biochemical oxygen demand. Analytical determination shall be made in
accordance with procedures set forth in "standard methods".
   WASTEWATER: The water carried human, animal or household wastes in a public
or private sewer, and may include industrial wastes.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT: An assemblage of devices, structures, and
equipment for treating domestic, commercial, and industrial waste.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM OR SEWERAGE SYSTEM: All facilities for
collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of domestic, commercial, and
industrial waste, and includes sewers as well as the wastewater treatment
plant.
   WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
   B.    Other Terms: Any other terms used herein shall have their usual and
customary meaning. (Ord. 701, 5-9-2005)
8-3-3: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The city engineer is hereby authorized to adopt rules and regulations to carry
out and enforce the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 701, 5-9-2005)
8-3-4: CONNECTION REQUIRED:
   A.    Connection To Public Sewer: The city engineer is hereby empowered, in
all cases where there is a public sewer in any street or easement in the city,
to compel every owner of land, buildings, or premises used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, or other purposes requiring sanitary facilities and
abutting on such street, or easement within three hundred feet (300') of the
same, to construct or cause to be constructed a sufficient side sewer in the
manner herein prescribed which shall connect said land, building or premises,
and all water closets and pipes therein or thereon used as a receptacle or
conductor of sewage, with such nearest accessible public sewer within ninety
(90) days after date of official notice, unless, in the opinion of the city
engineer, such connection is impracticable by reason of the topography of the
ground.
   B.    Failure Or Neglect To Connect; Penalty: Any owner of premises who
shall fail or neglect to connect said land, building or premises to such
nearest accessible public sewer within ninety (90) days after date of official
notice, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in this chapter. Each day such violation is committed or
permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such hereunder. (Ord. 701, 5-9-2005)
8-3-5: SANITARY FACILITIES REQUIRED 1 :
   A.    Installation And Connection Required: Every person owning any land or
premises used in the manner and situated within the limits prescribed in this
chapter, in all cases where there is a public sewer in any street, highway,
alley or easement, shall make sufficient house drain and side sewer from such
person's house, lot or premises connected with such sewer; and the city shall
have power, in all cases where there is a public sewer as aforesaid, to cause
said person to install suitable sanitary facilities in said house, lot or
premises and to cause such connections to be made, and shall give such person's
agents or tenants notice, in writing, specifying the time when such drain and
facilities must be completed; provided, such time shall not exceed ninety (90)
days.
   B.    Separate, Independent Sewer Required: A separate and independent side
sewer shall be provided for every building, residence or property, except as
approved by the council. (Ord. 701, 5-9-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-1326.
8-3-6: SEWERS PROPERTY OF CITY 1 :
All public sewers located in any street, alley or easement in the city shall
belong to the city. Side sewers as defined herein, even when within the public
right of way, shall not be owned or maintained by the city and shall be owned
and maintained by the property owner served by the line. All connections with
the city sewer system in any street, alley or easement shall belong to the
city, and no private sewer, except as otherwise provided in this chapter, shall
be deemed valid and binding upon the city or any of its inhabitants. It is the
intent and purpose of this chapter to abolish all private sewer connections
with the city sewer system except as herein provided and the city shall own all
sewer connections made by private persons along any street or alley, and the
city shall own, control and operate all sewers laid or placed along any street
or alley within the corporate limits. (Ord. 701, 5-9-2005)
 
Notes
1 2. IC §§ 39-118, 39-3609.
8-3-7: EXTENSION OF PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A.    By Sewer Users: Extension, including the construction of new sewage
systems, sewage treatment plants or systems, other waste treatment or disposal
facilities, or for modification or expansion to existing sewage treatment
plants or systems, waste treatment or disposal facilities, to the public sewer
system by a sewer user at such user's own expense, shall have prior approval
and shall be in accordance with the standards and designs of the city. Plans,
specifications, and any other pertinent information relating to the proposed
extension shall be submitted to the city engineer for approval.
   B.    Required Approvals: The city shall secure all necessary state and
federal approvals prior to approving the submittal under this section. No
construction of the proposed facilities shall commence until such approvals are
obtained in writing. (Ord. 701, 5-9-2005)
8-3-8: CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS AND REGULATIONS:
Specifications for the construction of sewers shall be enforced by the city.
The city engineer is hereby empowered to prepare and put into effect
"Regulations Governing Sewer Construction In The City", herein referred to as
"regulations". Copies of the regulations may be obtained from the office of the
clerk or city engineer. The regulations shall contain specifications relative
to materials, construction, procedure, inspection, testing, backfilling and
responsibilities in sewer installations. Specific installations not fully
covered by the regulations shall be ruled upon by the city at the time of
occurrence. The regulations, revisions thereof and additions thereto shall be
issued by the council. (Ord. 701, 5-9-2005)
8-3-9: AS BUILT PLANS REQUIRED:
No deviation shall be made from the approved plans and specifications without
the prior approval of the city engineer. Within thirty (30) days of the
completion of construction of the extension to the public sewer system,
complete and accurate plans and specifications depicting the actual
construction, alteration, or modification performed must be submitted to the
city engineer together with such other pertinent information as may be
required. (Ord. 701, 5-9-2005)
8-3-10: EXTENSIONS PROPERTY OF CITY:
The extension to the sewer system by the user, when accepted, shall thereafter
constitute a part of the sewer system of the city. All right, title and
interest in and to such extensions shall be held by the city and be used,
operated, maintained and managed by the city as part of its sewer system. (Ord.
701, 5-9-2005)
8-3-11: SIDE SEWER CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR:
   A.    Responsibility For Construction And Maintenance: The owner of premises
shall be responsible for all construction and maintenance expense related to
installing and maintaining side sewers and private sewers located on said
premises.
   B.    Failure To Comply With Notice To Repair: When any side sewer or
private sewer connected with any public sewer or drain becomes obstructed,
broken or out of order, the city shall, if the owner of such premises fails to
repair the same after two (2) days' notice so to do, cause such drain to be
removed and reconstructed, repaired, altered or cleansed, as he may deem
expedient, at the expense of the owner, agent or occupant of such premises as
aforesaid.
   C.    Tree Roots: Tree roots which travel through the side sewer and into
the public sewer in such a manner as to cause hindrance or blockage in the
public sewer shall, at the owner's expense, be repaired to prevent roots from
entering the side sewer. The city may order replacement of the entire side
sewer when deteriorated or experiencing ground water infiltration. City shall
repair at owner's expense after thirty (30) days' notice. Reasonable cost of
repair shall be filed as a lien against owner's property upon owner's failure
to reimburse the city for the cost of repair.
   D.    Side Sewer Permit Required: No person shall relay, repair any side
sewer connecting with any of the public sewers, nor shall any opening be made
into the same until the person making the same shall obtain a side sewer
permit. (Ord. 701, 5-9-2005)
8-3-12: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.    New Construction: No permit shall be issued for the construction of
any building or structure in the city unless the plans and specifications show
connections in compliance with this chapter.
   B.    Written Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to
uncover, make any connection with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any
public sewer or appurtenance thereof, without first obtaining a written permit
from the city, and no construction of a side sewer shall be commenced without
first obtaining such permit.
   C.    Application For Side Sewer: An application for a side sewer permit
shall state the location of the sewer, the number of the lot and block, and the
number of the building to be connected, and the type of occupancy.
   D.    Extension Beyond Limits; Additional Permit Required: It shall be
unlawful for any person to extend any private sewer or side sewer beyond the
limits of the building or property for which a permit has been given without
obtaining an additional permit for the desired extension.
   E.    Inspection: Whenever any side sewer or other connection is made with
any public sewer or private sewer, or any part of such side sewer or other
connection is constructed, the said work shall be inspected by the city.
   F.    Classes Of Side Sewer Permits: There shall be two (2) classes of side
sewer permits:
      1.    For single dwelling units; and
      2.    All units other than single dwelling units, including multiple
dwelling units, commercial establishments and industrial establishments.
   G.    Application For Permit; Additional Information: The owner or owner's
agent shall make application for a side sewer permit on a form furnished by the
city. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications
or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the city engineer.
   H.    Submittal Of Plan: Whenever a person desires to construct a side sewer
intended to be connected with or discharged into any sewer, he shall, before
beginning work upon the same, file with the city the plan thereof, which shall
show the whole course of the side sewer from the connection with the sewer to
its terminus at the house or premises with the location of all branches and
fixtures to be connected therewith. Said plans, or a copy thereof, shall be
left on file in the office of the city engineer.
   I.    Nonconformance Of Plan: If, upon investigation of said plan, the city
shall find that the same does not conform to the requirements of this chapter,
the city shall not issue any permit for construction or connection with any
public sewer, and it shall be unlawful to construct said sewer or to connect
the same either directly or indirectly with any public sewer. Suitability or
adequacy of structures or means of metering, measuring, sampling or otherwise
determining the nature, quantity or quality of sewage shall be determined and
inspected by the city.
   J.    Term Of Permit: A side sewer permit shall be valid only for a period
not to exceed ninety (90) days from the date of issuance and, if such side
sewer construction is not completed and inspected within that time, the permit
shall be automatically rendered null and void and an additional permit shall be
obtained prior to continuing or beginning construction. The existence of a side
sewer permit shall in no way be construed as making permissible any work for
which an excavation permit may be required by the provisions of this code. All
costs and expenses incident to the installation and connections of a side sewer
shall be borne by the owner.
   K.    Indemnification: The owner performing the said installation and
connection shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly
or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the side sewer.
   L.    Existing Side Sewers: Existing side sewers may be used in connection
with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test by the
city, to meet all requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 701, 5-9-2005)
8-3-13: SEWER TAPS:
A sewer tap fee shall be required for all sewer connections into existing
public sewer lines. The applicant shall excavate the sewer line intended for
tapping in such a manner as to provide a safe and adequate access as determined
by the city engineer. City personnel will make the tap on the sewer line. The
applicant shall be responsible for completion of the side sewer in accordance
with the permit and the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 701, 5-9-2005)
8-3-14: PERMIT FEES:
   A.    Required Fees: Before any permit is issued for the installation or
alteration of plumbing or sewers, or before any sewer connection permit is
issued, the person making the application therefor shall pay to the city a fee
set from time to time by resolution of the council or occasioned by the
following necessary functions:
      1.    Excavation permit: Required for excavations in any street, alley or
public place.
      2.    Sewer installation fee: Required for connection directly to an
existing public sewer line.
      3.    Sewer system fee: Required for all new sewer users and users whose
expansion or change in use places additional demand for capacity on the sewer
system. The user shall be given credit for existing use in determining the
amount of the sewer system fee.
      4.    Side sewer inspections: Required for each building with a side
sewer.
      5.    Construction inspection: For public sewer pipe inspection (new or
repair).
   B.    Term Of Permit: Every permit issued by the city under the provisions
of this chapter shall expire by limitation and become null and void, if the
work authorized by such permit is not commenced within sixty (60) days from
date of such permit, or if the work authorized by such permit is suspended or
abandoned at any time after the work is commenced for a period of one hundred
twenty (120) days. Before such work can be recommended, a new permit shall be
first obtained to do so, and the fee therefor shall be one-half (1/2) of the
amount required for a new permit for such work, provided no changes have been
made, or will be made, in the original plans and specifications for such work;
and provided further, that such suspension or abandonment has not exceeded one
year. (Ord. 701, 5-9-2005)
8-3-15: RIGHT TO REVOKE PERMISSION:
   A.    Power To Revoke; Just Cause: All permits or permissions given under
this chapter shall be subject to the condition that the city may, at any time,
revoke and annul the same for just and proper cause, and the permittee or
permittee's successors in interest shall have no right to claim any damage in
consequence of such permit or permission being revoked or annulled. Said just
cause shall exist when the permittee violates any law, ordinance, resolution,
or other order regulating sewers in the city or violates the terms of the
permit or permission granted by the city.
   B.    Correction Of Errors: The issuance or granting of a permit or approval
of plans shall not prevent the city from thereafter requiring the correction of
errors in said plans and specifications, or from preventing construction
operations being carried on thereunder when in violation of this chapter or of
any other ordinance, or from revoking any certificate of approval when issued
in error. (Ord. 701, 5-9-2005)
8-3-16: EXCAVATION PERMIT REQUIRED:
No permit shall be granted to do side sewer work in any street, alley or public
place until the applicant has first obtained the permit for excavation as
required by the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 701, 5-9-2005)
8-3-17: SPECIFICATIONS FOR SIDE SEWERS AND PRIVATE SEWERS:
   A.    Side Sewers:
      1.    Specifications for the construction of side sewers shall be
enforced by the city. The city engineer is hereby empowered to prepare and to
put into effect "Regulations Governing Side Sewer Construction" in the city,
herein referred to as "regulations". Copies of the regulations may be obtained
in the office of the clerk or city engineer.
      2.    The regulations shall contain specifications relative to materials,
construction, procedure, inspection, backfilling and responsibilities in side
and private sewer installations.
      3.    Specific installations not fully covered by the regulations shall
be ruled upon by the city engineer at the time of occurrence. The regulations,
revisions thereto and additions thereof shall be issued by the city engineer.
   B.    Private Sewers:
      1.    Specifications for construction of private sewers shall be by the
city engineer. Specifications for private sewers shall be those for side
sewers, except as modified or deemed necessary by the city engineer.
      2.    Private sewers shall be constructed only as permitted specifically
by the council. Each branch of a private sewer serving a single residence,
building or property shall be considered a side sewer and shall require a side
sewer permit. Only the part carrying the sewage of two (2) or more side sewers
shall be considered a private sewer.
      3.    A tapping permit shall be required for all private sewers. (Ord.
701, 5-9-2005)
8-3-18: NOTICE OF INSPECTION:
Notice, in writing, must be given the city engineer at his or her office by any
person desiring to make connection with any public sewer or drain at least five
(5) hours previous to the time of making such connection, stating when such
work will be ready for inspection, and the city or its agent shall inspect the
same. The connection must be made in the manner prescribed in this chapter and
to the satisfaction of the city engineer before the trench is filled. When any
person desires to lay or drive any pipe in any alley or easement in which a
public, private or side sewer is laid, notice shall be given at least twenty
four (24) hours prior to the city engineer. (Ord. 701, 5-9-2005)
8-3-19: SEWAGE TO BE DISCHARGED INTO WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM:
All sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, or other polluted waters shall be
discharged into the wastewater treatment system. It shall be unlawful for any
person to dispose otherwise of said sewage, wastes and polluted waters except
as otherwise authorized by the city. (Ord. 701, 5-9-2005)
8-3-20: USE RESTRICTIONS; PROHIBITED DISCHARGES:
   A.    Unpolluted Water:
      1.    Not Permitted In Sanitary Sewer: It shall be unlawful for any
person to discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, ground water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water or unpolluted water to any
sanitary sewer.
      2.    Discharged To Storm Drain: Stormwater shall be discharged to such
sewers as specifically designated as storm drains, or to a natural outlet
approved by the city engineer. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process
water may be discharged, upon approval of the city engineer, to a storm drain,
or natural outlet.
   B.    Prohibited Wastes: Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall
discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following described waters or
wastes to any public sewer:
      1.    Any water or waste which may contain more than one hundred (100)
parts per million by weight of animal or vegetable fat, oil or grease.
      2.    Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable
liquid, solid or gas, or other petroleum products and derivatives.
      3.    Any garbage that has not been properly shredded.
      4.    Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure, or other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interferences with the proper operations of the sewage system.
      5.    Any waters or wastes having pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.0 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
sewer structures, equipment, personnel of the sewage system, or to be adversely
active on sewer treatment processes.
      6.    Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with sewage treatment processes
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or create any hazard in the receiving
waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      7.    Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character
and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such
materials at the sewage treatment plant.
      8.    Any noxious or malodorous solids, liquids, or gases which either
singly or by interaction with other substances, are capable of creating a
public nuisance or hazard to life, or prevent entry into sewers for their
maintenance or repair.
   C.    Harmful Substances:
      1.    Prohibited Discharge: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged into a sewer any of the following described substances, materials,
waters or wastes if it appears likely, in the opinion of the city engineer or
technical expertise at his or her disposal, that such wastes can harm either
the sewers, sewage treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on
the receiving stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or
constitute a nuisance.
      2.    Considerations: In forming his or her opinion as to the
acceptability of these wastes, the city engineer will give consideration to
such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and
velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of
the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of
treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and other pertinent
factors.
      3.    Prohibited Substances: The substances prohibited are:
         a.    Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F,) sixty five degrees centigrade (65°C).
         b.    Septic tank effluent.
         c.    Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils,
whether emulsified or not, containing substances which may solidify or become
viscous at temperatures between thirty two degrees Fahrenheit (32°F) (0°C) and
one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
         d.    Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling
wastes, or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
         e.    Any ground or unground fruit peelings and cores from canneries
and packing plants, cull fruits, vegetables and fruit and vegetable pits and
seeds.
         f.    Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the city engineer, or expertise at his or her disposal as
necessary, after treatment of the composite sewage, to meet the requirements of
the state, federal, or other public agencies or jurisdiction for such discharge
to the receiving waters.
         g.    Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the city engineer or
expertise at his or her disposal in compliance with applicable state or federal
regulations.
         h.    Materials which exert or cause:
            (1)    Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as,
but not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium sulfate).
            (2)    Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions).
            (3)    Unusual five (5) day BOD (biochemical oxygen demand), or
chlorine requirements in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on
the sewage treatment works.
            (4)    Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes
constituting "slugs".
            (5)    Waters or wastes containing substances which are not
amenable to treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed,
or are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment
plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having
jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
   D.    Action Upon Discharge Having Deleterious Effect:
      1.    If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged into the sewers which, in the judgment of the city engineer, may
have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or
receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a
public nuisance, the city shall:
         a.    Reject the wastes; and/or
         b.    Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers; and/or
         c.    Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         d.    Require additional payment to cover the added cost of handling
and treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under
these provisions.
      2.    If the city engineer permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the council. Where preliminary treatment
facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his or her
expense. (Ord. 701, 5-9-2005)
8-3-21: INTERCEPTORS:
Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be maintained by
the owner or occupant, at the owner's or occupant's expense, in continuously
efficient operation at all times. (Ord. 701, 5-9-2005)
8-3-22: SEWER RATES:
The schedule of rates, fees, tolls and charges for the sanitary sewer
facilities and services furnished by or through, or for the use of, the city
sewer system, which rates, fees, tolls, and charges shall be from time to time
set forth by resolution of the council and approved by the mayor and thereby
found and declared to be reasonable and just, taking in account and
consideration the cost value of the system and the cost of maintaining and
operating the system, and the proper and necessary allowances for the
depreciation thereof and the amounts necessary for the retirement of all bonds
and other securities payable from the revenues of the system, accruing interest
on all such bonds, and reserves therefor, be and the same are thereby fixed,
established, levied, imposed and otherwise prescribed. (Ord. 701, 5-9-2005)
8-3-23: BILLING STATEMENTS 1 :
Whenever a resolution setting forth the sewer rates is adopted by the council
and approved by the mayor, such resolution shall include the period of time for
which billings are to be assessed, the due date for payment of billings, the
amount of fines to be assessed on accounts not paid when due, the time at which
overdue accounts shall be deemed delinquent, the amount of fines to be assessed
on delinquent accounts, provision for discontinuing water service to properties
on which accounts are delinquent, and any other such policy, rule, or
regulation relating to the procedure for billing accounts and collection. (Ord.
701, 5-9-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 8-1-2 of this title.
8-3-24: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.    Misdemeanor: It shall be unlawful to occupy or use any building or
structure in violation of this chapter and any violation shall be punishable as
a misdemeanor. (Ord. 701, 5-9-2005)
   B.    Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each separate day or any portion thereof during which any
violation of this chapter occurs or continues shall be deemed to constitute a
separate offense, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as herein
provided. (Ord. 701, 5-9-2005; amd. 2009 Code)
   C.    Additional Remedies: The city may use any civil remedy available to
enforce provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 701, 5-9-2005)
CHAPTER 4
WATER AND SEWER FACILITIES CONNECTION FEES
SECTION:
8-4-1: Short Title; Applicability
8-4-2: Purposes; Findings
8-4-3: Definitions
8-4-4: Imposition Of Fees
8-4-5: Computation
8-4-6: Payment Of Fee
8-4-7: Use Of Funds
8-4-8: Refund Of Fees
8-4-9: Exemptions And Credits
8-4-10: Installation Fees
8-4-11: Review
8-4-12: Extension Of Public Facilities
8-4-13: Violation; Penalty
8-4-1: SHORT TITLE; APPLICABILITY:
   A.    Short Title: This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the
KENDRICK WATER AND SEWER FACILITIES CONNECTION FEE ORDINANCE.
   B.    Applicability: This chapter shall apply in incorporated areas of the
city. (Ord. 660, 3-12-1996)
8-4-2: PURPOSES; FINDINGS:
The city council finds, determines, and declares that:
   A.    This chapter is intended to assist in the improvement and increased
capacity of the city water and sewer systems.
   B.    The purpose of this chapter is to assure that new development bears a
proportionate share of the cost of capital expenditures necessary to provide
water and sewer facilities in the city.
   C.    This chapter is also intended to permit the city to recover its
installation costs. (Ord. 660, 3-12-1996)
8-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
CAPITAL EQUIPMENT: Equipment with an expected use life of three (3) years or
more.
CITY: The city of Kendrick.
CONNECTION TO THE WATER AND/OR SEWER SYSTEM: The physical connection of a
building, structure, or land use to the city water and/or sewer lines, no
matter if such connection is made through or by intermediate lines.
DEVELOPMENT ORDER: A regulatory approval by the city.
ENGINEER: The city engineer of the city of Kendrick.
FEE PAYER: A person applying for connection to the city water and/or sewer
system.
WATER AND SEWER FACILITIES: City of Kendrick owned facilities. (Ord. 660, 3-12-
1996)
8-4-4: IMPOSITION OF FEES:
   A.    Water System: Any person who, after the effective date hereof, seeks
to connect to the city water system is hereby required to pay a water
facilities connection fee in the manner and amount set forth in this chapter.
   B.    Sewer System: Any person who, after the effective date hereof, seeks
to connect to the city sewer system is hereby required to pay a sewer
facilities connection fee in the manner and amount set forth in this chapter.
   C.    Water And Sewer System: Any person who, after the effective date
hereof, seeks to connect to the water or sewer systems of the city shall also
pay an installation fee reimbursing the city costs in physically connecting the
user to the water and/or sewer system. (Ord. 660, 3-12-1996)
8-4-5: COMPUTATION:
   A.    Fee Schedules: The amount of the water and/or sewer facilities
connection fee shall be as determined from time to time by resolution of the
city council. (Ord. 660, 3-12-1996; amd. 2009 Code)
   B.    Change Of Use, Redevelopment, Expansion Or Modification: In the case
of change of use, redevelopment, or expansion or modification of an existing
use which requires a new, replacement, or additional connection to the city
water and/or sewer system, the connection fee shall be based upon the net
increase in the size of the meter for the new connection over the size of the
meter for the previous connection.
   C.    Independent Fee Calculation:
      1.    Fee Payer Option: If a fee payer opts not to have the connection
fee determined according to subsection A of this section, then the fee payer
shall prepare and submit to the city council an independent fee calculation
study for the land development activity for which a connection to the city
water and/or sewer system is sought.
      2.    Guidelines: The independent fee calculation study shall follow the
prescribed guidelines adopted by motion of the city council. The documentation
submitted shall show the basis upon which the independent fee calculation was
made.
      3.    Consideration Of Documentation: The city shall consider the
documentation submitted by the fee payer, but is not required to accept such
documentation as he/she shall reasonably deem to be inaccurate or not reliable
and may, in the alternative, require the fee payer to submit additional or
different documentation for consideration.
      4.    Acceptable Study Not Presented: If an acceptable independent fee
calculation study is not presented, the fee payer shall pay water and sewer
facilities impact fees based upon the schedule shown in subsection A of this
section or subsequently adopted by resolution.
      5.    Acceptable Study Presented: If an acceptable independent fee
calculation study is presented, the city council may adjust the fee to that
appropriate to the particular fee payer. (Ord. 660, 3-12-1996)
8-4-6: PAYMENT OF FEE:
   A.    Payment Prior To Obtaining Building Permit: The fee payer shall pay
the fees required by this chapter to the city clerk or his or her designee
prior to obtaining a building permit and at least five (5) days prior to
connection to the city water and/or sewer system.
   B.    Funds Transferred For Deposit: All funds collected shall be properly
identified by and promptly transferred for deposit to the water/sewer dedicated
fund. (Ord. 660, 3-12-1996)
8-4-7: USE OF FUNDS:
   A.    Capital Improvements Or Major Maintenance: Funds collected from water
and sewer facility connection fees shall be used solely for the purpose of
acquiring, constructing, equipping, and/or making capital improvements or major
maintenance to water and sewer facilities under the jurisdiction of the city,
and shall not be used for daily maintenance or operations. (Ord. 660, 3-12-
1996)
   B.    Order Funds Expended: Funds from the water and sewer facilities
dedicated fund may only be used for water facilities and sewer facilities
capital improvement or major maintenance purposes. Funds shall be deemed
expended in the order in which they are collected. (Ord. 660, 3-12-1996; amd.
2009 Code)
   C.    Bonds Or Similar Debt Instruments: In the event that bonds or similar
debt instruments are issued for advanced provision of capital facilities for
which water and sewer facilities connection fees may be expended, connection
fees may be used to pay debt service on such bonds or similar debt instruments
to the extent that the facilities provided are of the type described in
subsection A of this section.
   D.    Annual Proposed Capital Improvement Program: At least once each fiscal
period, the city water and sewer commissioner shall present to the city council
a proposed capital improvement program for water and sewer facilities,
assigning funds from the water and sewer facilities dedicated fund to specific
water and sewer facilities improvement projects and related expenses. Monies
not assigned in any fiscal period shall be retained in the water/sewer
dedicated fund until the next fiscal period, except as provided by the refund
provisions of this chapter.
   E.    Refunds: Funds may be used to provide refunds as described in section
8-4-8 of this chapter.
   F.    Rebate Developer Costs: Funds may be used to rebate developer costs
for providing water and/or sewer capital facilities in excess of the capacity
required to the individual developer making the provision. Any rebates must be
pursuant to a refunding agreement entered between the developer and city after
the effective date hereof. (Ord. 660, 3-12-1996)
8-4-8: REFUND OF FEES:
Any funds not expended or encumbered by the end of the calendar quarter
immediately following ten (10) years from the date the water or sewer
facilities impact fee was paid shall, upon application of the then current
landowner, be returned to such landowner; provided, that the landowner submits
an application for a refund to the city clerk within one hundred eighty (180)
days of the expiration of the ten (10) year period. (Ord. 660, 3-12-1996)
8-4-9: EXEMPTIONS AND CREDITS:
   A.    Exemptions: The following shall be exempted from payment of the
connection fee:
      1.    Alterations or expansion of an existing building where no
additional or larger water and/or sewer connections are requested and where the
use is not changed.
      2.    The replacement of a building or structure with a new building or
structure of the same size and use where no additional or larger water and/or
sewer connections are requested and where the use is not changed.
      3.    The installation of a replacement manufactured home on a lot or
other such site when a water and/or sewer capital facilities connection fee for
such manufactured home site has previously been paid pursuant to this chapter
or where a manufactured home legally existed on such site on or prior to the
effective date hereof.
      4.    Any claim of exemption must be made no later than the time of
application for a building or manufactured home placement permit. Any claim not
so made shall be deemed waived.
   B.    Disconnection: No exemption will exist where water and/or sewer
services have been disconnected either: 1) physically for six (6) months or
more, or 2) after notice, as indicated on the city records.
   C.    Credit Or Reimbursement:
      1.    Request For Credit By Fee Payer: Water and sewer facilities capital
improvements may be offered by the fee payer as total or partial payment of the
required connection fee. The fee payer must request a water and sewer
facilities connection fee credit. If the city council accepts such an offer,
the credit shall be determined and provided in the following manner:
         a.    Valuation: Credit for the dedication of land shall be valued:
            (1)    At one hundred percent (100%) of the most recently assessed
value by the Latah County appraiser;
            (2)    By such other appropriate method as the city council may
have accepted prior to the effective date hereof for particular water and sewer
facilities improvement; or
            (3)    By fair market value established by private appraisers
acceptable to the city.
Credit for the dedication of water and sewer facilities land shall be provided
when the property has been conveyed at no charge to, and accepted by, the city
or county in a manner satisfactory to the city council.
         b.    Construction Of Water And Sewer Facilities Improvements:
            (1)    Submission Of Documents: Applicants for credit for
construction of water and sewer facilities improvements shall submit acceptable
engineering drawings and specifications, and construction cost estimates to the
city.
            (2)    Council Determination: The city council shall determine
credit for construction based upon either these cost estimates or upon
alternative engineering criteria and construction cost estimates if the city
council determines that such estimates submitted by the applicant are either
unreliable or inaccurate.
            (3)    Issuance Of Letter Or Certificate: The city clerk shall
provide the applicant with a letter or certificate setting forth the dollar
amount of the credit, the water and sewer facilities connection fee component
(s) to which the credit will apply, the reason for the credit, and the legal
description or other adequate description of the project or development to
which the credit may be applied.
            (4)    Return Of Signed Letter Or Certificate: The applicant must
sign and date a duplicate copy of such letter or certificate indicating his
agreement to the terms of the letter or certificate and return such signed
document to the city clerk before credit will be given.
            (5)    Failure To Return: The failure of the applicant to sign,
date, and return such document within sixty (60) days shall nullify the credit.
         c.    Credit Against Connection Fees: Except as provided in subsection
C1d of this section, credit against connection fees otherwise due will not be
provided until:
            (1)    The construction is completed and accepted by the city; or
            (2)    A suitable maintenance and warranty bond is received and
approved by the city clerk, when applicable.
         d.    Credit Applied Before Completion:
            (1)    Adequate Security Posted: Credit may be provided before
completion of specified water and sewer facilities improvements if adequate
assurances are given by the applicant that the standards set out in subsection
C1c of this section will be met and if the fee payer posts security as provided
below for the costs of such construction. Security in the form of a performance
bond, irrevocable letter of credit, or escrow agreement shall be posted with
and approved by the city clerk in an amount determined by the city council.
            (2)    Increase In Security: If the water and sewer facilities
construction project will not be constructed within one year of the acceptance
of the offer by the city, the amount of the security shall be increased by ten
percent (10%) compounded for each year of the life of the security.
            (3)    Review And Approval By City: The security shall be reviewed
and approved by the city council prior to acceptance of the security by the
city clerk. If the water and sewer facilities construction project is not to be
completed within one year of the date of acceptance of the fee payer's offer,
the city council must approve the water and sewer facilities construction
project and its scheduled completion date prior to the acceptance of the offer
by the city clerk.
      2.    Request For Credit Consideration: Any request for credit
consideration must be made no later than the time of application for
connection. Any claim not so made shall be deemed waived.
      3.    Transfer Of Credits:
         a.    Credits shall not be transferable from one project or
development to another without the approval of the city council.
         b.    Credits shall not be transferable from one component of the
water and sewer facilities connection fee to another component of this fee.
(Ord. 660, 3-12-1996)
8-4-10: INSTALLATION FEES:
In addition to the foregoing connection fees, any person requesting connection
to the city water or sewer system shall pay installation fees based on the
city's cost of connecting the applicant to the system.
   A.    Basic Water Fee: The basic water installation fee shall be three
hundred fifty dollars ($350.00).
   B.    Basic Sewer Fee: The basic sewer installation fee shall be three
hundred fifty dollars ($350.00).
   C.    Costs In Excess Of Basic Fee: Any installation requiring materials or
labor in excess of the basic installation or requiring repair of a curb,
sidewalk or roadway shall pay for additional services according to a fee
schedule adopted by resolution.
   D.    Payment Of Basic Fee: Basic installation fees shall be paid at the
time of building permit application or at least five (5) days prior to
installation where no building permit is required.
   E.    Payment Of Additional Fees: Any additional fee shall be billed after
installation and paid within thirty (30) days of billing; services may be
terminated for nonpayment. (Ord. 660, 3-12-1996)
8-4-11: REVIEW:
The fees contained in sections
8-4-6 and
8-4-10 of this chapter should be reviewed by the city council at least once
each fiscal year. After careful review, amended fees may be adopted by a duly
adopted resolution. (Ord. 660, 3-12-1996; amd. 2009 Code)
8-4-12: EXTENSION OF PUBLIC FACILITIES:
Any person seeking to connect property to city utilities shall pay all costs of
extending lines to his property unless otherwise agreed upon by the city
council. (Ord. 660, 3-12-1996)
8-4-13: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter shall be prosecuted as a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, the violator shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code; however, in addition to or in lieu of any criminal
prosecution, the city shall have the power to sue in civil court to enforce the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 660, 3-12-1996; amd. 2009 Code)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Codes Adopted
9-1-2: Filing Of Code
9-1-3: Amendments
9-1-4: Permits Contrary To Law
9-1-5: Enforcement And Penalties
9-1-6: Contractor Registration Number Required
9-1-1: CODES ADOPTED:
   A.    The international building code, 2009 edition, as published by the
International Code Council, including appendices thereto pertaining to building
accessibility; excluding the incorporated electrical codes, mechanical code,
fuel gas code, plumbing codes, fire codes or property maintenance codes other
than specifically referenced subjects or sections of the international fire
code; including the incorporated international residential code, parts I, II,
III, IV and IX; international energy conservation code; and rules promulgated
by the board to provide equivalency with the provisions of the Americans with
disabilities act accessibility guidelines and the fair housing act
accessibility guidelines shall be included; and replacing section 903.2.7 of
the 2009 international building code with sections 903.2.7, 903.2.8 and 903.2.9
of the 2000 international building code, which pertain to fire sprinklers in
group R occupancies;
   B.    The 2009 international residential code as published by the
International Code Council, except for parts V, VI, VII and VIII as they
pertain to mechanical, fuel gas, plumbing and electrical requirements; and
   C.    The 2009 international energy conservation code as published by the
International Code Council. (Ord. 744, 6-17-2013, eff. 6-17-2013)
9-1-2: FILING OF CODE:
The codes adopted in section
9-1-1 of this chapter shall be designated as the city of Kendrick building
code, one copy of each code shall be retained in the offices of the clerk of
the city of Kendrick and shall be available for inspection by the public. (Ord.
744, 6-17-2013, eff. 6-17-2013)
9-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
105.3 [R105.3] Application For Permit. To obtain a permit, the applicant shall
first file an application in writing on a form furnished by the department of
building for that purpose. Such application shall:
1. Be signed by the applicant/owner, and the applicant's authorized agent or
contractor.
2. Have written verification of septic/sewer approval from the city of
Kendrick.
3. Have written verification from the city of Kendrick of approved vehicle
access to a public road.
105.5 [R105.5] Expiration. Every permit issued shall become invalid unless the
work authorized by such permit is commenced within 180 days after its issuance,
or if the work authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period
of 180 days after the time the work is commenced. The building official is
authorized to grant, in writing, not more than five extensions of time, for
periods more than 180 days each. The extension shall be requested in writing
and justifiable cause demonstrated.
108.3 [R108.3] Building Permit Valuations. The determination of value or
valuation shall be based on the "city of Kendrick building valuation schedule"
and building valuation data as published by the "Building Standards Magazine,"
most recent issue. When valuation data for certain projects is not available,
the building official shall determine a valuation.
Plan Review Fees. When submittal documents are required by section 106 [R106],
a plan review fee shall be paid. Said plan review fee shall be 65 percent of
the building permit fee. Commercial fees charged for actual amount as charged
by the state plan review board.
The plan review fees specified in this section are separate fees from the
permit fees specified in section 108 [R108] and are in addition to the permit
fees.
112.1 [R112.1] General. In order to hear and decide appeals of orders,
decisions or determinations made by the building official relative to the
application and interpretation of this code, there shall be and is hereby
created a board of appeals consisting of three members who are qualified by
experience and training to pass on matters pertaining to building construction
and who are not employees of the jurisdiction. The board of appeals shall be
appointed by the city council of the city of Kendrick and shall hold office at
its pleasure. A member of the board of appeals shall act as secretary. The
board of appeals shall conform to the city of Kendrick hearing procedures
ordinance, and shall render all decisions and findings in writing to the
appellant with a duplicate copy to the building official.
Filing And Timing Of Appeals. Any person may file an appeal from any notice or
action of the building official to provide for the reasonable interpretation of
the provisions of the codes as adopted. A $25.00 fee and written appeal
describing the specific issues being appealed must be submitted to the clerk of
the city of Kendrick, within fifteen (15) days of the date of the notice or
action of the building official. After receiving the written appeal, the board
of appeals shall be appointed within fifteen (15) days and shall fix a date,
time and place for hearing the appeal. The board of appeals shall hear the
appeal within thirty (30) days after the appointment by the city of Kendrick.
Written notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be given at least
fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the hearing to each appellant and to the
building official. The board of appeals must render a decision within thirty
(30) days of the hearing of such appeal. Every decision of the board of appeals
must be based upon findings of fact and every finding must be supported in the
record of the proceedings of the board of appeals.
Table R301.2(1), Climatic And Geographic Design Criteria, of the international
residential code, 2009 edition, shall be completed as follows:
Ground snow load: 30 PSF, and roof snow load of 30 PSF
Wind speed: 90 mph
Seismic design category: B
Subject to damage from weathering: Severe
Subject to damage from frost line depth: Frost depth 24"
Subject to damage from termite: Slight to moderate
Subject to damage from decay: None to slight
Winter design temp: 10 deg. F.
Flood hazards: Date of entry into the national flood insurance program, 02-11-
1980
Date of current flood insurance rate maps index: 02-01-1980
Section R403 of the international residential code, 2009 edition, shall be
amended as follows:
All footings shall have a minimum of two (2) no. 4 (1/2 inch) or larger
reinforcement rods laid continuously in the footing.
(Ord. 744, 6-17-2013, eff. 6-17-2013)
9-1-4: PERMITS CONTRARY TO LAW:
Any permit issued under authority of this chapter for construction or any use
contrary to any other ordinance of the city of Kendrick shall be void. (Ord.
744, 6-17-2013, eff. 6-17-2013)
9-1-5: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
The following are available to enforce compliance with the provisions of this
chapter. Nothing herein shall prevent the council of the city of Kendrick or
any other public official or private citizen from taking such other lawful
action as is necessary to prevent or correct any violation of this chapter or
of the Idaho Code.
   A.    Injunction: The city may obtain from a district court having
jurisdiction, an injunction enjoining the construction or installation of
buildings or structures on any building site upon affidavit of the city that
such building or structure does not conform to the requirements of this
chapter. The affidavit must set forth such violations in detail. The injunction
may be made permanent, at the discretion of the court.
   B.    Criminal Action: Any person who wilfully violates or fails to comply
with any provisions of this chapter or any provisions of the codes enumerated
in this chapter, or who, having obtained a permit hereunder, shall wilfully
fail to continue to comply with the conditions as set forth herein, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be fined not more than
three hundred dollars ($300.00), or imprisoned for not more than ninety (90)
days, or by both fine and imprisonment. A separate violation is deemed to have
occurred with respect to each building or structure not in compliance with this
chapter. Further, each day such violation continues constitutes a separate
offense.
   C.    Civil Action: Notwithstanding any other remedies available, any person
in an individual capacity, damaged as a result of a violation of this chapter
or the codes enumerated herein or promulgated pursuant to this chapter, has a
cause of action in any court of competent jurisdiction against the person who
committed the violation, and if such damaged person prevails, he shall be
entitled to reasonable attorney fees to be determined by the court, together
with court costs.
   D.    Notice Of Noncompliant Building Or Structure:
      1.    Definition Of Noncompliant Building Or Structure: Any building or
structure that does not comply with the provisions of the codes as adopted in
this chapter.
      2.    Commencement Of Proceedings: When the building official has
inspected or caused to be inspected any building or structure and has found
that such building or structure is noncompliant, or the building official is
unable to verify compliance because the required inspections have not been
requested and performed, the building official shall commence proceedings to
cause the repair or inspection of the building or structure.
      3.    Notice And Order, Appeal Process: The building official shall issue
a notice and order directed to the record owner of the building or structure.
The notice and order shall contain:
         a.    The street address, if issued, and a legal description or
assessor's parcel number sufficient for identification of the premises upon
which the building or structure is located.
         b.    A statement that the building official has found the building or
structure to be noncompliant with a brief and concise description of the
conditions found to render the building or structure noncompliant under the
applicable provisions of the applicable code.
         c.    A statement of the action required to be taken as determined by
the building official.
            (1)    When the building official has determined that the building
or structure must be repaired or inspected to comply with adopted codes, the
order shall require that all required permits be secured if a permit is no
longer valid and the work or inspection physically commenced within such time
(not to exceed 60 days from the date of the order) and completed within such
time as the building official shall determine is reasonable under the
circumstances.
            (2)    A statement advising that if any required repair work or
inspection is not completed within the time specified, the building official
will file a certificate of a noncompliant building or structure in the office
of the county recorder.
            (3)    Statements advising: a) that any person having any record
title or legal interest in the building or structure may appeal from the notice
and order or any action of the building official to the board of appeals, in
accordance with section 112 of the international building code, and section
R112 of the international residential code; and b) that failure to appeal will
constitute a waiver of all right to an administrative hearing and determination
of the matter.
   E.    Service Of Notice And Order: The notice and order, and any amended or
supplemental notice and order, shall be served upon the record owner. One copy
thereof shall be served on each of the following, if known to the building
official or disclosed from official public records: 1) the holder of any
mortgage or deed of trust or other lien or encumbrance of record; 2) the owner
or holder of any lease or record; and 3) the holder of any other estate or
legal interest of record in or to the building or structure or land on which it
is located. The failure of the building official to serve any person required
herein to be served shall not invalidate any proceedings hereunder as to any
other person duly served or relieve any such person from any duty or obligation
imposed by the provisions of this section.
   F.    Method Of Service: Service of the notice and order shall be made upon
all persons entitled thereto either personally or by mailing a copy of such
notice and order by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested,
to each such person at their address as it appears on the last equalized
assessment roll of the county or as known to the building official. If no
address of any such person so appears or is known to the building official,
then a copy of the notice and order shall be so mailed, addressed to such
person, at the address of the building involved in the proceedings. The failure
of any such person to receive such notice shall not affect the validity of any
proceedings taken under this section. Service by certified mail in the manner
herein provided shall be effective on the date of mailing.
   G.    Proof Of Service: Proof of service of the notice and order shall be
certified to at the time of service by a written declaration under penalty of
perjury executed by the persons effecting service, declaring the date and
manner in which service was made. The declaration or any receipt card returned
in acknowledgment of receipt by certified mail shall be affixed to the copy of
the notice and order retained by the building official.
   H.    Recordation Of Noncompliance: If compliance is not had with the order
within the time specified therein, and no appeal has been properly and timely
filed, the building official shall file, in the office of the county recorder a
certificate describing the property and certifying: 1) the building or
structure is noncompliant, and 2) the owner has been so notified. Whenever the
corrections ordered shall thereafter have been completed or the building
demolished so that it no longer exists on the property described in the
certificate, the building official shall file a new certificate with the county
recorder certifying that the building has been demolished or all required
corrections have been made so that the building is no longer noncompliant,
whichever is appropriate.
   I.    Referral For Further Action: The building official shall notify the
office of the city attorney of completion of this proceeding and refer the
matter to the city attorney office for a determination of any further action.
(Ord. 744, 6-17-2013, eff. 6-17-2013)
9-1-6: CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION NUMBER REQUIRED:
No building permit will be issued without the contractor's registration number
being presented by the contractor, except when the permit applicant provides
evidence to the satisfaction of the building official that the applicant is
exempt from the registration requirements pursuant to Idaho Code title 54,
chapter 52. (Ord. 708, 1-3-2006)
CHAPTER 2
STREET CLOSURE FEES; VARIANCE
SECTION:
9-2-1: Street Closures
9-2-2: Variance
9-2-3: Violation; Penalty
9-2-1: STREET CLOSURES:
Any person, firm, corporation, society or other organization desiring to close
a street or alley within the limits of the city shall make a written request
for such closure at the office of the city clerk. As part of the request, the
applicant will agree to pay to the city all expenses incurred by the city in
the process of closing or vacating a street or alley, and said expenses shall
be paid in full before said vacated street or alley is transferred to the
adjacent landowners. (Ord. 614, 5-12-1987; amd. 2009 Code)
9-2-2: VARIANCE:
Any person, firm, corporation, society or other organization desiring the grant
of a variance shall make a written request therefor to the city, and pay the
actual expenses incurred by the city related to the variance. (Ord. 614, 5-12-
1987; amd. 2009 Code)
9-2-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, society or other
organization to obtain a variance or street vacation without compliance with
the provisions of this chapter, and any person, firm, corporation, society or
other organization violating the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction of such violation, shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 614, 5-12-1987; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 3
STREET, WATER AND SEWER EXTENSIONS 1
SECTION:
9-3-1: Public Improvements
9-3-2: Water Facilities
9-3-3: Sewer Facilities
9-3-4: Streets And Sidewalks
9-3-5: Stormwater Facilities
9-3-6: Inspection
9-3-7: Off Street Parking
9-3-8: Plan Approval
9-3-9: Violation; Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 8, chapter 4 of this code.
9-3-1: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.    Street, Water And Sewer Extensions: Any owner seeking to develop
property within the city or seeking connection to the city water or sewer
system shall be responsible for paying for the extension of such facilities,
including streets and stormwater facilities, to the property.
   B.    Size Of Water And Sewer Lines: The city may require that water and
sewer lines be sized to provide services beyond the needs of the property being
developed. In such case, the city shall pay the incremental costs related to
increasing the size of the line.
   C.    Design, As Built Plans; Videotape: All utility and street extensions
shall be designed by a licensed engineer. Plans must be approved by the city
prior to construction and as built plans shall be provided to the city. A
videotape showing the interior of the completed sewer system must be completed
at the developer's cost and submitted to the city. The city may waive any of
the foregoing requirements for small projects (4 or fewer dwelling units).
   D.    Compliance With Standards: Such extensions shall be made in accordance
with all city and state standards including fire hydrants and manholes.
   E.    Land For Parks And Schools: Land for parks and schools must be
considered when applicable. (Ord. 670, 5-13-1997)
9-3-2: WATER FACILITIES:
Water lines within the city shall comply with the following standards:
   A.    Standards Adopted: The IDAPA 16.08.01, as amended, are hereby adopted.
Copy of these standards shall be on file with the city clerk for public use.
   B.    Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants shall be constructed every six hundred
feet (600'), or less.
   C.    Service Stubs Required On All Lots: All lots shall have water service
stubbed out five feet (5') beyond the property line and capped.
   D.    Approval Required: All plans shall be subject to approval by the city
council. (Ord. 670, 5-13-1997)
9-3-3: SEWER FACILITIES:
   A.    Standards Adopted: The IDAPA 16.08.01, as amended, shall be hereby
adopted.
   B.    Service Stubs Required On All Lots: All lots shall have services
stubbed out five feet (5') beyond the property line and plugged.
   C.    Approval Required: All plans shall be subject to approval by the city
council.
   D.    Plans: Plans indicating the location of sewer and water stubs shall be
provided to the city. (Ord. 670, 5-13-1997)
9-3-4: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS:
Rights of way and sidewalks shall be constructed to the requirements of this
section. Dedication and construction of streets to these standards shall be a
condition of development unless waived by the city council.
   A.    Residential Streets:
      1.    Dedicated Rights Of Way: Dedicated rights of way shall be fifty
feet (50') in width with a five foot (5') utility easement on each side.
      2.    Width: The street shall be constructed to at least twenty four feet
(24') in width according to one of the following standards:
         a.    Twelve inches (12") (minimum) of rock with a base of at least
six inches (6") (pit run) topped by at least four inches (4") of crushed
aggregate. After eight (8) months if the road has deteriorated, it shall be
graded and be finished with an additional two inches (2") of crushed aggregate.
         b.    Asphaltic concrete of at least two and one-half inches (21/2")
or such other surface as may be approved by the city council on the above
indicated base, subsection A2a of this section.
      3.    Curbs: Curbs shall be constructed on both sides of the street
unless waived by the city council.
      4.    Sidewalks: A sidewalk shall be developed on one side of the street.
Sidewalks shall be at least forty eight inches (48") in width and shall be
constructed of concrete four inches (4") in depth (6 inches at curb cuts and
driveways) with at least four inches (4") of compacted gravel as a base.
Sidewalks shall be set back at least four feet (4') from curbs or pavement. The
city council may permit alternate material or, where it is in the public
interest, permit installations to be delayed until adjacent properties develop.
   B.    Minor Arterial Streets:
      1.    Dedicated Right Of Way: Dedicated right of way shall be fifty feet
(50') in width with a five foot (5') utility easement on each side.
      2.    Street Grade: Maximum of ten percent (10%) street grade.
      3.    Width: The street shall be constructed to at least forty two feet
(42') in width (26 foot travel width and 8 foot wide parking lane on each side)
according to the following standards:
         a.    Twelve inches (12") (minimum) of rock with a base of at least
six inches (6") topped by at least four inches (4") of crushed aggregate. After
eight (8) months, retop with two inches (2") of crushed aggregate;
         b.    The travelway shall be finished with asphaltic concrete of at
least four inches (4") or such other surface as may be approved by the city
council. This may be waived if adjacent right of way on both sides is not
paved.
      4.    Curbs: Curbs shall be constructed on both sides of the street
unless waived by the city council.
      5.    Sidewalks: Four foot (4') sidewalks shall be developed on both
sides of the street, or a five foot (5') sidewalk on one side of the street.
Sidewalks shall be constructed of concrete four inches (4") in depth (6 inches
at curb cuts and driveways) with at least four inches (4") of compacted gravel
as a base. Sidewalks shall be set back at least four feet (4') from curbs or
pavement. The city council may permit alternate material or, where it is in the
public interest, permit installations to be delayed until adjacent properties
develop.
      6.    Designated Minor Arterials: The following streets are minor
arterials:
Railroad Street.
9th Street.
   C.    Major Arterial Streets:
      1.    Dedicated Right Of Way: Dedicated right of way shall be eighty feet
(80') in width with a five foot (5') utility easement on each side.
      2.    Slope: A maximum eight percent (8%) slope.
      3.    Width: The street shall be constructed to at least sixty feet (60')
in width according to the following standards:
         a.    Twelve inches (12") (minimum) of rock with a base (4 inches
minimum) of at least six inches (6") topped by at least four inches (4") of
crushed aggregate. After eight (8) months, retop with two inches (2") of
crushed aggregate;
         b.    Asphaltic concrete of at least four inches (4") or such other
surface as may be approved by the city council.
      4.    Curbs: Curbs shall be constructed on both sides of the street
unless waived by the city council.
      5.    Sidewalks: Sidewalks with a minimum width of five feet (5') shall
be developed on both sides of the street. Sidewalks shall be constructed of
concrete four inches (4") in depth (6 inches at curb cuts and driveways) with
at least four inches (4") of compacted gravel as a base. Sidewalks shall be set
back at least four feet (4') from curbs or pavement. The city council may
permit alternate material or, where it is in the public interest, permit
installations to be delayed until adjacent properties develop.
      6.    Designated Major Arterials: The following streets are major
arterials:
State Highway 3.
State Highway 99. (Ord. 670, 5-13-1997)
9-3-5: STORMWATER FACILITIES:
Stormwater facilities shall be installed at the time of, or prior to,
development of adjacent property. Stormwater facilities must be designed by an
engineer for any subdivision or large project (over 2 acres in size or over
$500,000.00 in construction costs). If a project will place a burden on
downstream facilities, the developer may be required to construct or improve
such off site facilities. Stormwater facilities shall fully comply with state
and federal environmental protection laws and regulations. (Ord. 670, 5-13-
1997)
9-3-6: INSPECTION:
No water line, sewer line or stormwater pipe shall be covered until it has been
inspected by the city. The developer or contractor shall provide at least
twenty four (24) hours' notice to the city of the need for inspection (weekends
and legal holidays excepted). The developer shall submit as built plans and
certification by the developer's engineer within ninety (90) days of completion
of the project. (Ord. 670, 5-13-1997)
9-3-7: OFF STREET PARKING:
At least two (2) off street parking spaces shall be provided for every
residential unit hereafter constructed or placed on a site within the city.
Commercial and office facilities shall provide at least one parking space per
employee and at least one customer parking space for every four hundred (400)
square feet of building space. The city council may reduce this requirement
upon a showing by the property owner that the requirement is excessive. (Ord.
670, 5-13-1997)
9-3-8: PLAN APPROVAL:
Plans must meet all specifications of this chapter brought to and approved by
the planning and zoning commission and the city council before any work is
done. Within thirty (30) days of completion of construction, as built plans
shall be provided to the city. Subdivider shall reimburse the city for all
engineering costs incurred by the city. (Ord. 670, 5-13-1997)
9-3-9: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
The city may enforce these regulations through civil action and/or prosecution.
Violation of any provisions of this chapter are misdemeanors and, upon
conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day of violation after notice shall constitute a
separate violation. (Ord. 670, 5-13-1997; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 4
HOMES IN REPLAT OF OAKS ADDITION
SECTION:
9-4-1: Definition
9-4-2: Restricted To Single-Family Dwellings
9-4-3: Setbacks
9-4-4: Mobile Homes
9-4-5: Storage Units
9-4-6: Installation Or Building Permit Required
9-4-7: Conditions And Restrictions Run With Land
9-4-8: Violation; Penalty
9-4-1: DEFINITION:
The term "dwelling" shall include a mobile home not less than fourteen feet
(14') wide and not more than seventy feet (70') long, modular and fabricated
homes and manufactured homes which are assembled and erected on the building
site and lot. (Ord. 606, 8-12-1986)
9-4-2: RESTRICTED TO SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS:
Subject to the requirements of this chapter, and the international building
code, 2009 edition, and in the absence of special application and permit from
the city, only a single- family dwelling will be erected or placed upon lots in
the subdivision known as a "replat of Oaks Addition", as shown by the plat
thereof, recorded in the county of Latah, state of Idaho, as instrument 304892.
(Ord. 744, 6-17-2013, eff. 6-17-2013)
9-4-3: SETBACKS:
The minimum setbacks for all buildings are as follows:
 
 Front yard setback             10 feet
 Side yard setback (each side)  5 feet
 Rear yard setback              10 feet
 Accessory structure setback    Above setbacks apply to all buildings unless
                                otherwise noted
 
(Ord. 606, 8-12-1986)
9-4-4: MOBILE HOMES:
   A.    Compliance Required: All mobile homes to be installed must be in
compliance with the specifications and provisions of Idaho Code title 39,
chapter 40.
   B.    Skirting: Mobile homes will be completely skirted at all times with
manufactured skirting material or other wooden material, all of said skirting
to be compatible with the mobile home in color and decor.
   C.    Installation On Concrete Pad: The mobile home will be installed on a
reinforced concrete pad, not less than four inches (4") thick, with a twelve
inch by twelve inch (12" x 12") beam around the exterior edge, and at least two
feet (2') wider and longer than the mobile home.
   D.    Permit Required: For the installation of a mobile home, a permit shall
be required for the mobile home installation and/or tie down for compliance
with the manufacturer's printed instructions. (Ord. 606, 8-12-1986)
   E.    Inspection Fees: In addition to the electrical, plumbing and gas
inspection fees, the building inspector will charge fees in accordance with
chapter 1 of this title, for installation and/or tie down inspection. Such
permit fees and inspections for compliance with manufacturer's instructions
shall be with the respective agencies or departments having jurisdiction under
the international building code, 2009 edition. The individual, firm,
copartnership, association or corporation installing and/or tying down the
mobile home unit shall be responsible for compliance with this chapter. (Ord.
744, 6-17-2013, eff. 6-17-2013)
   F.    Application For Installation Permit: Applications for installation
permits shall be in writing, signed by the applicant and shall contain the
following:
      1.    Name and address of applicant.
      2.    The interest of the applicant in, and the location of, the proposed
installation site by lot, block, tract, street address, or similar description
that will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed installation
site.
      3.    The proposed use of the building installation site.
      4.    Estimated valuation and/or cost of installation.
      5.    A complete sketch of the building site, drawn to scale, showing the
following:
         a.    The area and dimension of the site and the proposed location of
the dwelling thereon including the concrete pad or pads;
         b.    The location and size of any and all existing buildings;
         c.    Location of and type of water and sewer facilities, including a
showing of health department approval of the sewer facilities;
         d.    A set of plans and specifications if required by the building
official.
      6.    Such further information as may be requested by the building
official to enable him to determine whether the proposed installation will
comply with legal requirements.
   G.    Camping Trailers; Other Vehicles: Nothing within the provisions of
this chapter or the provisions of any document referred to herein shall be
construed to allow a camping trailer, van, or other vehicle as a permanent or
temporary dwelling. (Ord. 606, 8-12-1986)
9-4-5: STORAGE UNITS:
Storage units erected on the dwelling lot shall be constructed of metal or
lumber and shall be upon a foundation of concrete or cement blocks, and such
units shall be compatible with the dwelling in color and decor, and the same
shall meet the setback for accessory buildings. (Ord. 606, 8-12-1986)
9-4-6: INSTALLATION OR BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
No dwelling may be installed, constructed, or placed in said subdivision
without an installation or building permit issued by the city or the agency
engaged by the city to issue such permits. All applications for a permit shall
be accompanied by a plat of the lot or installation site showing boundaries of
the lot or site and a scale drawing of the dwelling to be placed or constructed
thereon, with all setback and side distances shown. (Ord. 606, 8-12-1986)
9-4-7: CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS RUN WITH LAND:
It is the intent and objective of the city that the conditions and restrictions
set forth herein shall run with the land; that is, the entire tract of land in
said addition and each subdivided lot and parcel thereof, and shall forever be
a benefit and burden on said tract of land and each subdivided lot and parcel
thereof all for the reason that the same is in the best interest and enjoyment
of the city and all of its residents as well as that of the persons residing in
said addition. (Ord. 606, 8-12-1986)
9-4-8: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.    Violation: Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any of
the provisions of this chapter, or who, having obtained a permit hereunder,
shall wilfully fail to continue to comply with the conditions as herein set
forth, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 606, 8-12-1986; amd. 2009 Code)
   B.    Continuing Violation: In the case of continuing violations, each day
during which the violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
   C.    Additional Remedies: Nothing herein shall prevent the city council or
any other public official or private citizen from taking such lawful action as
is necessary to prevent or correct any violation of this chapter or of the
Idaho Code. (Ord. 606, 8-12-1986)
CHAPTER 5
MANUFACTURED HOMES
SECTION:
9-5-1: Definitions
9-5-2: Requirements For Placement On Individual Lots
9-5-3: Replacement Of Nonconforming Manufactured Homes
9-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions are provided for the purpose of proper interpretation
and administration of this chapter:
CLASS A MANUFACTURED HOME: A manufactured home meeting the following standards:
   A.   Constructed after January 1, 1990, and certified as meeting current
manufactured home construction and safety standards of the department of
housing and urban development.
   B.   At least twenty feet (20') wide at the narrowest point.
   C.   Roof pitch shall be not less than two foot (2') rise for each twelve
feet (12') of horizontal run (2:12) and roof shall have minimum six inch (6")
eaves or eaves and gutter.
   D.   Has roofing materials which are in general use for site built housing;
however, any roofing material may be used provided it has the appearance of a
nonmetallic shingle, shake or tile roof.
   E.   Has siding material which has the appearance of wood, masonry or
horizontal metal siding. Reflection from horizontal metal siding shall be no
greater than that from siding coated with white gloss enamel.
   F.   Has a perimeter foundation constructed of brick, concrete, concrete
block or pressure treated wood, or is fully skirted with material having the
same appearance.
   G.   Hitch or tongue of manufactured home shall be removed.
CLASS B MANUFACTURED HOME: A manufactured home meeting the manufactured home
construction and safety standards of the department of housing and urban
development but not meeting all the criteria of subsections A through G of the
definition of "class A manufactured home".
CLASS C MANUFACTURED HOME: A manufactured home which does not meet the
manufactured home construction and safety standards of the department of
housing and urban development but which is at least ten feet (10') wide and
forty feet (40') in length. (Ord. 716, 2-11-2008)
9-5-2: REQUIREMENTS FOR PLACEMENT ON INDIVIDUAL LOTS:
   A.   Manufactured Homes:
      1.   Conformance Required: Manufactured homes on individual lots shall
conform to all setback, placement, lot size, and other requirements of this
title for conventionally built single-family homes on individual lots.
      2.   Utilities: Manufactured homes shall be connected to and served by
the same utility systems as provide service to conventionally built residences
and shall contain heating, plumbing, illumination, cooking and electrical
equipment and installations which conform to the standards adopted by the city
for conventionally built residences within the city.
      3.   One Per Lot: Only one manufactured home may be placed on an
individual lot.
      4.   Compliance With Zoning: Manufactured homes shall comply to all of
the city zoning ordinances relating to the location of manufactured homes in
floodplain areas and any other applicable requirements of this section.
      5.   Accessory Structures: The following requirements shall apply to any
accessory structure to a manufactured home on an individual lot:
         a.   An accessory building or structure, as is permitted in the zoning
district in which the manufactured home is to be located, shall be similar to
material and integrated into the design of the primary structure. (Ord. 716, 2-
11-2008)
         b.   Accessory buildings or structures shall meet the international
building code standards or United States department of housing and urban
development standards. (Ord. 716, 2-11-2008; amd. 2009 Code)
   B.   Class B Manufactured Homes:
      1.   Circumstances Under Which Allowed On Any Lot: Class B manufactured
homes shall be allowed on any individual building lot within the city only
under the following circumstances:
         a.   Inspection And Approval By HUD: The manufactured home has been
inspected and approved by the United States department of housing and urban
development (HUD) and bears the seal of that department, and
         b.   Conditional Use Permit Obtained: A conditional use permit has
been obtained from the planning and zoning commission of the city based on a
finding that approval of the applicant for a conditional use permit will be
compatible with the general character of the neighborhood and will not
negatively affect values of other property within the neighborhood.
      2.   Considerations: In making its determination, the commission shall
consider at least the following criteria:
         a.   Existence Of Similar Homes: Existence of other similar
manufactured homes in the neighborhood.
         b.   General Character Of Neighborhood: The general character of the
neighborhood including the existing land uses, compatibility of types and
styles of buildings and condition of housing.
      3.   Requirements: Approval of conditional use permit shall require that
the applicant comply with the following requirements:
         a.   Permanent Attachment: The manufactured home shall be permanently
attached to the real property of the lot upon which the manufactured home is
situated by anchoring the manufactured home to a concrete foundation, removing
the tongue and wheels from the manufactured home and installing skirting
acceptable to the commission around the entire circumference of the
manufactured home.
         b.   Building Permit Obtained: A building permit for the placement of
the manufactured home on the foundation on the lot shall be obtained from the
building department of the city at least seven (7) days prior to placement.
         c.   Certificate Of Occupancy: A certificate of occupancy for the
manufactured home shall be obtained from the city building department. (Ord.
716, 2-11-2008)
9-5-3: REPLACEMENT OF NONCONFORMING MANUFACTURED HOMES:
   A.   Replaced With Conforming Units: Nonconforming manufactured homes
located on individual lots which are removed from the property shall be
replaced only by conforming units.
   B.   Destruction Of Nonconforming Use: If a nonconforming manufactured home
is destroyed by any cause to an extent exceeding fifty percent (50%) of fair
market value, as indicated by the records of the county assessor, a future
structure or use on the site shall conform to this chapter. (Ord. 716, 2-11-
2008)
CHAPTER 6
MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
9-6-1: Definitions
9-6-2: Permits
9-6-3: Inspections
9-6-4: Disposition Of Application For Permits
9-6-5: Hearing
9-6-6: Transfer, Notice Required
9-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meaning ascribed to them in this section:
ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY: City council.
BUILDING INSPECTOR: A duly appointed officer of the city of Kendrick charged
with the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME: A mobile home which does not have a flush toilet and a
bath or shower.
INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME: A mobile home which has a flush toilet and a bath or
shower.
MOBILE HOME: Any vehicle, or similar portable structure, designed for use as a
conveyance upon highways, having no foundation other than wheels or removable
jacks and so designed or constructed as to permit occupancy for dwelling or
sleeping purposes.
MOBILE HOME LOT: A plot of ground within a mobile home park, designated for the
accommodation of one mobile home.
MOBILE HOME PARK: Any plot of ground upon which two (2) or more mobile homes
occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located.
MOBILE HOME STAND: That part of an individual lot which has been reserved for
the placement of a mobile home; said stand to be a concrete slab as required by
the administrative authority.
PERMIT: A written permit issued by the building inspector permitting the mobile
home park to operate under this chapter and regulations promulgated thereunder.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, or
association.
SERVICE BUILDING: A building housing toilet and bathing facilities for men and
women with laundry facilities and such other facilities as may be required by
this chapter. (Ord. 620, 8-9-1988)
9-6-2: PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to construct any
mobile home park within the limits of the city unless he holds a valid permit
issued by the city in the name of such person for the specific mobile home
park. All applications for permits shall be made to the city clerk, who shall,
with the approval of the city council, issue a permit upon compliance by the
applicant with provisions of this chapter and of any regulations adopted
pursuant thereto, and of any other applicable legal requirements.
      1.   Application; Contents: Application for permits shall be in writing,
signed by the applicant, and accompanied by an affidavit of the applicant as to
the truth of the application, and shall contain the following:
         a.   Drawing: The application for permit shall include a drawing to
scale of not less than one inch equals fifty feet (1" = 50') showing all uses
of land contiguous to the proposed mobile home park and the location of all
mobile home lots and stands and other structures, buildings, water and sewer
lines and electrical installations for services to the park such as storage
areas, laundry facilities, recreation halls, maintenance shops, patio spaces,
and the surfacing of same.
         b.   Name And Address: The name and address of the applicant.
         c.   Interest Of Applicant: The interest of the applicant in and the
location and legal description of the mobile home park.
         d.   Plan: A complete plan of the mobile home park, showing compliance
with all applicable provisions of this chapter. A complete plan, for the
purpose of obtaining a permit to be issued by the city clerk and approved by
the building inspector, shall show:
            (1)   The area and dimensions of the tract of land;
            (2)   The number, location, and size of all mobile home spaces and
stands;
            (3)   The location and width of roadways and walkways; and the
nature of the surface of the same;
            (4)   The location of service buildings and any other proposed
structures;
            (5)   The location of water and sewer lines and all electrical
services;
            (6)   Plans and specifications of all buildings and other
improvements constructed or to be constructed within the mobile home park;
            (7)   Tenant parking locations and layout;
            (8)   Street lighting layout;
            (9)   Location and specific nature of open area and playground
equipment, if any;
            (10)   Setback distances from property lines and contiguous to the
proposed park land and the structures and mobile home stands, and other
improvements to be constructed. (Ord. 620, 8-9-1988)
   B.   Permit Fee: Each person, firm or corporation, before constructing a
mobile home park shall pay to the city a permit fee for a mobile home park as
determined from time to time by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 620, 8-9-
1988; amd. 2009 Code)
9-6-3: INSPECTIONS:
The building inspector is hereby empowered, directed and authorized to enter
upon the proposed park at any time to inspect and investigate the project
during and after completion of the park. (Ord. 620, 8-9-1988)
9-6-4: DISPOSITION OF APPLICATION FOR PERMITS:
Applications for permits shall be directed to the city council, which shall
have absolute authority, regarding the adequacy of the permit information and
the acceptance or rejection of the application. (Ord. 620, 8-9-1988)
9-6-5: HEARING:
Any person whose application for permit is denied, whether in whole or in part,
may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the
administrative authority. (Ord. 620, 8-9-1988)
9-6-6: TRANSFER, NOTICE REQUIRED:
Every person holding such a permit shall give notice, in writing, to the city
council within ten (10) days after having sold, transferred, given away, or
otherwise disposed of, interest in or control of any mobile home park. Such
notice shall include the name and address of the person succeeding to the
ownership or control of such mobile home park. (Ord. 620, 8-9-1988)
CHAPTER 7
HISTORIC BUILDINGS
SECTION:
9-7-1: Purpose
9-7-2: General Regulations
9-7-3: Violation; Penalty
9-7-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The city of Kendrick wishes to preserve and protect those historic
properties that contribute to the cultural and aesthetic value of the city of
Kendrick and perpetuate the continued use and enjoyment of such properties.
   B.   Pursuant to Idaho Code 67-4614, the city of Kendrick may designate any
property a historic property based on the following criteria: historical,
architectural, archeological and cultural significance; suitability for
preservation or restoration; educational value; cost of acquisition,
restoration, maintenance, operation or repair; possibilities for adaptive or
alternative use of the property; appraised value; and the administrative and
financial responsibility of any person or organization willing to underwrite
all or a portion of such costs. (Ord. 731, 8-16-2011)
9-7-2: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Prior to designating a building as a historic property, the building
must meet all criteria set forth in Idaho Code 67-4614 and 67-4615.
   B.   No exterior portion of any historic property, including walls, fences,
light fixtures, steps and pavement, or other appurtenant features, nor
aboveground utility structures, nor any type of outdoor advertising, may be
erected, altered, restored, moved or demolished on a historic property until
after an application for such an action has been submitted to and approved by
the Kendrick city council and mayor. No change in the use of any historic
property which involves a change in design, material, color or outer appearance
thereof shall be permitted until an application for such an action has been
submitted to and approved by the Kendrick city council and mayor and reviewed
by a designated historic society. (Ord. 731, 8-16-2011)
9-7-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Any possible violation(s) of this chapter brought to the attention of
the city council or mayor at a regular meeting by a member of the city staff or
members of the general public may be referred by action of the city council or
mayor for review or action.
   B.   A violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of three hundred dollars ($300.00), thirty (30) days in
jail, or both. (Ord. 731, 8-16-2011)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title; Purpose
10-1-2: Definitions
10-1-3: Minimum Requirements
10-1-4: Conflict Resolution
10-1-1: TITLE; PURPOSE:
   A.   Short Title: This title shall be known as, and may be cited and
referred to as the KENDRICK COMPREHENSIVE ZONING ORDINANCE in accordance with
and exercising the authority of Idaho Code section 67-6501 et seq.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of this title shall be to:
      1.   Provide for the establishment of use zones and for restrictions in
these zones;
      2.   Provide for specific definitions, and to establish size, yard, and
setback requirements and that existing agreements and construction shall not be
affected;
      3.   Provide regulations for a building permit, for a variance, for a
special use permit, and an application process for a zoning change;
      4.   Provide for a penalty in cases where this title is violated. (Ord.
749, 5-18-2015)
10-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Words not defined herein shall be given the meaning ordinarily applied to such
words as used in zoning laws.
ACCESSORY USE OR BUILDING: A subordinate use or building customarily incident
to and located upon the same lot occupied by the main building or utilized for
the main purpose. Includes private garages, sheds for tools, fuel, accessory to
and used in connection with the residence buildings or other buildings allowed
in said zone. May not exceed the size or height of the primary building.
ALLEY: A street or way shown on the official plat of the city or its additions
and designated thereon as an alley.
APARTMENT HOUSE OR BUILDING: A building or portion thereof designed, used or
intended to be used as the home of three (3) or more families or households
living independently of each other.
BUILDING PERMIT: An official certificate of permission issued by local
authorities to construct, enlarge, or alter a building.
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT: See definition of Special Use Permits.
DUPLEX: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by two (2) families.
ESTABLISHED GRADE: The sidewalk line grade at the front lot line as established
by the city council or as given and established by a technical person under the
direction of the council.
FAMILY: Any number of individuals living together as a single housekeeping
unit.
FRONT PROPERTY LINE: The front property line shall be the front lot line as
shown upon the official plat of the property in question.
FRONT YARD OR SETBACK: Any open unoccupied space between the front line of the
building (exclusive of steps) and the front property line. On corner lots, the
front setback shall be required on both sides facing the street.
HEIGHT OF BUILDING: The height of a building is the vertical distance at the
center of a building's principal front measured from the established grade to
the highest point of the roof, beams or, in case of a flat roof, to the deck
line or mansard or to the center height between eaves and ridges for gable, hip
or gambrel roofline. The height may be measured from the average elevation of
the finished grade along the front of the building.
HOME OCCUPATION: Offices of professional persons and customary home businesses;
must be carried on in a part of the residence building, and occupy not more
than fifty percent (50%) of such residence building. No more than one employee
who does not live on the premises will be allowed. Additional parking for
employees and patrons will be required.
ISOLATED PRIVATE GARAGE: Private garage for use of occupants of a building or
buildings on the same premises, built upon lots isolated or detached from the
dwelling or apartment house.
LOT: A parcel of land of at least sufficient size to meet minimum zoning
requirements for use, coverage, and area, and to provide such yards and other
open spaces as are herein required. Such lot shall have a minimum of fifty feet
(50') frontage on an improved public street. Minimum residential lot size for
construction shall be five thousand (5,000) square feet. New construction that
does not meet minimum standards shall require approval utilizing the variance
application procedure.
PUBLIC GARAGES: Any premises used for the storage or use of more than three (3)
motor vehicles, or where such vehicles are repaired, or kept for hire, use or
sale.
REAR YARD OR SETBACK: An open unoccupied space between the rear line of the
building and the rear line of the lot.
SIDE YARD OR SETBACK: An open unoccupied space between the side wall line of
the building and the side lot lines of the lot.
SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by not
more than one family.
SPECIAL USE PERMITS: A procedure and permit for a proposed use which is
conditionally permitted by this title. This is also commonly referred to as a
conditional use permit. Such uses (after public hearing) may be permitted,
permitted with conditions, or denied. A special use permit cannot be used to
change zoning.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be no floor above it, then
the surface between such floor and the ceiling next above.
USE: The nature of the occupancy, the type of activity, or the character and
form of improvements to which land is devoted or may be devoted.
VARIANCE: A variance allows a property to be used in a manner that does not
comply with the literal requirements of the zoning ordinance. Variances are
only typically granted for physical nonconformities such as size, yard, and
setback requirements. Variances may be pursued through the variance request
process. A variance cannot be used to change use.
ZONING CHANGE: Reclassification of an area from one zoning district to another,
provided that the new zoning district exists in the city of Kendrick zoning
ordinance. A zoning ordinance change may be pursued through the application for
zone change. (Ord. 749, 5-18-2015)
10-1-3: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, the provisions
hereof shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted by the city council
for the promotion of the health, safety, morals, comfort and convenience of the
residents of the city and to promote the general welfare. (Ord. 749, 5-18-2015)
10-1-4: CONFLICT RESOLUTION:
The mayor and city council hereby declare that it is their intention that this
title does not repeal any existing ordinance in regard to building regulations,
fire limits or sanitation. In the event of a conflict between this title and
federal or state law, then the applicable federal or state law shall take
precedence over the conflicting sections of this title. (Ord. 749, 5-18-2015)
CHAPTER 2
ZONING DISTRICTS; MAP
SECTION:
10-2-1: Zoning Map
10-2-2: Zoning Districts
10-2-3: Boundaries
10-2-1: ZONING MAP:
This title shall consist of the text hereof as well as the map identified by
the approving signatures of the city council, marked and designated as
"Kendrick map of zoning districts", which map is now on file in the city hall.
Said map has been heretofore examined in detail by the city council and is
hereby adopted as a part of this title, but said map and this title shall be
subject to change from time to time as may be determined by the city council.
(Ord. 718, 5-12-2008)
10-2-2: ZONING DISTRICTS:
For the purpose of this title, the city shall be and is divided into zoning
districts as follows:
 
R  Residential zone
C  Commercial zone
I  Industrial zone
Ag Agricultural zone
FP Floodplain zone
 
(Ord. 718, 5-12-2008; amd. 2009 Code)
10-2-3: BOUNDARIES:
The boundaries of the zones as designated by this title are established by the
boundaries indicated upon the map of the zoning districts as adopted in section
10-2-1 of this chapter; provided, that such established boundaries shall first
be adopted by the city council after an advertised public hearing is held.
(Ord. 718, 5-12-2008)
CHAPTER 3
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: R Residential Zone
10-3-2: C Commercial Zone
10-3-3: I Industrial Zone
10-3-4: Ag Agricultural Zone
10-3-5: FP Floodplain Overlay Zone
10-3-1: R RESIDENTIAL ZONE:
   A.   Permitted Uses: In the R residential zone, no building or premises
shall be used or occupied or hereafter erected, or structurally altered
excepting for one or more of the following purposes:
Accessory uses.
Churches.
Home occupations.
Residential dwellings.
Schools.
   B.   Special Uses: In the R residential zone the following uses may be
permitted by special use permit:
Apartment buildings.
Bed and breakfasts.
Fire station built in residence style.
Isolated private garage.
Library.
Museum.
Parks, playgrounds, and swimming pools.
Trailer courts and mobile home parks.
   C.   Prohibited Uses:
No billboards or signboards may be erected.
No livestock or poultry shall be raised or maintained, except as permitted
under subsection H of this section.
   D.   Setbacks:
      1.   Front: In the R residential zone, every building hereafter erected
or structurally altered shall have a front setback of at least ten feet (10')
from the street property line on which the building fronts. If fifty percent
(50%) or more of the buildings on one side of a block have a common front
setback of less than ten feet (10') from the street line, the common setback
shall be used as the minimum front setback for buildings on that side of the
block. No part of the building excepting unenclosed and unroofed porches not to
exceed four feet (4') above the established grade shall extend in front of the
setback line. The maximum height for a front fence or wall is four feet (4').
      2.   Side Yard: In the R residential zone, buildings shall have a side
yard setback of at least seven feet (7'). For the purpose of this title,
fences, walls, or other obstructions over six feet (6') in height above the
established grade shall be regarded as structures.
      3.   Rear Yard: In the R residential zone, buildings shall have a rear
yard setback of at least ten feet (10') from the property line on which the
building backs. If fifty percent (50%) or more of the buildings on one side of
a block have a common rear setback of less than ten feet (10') from the rear
property line, the common setback shall be used as the minimum rear setback for
buildings on that side of the block. The maximum height for a rear fence or
wall is six feet (6').
   E.   Maximum Height: In R residential zone, buildings shall have a maximum
height of no more than thirty six feet (36').
   F.   Lot Coverage: In R residential zone, buildings and concrete (or other
impermeable surface) may not cover more than fifty percent (50%) of the lot
surface.
   G.   Off Street Parking: In the R residential zone, at least two (2) off
street parking spaces shall be provided for every residence.
   H.   Allowance For The Keeping And Raising Of Chickens: In the R residential
zone, the city may grant a permit to the owner of the property allowing the
raising and maintaining of chickens. The fee for such a permit shall initially
be twenty five dollars ($25.00); said fee may be amended by resolution.
Permittees must comply with the following requirements:
      1.   That the only poultry or fowl which will be raised is chickens.
      2.   A maximum of six (6) chickens is allowed per household.
      3.   There will be no keeping or maintaining of roosters.
      4.   The chickens must be kept in the back yard of the property, and must
not be allowed free roam.
      5.   The chickens must be kept in a coop or similar structure, and the
coop must maintain a twenty foot (20') setback from property lines.
      6.   The owner must care for the chickens with adequate food and water.
      7.   The owner must dispose of all waste and keep the chickens in a
manner whereby no odor from the chickens or coop offends any neighboring
property owner.
      8.   The owner of the property assumes all liability for damage resulting
from any of that person's chickens which are at large.
      9.   Violation of the foregoing requirements shall result in revocation
of the permit.
   I.   Structure Loss: In the event of a structure loss, reconstruction of a
nonconforming characteristic (size, yard or setback requirement) may be
permitted utilizing the variance request process. Residential structures to be
reconstructed on the original building footprint will not require a variance.
(Ord. 749, 5-18-2015)
10-3-2: C COMMERCIAL ZONE:
   A.   Permitted Uses: In the C commercial zone, the following uses shall be
permitted:
Apartments on the second and higher stories, or behind a commercially fronting
use.
Business and professional offices.
Places of amusement.
Printing and bookbinding establishments.
Restaurants.
Retail commercial businesses (except those requiring special use permits).
   B.   Special Uses: In the C commercial zone, the following uses may be
permitted by special use permits:
Adult entertainment businesses (as defined by Idaho Code).
Any use permitted in the residential zone.
Automobile service stations.
Businesses with drive-through service.
Light manufacturing which shall not be dangerous or offensive by reason of
dust, gas, odor, pollutants, smoke or excessive noise.
Welding shops.
Wholesale commercial businesses.
   C.   Maximum Height: In C commercial zone, buildings shall have a maximum
height of no more than thirty six feet (36').
   D.   Adult Entertainment Businesses: In the C commercial zone, adult
entertainment businesses must be located at least one thousand feet (1,000')
from any residence, school, or church. (Ord. 749, 5-18-2015)
10-3-3: I INDUSTRIAL ZONE:
   A.   Permitted Uses: In the I industrial zone the following uses shall be
permitted:
Grain storage and flour mills.
Lumberyards.
Manufacturing which shall not be dangerous or offensive by reason of dust, gas,
odor, pollutants, smoke or excessive noise.
Planing mills.
Poultry and egg industries.
Public auction or sales yard.
Warehouses.
Wholesale commercial businesses.
   B.   Special Uses: In the I industrial zone the following uses may be
permitted by special use permit:
All uses permitted within the residential and commercial zones.
Auto wrecking establishments confined within buildings.
Foundries.
Heavy manufacturing and industrial uses.
Railroad yards. (Ord. 749, 5-18-2015)
10-3-4: AG AGRICULTURAL ZONE:
   A.   Lot Size: Lot sizes in the agricultural zone must be a minimum of one
acre in size.
   B.   Permitted Uses: In the Ag agricultural zone, the following uses shall
be permitted:
Field, tree, or bush crops.
Hatching, raising, and marketing of poultry, provided no building pertaining to
this use shall be closer than fifty feet (50') from the nearest adjoining
property.
Single-family dwellings.
   C.   Special Uses: In the Ag agricultural zone, the following uses may be
permitted by special use permit:
Churches, public facilities and utilities, educational institutions and
schools.
Feeder lots for horses, cattle, goats, swine and sheep (1/2 acre of pasture per
animal).
Nursery and greenhouses.
Pasturage of horses, cattle, goats, and sheep.
Public parks, camps, playgrounds, and other recreational uses.
Temporary sales stands for the sale of farm and ranch products.
Veterinarian office, kennel, animal training establishment, and animal
hospital. (Ord. 749, 5-18-2015)
10-3-5: FP FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY ZONE 1 :
   A.   Definition: The "FP floodplain zone" is a hazardous area in which the
building of permanent structures is discouraged. This zone will be applied as
an overlay to existing zones. Only uses permitted in the underlying
residential, commercial or industrial zone will be permitted.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The following uses may be permitted if allowed in the
underlying zone:
All agricultural uses without structures.
Industrial commercial uses such as loading areas and parking areas.
Public parks, camps, playgrounds, riding areas, picnic grounds, tennis courts;
other recreational uses not requiring structures.
Residential uses such as lawns, gardens, parking areas, and play areas.
   C.   Variance: A variance may be granted for construction of new buildings
and/or substantial improvements in a flood zone, so as long as the proposed
construction is completed up out of the flood zone as determined by a state
licensed surveyor, architect, or engineer's completed elevation certificate
showing compliance. (Ord. 749, 5-18-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 12 of this code for floodplain provisions.
CHAPTER 4
ADMINISTRATION; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Nonconforming Uses
10-4-2: Variances
10-4-3: Permits
10-4-4: Special Use Permits
10-4-5: Appeals Procedure
10-4-6: Power To Alter Setback Lines (Rep. by Ord. 749, 5-18-2015)
10-4-7: Existing Uses
10-4-8: Certificate Of Occupancy And Compliance
10-4-9: Manufactured Homes And Manufactured Home Courts
10-4-10: Parking
10-4-11: Signage
10-4-12: Violation; Penalty
10-4-1: NONCONFORMING USES:
A present nonconforming use or occupancy not permitted under the provisions of
this title may be continued, but the nonconforming use or occupancy shall not
be expanded. A nonconforming use or occupancy existing at the time of the
passage hereof may not be reconstructed or structurally altered to an extent
exceeding an aggregate cost of fifty percent (50%) of the value of which such
building is assessed on the records in the office of the county assessor unless
such building is changed to conform to the provisions of this title. A
nonconforming occupancy or use may not be changed unless changed to an approved
use. Notwithstanding use, a variance may be issued to modify size, yard, or
setback requirements for an otherwise conforming use or occupancy. Nothing in
this title shall require the change of any building now constructed. (Ord. 749,
5-18-2015)
10-4-2: VARIANCES:
A variance shall only be used to modify setbacks, building height, yard or
frontage requirements, and parking requirements on a lot or parcel of land
prescribed by this title. Variances are not a property right and shall be
reviewed by the zoning commission and approved by city council prior to
construction. This review shall determine if the variance is in conflict with
the public interest and that compliance with the specified ordinance
restrictions would deny the property owner an otherwise permitted use on the
property.
   A.   Application: Application for a variance shall be made by the owner of
the affected property. The completed application form, fee, and any other
information required by the planning and zoning commission shall be submitted
to the commission prior to scheduling a public hearing.
   B.   Variance Criteria: A variance may be granted if the planning and zoning
commission finds that the proposed variance meets each of the following
criteria:
      1.   The variance will not be detrimental to the public interest or other
property in the vicinity of the proposed variance.
      2.   Compliance with setbacks, building height, yard or frontage
requirements, and parking requirements prescribed would deny the property owner
an otherwise permitted use on the property due to the parcel's peculiar
physical characteristics.
   C.   Public Hearing:
      1.   Time Limitation: A public hearing before the planning and zoning
commission shall be held on each complete application received by the
commission within four (4) months of receiving the complete application.
      2.   Notice Of Hearing: Notice for the public hearing shall be given as
set forth in Idaho Code section 67-6516.
      3.   Commission Determination: The planning and zoning commission shall
determine whether the proposal conforms to the variance criteria set forth in
subsection B of this section. Based on its determination, the zoning commission
shall make a recommendation to the city council. The city council shall approve
or deny the application for the variance.
      4.   Decision: The planning and zoning commission shall announce its
decision and make a recommendation to the city council regarding its findings
of fact and conclusions of law within forty (40) days of closing the public
hearing. The city council will then make a decision within forty (40) days. A
copy of the signed findings of fact and conclusions of law will be mailed to
the applicant within forty eight (48) hours of them being signed.
   D.   Effective Date: No variance shall become effective nor shall any
building or installation permit be issued until the fifteen (15) day appeal
period has elapsed or until the city council has made a decision upon appeal.
   E.   Expiration Of Variance: A variance shall expire if the structure
allowed by the variance is not physically established within one year of its
effective date. (Ord. 749, 5-18-2015)
10-4-3: PERMITS:
A permit may be issued by the city clerk for the construction, alteration,
repair, or removal of any structure. When applying for a building permit, the
owner shall present a verification of survey stakes or a resurvey. He shall
also show the present or future location of the garage and access drive. The
city clerk may require the applicant to submit a plan showing the proposed
construction, alteration or improvement and all other information pertinent to
the proposed project. A fee as set by the state shall accompany each
application for permit. (Ord. 718, 5-12-2008)
10-4-4: SPECIAL USE PERMITS:
To comply with the purposes of this title, specific land uses within a
particular zone require special consideration prior to their being permitted in
that zone. These conditional uses must be reviewed by the planning and zoning
commission prior to initiation or development. This review shall determine the
compatibility of the proposed use with the surrounding area and particularly
with permitted uses in that zone. The zoning commission will then make a
recommendation to the city council which will then approve or deny the request.
The approval may provide specific conditions which ensure that the proposed use
will be compatible with the permitted uses. A special use permit cannot be used
to change zoning.
   A.   Application: Application for a special use permit shall be made by the
owner of the affected property. The completed application form, fee, and any
other information required by the planning and zoning commission shall be
submitted to the commission prior to the scheduling of a public hearing. The
applicant is responsible for reimbursing the city for fees for publishing the
public hearing notice in the newspaper and for any attorney fees.
   B.   Permit Criteria:
      1.   A special use permit shall be granted if the city council finds that
the proposed use conforms to each of the following criteria:
         a.   The use is not detrimental to the health or safety of those in
the surrounding area and will not otherwise adversely affect permitted uses or
the enjoyment of such uses in that zone to any greater extent than a permitted
use in that zone.
         b.   The use will not require facilities or services with excessive
costs to the public.
         c.   The use is not in conflict with the goals and policies of the
comprehensive plan.
         d.   Neighborhood compatibility must be proven. Any proposal which
radically or adversely affects the density, typical pattern of development or
style of housing will not be permitted.
      2.   The city council shall have the authority to set an expiration date
for any special use permit so long as the reasons for such are included in
their findings of fact and conclusions of law.
   C.   Public Hearings And Procedures:
      1.   Time Limitation For Hearing; Withdrawal Of Application: A public
hearing before the planning and zoning commission shall be held on each
complete application received by the planning commission within four (4) months
of receiving the complete application. In the event that the applicant does not
want a hearing to be held within this four (4) month period, at the end of the
four (4) month period, the application will be returned to the applicant, with
a refund of eighty percent (80%) of the application fee if the hearing has not
been noticed. The applicant can withdraw an application at any time, with a
refund of eighty percent (80%) of the application fee if the hearing has not
been noticed.
      2.   Notice Of Hearing: Notice for the public hearing shall be given as
set forth in Idaho Code subsection 67-6512(b).
      3.   Commission Determination: The commission shall determine whether the
proposal conforms to the permit criteria set forth in subsection B of this
section and make a recommendation to the city council. Based on its
determination, the city council may approve or deny the application for the
permit.
      4.   Changes; Conditions: The city council may require such changes or
impose such reasonable conditions for the proposed use which are, in its
judgment, necessary to ensure conformity with subsection B of this section.
Each approved permit shall conform to the specifications of the proposal except
as explicitly modified by the commission. Special use permits may be temporary
so that the period of approval for a particular use is limited.
      5.   Decision: The commission shall make a recommendation to the city
council with their reasoning and notify the city council of its recommendation
within forty (40) days of closing the public hearing. The city council will
make a final decision and notify the applicant of their decision within forty
(40) days after receiving the recommendation from the zoning commission. This
time may be extended if the city council decides that a separate hearing is
required on the issue.
   D.   Effective Date: No special use permit shall become effective nor shall
any building or installation permit be issued until the fifteen (15) day appeal
period has elapsed or until the city council has made a decision upon appeal.
(Ord. 749, 5-18-2015)
10-4-5: APPEALS PROCEDURE:
All final decisions of the city council for variances and special use permits
may be appealed by an applicant or affected party who is dissatisfied with a
decision within fifteen (15) days after the decision is made. The written
appeal stating the issues shall be submitted to the city council. A vote of
three-fifths (3/5) is required to decide the question appealed. (Ord. 749, 5-
18-2015)
10-4-6: POWER TO ALTER SETBACK LINES:
(Rep. by Ord. 749, 5-18-2015)
10-4-7: EXISTING USES:
It is not intended by this title to alter or change any existing building or
permitted use in effect at the time this title is adopted; where a
nonconforming use is created by this title, the city council shall have the
power to apply this title to promote the best interest and welfare of the
public. (Ord. 718, 5-12-2008)
10-4-8: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY AND COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Required: No building hereafter erected or altered shall be occupied,
used or changed in use or occupancy, until a certificate of occupancy and
compliance shall have been issued by the city clerk's office or its designated
agent, stating that the building or the proposed use of the building or
premises complies with the building requirements of the city and the provisions
of this title.
   B.   Change Of Use: The use of a building already erected at the time of the
passage hereof shall not be changed to some other use or occupied for any other
purpose without the owner or his agent applying for and receiving a certificate
of occupancy and compliance from the building inspector and approved by the
city council. (Ord. 749, 5-18-2015)
10-4-9: MANUFACTURED HOMES AND MANUFACTURED HOME COURTS:
The zoning of manufactured homes and manufactured home courts shall conform
with, and be regulated by title 9, chapter 5 of this code. (Ord. 749, 5-18-
2015)
10-4-10: PARKING:
Any business established subsequent to the date hereof shall provide adequate
parking for employees and customers. (Ord. 718, 5-12-2008)
10-4-11: SIGNAGE:
Signs attached to buildings in accordance with the international building code,
not to exceed two (2) square feet of sign area for every ten (10) frontage feet
of street frontage adjacent to where the sign is located would be permitted;
however any larger, lighted or mechanical signs must be approved by special use
permit. (Ord. 718, 5-12-2008; amd. 2009 Code)
10-4-12: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this title shall, upon
conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day in violation shall be considered a separate
offense. (Ord. 749, 5-18-2015)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Authority
11-1-2: Jurisdiction
11-1-3: Application Of Regulations
11-1-4: Definitions
11-1-5: Basic Rule; Plan Approval
11-1-6: Procedure For Review And Approval
11-1-7: Plans And Specifications
11-1-8: Inspections
11-1-9: Expiration Of Plan Approval
11-1-10: Change Of Ownership
11-1-11: Fees
11-1-12: Violation; Penalty
11-1-1: AUTHORITY:
The requirements established by this chapter are authorized by Idaho Code title
67, chapter 65, as amended or subsequently codified, which provides a process
which is a prerequisite to the filing of a subdivision plat when required by
Idaho Code title 50, chapter 13, or by Latah County ordinance. (Ord. 669, 5-13-
1997)
11-1-2: JURISDICTION:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the subdivision of all land
within the city. This chapter governs the design and improvement of subdivision
of land. It does not abrogate or otherwise modify any provisions of Idaho Code,
title 50, chapter 13, which governs requirements of subdivision plats. In
instances of potential conflict in application of this law and state statute,
the more stringent provision shall take priority. Nothing contained herein
shall be construed as license to avoid filing of a subdivision plat when
otherwise required by state law. (Ord. 669, 5-13-1997)
11-1-3: APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this chapter, a "subdivision" shall be
defined as the division of any tract of land into two (2) or more lots,
parcels, tracts, or sites, for the purpose of sale, lease, establishing a
regulated primary land use, or building development, whether immediate or
future.
   B.   Applicability: This chapter shall apply to both the division of a large
tract of land into multiple lots and the further division of any existing
subdivision lot.
   C.   Compliance Required: Any such division is hereby defined as a
"subdivision" and shall proceed only in compliance with this chapter and
applicable state law.
   D.   Exemptions: The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
      1.   Divisions of land where the smallest tract is not less than twenty
(20) acres (gross area to include road right of way).
      2.   Indefinite divisions of a tract of land made by testamentary
provision, the laws of descent, or similar orders of partition entered by court
proceeding.
      3.   Divisions made for cemeteries or burial plots while used for that
purpose. This exemption is limited to exemption from internal improvement
requirements. No exemption is provided from boundary or exterior improvement
requirements necessary to provide services or access to or through a cemetery.
      4.   Divisions made for the purpose of lot line adjustments where no
additional building sites are created and where the resultant tracts comply
with zoning ordinance requirements.
      5.   Mere recordation of legal descriptions, without actual conveyance of
the land described.
      6.   Any lot or lots forming a part of any subdivision created and
recorded prior to the effective date hereof.
   E.   Existing Divisions: Divisions of land which are the result of a
conveyance which occurred prior to the effective date hereof shall be governed
by provisions of the law which predated this chapter. (Ord. 669, 5-13-1997)
11-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
The following words shall have the following meanings:
CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OF SUBDIVISION: Any transfer of the land being subdivided
that involves two (2) or more lots or any of the land to be dedicated for
public use; any transfer or series of transfers totaling more than a twenty
five percent (25%) interest in a corporation, partnership, or other entity
acting as a subdivider; or any transaction that purports to transfer
responsibility for compliance with this chapter regarding a certain subdivision
to another person or entity.
SUBDIVISION: The division of any contiguous ownership of land into two (2) or
more lots, parcels, tracts, or sites for the purpose of sale, offering for
sale, lease, building development, or establishment of a primary land use,
whether immediate or future, inclusive of all redivisions of existing tracts of
land or subdivided lots and future divisions. (Ord. 669, 5-13-1997; amd. 2009
Code)
11-1-5: BASIC RULE; PLAN APPROVAL:
No person shall carry out actions which constitute the "subdivision" of land as
defined by this chapter and/or state law without first complying with the
provisions of this chapter and, when applicable, state platting law, nor shall
such actions contravene any provisions of the city zoning ordinance 1  or any
other ordinance of the city relating to the subdivision or development of land,
adopted pursuant to authority granted by the local planning act. Failure to
comply shall be subject to enforcement in accordance with provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 669, 5-13-1997)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this code.
11-1-6: PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW AND APPROVAL:
   A.   Application: Any person seeking to subdivide land within the city shall
make application to the city clerk on forms provided by the city and pay all
applicable fees at the time of the approval of the application. The applicant
shall be responsible for providing names and addresses of property owners who
must receive notice pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   Planning And Zoning Commission: All subdivision applications will be
presented to the planning and zoning commission to make a recommendation to the
city council.
   C.   Public Hearing: Proposals for subdivisions shall be approved only after
public hearing before the planning and zoning commission. The planning and
zoning commission shall schedule a public hearing on an application for a
subdivision within sixty (60) days of the date of the application. Notice of
the hearing shall be provided no later than fifteen (15) days in advance of the
hearing to all property owners within three hundred feet (300') of the proposed
subdivision. The proposed plat must be filed with the city clerk no later than
fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing. The planning and zoning
commission shall make a recommendation to the city council to approve or deny a
subdivision application after the public hearing is held. (Ord. 669, 5-13-1997;
amd. 2009 Code)
   D.   City Council Action: Final approval will not be granted until the city
council has approved all final plans for a subdivision. Upon receipt of a
recommendation from the planning and zoning commission, the application shall
be put on the agenda for the next city council meeting. The city council may
approve such subdivision request, deny such request or approve the request with
conditions. The council may require the developer to mitigate any negative
impacts the development may have on adjacent property or the community. The
city shall require bonding for public improvements not constructed and accepted
prior to sale of lots.
   E.   Changes After Final Approval: After approval of the plans for a
subdivision, any changes must be submitted to the planning and zoning
commission and the city council for reapproval. (Ord. 669, 5-13-1997)
11-1-7: PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
Plans must meet all specifications of this code and must be presented to, and
approved by the city council before any work is done. Within ninety (90) days
of completion of construction, as built plans and inspection reports certified
by a professional engineer, shall be provided to the city except where a lesser
period is stipulated by state law. The subdivider shall reimburse the city for
all engineering costs required to evaluate the plan or inspect public
facilities installed. (Ord. 669, 5-13-1997)
11-1-8: INSPECTIONS:
The city engineer, or such other person as the city shall designate, shall
inspect the subdivision site and the subdivider and the subdivider's
contractors, subcontractors, employees and agents shall cooperate with such
inspections. City inspections shall be made as follows:
   A.   At the discretion of the city upon twenty four (24) hours' notice to
the subdivider.
   B.   Before the covering of sewer, water, or other buried utility
installations. Subdivider shall provide the city twenty four (24) hours' notice
before such installations are covered.
   C.   Upon completion of the subdivision or the completion of a phase of
public works construction that involves cessation of work for more than six (6)
months.
   D.   At reasonable times upon the request of the subdivider. (Ord. 669, 5-
13-1997)
11-1-9: EXPIRATION OF PLAN APPROVAL:
Subdivision plan approval shall be effective for twelve (12) months. The
subdivider may request an extension of subdivision plan approval for one
additional twelve (12) month period by submitting the request, in writing, to
the city council prior to the scheduled expiration deadline. (Ord. 669, 5-13-
1997)
11-1-10: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP:
   A.   Notice To City: Subdividers must give written notice to the city upon a
change in the ownership of the subdivision taking place after application for
subdivision approval.
   B.   Review Upon Change: Upon any change in ownership of the subdivision
taking place after the approval of any aspect of the subdivision, the city may
review that approval to see if new circumstances arise with the change in
ownership that warrant withdrawal of approval or a change in the conditions of
any conditional approval. Upon good cause, the city may withdraw any approval
or amend the condition of any conditional approval when a subdivision has
changed ownership after that approval. (Ord. 669, 5-13-1997)
11-1-11: FEES:
The city council is hereby authorized to adopt, by resolution, a fee schedule
for services associated with review and inspection of subdivision plans and
proposals. (Ord. 669, 5-13-1997)
11-1-12: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor: Failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter
shall constitute a misdemeanor. Each day such violation exists may be
considered a separate offense, and, upon conviction thereof, subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 669, 5-13-1997; amd. 2009 Code)
   B.   Additional Remedies: In addition to the criminal penalties above, the
city may proceed against the violator in civil court for both prohibitive and
mandatory injunctions requiring the violator to conform to this chapter. In the
event the city prevails, the violator shall be responsible for all platting
costs, including a reasonable sum for attorney fees. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the city council or any other public official or private citizen
from taking such legal action as may be necessary to restrain or prevent any
violation of this chapter or of the Idaho Code. (Ord. 669, 5-13-1997)
TITLE 12
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION 1
SECTION:
12-1-1: Statutory Authorization
12-1-2: Findings Of Fact
12-1-3: Statement Of Purpose
12-1-4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
12-1-5: Definitions
12-1-6: Application And Interpretation Of Provisions
12-1-7: Administration Of Provisions
12-1-8: Development Permit
12-1-9: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
12-1-10: Variance Procedure
12-1-11: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
12-1-12: Violation; Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-3-5 of this code.
12-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The legislature of the state of Idaho has, by statutes, delegated the
responsibility to local government units to adopt regulations designed to
promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry. The
council and mayor of the city do hereby establish the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 612, 3-10-1987)
12-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health, and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in areas of special flood hazard which increase flood heights and velocities,
and when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas. Uses that are
inadequately floodproofed, elevated, or otherwise protected from flood damage
also contribute to the flood loss. (Ord. 612, 3-10-1987)
12-1-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed:
   A.   To protect human life and health;
   B.   To minimize expenditure of public money and costly flood control
projects;
   C.   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   F.   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
   G.   To ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is within an
area of special flood hazard; and
   H.   To ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions. (Ord. 612, 3-10-1987)
12-1-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and
provisions for:
   A.   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water or erosion hazard, or which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   B.   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
   D.   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   E.   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or may increase flood hazard in other areas.
(Ord. 612, 3-10-1987)
12-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application.
APPEAL: A request for a review of the local administrator's interpretation of
any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO or AH zone on the flood insurance
rate map (FIRM). The base flood depths range from one to three feet (3'); a
clearly defined channel does not exist; the path of flooding is unpredictable
and indeterminate; and, velocity flow may be evident. AO is characterized as
sheet flow and AH indicates ponding.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
Designation on maps always includes the letters A or V.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. Also referred to as the "100-year flood".
Designation on maps always includes the letters A or V.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazard.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): The official map on which the federal
insurance administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the federal insurance
administration that includes flood profiles, the flood boundary-floodway map,
and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland waters; and/or
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot (1').
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of this chapter found at subsection
12-1-9B1b of this chapter.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For floodplain
management purposes the term manufactured home also includes park trailers,
travel trailers, and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than
one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days. For insurance purposes the term
"manufactured home" does not include park trailers, travel trailers, and other
similar vehicles.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on
or after the effective date hereof.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement, and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, placement or other improvement was within one hundred eighty
(180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns; or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers, or foundation or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building including a gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally aboveground.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure either:
   A.   Before the improvement or repair is started, or
   B.   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred. For the purposes of this definition "substantial improvement"
is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor,
or other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that
alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
The term does not, however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
   B.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places of a state inventory of historic places.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which permits
construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this chapter.
(Ord. 612, 3-10-1987)
12-1-6: APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Lands To Which Chapter Applies: This chapter shall apply to all areas
of special flood hazard within the jurisdiction of the city.
   B.   Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard: The areas of
special flood hazard identified by the federal insurance administration in a
scientific and engineering report entitled "The Flood Insurance Study For The
City Of Kendrick", dated March 10, 1987, with accompanying flood insurance maps
is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. The
flood insurance study is on file at the office of the city clerk.
   C.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and another ordinance, easement,
covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   D.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes. (Ord. 612, 3-10-1987)
12-1-7: ADMINISTRATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Designation Of Local Administrator: The building inspector is hereby
appointed to administer and implement this chapter by granting or denying
development permit applications in accordance with its provisions.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities: Duties of the local administrator shall
include, but not be limited to:
      1.   Permit Review:
         a.   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
         b.   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state, or local governmental
agencies from which prior approval is required.
         c.   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development is located in the floodway. If located in the floodway, assure that
the encroachment provisions of subsection 12-1-9C1 of this chapter are met.
      2.   Use Of Other Base Flood Data: When base flood elevation data has not
been provided in accordance with subsection 12-1-6B, "Basis For Establishing
The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard", of this chapter, the local administrator
will obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and
floodway data available from a federal, state or other source, in order to
administer subsections 12-1-9B, "Specific Standards", and 12-1-9C, "Floodways",
of this chapter.
      3.   Information To Be Obtained And Retained:
         a.   Where base flood elevation data is provided through the flood
insurance study or required as in subsection B2 of this section, obtain and
record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, and
whether or not the structure contains a basement.
         b.   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed structures:
            (1)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean
sea level); and (Ord. 612, 3-10-1987)
            (2)   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in
subsection B1 of this section. (Ord. 612, 3-10-1987; amd. 2009 Code)
         c.   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this chapter.
      4.   Alteration Of Watercourses:
         a.   Notify adjacent communities and the Idaho state coordinator
(department of water resources, statehouse, Boise, Idaho), prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the federal insurance administration.
         b.   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is
not diminished.
      5.   Interpretation Of FIRM Boundaries: Make interpretations where
needed, as to exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood
hazard (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped
boundary and actual field conditions). The person contesting the location of
the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
interpretation as provided in section
12-1-10 of this chapter. (Ord. 612, 3-10-1987)
12-1-8: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
   A.   Development Permit Required: A development permit shall be obtained
before construction or development begins within any area of special flood
hazard established in subsection 12-1-6B of this chapter. The permit shall be
for all structures including manufactured homes, as set forth in section
12-1-5, "Definitions", of this chapter and for all development including fill
and other activities, also as set forth in section
12-1-5 of this chapter.
   B.   Application For Development Permit: Application for a development
permit shall be made on forms furnished by the city or an official designated
by the city and may include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate, drawn
to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area
in question; existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials,
drainage facilities, and the location of the foregoing. Specifically, the
following information is required:
      1.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all structures;
      2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any structure has
been floodproofed;
      3.   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet the
floodproofing criteria in subsection 12-1-9B2 of this chapter; and
      4.   Description of the extent to which a watercourse will be altered or
relocated as a result of proposed development. (Ord. 612, 3-10-1987)
12-1-9: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
   A.   General Standards: In all areas of special flood hazard, the following
standards are required:
      1.   Anchoring:
         a.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure.
         b.   All manufactured homes must likewise be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement, and shall be installed using methods
and practices that minimize flood damage. Anchoring methods may include, but
are not limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors
(reference FEMA "Manufactured Home Installation In Flood Hazard Areas"
guidebook for additional techniques).
      2.   Construction Materials And Methods:
         a.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
         b.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
         c.   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or otherwise
elevated or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components during conditions of flooding.
      3.   Utilities:
         a.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
         b.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into floodwaters; and
         c.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      4.   Subdivision Proposals:
         a.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
         b.   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
         c.   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided
to reduce exposure to flood damage; and
         d.   Where base flood elevation data has not been provided or is not
available from another authoritative source, it shall be generated for
subdivision proposals and other proposed developments which contain at least
fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres (whichever is less).
      5.   Review Of Building Permits: Where elevation data is not available
either through the flood insurance study or from another authoritative source
(subsection 12-1-7B2 of this chapter), applications for building permits shall
be reviewed to assure that proposed construction will be reasonably safe from
flooding. The test of reasonableness is a local judgment and includes use of
historical data, high water marks, photographs of past flooding, etc., where
available. Failure to elevate at least two feet (2') above grade in these zones
may result in higher insurance rates.
   B.   Specific Standards: In all areas of special flood hazard where base
flood elevation data has been provided as set forth in subsection 12-1-6B2 or
12-1-7B2 of this chapter, the following provisions are required:
      1.   Residential Construction:
         a.   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
base flood elevation.
         b.   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to
flooding are prohibited, or shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or must meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
            (1)   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding shall be provided.
            (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
(1') above grade.
            (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters.
      2.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the level
of the base flood elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall:
         a.   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood level the structure
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
         b.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
         c.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice for meeting provisions of this subsection based on their
development and/or review of the structural design, specifications and plans.
Such certifications shall be provided to the official as set forth in
subsection 12-1-7B3b of this chapter;
         d.   Nonresidential structures that are elevated, not floodproofed,
must meet the same standards for space below the lowest floor as described in
subsection B1b of this section;
         e.   Applicants floodproofing nonresidential buildings shall be
notified that flood insurance premiums will be based on rates that are one foot
(1') below the floodproofed level (e.g., a building constructed to the base
flood level will be rated as 1 foot below that level).
      3.   Manufactured Homes: All manufactured homes to be placed or
substantially improved within zones A1-30, AH, and AE shall be elevated on a
permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at
or above the base flood elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of subsection A1b
of this section.
   C.   Floodways: Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
subsection 12-1-6B of this chapter are areas designated as floodways. Since the
floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters
which carry debris, potential projectiles, and erosion potential, the following
provisions apply:
      1.   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development unless certification by a
registered professional engineer or architect is provided demonstrating that
encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      2.   If subsection C1 of this section is satisfied, all new construction
and substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this section.
   D.   Encroachments: Where base flood elevations have been provided but
floodways have not, subsection C of this section will not be applicable and
will be deemed to be amended to read as follows:
The cumulative effect of any proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, shall not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot (1') at any point.
(Ord. 612, 3-10-1987)
12-1-10: VARIANCE PROCEDURE:
   A.   Appeal Board:
      1.   The appeal board as established by the city shall hear and decide
appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
      2.   The appeal board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged
there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination made by the
local administrator in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
      3.   Those aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board, or any
taxpayer, may appeal such decision to the district court of the second judicial
district of the state of Idaho, as provided in Idaho Code subsections 67-5215
(b) through (g).
      4.   In passing upon such applications, the appeal board shall consider
all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, and standards specified in
other sections of this chapter; and
         a.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         b.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         c.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         d.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         e.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         f.   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
         g.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         h.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
         i.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         j.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         k.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
      5.   Upon consideration of the factors of subsection A1 of this section
and the purposes of this chapter, the appeal board may attach such conditions
to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of
this chapter.
      6.   The local administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the federal insurance administration upon
request.
   B.   Conditions For Variances:
      1.   Generally, the only condition under which a variance from the
elevation standard may be issued is for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, providing subsections A4a through A4k of this section
have been fully considered. As the lot size increases, the technical
justification required for issuing the variance increases.
      2.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation, or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in this section.
      3.   Variances shall not be issued within a designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      4.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      5.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant;
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
as identified in subsection A4 of this section, or conflict with existing local
laws or ordinances.
      6.   Variances as interpreted in the national flood insurance program are
based on the general zoning law principle that they pertain to a physical piece
of property; they are not personal in nature and do not pertain to the
structure, its inhabitants, economic or financial circumstances. They primarily
address small lots in densely populated residential neighborhoods. As such,
variances from the flood elevations should be quite rare.
      7.   Variances may be issued for nonresidential buildings in very limited
circumstances to allow a lesser degree of floodproofing than watertight or dry
floodproofing, where it can be determined that such action will have low damage
potential, complies with all other variance criteria except subsection B1 of
this section and otherwise complies with subsections 12-1-9A1 and A2 of this
chapter.
      8.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation. (Ord. 612, 3-10-1987)
12-1-11: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the city, any officer or employee
thereof, or the federal insurance administration, for any flood damages that
result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully
made hereunder. (Ord. 612, 3-10-1987)
12-1-12: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor: No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed,
located, extended, converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms
of this chapter and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions
of this chapter by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including
violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with
conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this
chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction
thereof, be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and in addition shall pay all costs and expenses involved
in the case. (Ord. 612, 3-10-1987; amd. 2009 Code)
   B.   Additional Remedies: Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city
from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation. (Ord. 612, 3-10-1987)
