CITY CODE
of
KOOSKIA, IDAHO
2005
Code current through:
Ord. 217, passed 1-8-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Kooskia, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 217, passed January 8, 2025. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ORDINANCE NO.___218_____
 
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING THE COMPENSATION FOR THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS OF
THE CITY OF KOOSKIA, REPEALING CONFLICTING ORDINANCES AND PROVIDING FOR
PUBLICATION AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF KOOSKIA, IDAHO:
SECTION 1. MAYOR AND COUNCIL COMPENSATION.
Commencing January 1, 2026, the salary of the Mayor and Council shall be as
follows:
(a.)   The Mayor shall receive $350 (three hundred fifty dollars) per month and
an additional $50 (fifty dollars) per any special or emergency meeting held
during the month that they attend.
(b.)    Each member of the Council shall receive $135 (one hundred thirty five
dollars) per regular meeting and $50 (fifty dollars) for any special or
emergency meeting held during the month that they attend.
(c.)   In the event that the Mayor is absent, the member that presides the
meeting will receive an additional $50 (fifty dollars) for the regular or
special meeting.
(d.)   In the event that a Council member (not to include Mayor) is not present
for any scheduled meeting they will not be paid for that meeting.
SECTION 2. REPEAL OF CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with this ordinance are
hereby repealed to the extent of such conflict.
SECTION 3. EFFECTIVE DATE
This ordinance shall be effective upon its passage and publication as provided
by law.
Enacted by the city council as an ordinance of the City of Kooskia on the 24th
day of June, 2025.
Approved by the Mayor and Council on the 24 th day of June, 2025.
 
                     _______/s/ Christina Ulmer _____
                            Mayor
 
Attest:___/s/ Teresa Lytle____________________
       City Clerk
 
 
 
ORDINANCE #220_
 
   AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF KOOSKIA PROVIDING FOR AMENDMENTS TO KOOSKIA CITY
CODE 5-1-9. PROVIDING FOR PENALTIES FOR THE VIOLATION OF THE ORDINANCE.
PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF PARTS OF ORDINANCES IN CONFLICT HEREWITH: PROVIDING
FOR THE ORDINANCE BECOMING EFFECTIVE UPON ITS PASSAGE, APPROVAL, AND
PUBLICATION.
 
   BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF KOOSKIA, IDAHO
COUNTY, IDAHO, AS FOLLOWS:
 
Kooskia City Code 5-1-9 shall be amended to read as follows:
 
5-1-9:
 
A.   Definitions: Wherever the term “firearms” is used in this section, the
term shall mean any instrument used in the propulsion of shot, shell, or
bullets or other harmful objects by the action of gunpowder exploded within it,
or by the action of compressed air within it, or by the power of springs and
including what are commonly known as air rifles and B-B guns.
 
B.   Discharge of Firearms: It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge
firearms of any kind or description within the city limits; provided, however,
that this shall not apply to the following:
 
1.   Law enforcement officers in the discharge of their duties.
2.   A person discharging a firearm in the lawful defense of person or persons
or property.
3.   A person lawfully discharging a firearm on a sport shooting range as
defined in Idaho Code §55-2604.
4.   The governing body may at any time, upon receipt of proper application,
grant permits to shooting galleries, gun clubs and others for shooting in fixed
localities and under specified rules. Such permits shall be in writing attested
by the city clerk conforming to such requirements as the governing body shall
demand, and the permit thus issued shall be subject to revocation at any time
by action of the governing body.
5.   Military functions, such as parades, or funerals, firing blank charges.
 
C.   Violation Penalty: Any person who violates any provision of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor offense.
 
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.
 
This ordinance shall be effective upon its passage, approval, and publication
in the Idaho County Free Press.
 
 
 
Pass by the council and approved by the Mayor this 10th day of September, 2025.
 
 
 
 
 
                  _/s/ Christina Ulmer____________ 
                  Mayor
 
ATTEST
 
 
_/s/ Teresa Lytle_______________
City Clerk
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 155
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING
THE CITY OF KOOSKIA, IDAHO, CITY CODE
BE IT ORDAINED by the mayor and city council of the city of Kooskia, Idaho as
follows:
   Section 1: Pursuant to the provisions of Idaho Code 50-903 and from and
after the date of passage of this ordinance, the city code of the city of
Kooskia, Idaho, prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., containing the
compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with the changes
made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body of the city,
shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official code and law
of the city as enacted by the mayor and city council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official city code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which shall be
maintained in the office of the city clerk, certified as to correctness and
available for inspection at any and all times that said office is regularly
open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official city
code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official city code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the city code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official city code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: Any person violating any of the provisions of the city code
hereby adopted shall be fined an amount not to exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or imprisoned for a term not to exceed six (6) months, or by both
such fine and imprisonment.
   Section 6: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 7: This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication in pamphlet form as provided by law.
PASSED this 12th day of October, 2005.
APPROVED this 12th day of October, 2005.
 
/s/       
   Mayor
 
ATTEST:
 
/s/       
   City Clerk
 
 
Roll Call Vote:
AYES: Schilling, James, Forsman, Squires & Gregory.
NAYS:
ABSENT: Cochran
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
Kooskia City Code   1
Saving Clause   2
Definitions   3
General Penalty   4
City Limits   5
Municipal Provisions   6
Mayor   7
City Council   8
City Employees And Officers   9
Emergency Operations   10
CHAPTER 1
KOOSKIA CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alteration
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the city council, this code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official city code of the city of Kooskia. This code
of ordinances shall be known and cited as the KOOSKIA CITY CODE, and it is
hereby published by authority of the city council and shall be kept up to date
as provided in section
1-1-3  of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (1983 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (1983 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance materials shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(1983 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATION:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
city council. The city clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the city clerk. Any
person having in his custody an official copy of this code shall make every
effort to maintain said code in an up to date and efficient manner. He shall
see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the city clerk.
Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other interested
persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and shall be returned to
the office of the city clerk when directed so to do by order of the city
council. (1983 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or by necessary
implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving clauses
contained in the following sections), and excluding the following ordinances
which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances;
ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and
other ordinances granting special rights to persons or corporations; contract
ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a contract or the
issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or
vacating streets, alleys or other public places; improvement ordinances; bond
ordinances; ordinances relating to elections; ordinances relating to the
transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the city; and, all special
ordinances. (1983 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case this code shall be considered as amending such ordinance
or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1983 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance,
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable, if
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party affected, applied to
any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the city herein repealed
and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this code shall be
deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
city under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this code. (1983 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this code, or any part thereof. The city council hereby declares that it would
have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause
or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1983 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural number is
used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons, any single
matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although distributive
words may not have been used.
When any subject matter, party or person is referred to in this code by words
importing the singular number only, or the masculine gender, several matters,
parties or persons and females as well as males and bodies corporate shall be
deemed to be included; provided, that these rules of construction shall not be
applied to any section of this code which contains any express provision
excluding such construction or where the subject matter or context may be
repugnant thereto.
The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city has been changed
in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. (1983 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
CITY: The city of Kooskia, county of Idaho, state of Idaho.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Kooskia".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MISDEMEANOR: When a crime punishable by imprisonment in the state prison is
also punishable by fine or imprisonment in a county jail, in the discretion of
the court, it shall be deemed a misdemeanor for all purposes after a judgment
imposing a punishment other than imprisonment in the state prison.
Wherever the words "misdemeanor", "petty misdemeanor" or "violation" are used
in this code, these terms or any of them shall be construed to mean misdemeanor
and shall be punished, unless otherwise provided under section
1-4-1 of this code. Every crime not defined as a felony or infraction is a
misdemeanor.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the city; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a hazard
to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or to the
community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Kooskia".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: The word "owner" as applied to a building or land shall include any part
owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of
a part of such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small quantities
direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in quantity to persons who
purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: Include printing and any other mode of representing words
and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by law to
any official or public writing or bond required by law, it shall be in the
proper handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his
proper mark. (1983 Code; amd. 2005 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (1983 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor: Whenever in this code or any ordinance of the city, any
act or omission is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an
offense, the same shall be a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine not
exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisonment for a term not
exceeding six (6) months, or both such fine and imprisonment 1 . (1983 Code;
amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Infraction: When the offense is designated as an infraction by any
section or provision of this code or by state law, it is punishable only by a
penalty not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) and no incarceration may be
imposed 2 .
   C.   Federally Mandated Programs: Any city which is participating in a
federally mandated program, wherein penalties or enforcement remedies are
required by the terms of participation in the program, may enforce such
requirements by ordinance, to include a criminal or civil monetary penalty not
to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or imprisonment for criminal
offenses not to exceed six (6) months, or to include both a fine and
imprisonment for criminal offenses. (2005 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-302.
2 2. IC § 18-113A.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this code where a duty is
prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any action which is of a continuing
nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such
duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless
specifically provided in this code.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed; but, not more than one recovery shall be had against
the same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a
license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply. (1983 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intent of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (1983
Code)
CHAPTER 5
CITY LIMITS
SECTION:
1-5-1: City Limits Designated
1-5-1: CITY LIMITS DESIGNATED:
The corporate limits of the city shall be and are more particularly described
as follows:
Beginning at the south bank of the middle fork of the Clearwater River where
the same is intersected by the north and south center line of section 5,
township 32 north, range 4 E.B.M., thence due south on said center line of said
section 5, to the south line of said section 5, at the quarter section corner
between section 5 and 8; thence due east 120 rods to the southeast corner of
Sunnyside addition to the city; thence due north 80 rods to the northeast
corner of said Sunnyside addition; thence due east to the west meander line of
the Clearwater River; thence north and westerly along said meander line of said
river to the place of beginning.
S1/2 SW1/4 SE1/4 of section 5, W1/2 NE1/4 NE1/4, E1/2 NW1/4 NE1/4 and NW1/
4 SE1/4 NE1/4 of section 8, twp. 32N., rge 4 E.B.M. less 18.09 acres of land
heretofore sold. Less 5 acres devised by will.
(Ord. 10-1982)
CHAPTER 6
MUNICIPAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-6-1: Corporate Seal
1-6-2: Official Depositories
1-6-3: Official Newspaper
1-6-4: Municipal Elections
1-6-5: Initiative And Referendum
1-6-1: CORPORATE SEAL:
The Official Seal of the City shall be as herein illustrated:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5e1b38bace84babb0c1fafb92a39093514e6733e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-417.png]
and is hereby adopted as the Official Seal of the City. (Revised Code 1959)
1-6-2: OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES:
The following financial institutions are hereby designated as the official
depositories for funds of the City:
Freedom Northwest Credit Union
Local Government Investment Pool (LGIP)
Umpqua (during transition)
The City Clerk/Treasurer is hereby ordered, required and directed to keep
monies belonging to or in the care of the City Clerk/Treasurer in the above
named depositories; provided, however, when so authorized by the Mayor and
Council, said funds may be invested by said City Clerk/Treasurer in securities
authorized by law. (Ord. 190, 11-8-2017)
1-6-3: OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER:
The Clearwater Progress, Inc., a weekly newspaper, published in the City of
Kamiah, Idaho, Lewis County, is appointed, designated and constituted the
official newspaper and such other writings as are required under and by virtue
of the Governing Body of the City shall be given publication in it. (Ord. 119,
10-25-1995)
1-6-4: MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS:
The polls for all general and special City elections shall open at twelve
o'clock (12:00) noon, Pacific time zone, and remain open until eight o'clock
(8:00) P.M., Pacific time zone, at which time they shall close as required by
Idaho Code 50-453. (Ord. 144, 9-12-2001)
1-6-5: INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM:
   A.   Creation Of Right: The people of the City shall have the right to enact
ordinances through the initiative process, and to repeal ordinances through the
referendum process, according to the procedures of this section.
   B.   Number Of Petitioners Required: To enact an ordinance by initiative or
to repeal an ordinance by referendum, there shall be attached or appended to
the petition the signatures of the legal voters of the City equal to at least
twenty percent (20%) of the total number of voters registered to vote at the
last general election in the City.
   C.   Signature Requirements: Referendum and initiative petitions shall
conform with the requirements for signature, verification of valid petitions,
printing of petitions and time limits, except as expressly modified to meet the
purposes of initiative and referendum to be as nearly as practicable as
provided in Idaho Code 34-1701 et seq. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 7
MAYOR
SECTION:
1-7-1: Election
1-7-2: Vacancy
1-7-3: Compensation
1-7-4: Powers And Duties
1-7-1: ELECTION:
Any person shall be eligible to hold the office of mayor who is a qualified
elector of the city at the time of his election and remains a qualified elector
during his term of office. The term of office of the mayor shall be for a
period of four (4) years except as otherwise specifically provided. (1983 Code)
1-7-2: VACANCY:
In case of a temporary vacancy in the office of mayor due to absence or
disability, the president of the city council shall exercise the office of
mayor during such disability or temporary absence, and until the mayor shall
return. When a vacancy occurs in the office of mayor by reason of death,
resignation or permanent disability, the city council shall fill the vacancy
from within or without the city council as may be deemed in the best interests
of the city, which appointee shall serve until the next general city election,
at which election a mayor shall be elected for the full four (4) year term 1 .
(1983 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-608.
1-7-3: COMPENSATION:
Commencing January 1, 2024, the salary of the mayor shall be as follows:
   A.   The mayor shall receive three hundred twenty-five dollars ($325.00) per
regular meeting and an additional fifty dollars ($50.00) per any special or
emergency meeting held during the month that they attend. In the event that the
mayor is not present for any scheduled meeting they will not be paid for that
meeting. (Ord. 180, 7-8-2015; amd. Ord. 210, 7-12-2023)
1-7-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   General: The mayor, the superintending and administrative officer of
the city, shall devote so much of his time to the duties of his office as is
efficient and faithfully discharge thereof may require, and in addition to
those powers provided by Idaho Code and elsewhere in this code, shall perform
the following duties:
      1.   He shall preside at all city council meetings and shall have a vote
only when the city council is equally divided.
      2.   He may call special meetings of the city council, with their
approval, when necessary.
      3.   He shall appoint all officers and employees of the city, subject to
the approval of the city council, and have such other powers as the city
council may prescribe.
      4.   He shall, from time to time, provide for the city council such
information and recommend such measures as he may deem beneficial to the city.
      5.   He shall examine the grounds of all complaints against any officer
of the city to determine existence of a violation or neglect of duty, and
report to the city council the evidence thereof, if deemed sufficient for the
removal of said officer.
      6.   He shall require that every officer, on the expiration of his term
of office or resignation or removal, deliver to his successor all assets
belonging to such office.
      7.   He shall perform all other duties required and necessary for the
efficient operation of the business of the city.
   B.   Contracts: The mayor is authorized and empowered to sign his name
officially for and in behalf of the city on all contracts, documents and papers
to which the city is a party, and to require that the conditions in any
instrument are faithfully performed. He may borrow money on the credit of the
city when so authorized by the city council.
   C.   Accounts Of Officers: The mayor shall have the power to require any
officer of the city to exhibit his accounts or other papers and make reports to
the city council in writing on any subject or matter pertaining to the office.
   D.   Police Power: The mayor shall have jurisdiction over all places within
five (5) miles of the city limits for the enforcement of any health or
quarantine ordinances and regulations and shall have jurisdiction in all
matters, excepting taxation, within one mile of the city limits 1 .
   E.   Required Aid: The mayor is hereby authorized to call on every male
inhabitant of the city of the age of twenty one (21) years, to aid in enforcing
the law 2 . (1983 Code; amd. 2005 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-606.
2 2. IC § 50-609.
CHAPTER 8
CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-8-1: Election
1-8-2: City Council President
1-8-3: Compensation
1-8-4: Meetings
1-8-5: Powers And Duties
1-8-6: Public Hearings Before City Council
1-8-1: ELECTION:
The members of the City Council and the Mayor shall be elected at large from
the City. There shall be a Mayor and four (4) Council persons elected from the
City. (1983 Code; amd. per minutes dated 8-8-2007)
In the event an office of member of the City Council shall become vacant,
through death, removal of residence or for any other cause, the Mayor shall
appoint, with the approval of the City Council, a resident of the City, which
appointee shall serve only until the next general City election, at which such
vacancy shall be filled for the balance of the original term. (1983 Code)
1-8-2: CITY COUNCIL PRESIDENT:
At the time of taking office, the City Council shall elect one of its members
President of the City Council, who shall preside at all meetings of the City
Council and perform all other duties of the Mayor in the absence of the Mayor;
and, in the absence of the President, the City Council shall elect one of its
members to temporarily occupy his place, who shall be styled acting President
of the Council, and the President and acting President, when occupying the
place of the Mayor, shall have the same privileges as other members of the City
Council and all actions of the President and acting President, while so acting,
shall be binding upon the City Council and upon the City, as if performed by
the Mayor. (1983 Code)
1-8-3: COMPENSATION:
Commencing January 1, 2023, the salary of the Council shall be as follows:
   A.   Each member of the Council shall receive one hundred twenty-five
dollars ($125.00) per regular meeting and fifty dollars ($50.00) for any
special or emergency meeting held during the month that they attend. In the
event that a Council member is not present for any scheduled meeting they will
not be paid for that meeting.
   B.   In the event that the mayor is absent, the member that presides the
meeting will receive three hundred twenty-five dollars ($325.00) for the
regular meeting. (Ord. 180, 7-8-2015; amd. Ord. 210, 7-12-2023)
1-8-4: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular: The regular meetings of the City Council shall be held on the
second Wednesday of each month at the hour of six o'clock (6:00) P.M. All
regular meetings of the City Council shall be held at the City Hall. (Ord. 93,
6-25-1986; amd. Ord. 170, 1-11-2012)
   B.   Special: One-half (1/2), plus one of the members of the full City
Council shall have the power to call special meetings of the City Council, the
object of which shall be submitted to the City Council in writing; the call and
object, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be entered upon the journal
of the City Clerk.
   C.   Open To Public: All meetings of the City Council shall be open to the
public and all persons shall be permitted to attend any meeting except as
otherwise provided by this section. The City Council shall not hold a meeting
at any place where discrimination on the basis of race, creed, color, sex, age
or national origin is practiced. (Ord. 93, 6-25-1986)
   D.   Executive Session: The Mayor and City Council may meet in executive
session only for the purposes expressly allowed by law and only at the times
and in the manner and after notice required by law.
   E.   Meetings With Legal Counsel: The Mayor and City Council may meet
separately or as a group with legal counsel to discuss issues, request legal
advice or receive legal opinions, without prior public notice, and such
conferences shall not constitute a meeting of the City Council. The contents of
such meetings shall enjoy the normal privileges of an attorney/client
relationship. (2005 Code)
1-8-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   General: Members of the city council, the legislative and policy making
branch of the city, shall devote so much of their time to the duties of their
office as an efficient and faithful discharge thereof may require. They shall
attend all meetings of the city council, unless lawfully excused therefrom by
the mayor, or by a majority of the remaining members, and perform all duties
which, by the nature of their office, they should reasonably perform, such as
the passing of ordinances, resolutions and investigation and study of work done
for the city according to the committees upon which they may severally be
appointed by the mayor. (1983 Code)
   B.   Planning And Zoning Commission: The city council shall exercise all of
the functions of the planning and zoning commission for the city. (2005 Code)
1-8-6: PUBLIC HEARINGS BEFORE CITY COUNCIL:
The following rules are hereby established to be observed in the conduct of any
public hearing before the city council, hereinafter referred to as the hearing
body. The following rules shall be known as the "Kooskia Rules of Procedure":
   A.   At the beginning of each public hearing, the presiding officer of the
hearing body shall describe the order of events which will occur at the
hearing. Such officer shall ask the public for any objections to such order,
and if there are none, the meeting shall proceed as set forth. If objections
are received, the hearing body shall consider the objection, and either adopt
the order of events as originally set forth, or amend the order of events based
upon the objection, if it appears to that body that such objection has merit.
   B.   No person shall be permitted to testify or speak before the hearing
body at a public hearing unless such person has signed his name and written his
residential address thereafter upon signup sheets to be provided by the city.
This rule shall not apply to staff or technical witnesses directed by the
presiding officer to give evidence or information to the hearing body.
   C.   No person shall be permitted to speak before the hearing body at a
public hearing unless such person shall be recognized by the presiding officer.
   D.   All public hearing proceedings shall be recorded electronically or
stenographically, and all persons speaking at such public hearings shall speak
before a microphone in such a manner as will assure that the recorded testimony
or remarks will be accurate and trustworthy.
   E.   After the signup sheets have been collected at any hearing, the hearing
body shall establish by rules or regulations for the conduct of that meeting a
time limit to be observed by all speakers. The time limit shall be established,
depending on the number of speakers who sign up for each public hearing, and
shall apply only to the speakers' comments.
   F.   The speaker shall not be interrupted by members of the hearing body
until his time limit has been expended, or until he has finished his statement.
   G.   At the conclusion of a speaker's comments, each member, when recognized
by the presiding officer, shall be allowed to question the speaker, and the
speaker shall be limited to answers to questions asked. The question and answer
period shall not be included in the speaker's time limit as established.
   H.   When the public hearing is quasi-judicial in nature, or one after which
the hearing body is required by law to make findings of fact, each speaker must
swear or affirm that his testimony will be true and correct.
   I.   Any person not conforming to any of the aforementioned rules may be
prohibited from speaking during the public hearing and should any person refuse
to comply with prohibition, he may be removed from the room by order of the
presiding officer with the assistance of law enforcement if necessary.
   J.   The presiding officer shall have the authority to interpret and apply
the foregoing rules, subject to an appeal to the hearing body whose decision
shall be determined by a majority vote of the members present. (Ord. 85, 5-25-
1983)
CHAPTER 9
CITY EMPLOYEES AND OFFICERS
SECTION:
1-9-1: Municipal Officials
1-9-2: Salaries And Bonds
1-9-3: City Attorney
1-9-4: Public Works Superintendent
1-9-1: MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS:
In addition to such other officers as may be deemed necessary for the efficient
operation of the city, the following officials of the city shall be appointed
by the mayor with the consent of the city council:
   City clerk
   City treasurer
   City attorney
   Public works superintendent
(2005 Code)
1-9-2: SALARIES AND BONDS:
   A.   Salaries: All salaries of employees of the city shall be adopted by
resolution annually, duly passed and approved by the mayor and city council.
   B.   Bonds: The city clerk and city treasurer shall be bonded as required
and set forth in Idaho Code 59-801. Bonds so furnished in accordance with the
provisions of this section shall be furnished at the expense of the city. (1983
Code)
1-9-3: CITY ATTORNEY:
   A.   Suits And Actions: The city attorney shall prosecute or defend any and
all suits or actions at law or equity to which the city may be a party, or in
which it may be interested or which may be brought against, or by, any officer
of the city on behalf of the city, or in the capacity of such person as an
officer of the city.
   B.   Judgments: It shall be the duty of the city attorney to see to the full
enforcement of all judgments or decrees rendered or entered in favor of the
city, and of all similar interlocutory orders.
   C.   Advice: The city attorney shall be the legal advisor of the city, and
shall render advice on all legal questions affecting the city, whenever
requested to do so by any city official. Upon request by the mayor or by the
city council, he shall reduce any such opinion to writing.
   D.   Special Assessments: It shall be the duty of the city attorney to see
to the completion of all special assessment proceedings and condemnation
proceedings.
   E.   Ordinances And Documents: It shall be the duty of the city attorney to
draft or supervise the phraseology of any contract, lease or other document or
instruments, to which the city may be a party; and, upon request of the city
council, to draft ordinances covering any subjects within the power of the
city. (Revised Code 1959)
   F.   Additional Counsel: The city hereby reserves the right to hire
additional legal counsel in special circumstances. (2005 Code)
1-9-4: PUBLIC WORKS SUPERINTENDENT:
The public works superintendent shall supervise all municipal works as follows:
   A.   Streets And Alleys: He shall supervise the grading, surfacing, repairs
and maintenance of all streets and alleys.
   B.   Sewers: He shall supervise the installation and maintenance of all
sewer lines in the city, except the installation of sewer projects which are
accomplished by contract.
   C.   Water: He shall supervise the installation and maintenance of all water
mains and water service, except the installation of water mains so accomplished
by contract.
   D.   Equipment: He shall have charge of and supervise the repair and upkeep
of all public works equipment.
   E.   Employment And Supervision: He may employ, with the consent of the
mayor and city council, such help as is needed to carry on the work of the
city, such help to be directly under his supervision.
   F.   Water Superintendent: The superintendent shall be ex officio water
superintendent. (Revised Code 1959)
   G.   Reports: The superintendent shall present to the city council at its
regular meeting each month a report of the public work accomplished the
preceding month and also, as far as can be foreseen, public work planned for
the current month. (Revised Code 1959; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 10
EMERGENCY OPERATIONS
SECTION:
1-10-1: Objectives
1-10-2: Incident Commander
1-10-3: Declaration Of Emergency
1-10-4: Authority
1-10-5: Price Increases
1-10-6: Liability
1-10-1: OBJECTIVES:
The objectives of this chapter are to centralize the direction and control of
local emergency preparations, response and recovery including the duties,
responsibilities and activities of all persons, organizations, departments of
city government, elected officials and employees of the city performing
services or rendering aid in the event of a local emergency and to enable the
city to more effectively cooperate with the political subdivisions, municipal
corporations and other public agencies of the state of Idaho. Further
objectives are to allow the city to assist, coordinate and cooperate with other
local emergency organizations in the state of Idaho in the successful
implementation of emergency services. This chapter establishes authorities and
powers for the development and implementation of the emergency operations plan.
(Ord. 135, 11-24-1999)
1-10-2: INCIDENT COMMANDER:
The mayor or his designee will be the incident commander under the emergency
operations plan, with assistants as required. The mayor will be supported by
the policy decision group, which shall be comprised of the city council and
city department heads. (Ord. 135, 11-24-1999)
1-10-3: DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY:
The mayor or his designee is empowered to declare the existence of a local
emergency or disaster when any occurrence by its magnitude is, or is likely to
go beyond the normal control of the services, personnel, equipment, and
facilities of the regularly constituted branches and departments of the city,
or any time a disaster or local emergency is declared by the president of the
United States or the governor of Idaho. (Ord. 135, 11-24-1999)
1-10-4: AUTHORITY:
The mayor or his designee is authorized to promulgate, issue and enforce rules,
regulations, orders and directives that are considered necessary for the
protection of life and property. (Ord. 135, 11-24-1999)
1-10-5: PRICE INCREASES:
This chapter also prohibits excessive price increases by persons, businesses or
contractors to sell consumer food items, emergency or medical supplies,
gasoline, diesel fuel, home heating products and repair or reconstruction
services for an amount which exceeds ten percent (10%) of the price of the
goods or services immediately prior to the proclamation of the emergency or
disaster. (Ord. 135, 11-24-1999)
1-10-6: LIABILITY:
Government entities, officials, employees and volunteers complying with this
plan shall not be liable for injury, death or loss of property except in cases
of wilful misconduct or gross negligence. (Ord. 135, 11-24-1999)
TITLE 2
DEPARTMENTS
Police Department   1
Fire Department   2
Volunteer Ambulance Department   3
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
2-1-1: Contract With County For Services
2-1-1: CONTRACT WITH COUNTY FOR SERVICES:
The city presently contracts for law enforcement services with Idaho County,
Idaho within the bounds of said contract for law enforcement services. (1983
Code)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
2-2-1: Department Created
2-2-2: Volunteer Members
2-2-3: Fire Chief
2-2-4: Duties
2-2-5: Fire Code
2-2-6: Fire Limits
2-2-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
There is hereby created a volunteer fire department which shall consist of a
fire chief and such other personnel as may be provided for by the mayor and
city council. (Revised Code 1959)
2-2-2: VOLUNTEER MEMBERS:
All volunteer members of the fire department shall conduct themselves in the
same manner and under the same rules and regulations as regular members of the
department. They shall respond to all fire calls according to a schedule
prescribed by the chief of the fire department and they shall attend all
meetings and drills called by the chief. All volunteer firefighters shall live
within fifteen (15) minutes of their assigned fire station. (Revised Code 1959;
amd. 2005 Code)
2-2-3: FIRE CHIEF:
   A.   Election: The chief of the fire department shall be elected by fire
department members with the approval of the city council. (Revised Code 1959;
amd. 1983 Code; 2005 Code)
   B.   Rank: The chief of the fire department, commonly referred to as the
fire chief, shall be the head of the department and have supervision over all
officers and members thereof. The fire chief may, with the approval of the city
council, appoint such other fire department officers as may be deemed
necessary. (Revised Code 1959; amd. 2005 Code)
   C.   Duties: The fire chief shall keep such records and make such reports
concerning the activities of his department as may be required by statute or by
the city council. He shall be responsible for the performance of the fire
department and of its functions and all persons who are members of the fire
department shall serve subject to his orders. He shall be responsible for the
control and custody of all fire department property and equipment. He shall
have the authority of a law enforcement officer while actively engaged in
fighting a fire, or going to or from a fire. (Revised Code 1959)
2-2-4: DUTIES:
   A.   General: It shall be the duty of members of the fire department to
provide for the immediate answering of all fire calls and to fight all fires in
the best and most modern available methods. Members shall see to the care and
maintenance of all firefighting equipment and have such equipment in constant
workable condition at all times.
   B.   Fire Prevention: Every possible action shall be taken by the members of
the fire department to eliminate fire hazards and to provide for fire
prevention methods and operations within the city. (Revised Code 1959)
   C.   Mutual Aid Agreements: The fire department may, with city council
approval, enter into mutual aid agreements. (2005 Code)
2-2-5: FIRE CODE:
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of regulating and controlling fire and
for fire prevention of the city, the uniform fire code and any supplements
thereto, prepared by the International Conference of Building Officials and
Western Fire Chiefs Association, and as the same may be hereafter revised or
amended. The same is hereby adopted and incorporated as an ordinance of the
city as fully as though set forth at length herein, three (3) copies of said
code, together with all amendments thereto, duly certified by the city clerk
shall be kept on file in her office for use and examination of and by the
public.
Whenever the word "municipality" is used in the code hereby adopted, it shall
be held to mean the city of Kooskia. (1983 Code)
2-2-6: FIRE LIMITS:
The fire limits of the city shall be the entire incorporated city and
designated rural areas surrounding the city. (1983 Code; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 3
VOLUNTEER AMBULANCE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
2-3-1: Department Created
2-3-2: Volunteer Members
2-3-3: Supervisory EMT
2-3-4: Duties
2-3-5: Ambulance Response Limits
2-3-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
There is hereby created a Volunteer Ambulance Department ("department") which
shall consist of volunteer EMTs and such other personnel as may be provided for
by the Mayor and City Council. (Ord. 196, 11-14-2018)
2-3-2: VOLUNTEER MEMBERS:
All volunteer members of the department are subject to the policies and
procedures of the City and shall conduct themselves and comply with the rules
and regulations of the department. They shall respond to all ambulance calls
according to a schedule prescribed by the Supervisory EMT and they shall attend
all meetings and drills called by the Supervisory EMT. All volunteer EMTs shall
live within fifteen (15) minutes of the EMS building or be within fifteen (15)
minutes of the EMS building during their on-call shift. (Ord. 196, 11-14-2018)
2-3-3: SUPERVISORY EMT:
   A.   Appointment: The Supervisory EMT of the department shall be appointed
by the Mayor.
   B.   Rank: The Supervisory EMT of the department shall be the head of the
department and have supervision over all officers and members thereof. The
Supervisory EMT with the approval of the City Council, may appoint such other
department officers as may be deemed necessary.
   C.   Duties: The Supervisory EMT shall keep such records and make such
reports concerning the activities of the department as may be required by
statute or by the City Council. The Supervisory EMT shall be responsible for
all scheduling and staffing issues for the performance of the department and of
its functions. All persons who are members of the department shall serve
subject to the Supervisory EMT's orders. The Supervisory EMT shall be
responsible for all training and licensing of EMTs and ambulances and providing
a copy of all documents, records, and current EMT rosters to the City Clerk's
Office. The Supervisory EMT shall work with the City Clerk's Office to provide
all run sheets for billing purposes and the construction of a budget for each
fiscal year. The Supervisory EMT shall be responsible for the control and
custody of all department property and equipment.
   D.   Interim Supervisory EMT: In special circumstances, if necessary, an
interim Supervisory EMT may be appointed by the Mayor to fill the position
until such time as a permanent Supervisory EMT may be appointed. (Ord. 196, 11-
14-2018)
2-3-4: DUTIES:
   A.   General: It shall be the duty of members of the department to provide
for the immediate answering of all ambulance calls and to provide care in the
best and most modern available methods. Members shall see to the care and
maintenance of all ambulance equipment and have such equipment in constant
workable condition at all times.
   B.   Mutual Aid Agreements: The department may, with City Council approval,
enter into mutual aid agreements. (Ord. 196, 11-14-2018)
2-3-5: AMBULANCE RESPONSE LIMITS:
The ambulance response limits shall be the entire incorporated City and area
designated by necessity for the safety of surrounding communities served by the
department. (Ord. 196, 11-14-2018)
TITLE 3
BUILDING REGULATIONS
Building Code   1
Flood Damage Prevention   2
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
3-1-1: Building Setbacks
3-1-2: Mobile And/Or Manufactured Homes
3-1-3: Encroachments On Levees
3-1-1: BUILDING SETBACKS:
Buildings shall be at least seven feet six inches (7'6") from the street line
or in conformity with the rest of the buildings in the block and five feet (5')
from the adjoining property line. (1983 Code)
3-1-2: MOBILE AND/OR MANUFACTURED HOMES:
   A.   Purpose: This section is adopted by the city in order to ensure the
residents of the city affordable, healthy and safe housing.
   B.   Definitions:
 
           The placing of a mobile home, by any means, anywhere within the
INSTALLED: incorporated limits of the city, including placing the mobile home
           on the ground, on blocks, on a cement foundation, on a trailer or on
           any other foundation.
           Transportable, factory built residential dwellings, commonly known
UNIT:      as mobile homes, single wide manufactured homes, recreational
           vehicles and travel trailers.
 
   C.   Regulations:
      1.   Units fifteen (15) years or older may not be installed within the
incorporated limits of the city.
      2.   Installation of units shall be limited to one (1) unit per fifty
feet (50') width of a lot except in designated mobile home parks.
      3.   Units existing within the incorporated limits of the city prior to
adoption of this section may continue in use at the site they occupy on said
passage date but may not be used at another site within the incorporated limits
of the city.
   D.   Violation; Penalty: A person who violates the terms and provisions of
this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as
provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code.
      In addition to the above fine, said person shall have ten (10) days to
remove the unit in violation from the city limits. If the unit is not removed
within ten (10) days of the date the person pleads guilty or is found guilty,
the city shall remove the unit at the expense of the guilty party.
      The cost of abatement/removal, together with administrative costs, shall
be calculated, and if not paid within thirty (30) days of the date of
abatement, shall become a lien upon the property pursuant to Idaho Code 50-334
and 50-1008, and shall be transmitted to the tax collector for collection. This
assessment shall have the same priority as other city taxes. (Ord. 146, 3-13-
2022; amd. Ord., 5-14-2003; Ord. 146-2, 5-5-2005; 2005 Code; Ord. 209, 6-14-
2023; Ord. 209-1, 8-9-2023)
3-1-3: ENCROACHMENTS ON LEVEES:
There shall be no encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or any other development on city of Kooskia levees unless
certification by a registered professional engineer or architect is provided
demonstrating that encroachment shall not result in any damage to the levees or
any increase in flood levels. In addition, any encroachments as described
above, to the city of Kooskia levees, must be approved in advance by the
Kooskia city council. Any person who encroaches on the levees without meeting
the requirements as stated above is responsible for any costs incurred by the
city to remove said encroachment. Any violation of this section is a general
misdemeanor offense. (Ord. 169, 11-9-2011)
CHAPTER 2
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
3-2-1: Authorization; Findings And Purpose
3-2-2: Definitions
3-2-3: General Provisions
3-2-4: Administration
3-2-5: Provisions For Flood Hazard Protection
3-2-1: AUTHORIZATION; FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Statutory Authorization: The legislature of the state has in Idaho Code
title 50 delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt
regulations designed to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
of its citizenry.
   B.   Findings Of Fact:
      1.   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental service, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
      2.   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in areas of special flood hazards which increase flood heights and
velocities, and when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas. Uses
that are inadequately floodproofed, elevated or otherwise protected from flood
damage also contribute to the flood loss.
   C.   Statement Of Purpose: It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare, and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      1.   Protect human life and health;
      2.   Minimize expenditure of public money and costly flood control
projects;
      3.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      4.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      5.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains; electric, telephone and sewer lines; and streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazard;
      6.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
      7.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an
area of special flood hazard; and
      8.   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions.
   D.   Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses: In order to accomplish its purposes,
this chapter includes methods and provisions for:
      1.   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health,
safety and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in
damaging increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
      2.   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      3.   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
      4.   Controlling filling, grading, dredging and other development which
may increase flood damage; and
      5.   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which
will unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in
other areas. (Ord. 100, 9-14-1988)
3-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined herein, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application.
APPEAL: A request for a review of the city council's interpretation of any
provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO or AH zone on the flood insurance
rate map (FIRM). The base flood depths range from one foot (1') to three feet
(3'); a clearly defined channel does not exist; the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate; and, velocity flow may be evident. AO is
characterized as sheet flow and AH indicates ponding.
AREA OF SPECIAL FOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
Designation on maps always includes the letters A or V.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equalled or
exceeded in any given year. Also referred to as the "100-year flood".
Designation on maps always includes the letters A or V.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazard.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): The official map on which the federal
insurance administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the federal insurance
administration that includes flood profiles, the flood boundary/floodway map
and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters, and/or
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot (1').
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of this chapter found in subsection
3-2-5B1 of this chapter.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For floodplain
management purposes the term "manufactured home" also includes park trailers,
travel trailers, and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than
one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days. For insurance purposes the term
"manufactured home" does not include park trailers, travel trailers, and other
similar vehicles.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on
or after the effective date of this chapter.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement, and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, placement or other improvement was within one hundred eighty
(180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers, or foundation or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building including a gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally above ground.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT:
   A.   Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost of
which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
structure either:
      1.   Before the improvement or repair is started, or
      2.   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred. For the purposes of this definition "substantial improvement"
is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor,
or other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that
alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   B.   The term does not, however, include either:
      1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
      2.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a state inventory of historic places.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which permits
construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this chapter.
(Ord. 100, 9-14-1988)
3-2-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Lands To Which This Chapter Applies: This chapter shall apply to all
areas of special flood hazard within the jurisdiction of the city.
   B.   Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard: The areas of
special flood hazard identified by the federal insurance administration in a
scientific and engineering report entitled "The Flood Insurance Study For
Kooskia City, dated September 18, 1984, with accompanying flood insurance maps
is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. The
flood insurance study is on file at Kooskia city hall. (Ord. 100, 9-14-1988)
   C.   Penalty For Noncompliance: No structure or land shall hereafter be
constructed, located, extended, converted or altered without full compliance
with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations. Violation of
the provisions of this chapter by failure to comply with any of its
requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who
violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall
upon conviction thereof be fined as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code, for each violation, and in addition shall pay all costs and
expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city
council from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation. (Ord. 100, 9-14-1988; amd. 2005 Code)
   D.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and any other ordinance, easement,
covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   E.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   F.   Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may be increased by manmade or
natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of
special flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part
of the city, any officer or employee thereof, or the federal insurance
administration, for any flood damages that result from reliance upon this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder. (Ord. 100, 9-
14-1988)
3-2-4: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Establishment Of Development Permit:
      1.   Development Permit Required: A development permit shall be obtained
before construction or development begins within any area of special flood
hazard established in subsection
3-2-3B of this chapter. The permit shall be for all structures, including
manufactured homes, and for all other development including fill and other
activities. (Ord. 100, 9-14-1988; amd. 2005 Code)
      2.   Application For Development Permit: Application for a development
permit shall be made on forms furnished by the mayor and may include, but not
be limited to: plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions and elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities; and location of
the foregoing. Specifically, the following information is required:
         a.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all structures;
         b.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any structure
has been floodproofed;
         c.   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet the
floodproofing criteria in subsection
3-2-5B2 of this chapter; and
         d.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   B.   Designation Of The Mayor: The mayor is hereby appointed to administer
and implement this chapter by granting or denying development permit
applications in accordance with its provisions.
   C.   Duties And Responsibilities Of The Mayor: Duties of the mayor shall
include, but not be limited to:
      1.   Permit Review:
         a.   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
         b.   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies from which prior approval is required.
         c.   Review all development permits to determine if proposed
development is located in the floodway. If located in the floodway, assure that
the encroachment provisions of subsection
3-2-5C1 of this chapter are met.
      2.   Use Of Other Base Flood Data: When base flood elevation data has not
been provided in accordance with subsection
3-2-3B of this chapter, the mayor shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize
any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state or
other source, in order to administer subsections
3-2-5B and C of this chapter.
      3.   Information Obtained And Maintained:
         a.   Where base flood elevation data is provided through the flood
insurance study or required as in subsection C2 of this section, obtain and
record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, and
whether or not the structure contains a basement.
         b.   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed structures:
            (1)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean
sea level); and
            (2)   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in
subsection A2 of this section.
         c.   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this chapter.
      4.   Alteration Of Watercourses:
         a.   Notify adjacent communities and the department of water resource
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of
such notification to the federal insurance administration.
         b.   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that flood carrying capacity is not
diminished.
      5.   Interpretation Of FIRM Boundaries: Make interpretations where
needed, as to exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood
hazards (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped
boundary and actual field conditions). The person contesting the location of
the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
interpretation. (Ord. 100, 9-14-1988)
3-2-5: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD PROTECTION:
   A.   General Standards: In all areas of special flood hazards, the following
standards are required:
      1.   Anchoring:
         a.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
         b.   All manufactured homes must likewise be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement, and shall be installed using methods
and practices that minimize flood damage. Anchoring methods may include, but
are not limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors
(reference FEMA's "Manufactured Home Installation In Flood Hazard Areas"
guidebook for additional techniques).
      2.   Construction Materials And Methods:
         a.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
         b.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
         c.   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or otherwise
elevated or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components during conditions of flooding.
      3.   Utilities:
         a.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
         b.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into floodwaters; and
         c.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      4.   Subdivision Proposals:
         a.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
         b.   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
         c.   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided
to reduce exposure to flood damage; and
         d.   Where base flood elevation data has not been provided or is not
available from another authoritative source, it shall be generated for
subdivision proposals and other proposed development which contain at least
fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres (whichever is less).
      5.   Review Of Building Permits: Where elevation data is not available
either through the flood insurance study or from another authoritative source
(subsection
3-2-4C2 of this chapter), applications for building permits shall be reviewed
to assure that proposed construction will be reasonably safe from flooding. The
test of reasonableness is a local judgment and includes use of historical data,
high water marks, photographs of past flooding, etc., where available. Failure
to elevate at least two feet (2') above grade in these zones may result in
higher insurance rates.
   B.   Specific Standards: In all areas of special flood hazards where base
flood elevation data has been provided as set forth in subsection
3-2-3B or subsection
3-2-4C2 of this chapter, the following provisions are required:
      1.   Residential Construction:
         a.   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
base flood elevation.
         b.   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to
flooding are prohibited, or shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or must meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
            (1)   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding shall be provided.
            (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
(1') above grade.
            (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices, provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      2.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the level
of the base flood elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall:
         a.   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood level the structure
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
         b.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
         c.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice for meeting provisions of this subsection based on their
development and/or review of the structural design, specifications and plans.
Such certifications shall be provided to the official as set forth in
subsection
3-2-4C3b of this chapter.
         d.   Nonresidential structures that are elevated, not floodproofed,
must meet the same standards for space below the lowest floor as described in
subsection B1b of this section.
         e.   Applicants floodproofing nonresidential buildings shall be
notified that flood insurance premiums will be based on rates that are one foot
(1') below the floodproofed level (e.g., a building constructed to the base
flood level will be rated as one foot below that level).
      3.   Manufactured Homes: All manufactured homes to be placed or
substantially improved within zones A1-30, AH, and AE shall be elevated on a
permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at
or above the base flood elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of subsection A1b
of this section.
   C.   Floodways: Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
subsection
3-2-3B of this chapter are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is
an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters which carry
debris, potential projectiles, and erosion potential, the following provisions
apply:
      1.   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other development unless certification by a
registered professional engineer or architect is provided demonstrating that
encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      2.   If subsection C1 of this section is satisfied, all new construction
and substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this section. (Ord. 100, 9-14-1988)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Peddlers   1
Beer Regulations   2
Liquor By The Drink   3
Wine Regulations   4
CHAPTER 1
PEDDLERS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Nuisance Declared
4-1-2: Exceptions
4-1-1: NUISANCE DECLARED:
Unless done at the invitation or request of the owner or occupant, the practice
of going into and upon private residences and property for the purpose of
soliciting orders for the sale of goods, wares or merchandise or of selling or
otherwise disposing of goods, wares or merchandise is hereby declared to be a
nuisance. (Revised Code 1959)
4-1-2: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the sale or soliciting of
orders for the sale or disposal of farm and garden produce when so offered by
the actual grower or producer thereof, nor to sales conducted by nonprofit or
local school organizations. (Revised Code 1959; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 2
BEER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: License Required
4-2-3: Application
4-2-4: Qualifications For License
4-2-5: Fees
4-2-6: Regulations
4-2-7: Revocation
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
BEER: Any beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
decoction of barley, malt and/or other ingredients in drinkable water of not
more than four percent (4%) of alcohol by weight.
RETAILER: Any person engaged in the sale or distribution of beer to the
consumer. (Revised Code 1959)
4-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to dispense or sell beer without first
obtaining a proper license. (Revised Code 1959)
4-2-3: APPLICATION:
Application for a retail beer license shall be made under oath to the city
clerk and the application shall show that the applicant possesses all of the
qualifications required by this chapter. Each application shall be forwarded,
after proper and adequate investigation by law enforcement, to the governing
body for approval or disapproval. (Revised Code 1959)
4-2-4: QUALIFICATIONS FOR LICENSE:
   A.   No retail license shall be issued to any applicant who:
      1.   Is not a bona fide owner of such business, or is not a citizen of
the United States, or has not been a bona fide resident of the state for a
period of one year prior to the date of application; provided, that if the
applicant is a partnership, all partners shall be such citizens, and at least
one thereof, or the actual manager thereof, shall have been such resident. If
the application is a corporation, such corporation shall be qualified to do
business in the state, and the manager of such business place shall be such
citizen and shall have been such resident. (Revised Code 1959)
      2.   Has, or any partner or actual manager or officer or employee or
spouse of which has been convicted of the violation of any laws of the state or
of the United States, regulating, governing or prohibiting the sale of
alcoholic beverages or intoxicating liquor, or has, within three (3) years,
forfeited or suffered the forfeiture of a bond for his appearance to answer
charges of any such violation. (Revised Code 1959; amd. 2005 Code)
      3.   Has, or any partner or actual active manager or officer of which has
been convicted of any felony within five (5) years or has paid any fine or
completed any sentence of confinement therefor within five (5) years.
   B.   A retail licensee must continue throughout the license period to have
all of the foregoing qualifications and none of the foregoing
disqualifications, and for failure therein upon proof thereof to an issuer of a
license, such issuer shall revoke the license issued, and in writing sent by
the United States registered mail, notify each of the other issuers of a
retailer's license to such licensee, stating sufficient facts for
identification of the licensee and the grounds and date of revocation. (Revised
Code 1959)
4-2-5: FEES:
The fees for the sale of beer shall be as follows:
   Sale of bottled beer only:
      Not consumed on the premises where sold   $25.00
      Consumed on the premises where sold   50.00
   Sale of draught or bottled beer when consumed on    75.00
   the premises where sold
(Revised Code 1959)
4-2-6: REGULATIONS:
   A.   Age Limits: Any person who is nineteen (19) years of age or older may
sell, serve, possess or dispense beer in the course of his employment.
Otherwise, it shall be unlawful for any person to sell, serve or dispense beer
to or by any person under twenty one (21) years of age, proof of which shall be
a validly issued state, national or other equivalent government driver's
license, identification card or military identification card bearing a
photograph and date of birth, or a valid passport. (Revised Code 1959; amd.
1983 Code; 2005 Code)
   B.   Hours Of Sale: It is unlawful to sell or dispense beer to be consumed
on the premises at any time between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and
six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of any day. (2005 Code)
4-2-7: REVOCATION:
The governing body shall retain the right at all times to revoke and cancel any
license for just cause. When any license is revoked, the licensee shall have
the privilege of appearing before the governing body to appeal such revocation.
Any conduct or act on the part of the licensee which may be sufficient cause
for revocation of the license must be brought to the attention of the governing
body. (Revised Code 1959)
CHAPTER 3
LIQUOR BY THE DRINK
SECTION:
4-3-1: Licenses Required
4-3-2: Application For License
4-3-3: Conditions Of License
4-3-4: Regulations
4-3-5: Premises Requirements
4-3-6: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
4-3-1: LICENSES REQUIRED:
It shall be lawful to sell liquor by the drink as provided in Idaho Code title
23, chapter 9, provided a license shall first be obtained as provided in this
chapter and the rules and regulations and provisions concerning the licensing
and operation of a place of business for the sale of liquor are adhered to as
provided. (Revised Code 1959)
4-3-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Before there shall be any lawful sale of liquor by the drink, an application by
the proposed licensee must be made for such license and filed with the city
clerk in form and manner herein provided. Such application shall provide for
the name of the applicant, the location of the proposed business, and such
other information as may be prescribed and required by the governing body. At
the time said application is filed, the applicant shall also present a copy of
an application for a state license and also the license issued by the state for
the sale of liquor by the drink at retail and no license will be issued until a
license is first obtained from the state of Idaho.
All applications filed with the city clerk shall be referred to the governing
body for final approval. The city clerk shall receive the license fee
hereinafter provided at the time of filing of the application and upon approval
of the application by the governing body the license will be issued and
delivered to the applicant. (Revised Code 1959)
4-3-3: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Fees: The license fee required of an applicant for the sale of liquor
by the drink shall be the sum of two hundred twenty five dollars ($225.00) per
year or portion thereof, payable in advance. The first payment shall be made
with said application for the balance of the year in which the license is
issued. All licenses issued shall expire at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on
January 31 of each year. Renewals may be granted upon application if the record
of the applicant is satisfactory to the governing body and in accordance with
the provisions of the law and this chapter and upon payment of two hundred
twenty five dollars ($225.00) for the ensuing year. Any operation under an
expired license shall constitute a violation of this chapter for each day of
operation. (Ord. 145, 12-12-2001)
   B.   License Nontransferable: Any license issued under the provisions of
this chapter shall be nontransferable and if the licensee named in said license
shall cease to personally supervise, conduct, and operate said business
described in said license, the same shall terminate, and no part of the fee
paid shall be refunded. The licensee may, however, with the consent of the
governing body move from the place of business to some other place which may
meet the requirements of this chapter; provided, application therefor be made
to the governing body and permitted by it; and if such transfer of the place of
business shall be made the fee paid shall be operative with like effect as if
no change had been made. (Revised Code 1959)
   C.   Revocation And Hearing: If any licensee or employee of a liquor by the
drink establishment violates any of the provisions of this chapter or is
convicted of the violation of any of the provisions of Idaho Code title 23,
chapter 9, the governing body is hereby authorized and empowered to revoke the
license issued to said licensee; provided however, that in the event it is
brought to the attention of the governing body that a violation has taken
place, before revoking such license, the governing body shall cause notice to
be served upon the licensee, setting forth in general terms the violation or
violations claimed to have been committed and such notice shall provide a time
for hearing thereon by the governing body which date of hearing shall not be
less than five (5) days nor more than ten (10) days from the date of the
service of said notice, and upon or following said hearing the governing body,
if they shall find that the provisions of this chapter or the provisions of the
laws of the state of Idaho have been violated, shall revoke such license
theretofor issued and no refund of any unused portion of the license fee shall
be made to the licensee. A revocation by the commissioner of law enforcement of
the state of Idaho of any license theretofore issued said licensee shall
automatically revoke the license issued by the municipality and no refund of
any fee therefor paid shall be made. (Revised Code 1959)
4-3-4: REGULATIONS:
   A.   General: No license shall be issued for the sale of liquor by the drink
to any person not qualified for a license under Idaho Code title 23, chapter 9,
and liquor by the drink shall not be sold by any person except one duly
licensed. Every licensee must conform to all regulations and laws of the state
of Idaho and the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Hours Of Sale: No liquor may be sold, offered for sale or given away on
any licensed premises during the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and ten
o'clock (10:00) A.M. of any day, except for Christmas Day when the sale of
liquor is prohibited. (2005 Code)
4-3-5: PREMISES REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Location: No license shall be issued to any premises in any
neighborhood which is predominately residential nor within three hundred feet
(300') of any school, church or other place of public worship.
   B.   Access: All peace officers appointed by the state of Idaho or the city
or the county shall have free access at all times to the licensed premises, and
any information touching the manner and method of the operation of said
premises or the sale of said liquor may be submitted to the governing body upon
any investigation made of said licensee.
   C.   Buildings: Full and unobstructed view of the inside of the premises
where said liquor by the drink is sold shall always be maintained by said
licensee and no obstructions whatsoever shall be placed upon the windows or the
doors that are located on said premises and no coloring shall be placed upon
the glass in order that a full view from the sidewalk or street may be had into
the interior of said premises. All premises shall be adequately lighted and
subject to periodic sanitary inspection. (Revised Code 1959)
4-3-6: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Sales To Minors; Disorderly Conduct: No sale of liquor shall be made to
any person under the age of twenty one (21) nor to any intoxicated person who
may engage in disorderly or improper conduct, and no disorderly or improper
entertainment shall be permitted upon said premises. Any violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be considered and shall likewise be grounds
for the cancellation of the license. (Revised Code 1959; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Gambling: No gambling of any kind or character shall be operated upon
said premises and no gambling devices shall be maintained thereon. (Revised
Code 1959)
CHAPTER 4
WINE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Adoption Of State Law
4-4-2: Sale Of Wine Authorized
4-4-3: License And Fee
4-4-4: Qualifications For License
4-4-1: ADOPTION OF STATE LAW:
There is adopted for the purpose of governing the licensing and sale of table
wine within the city, in accordance with the provisions of Idaho Code title 23,
chapter 13, the provisions contained in said state law. (Ord. 84, 12-8-1982)
4-4-2: SALE OF WINE AUTHORIZED:
   A.   Alcoholic Content: The city hereby authorizes the sale of wine
containing not more than sixteen percent (16%) alcohol by volume at retail
within the boundaries of the city, in accordance with the provisions of Idaho
law. (Ord. 84, 12-8-1982; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Hours Of Sale: Wine sold for consumption on licensed premises may be
sold only during the hours that beer can be sold, pursuant to subsection
4-2-6B of this title. (2005 Code)
4-4-3: LICENSE AND FEE:
There is established as a city license fee the following:
   Package sale of wine   $25.00
   Sale of wine consumed on the premises    50.00
Proper application forms and licenses will be provided through the office of
the city clerk and said licenses shall expire on January 31 at twelve o'clock
(12:00) midnight of each year. (Ord. 84, 12-8-1982; amd. 2005 Code)
4-4-4: QUALIFICATIONS FOR LICENSE:
The qualifications for license shall be the same as set forth by Idaho law, and
what persons can be sold wine and all other regulations in regard to the same
shall be prescribed by state law. (Ord. 84, 12-8-1982)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
General Offenses   1
Animals   2
Dogs   3
Minors   4
Nuisances   5 (Rep. by Ord. 203, 6-9-2021)
Weeds   6
Solid Waste   7
Litter   8
Public Nuisance   9
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-1-1: State Code Adopted
5-1-2: Keeping Of Junk Restricted
5-1-3: Obscene Conduct
5-1-4: Water Flowing Upon Streets
5-1-5: Offenses Relating To Fires
5-1-6: Alcoholic Beverages In Public
5-1-7: Recreational Equipment
5-1-8: Abandoned Refrigerators, Containers
5-1-9: Airguns And Firearms
5-1-10: Fireworks
5-1-11: Camping
5-1-1: STATE CODE ADOPTED:
Idaho Code title 18 entitled "Crimes and Punishments" is hereby adopted and
incorporated into this Code as if set out in full. (1983 Code)
5-1-2: KEEPING OF JUNK RESTRICTED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to store or keep any old articles or
materials which may be classified as junk, adjacent to or in close proximity
to, any schoolhouse, church, public park, public grounds, business buildings or
residences without first providing proper and tight buildings for the storage
of the same. (Revised Code 1959)
5-1-3: OBSCENE CONDUCT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or stool in any place open to
the public view or to be guilty of any lewd, lascivious or obscene conduct or
to sing any lewd or obscene song, ballad or other words in any public place or
any other place where persons are present or indecently to exhibit any animal.
(Ord. 34, 1-18-1970)
5-1-4: WATER FLOWING UPON STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any water to flow into or upon any
public thoroughfare. (Revised Code 1959)
5-1-5: OFFENSES RELATING TO FIRES:
   A.   Driving Over Fire Hose: It shall be unlawful for any person to drive,
operate or permit to be driven, a motor vehicle over or across a fire hose,
within the City, wherever such hose may be located.
   B.   False Fire Alarms: It shall be unlawful for any person to cause a false
report to be made or given to the City Fire Department, which report results in
a fire alarm being made when in fact no such fire exists.
   C.   Penalty: Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be
fined not less than the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00), nor more than
provided for in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each separate violation. (Ord. 41, 7-5-1972; amd. 2005
Code)
5-1-6: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN PUBLIC:
It shall be unlawful for any person to consume an alcoholic beverage or drink
upon any public lands, streets, alleys or public ways, or to have such
alcoholic beverage or drink in his possession with intention of consuming it
upon public lands, streets, alleys or public ways. (1983 Code)
5-1-7: RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT:
It shall be unlawful for any person:
   A.   To ride or operate or cause to be operated any skateboard, roller
skates, rollerblades, human powered scooters, go-carts, or other toy vehicles
on any sidewalk along Main Street between A Street and Second Avenue within the
City.
   B.   Bicycles shall not be operated on any sidewalk along Main Street
between A Street and Second Avenue in the City, and shall not be parked on any
sidewalks in such a manner as to obstruct or impede the movement of
pedestrians, motor vehicles, or other vehicles, or to cause damages to trees,
shrubs, other plants, or other property. Bicycles may be operated pursuant to
all laws applicable to motor vehicles on all City streets and public parking
lots.
   C.   Nothing in this section shall prohibit or be construed to prohibit:
      1.   The Mayor and/or City Council from allowing bicycles, skateboards,
roller skates, rollerblades, or human powered scooters, go-carts, or other toy
vehicles to serve as exhibits or demonstrations. Such exhibits or
demonstrations shall be by permit only.
      2.   The use of bicycles on sidewalks for law enforcement purposes by any
law enforcement agency.
   D.   A violation of this section shall constitute an infraction, which shall
be punished in accordance with Idaho Code 49-1503 and Idaho infraction rule 9.
(Ord. 126, 4-23-1997)
5-1-8: ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS, CONTAINERS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to leave or permit to remain outside of any
dwelling, building or other structure, or within any unoccupied or abandoned
building, dwelling or other structure under his control, in a place accessible
to children, any abandoned, unattended or discarded icebox, refrigerator or
other container which has a door, lid, snaplock or other locking device which
may not be released from the inside, without first removing said door or lid,
snaplock or other locking device or by first fastening, bolting or locking the
same in such a manner that it is impossible to open the same by the use of the
hands. (Revised Code 1959)
5-1-9: AIRGUNS AND FIREARMS:
   A.   Definitions: Wherever the term "firearms" is used in this section, the
term shall mean any instrument used in the propulsion of shot, shell or bullets
or other harmful objects by the action of gunpowder exploded within it, or by
the action of compressed air within it, or by the power of springs and
including what are commonly known as air rifles and B-B guns.
   B.   Prohibited Acts:
      1.   Concealed Weapons: It shall be unlawful for any person to carry
concealed upon his person any brass knuckles, revolvers, pistol, dagger,
stiletto or other deadly weapon.
      2.   Discharge Of Firearms: It shall be unlawful for any person to
discharge firearms of any kind or description within the City limits; provided,
however, that this shall not apply to law enforcement officers in the discharge
of their duties.
   C.   Exceptions; Permits: The Governing Body may at any time, upon receipt
of proper application, grant permits to shooting galleries, gun clubs and
others for shooting in fixed localities and under specified rules. Such permits
shall be in writing attested by the City Clerk conforming to such requirements
as the Governing Body shall demand, and the permit thus issued shall be subject
to revocation at any time by action of the Governing Body. (Revised Code 1959)
5-1-10: FIREWORKS:
   A.   Prohibited: The use of fireworks shall not be allowed within the City
Park.
   B.   Penalty: Any use of fireworks within the City Park is deemed to be an
infraction and punishable by a seventy five dollar ($75.00) fine. (Ord. 184, 6-
8-2016)
5-1-11: CAMPING:
   A.   Prohibited Camping: It shall be unlawful for any person or group to
camp inside the City limits on any City property or right of way. Camping may
be allowed overnight in designated areas only.
      1.   Definitions:
 
          Any place where any bedding, sleeping bag, blanket, mattress, tent,
          hammock or other sleeping equipment, in such a manner as to be
CAMPSITE: immediately useable for sleeping purposes or any stove or fire is
          placed, established, or maintained, whether or not such place
          incorporates the use of any tent, lean-to, shack, or any other
          structure, or any vehicle or part thereof.
TO CAMP:  To set up, or to remain in or at a campsite, for the purpose of
          establishing or maintaining a temporary place to live.
 
      2.   Violation: It shall be unlawful for any person to camp in or upon
the Kooskia City Park or next to the Kooskia City Park unless otherwise
specifically authorized by this section or by declaration by the Mayor in
emergency circumstances or as allowed by permission of the Kooskia City
Council.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating this section shall be guilty of an
infraction and subject to a fine of seventy five dollars ($75.00) per
occurrence. (Ord. 189, 9-13-2017; amd. Ord. 213, 6-12-2024)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMALS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Animals And Poultry Prohibited
5-2-2: Animals At Large
5-2-3: Impounding And Redemption
5-2-4: Prohibited Acts
5-2-5: Goats
5-2-1: ANIMALS AND POULTRY PROHIBITED:
   A.   Animals: No person shall keep a horse, jack, bull, cow, calf, llama,
sheep, emu or hog within a distance of two hundred feet (200') from any
residence or dwelling of any person, nor within the corporate limits of the
City. Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
deemed guilty of an infraction. (Ord. 22, 12-6-1965; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Poultry: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep fowl or poultry
unless such fowl or poultry are at all times kept upon his own premises.
(Revised Code 1959)
5-2-2: ANIMALS AT LARGE:
Animals shall not be permitted to run at large in the City at any time during
the year; and, it shall be unlawful for anyone to herd or drive any animal
through the streets without having said animal under control by means of rope,
strap or other device by which it may be led, unless such animal is being
driven in harness or hauled; provided that this section shall not be construed
as prohibiting stockmen from driving herds through the City when necessary to
transfer them from one pasture to another or for the purpose of shipping, but
such stockmen so driving stock through the City shall be liable to property
owners for all damages done to their property by such stock while being driven
through said City, whether or not such damage is caused by the negligence of
said stockman or his agents. Such stock shall be driven through the City in as
short a time as possible. (Revised Code 1959)
5-2-3: IMPOUNDING AND REDEMPTION:
   A.   Impoundment Of Animals: If any animal shall be found running at large
contrary to the provisions of this chapter, it is hereby made the duty of law
enforcement to take up and confine the same in a secure place or other place
provided for that purpose and such animal taken up and confined shall not be
released until the owner or person entitled to the possession thereof shall pay
the City the expenses incurred in keeping the animals. (Revised Code 1959; amd.
1983 Code)
   B.   Notice And Sale: If the owner or person entitled to the possession of
an animal does not pay the charges and take it away within five (5) days from
the time it is taken into custody, law enforcement shall sell such animal at
public auction after having given at least five (5) days' notice of the time
and place of such sale by publishing or by posting said notice in five (5)
public places in the City as well as serving a copy of said notice upon the
owner or possessor, if known, of said animal. Such animal may be redeemed at
any time before the date of sale by payment to the officer in charge or his
assistant of any fees, expenses and charges set from time to time by the Mayor
and City Council.
   C.   Revenue From Sale: In case any animal sold pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter be sold for more than is sufficient to pay the fees and charges
aforesaid, such excess shall, by the officer or his assistant making the sale,
be deposited with the City Clerk, who shall pay such excess, upon an order of
the Governing Body, to the owner of such animal or animals or to the person
entitled to the possession of the same upon claim and proper proof within one
year from date of said sale. (Revised Code 1959)
5-2-4: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Freeing Impounded Animals: It shall be unlawful to break open or in any
manner, directly or indirectly, aid or assist in breaking open any pen or
enclosure with intent of releasing any animal confined therein. (Revised Code
1959)
5-2-5: GOATS:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to own, harbor or
possess any goat within the City limits of Kooskia, Idaho County, Idaho. This
section shall apply to any breed of goat.
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   This section shall not apply to persons traveling through the City
of Kooskia. Said persons traveling through the City, for instance, who stop and
purchase fuel or stop at a store, shall not be subject to the provisions of
this section. However, said persons shall take proper precautions to not let
any goat run at large. Further, said persons shall keep their goat in a
confined place, such as in a vehicle, a crate or other type of container.
      2.   Any person who currently possesses goats within the Kooskia City
limits shall remove said goats within two (2) days of the passage of this
section.
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and may be fined up to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and may be
confined to the County Jail for up to six (6) months and/or both such fine and
imprisonment. (Ord. 182, 5-11-2016)
CHAPTER 3
DOGS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: License And Registration Required
5-3-3: Tag And Collar
5-3-4: Running At Large Prohibited
5-3-5: Impoundment And Redemption
5-3-6: Confinement Of Certain Dogs
5-3-7: Muzzling
5-3-8: Rabies Control
5-3-9: Prohibited Acts
5-3-10: Penalty
5-3-11: Certain Dog Breeds Prohibited; Exceptions
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise indicates:
AT LARGE: All dogs off the premises of the owner shall be under the control of
the owner or keeper by leash, cord or chain.
DOG: Both male and female.
OWNER: Any person owning, keeping or harboring a dog. (1983 Code; amd. Ord.
163, 6-10-2009)
5-3-2: LICENSE AND REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
All dogs kept, harbored or maintained by their owners in the city shall be
licensed and registered if over six (6) months of age. Prior to March 15 of
each year, dog licenses shall be issued by the city clerk upon payment of a
license tax of five dollars ($5.00) for each spayed or neutered dog and ten
dollars ($10.00) for each nonneutered or nonspayed dog. After March 15 of each
year, the fee shall be ten dollars ($10.00) for each spayed or neutered dog and
twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each nonspayed or nonneutered dog. The owner
shall state at the time application is made for such license and upon printed
forms provided for such purpose, his name and address, and the name, breed,
color and sex of each dog owned or kept by him. The provisions of this section
shall not be intended to apply to dogs whose owners are nonresidents
temporarily within the city, nor to dogs brought into the city for the purpose
of participating in any dog show, nor to "seeing eye" dogs properly trained to
assist blind persons when such dogs are actually being used by blind persons
for the purpose of aiding them in going from place to place. (Ord. 142, 2-28-
2001)
5-3-3: TAG AND COLLAR:
Upon payment of the license fee, the clerk shall issue to the owner, a license
certificate and metallic tag for each dog so licensed. The tag shall be changed
every year and shall have stamped thereon, the year for which it was issued and
the number corresponding with the number on the certificate. Every owner shall
be required to provide each dog with a collar to which the license tag must be
affixed, and shall see that the collar and tag are constantly worn. In case a
dog tag is lost or destroyed, a duplicate will be issued by the clerk upon
presentation of a receipt showing the payment of the license fee for the
current year, and the payment of three dollars ($3.00) for such duplicate. Dog
tags shall not be transferable from one dog to another and no refunds shall be
made on any dog license fee because of death of the dog or the owner's leaving
the municipality before expiration of the license period. (1983 Code; amd. 2005
Code)
5-3-4: RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper of any dog to permit such dog to
run at large within the city limits. Dogs running at large shall be subject to
the infraction provisions of Idaho Code 25-2805. (Ord. 142, 2-28-2001)
5-3-5: IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION:
   A.   Authority To Impound: It shall be the duty of law enforcement to
apprehend any dog found running at large and to impound such dog in the
municipal pound or other suitable place. The poundmaster (or some other
designated official) upon receiving any dog shall make a complete registry,
entering the breed, color and sex of such dog and whether licensed. If
licensed, he shall enter the name and address of the owner and the number of
the license tag. Licensed dogs shall be separated from unlicensed dogs. (1983
Code)
   B.   Notice And Redemption; Fees: No later than one day after the impounding
of any dog, the owner shall be notified, or if the owner of the dog is unknown,
written notice shall be posted for three (3) days at three (3) or more
conspicuous places describing the dog and the place and time of taking. The
owner of any dog so impounded may reclaim such dog upon payment for the license
fee, if unpaid, and of all costs and charges incurred for impounding and
maintenance of said dog. The following charges shall be paid for impounding any
dog: thirty five dollars ($35.00) for the first impounding; fifty dollars
($50.00) for the second impounding within a thirty (30) day period; seventy
five dollars ($75.00) for a third impounding within a thirty (30) day period
and for keeping any dog, two dollars fifty cents ($2.50) per day. Photographs
of impounded dogs shall be posted at the city hall within twenty four (24)
hours of capture.
   C.   Disposition Of Unclaimed Or Infected Dogs: It shall be the duty of the
poundmaster to keep all dogs so impounded for a period of three (3) days. If at
the expiration of three (3) days, excluding holidays and weekends, from the
date of notice to the owner or the posting of notice, such dog shall not have
been redeemed, it may be disposed of. Any unlicensed dog required by law to be
licensed or any dog which appears to be suffering from rabies or affected by
hydrophobia, mange or other infectious or dangerous disease, shall not be
released, but may be forthwith disposed of. (Ord. 132, 5-12-1999)
5-3-6: CONFINEMENT OF CERTAIN DOGS:
No dog of fierce, dangerous or vicious propensities and no female dog in heat,
whether licensed or not, shall be allowed to run at large or upon the premises
of one other than the owner. If any such dog is found running at large in
violation of this chapter, it shall be taken up and impounded and shall not be
released, except upon approval of the designated officer in charge after
payment of the fees provided for herein; provided, however, that if any
dangerous, fierce or vicious dog so found at large cannot be safely taken up
and impounded, such dog may be humanely destroyed. (1983 Code; amd. 2005 Code)
5-3-7: MUZZLING:
Whenever it becomes necessary to safeguard the public from the dangers of
hydrophobia, the mayor, if he deems necessary, shall issue a proclamation
ordering every person owning or keeping a dog to confine it securely on his
premises, unless such dog shall have a muzzle of sufficient strength to prevent
its biting any person. Any unmuzzled dog running at large during the time of
proclamation shall be seized and impounded, unless noticeably infected with
rabies. All dogs so noticeably infected with rabies and displaying vicious
propensities shall be killed by the order of law enforcement without notice to
the owner. Dogs impounded during the first two (2) days of such proclamation
shall, if claimed within five (5) days, be released to the owner unless
infected with rabies, upon payment of the impounding and maintenance charges
provided for herein. If unclaimed after that period, such dog may be summarily
destroyed. (1983 Code)
5-3-8: RABIES CONTROL:
   A.   Vaccination Required: It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to
keep or maintain such dog unless it shall have been vaccinated by a licensed
veterinary surgeon with antirabies vaccine within one year preceding the date
on which such dog is kept or maintained. Proof of such vaccination shall be
furnished to the clerk before issuance of the license referred to herein.
   B.   Notice: If a dog is believed to have rabies or has been bitten by a dog
suspected of having rabies, such dog shall be confined by a leash or chain on
the owner's premises and shall be placed under the observation of a
veterinarian at the expense of the owner for a period of two (2) weeks. The
owner shall notify the poundmaster of the fact that his dog has been exposed to
rabies and at his discretion, the poundmaster is empowered to have such dog
removed from the owner's premises to a veterinary hospital and there placed
under observation for a period of two (2) weeks at the expense of the owner.
It shall be unlawful for any person knowing or suspecting a dog who has rabies
to allow such dog to be taken off his premises or beyond the limits of the city
without the written permission of the poundmaster or other designated official.
Every owner, or other person, upon ascertaining a dog is rabid, shall
immediately notify the poundmaster or other designated official who shall
either remove the dog to the pound or summarily destroy it. (1983 Code)
5-3-9: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Interference With Impoundment: It shall be unlawful for any person to
harass or to release without lawful authority any dogs impounded under this
chapter. (1983 Code)
   B.   Offenses: No dog shall be permitted to do the following on any premises
or property, public or private:
      1.   Bite or attempt to bite any person;
      2.   Destroy or damage property;
      3.   Scatter refuse or debris;
      4.   Chase vehicles, or chase or harass livestock or other animals;
      5.   Bark, howl or create any other unreasonable noise to the disturbance
of the residents of the property or adjoining properties;
      6.   Commit any nuisances defined by this chapter or any other law;
      7.   Deposit fecal matter on any property not of its owner. (Ord. 132, 5-
12-1999; amd. 2005 Code)
5-3-10: PENALTY:
A person who violates the terms and provisions of this chapter, excluding
section
5-3-6  of this chapter, shall be deemed guilty of an infraction and subject to
a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00). Any person violating the terms of
section
5-3-6  of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to up to six (6)
months in the county jail and up to a five hundred ($500.00) dollar fine. (Ord.
88, 1-25-1984; amd. 2005 Code; Ord. 216, 9-11-2024)
5-3-11: CERTAIN DOG BREEDS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Prohibited Breeds: It shall be unlawful for any person to own, harbor
or possess any pitbull, wolf hybrid or wolf within the city limits of Kooskia,
Idaho County, Idaho. This section shall apply to any purebred dog of the above
breeds, or any half breed dog of any of the above breeds. However, any animal
with one- fourth (1/4) wolf blood or more shall be a violation of this section.
Any person violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be
fined up to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and may be confined to the county
jail for up to six (6) months and/or both such fine and imprisonment.
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   Wolves Or Wolf Hybrids: There shall be no exceptions to subsection A
of this section for wolves or wolf hybrids.
      2.   Pitbulls:
         a.   This section shall not apply to persons traveling through the
city of Kooskia. Said persons traveling through the city, for instance, who
stop and purchase gas or stop at a store, shall not be subject to the
provisions of this section. However, said persons shall take proper precautions
to not let any of the above dog breed run at large. Further, said persons shall
keep their dog in a confined place, such as in a vehicle, a dog crate or other
type of container.
         b.   This section shall not apply to persons staying temporarily in
the city of Kooskia who possess the above dog breed. People who are visiting
the city of Kooskia and bring one of the above dog breed into the city limits
shall have different requirements than dog owners of the above breed who reside
in the city of Kooskia. Dog owners who are merely visiting shall contact the
city clerk and inform the clerk that they have one of the above dog breed and
will be staying temporarily in the city of Kooskia. Said dog owners must keep
said dog on a leash and muzzle, or keep the dog confined in a vehicle, home,
crate, kennel or other secure confined place. Said dogs shall not be allowed to
run at large or be allowed to be out of a secure facility or container.
         c.   Any person who lives within the city limits of Kooskia, Idaho,
and who owns one of the above described breed of dog prior to the passage of
this section shall not be in violation of this section. However, said owner
must notify the city of Kooskia clerk within twenty (20) days of the passage of
this section that he or she is the owner of one of the dog breed described
above and owned the dog prior to the passage of this section. Said dog owners
shall register and license said dog with the city of Kooskia within thirty (30)
days of the passage of this section. Further said owners shall follow the
following requirements:
            (1)   Leash And Muzzle: No person shall permit the above breed of
dog to go outside its kennel or pen unless such dog is securely leashed with a
leash no longer than five feet (5') in length. No person shall permit the above
breed of dog to be kept on a chain, rope or other type of leash outside its
kennel or pen unless a person is in physical control of the leash. Such dogs
may not be leashed to inanimate objects such as trees, posts, buildings, etc.
In addition, all the above breed of dog on a leash outside the animal's kennel
must be muzzled by a muzzling device sufficient to prevent such dog from biting
persons or other animals.
            (2)   Confinement: All registered pit bull dogs shall be securely
confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or kennel, except
when leashed and muzzled as above provided. Such pen, kennel or structure must
have secure sides and a secure top attached to the sides. Such structure must
have a secure bottom or floor attached to the sides of the pen.
            (3)   Confinement Indoors: None of the above breed of dog may be
kept in a house or structure when the windows are open or when screen windows
or screen doors are the only obstacle preventing the dog from exiting the
structure.
            (4)   Signs: All owners, keepers or harborers of the above breed of
dog registered within the city shall within ten (10) days of the effective date
hereof display in a prominent place on their premises a sign easily readable by
the public using the words "Beware Of Dog".
            (5)   Identification Photograph: All owners, keepers or harborers
of the above breed of dog must within ten (10) days of the effective date
hereof provide to the city clerk two (2) color photographs of the registered
animal clearly showing the color and approximate size of the animal.
            (6)   Reporting Requirements: All owners, keepers or harborers of
the above breed of dog must within ten (10) days of the incident, report the
following information in writing to the Kooskia city clerk as required
hereinafter:
               (A)   The removal from the city or death of a registered above
breed of dog;
               (B)   The birth of offspring of a registered above breed of dog;
               (C)   The new address of a registered above breed of dog's owner
should the owner move within the corporate city limits.
            (7)   Sale Or Transfer Of Ownership Prohibited: No person shall
sell, barter or in any other way dispose of the above breed of dog registered
with the city to any person within the city unless the recipient person resides
permanently in the same household and on the same premises as the registered
owner of such dog; provided that the registered owner of the above breed of dog
may sell or otherwise dispose of a registered dog or the offspring of such dog
to persons who do not reside within the city.
            (8)   Animals Born Of Registered Dogs: All offspring born of the
above dog breed registered within the city must be removed from the city within
six (6) weeks of the birth of such animal.
            (9)   Irrebuttable Presumption: There shall be an irrebuttable
presumption that any dog registered with the city as one of the above dog breed
is in fact a dog subject to the requirements of this section.
            (10)   Failure To Comply: It shall be a violation of this section
for the owner, keeper or harborer of the above breed of dog registered with the
city of Kooskia to fail to comply with the requirements and conditions set
forth in this section. Any dog found to be the subject of a violation of this
section shall be subject to immediate seizure and impoundment and subject to
penalties outlined above.
         d.   If it is contested that a dog is in fact one of the above breed,
the city may require the dog to be taken to a licensed veterinarian for a
determination. If it is determined that the dog is one of the above breed the
owner is liable for all costs associated therewith. If it is determined not to
be one of the above dog breed the city shall pay said costs. (Ord. 165, 10-14-
2009)
CHAPTER 4
MINORS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Curfew
5-4-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Curfew Established: It shall be unlawful for any child, under the age
of eighteen (18) years of age to be present at any public place or on any
public street or thoroughfare within the corporate limits of the city between
the hours of ten o’clock (10:00) p.m., and five o’clock (5:00) a.m., on the
nights of Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and between the hours of
one o’clock (1:00) and five (5:00) a.m., of Friday and Saturday; provided,
however, this curfew shall not apply if the child is in attendance at or going
or coming to or from a recognized school function or supervised public,
fraternal or church activity, or going to or from work, or if such child be
accompanied by a parent, guardian or other adult having written permission from
such parent or guardian to be abroad at such time and place, which written
permission shall be dated and signed within three (3) days of the time such
permission is provided.
   B.   Parental Responsibility: It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian
or other person having the custody of any child, as defined in subsection A of
this section, to permit, allow or suffer such child to be abroad after such
hours, and the presence of any child in violation hereof shall be prima facie
evidence of the violation of this section. When any child is found abroad as
defined in subsection A of this section, it shall be prima facie evidence that
such child is in violation hereof.
   C.   Any peace officer may issue a citation for violation of a curfew that
shall thereafter proceed under the juvenile corrections act in the same manner
as though the violation was charged by a petition. Citations shall be issued on
the Idaho uniform citation form. The peace officer issuing a curfew citation
may detain the violator and at the time the citation is issued shall make a
reasonable effort to obtain the endorsement of the juvenile’s parent or legal
guardian on the citation. If the endorsement of a parent or legal guardian
cannot be obtained with the exercise of reasonable diligence, a copy of the
citation shall be hand delivered or mailed to the juvenile’s parent or legal
guardian by a peace officer at least seven (7) days prior to the date set for
the juvenile’s appearance. The citation must provide a date certain for the
appearance before a magistrate of the juvenile and parent or legal guardian.
   D.   Penalty: A violation of this ordinance is an infraction. Any person
found guilty of violating this ordinance may be fined One Hundred Fifty Dollars
($150.00) or whatever amount is designated in the Idaho Juvenile Corrections
Act, of the Idaho Code, Title 20, Chapter 5. (Ord. 28, 4-1-1968; amd. 2005
Code; Ord. 214, 8-21-2024)
CHAPTER 5
NUISANCES
(Rep. by Ord. 203, 6-9-2021)
CHAPTER 6
WEEDS
SECTION:
5-6-1: Definition
5-6-2: Removal Of Weeds Required
5-6-3: Abatement
5-6-1: DEFINITION:
"Weeds" shall include all vegetable growth that is troublesome, useless or
noxious. (Revised Code 1959)
5-6-2: REMOVAL OF WEEDS REQUIRED:
All occupants or owners of premises within the city are hereby required to keep
such premises and the adjoining parking strip free and clear of all weeds and
grasses. For enforcement purposes, any weeds and/or grasses over a height of
eight inches (8") shall be deemed in violation of this section. (Revised Code
1959; amd. 2005 Code)
5-6-3: ABATEMENT:
Whenever the growth of weeds and/or grasses advances to a condition prohibited
by this chapter, the city shall notify such occupant or owner to remove the
same. Should the occupant or owner fail to cut and remove the same within ten
(10) days, the city shall cut and remove such weeds and grasses and the cost
thereof shall become a lien upon the property. Said lien shall be collected as
provided by law. (Revised Code 1959; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 7
SOLID WASTE
SECTION:
5-7-1: Definitions
5-7-2: Responsible Authority
5-7-3: Mandatory Use Required
5-7-4: Solid Waste Collection
5-7-5: Container Requirements
5-7-6: Collection Fees
5-7-7: Burning And Dumping Restrictions
5-7-8: Materials Not Acceptable For Collection
5-7-9: Penalty
5-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
Words not defined herein shall be given the meaning ordinarily applied to such
words.
COLLECTOR: The person holding a license or contract with the city or employed
by the city and thereby authorized and designated by the city to collect,
handle, transport and dispose of refuse and wastes.
INSPECTOR: The authorized employee or employees of the city or some individual
designated by the city council as having the duty of the enforcement of this
chapter.
OWNER AND OCCUPANT: May be used interchangeably, and shall mean every person in
possession, charge or in control of any dwelling, flat, rooming house, or any
eating place, shop, place of business, manufacturing or business establishment
where solid waste is created or accumulated.
SOLID WASTE: Any garbage or refuse, sludge from a waste water treatment plant,
water supply treatment plant or air pollution control facility and other
discarded material including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained gaseous
material resulting from industrial, commercial, mining and agricultural
operations and from community activities, but does not include solid or
dissolved materials in domestic sewage or solid or dissolved materials in
irrigation return flows or industrial discharges that are point sources subject
to federal permit or source, special nuclear or byproduct material as defined
in the atomic energy act. For purposes of this chapter, "solid waste" shall not
include those listed as exceptions in Idaho Code 39-7403 under the definition
of "solid waste". (Ord. 14, 5-7-1963; amd. 2005 Code)
5-7-2: RESPONSIBLE AUTHORITY:
Law enforcement personnel of the city or such other persons as may be appointed
by the mayor and city council shall be responsible for the enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter, and other duties as the city council may prescribe.
(Ord. 14, 5-7-1963; amd. 2005 Code)
5-7-3: MANDATORY USE REQUIRED:
Every owner or occupant of premises within the prescribed limits of the city
must use the refuse collection and disposal system herein provided, and shall
deposit or cause to be deposited in accordance with this regulation, all solid
waste that is of such nature that is perishable, or may decompose or may be
scattered by wind or otherwise.
Provided, however, that in sparsely populated areas of the city where the
collection of solid waste would be impracticable, the city council may issue a
special permit altering the time and extent of collection. (Ord. 14, 5-7-1963;
amd. 2005 Code)
5-7-4: SOLID WASTE COLLECTION:
There is hereby established a system of solid waste collection, transportation
and disposal. It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of
collecting, transporting, hauling or conveying any refuse over the streets or
alleys or to dump or dispose of the same, unless and until such person is
licensed therefor, or has a contract therefor as an authorized representative
of the city.
The manner of collection, collection days and hours and disposal of all solid
waste shall be as set out in the contract between the city and the provider.
(Ord. 14, 5-7-1963; amd. 2005 Code)
5-7-5: CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Specifications: It shall be the duty of every owner or occupant of any
place where solid waste is created or accumulated to at all times keep or cause
to be kept portable approved containers for the deposit therein of such solid
waste and, except as otherwise provided, to deposit or cause to be deposited
all solid waste therein.
      1.   Leakproof: The containers shall be watertight and not easily
corrodible, rodent and flyproof and shall be equipped with handles and a close
fitting lid.
      2.   Size: Such containers shall not be less than ten (10) gallons
capacity nor more than thirty two (32) gallons capacity and limited to fifty
(50) pounds in weight when filled.
      3.   Metal Containers: The containers, if metal, shall be of not less
than twenty eight (28) gauge metal or the equivalent, and be manufactured so as
to prevent leaks.
      4.   Lids: Lids shall not be removed except when necessary to place solid
waste in such container to take the same therefrom.
      5.   Sanitary Condition: All owners and/or occupants shall keep all
containers in a sanitary condition, with both the inside and outside thereof
kept free and clear of all accumulating grease and decomposing materials and so
that no odor nuisance shall exist.
   B.   Placement: All solid waste containers shall be placed for collection in
a place accessible to the collector or at such place as may be agreed upon
between the owner and tie city. (Ord. 14, 5-7-1963; amd. 2005 Code)
5-7-6: COLLECTION FEES:
   A.   Rates: The rates for solid waste disposal and removal shall be set from
time to time by resolution of the mayor and city council. (1983 Code)
   B.   Method Of Collection: Fees shall be carried on the water and sewer
bill, and the same shall be paid with the water and sewer bill; and the water
and sewer department is authorized to discontinue service to any premises if
the entire water, sewer and garbage bill shall not be paid; said charges to
become delinquent as provided for water charges, and to be subject to the same
penalties provided for in the case of water and sewer collections. (Ord. 14, 5-
7-1963)
5-7-7: BURNING AND DUMPING RESTRICTIONS:
The city is included within the Maggie Creek fire protection district
administered by the Idaho state department of lands, and all regulations
adopted by said fire protection district shall be enforced within the city.
Permits for burning within the city shall be obtained from the Idaho state
department of lands, Maggie Creek fire protection district. The Idaho state
department of lands, Maggie Creek fire protection district shall administer and
enforce burning regulations promulgated pursuant to Idaho Code title 38,
chapter 1. (Ord. 133, 7-14-1999)
5-7-8: MATERIALS NOT ACCEPTABLE FOR COLLECTION:
Dirt or earth debris from construction or lawn renovation, rocks, stones,
automobile bodies and parts, dead animals, building materials such as masonry,
plaster, scrap lumber and wood shavings, hazardous, restricted and/or unlawful
solid wastes as outlined by the state of Idaho are not acceptable for
collection, and such items shall be collected and disposed of by the building
contractor, owner or occupant of the premises. (Ord. 14, 5-7-1963; amd. 2005
Code)
5-7-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be fined as provided in the general
penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord. 14, 5-7-1963)
CHAPTER 8
LITTER
SECTION:
5-8-1: Definitions
5-8-2: Litter Prohibited
5-8-3: Placement Requirements
5-8-4: Removal By City
5-8-5: Penalties
5-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivatives shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent with the
context, words used in the present tense include the future, words used in the
plural number include the singular number, and words used in the singular
number include the plural number:
DEBRIS: The remains, fragments, pieces or parts of something broken down,
damaged or destroyed.
LITTER: Garbage, refuse, rubbish and junk and all other waste or discarded
materials and substances including, but not limited to, paper, bottles, glass,
nails, tacks, hoops, cans, wire (barbed or otherwise), building materials, and
fixtures, electrical materials and fixtures, water and gas materials and
fixtures, sand and gravel, and roofing and siding materials, automobile parts
and components and tires.
PARK: A park, playground, recreation center or any other public area in the
city owned or used by the city and devoted to recreation.
PRIVATE PREMISES: Any nonpublicly owned property, whether used for residential,
commercial, industrial or professional purposes, whether inhabited or
temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and shall include any yard,
grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps or mailbox belonging or appurtenant to
such property.
PUBLIC PLACE: Streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other public ways and
public parks, squares, spaces, grounds, easements and buildings. (Ord. 47, 5-
21-1973; amd. 2005 Code)
5-8-2: LITTER PROHIBITED:
   A.   Public Places: It shall be unlawful for any person, in person or by his
agent, employee or servant to:
      1.   Public Ways, Property And Waterways: Cast, throw, sweep, sift,
deposit, place, leave or dump in any manner any debris, garbage, litter,
rubbish or refuse, or cause, permit or allow such debris, garbage, litter,
rubbish or refuse to be carried, blown, scattered or deposited by the elements,
in or upon any street, sidewalk, or other public place, river, canal, public
water, drain, sewer or receiving basin within the corporate limits of the city.
      2.   Sweeping Into Gutters: Sweep into or deposit or place in any gutter,
street or other public place within the city the accumulation of debris,
garbage, litter, rubbish or refuse from any building or lot or from any public
or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying property shall
keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free from such debris, garbage,
litter, rubbish or refuse.
      3.   Merchants Abutting Sidewalks: No person owning or occupying a place
of business shall sweep into, or deposit or place in, any gutter, street or
other public place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building
or lot or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or
occupying places of business within the city shall keep the sidewalk in front
of their premises free of such debris, garbage, litter, rubbish and refuse.
      4.   Litter In Parks: Throw, leave, deposit, dump or place debris,
garbage, litter, rubbish or trash in any park within the city except in public
receptacles and in such a manner that such debris, garbage, litter, rubbish or
refuse will be prevented from being scattered, carried, blown or deposited by
elements upon any part of the park or upon any street or other public place.
Where public receptacles are not provided, all such debris, garbage, litter,
rubbish and refuse shall be carried away from the park by the person
responsible for its presence and properly disposed of such in the manner
provided elsewhere by this chapter.
      5.   Litter In Lakes And Fountains: Throw, deposit or place litter in any
fountain, pond, lake, stream, canal, river or any other body of water in any
park or elsewhere within the city.
   B.   From Vehicles:
      1.   Thrown By Persons In Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any person,
while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, to throw, cast, deposit, place,
permit or cause such to be cast, thrown, deposited or placed, any debris,
garbage, litter, rubbish or refuse upon any street or other public place within
the city, or upon private property. Each owner of a vehicle shall be liable and
responsible for the actions and conduct of the driver or passengers in a
vehicle from which vehicle debris, garbage, litter, rubbish or refuse is
thrown, cast, deposited or placed. The operation of a vehicle by any person
other than the owner and the actions and conduct of such driver or operator of,
and the passengers in, such vehicle shall be imputed to the owner for all
purposes of this subsection.
      2.   Vehicle Loads Causing Litter: It shall be unlawful for any person,
in person or by his or its agent, employee or servant, to operate, drive, move
or use any truck, pickup, trailer or other vehicle within the city to haul or
transport any kind of debris, litter, garbage, rubbish or refuse unless such
truck or vehicle is so designed, constructed, or properly loaded or tied, as to
prevent any of the load or contents thereof or any debris, garbage, litter,
rubbish or refuse thereon from spilling or dropping, or from being carried,
scattered or blown by the elements, or in any other way deposited, placed or
dumped upon any street, alley or other public place. The spilling, dropping,
scattering or blowing of any debris, garbage, litter, rubbish or refuse from
any such vehicle shall be deemed prima facie evidence of improper loading or
tying within the meaning of this subsection.
   C.   Private Property:
      1.   Occupied Private Property: It shall be unlawful for any person to
throw, deposit, place, leave or dump debris, garbage, litter, rubbish or refuse
on any occupied private property within the city, whether owned by such person
or not, or cause, permit or allow such debris, garbage, litter or refuse to be
carried, blown, scattered or deposited by the elements upon any private
property, except that the owner or person in control of private property may
maintain authorized private receptacles for the collection and storage in such
a manner that such debris, garbage, litter, rubbish or refuse will be prevented
from being carried, blown, scattered or deposited by the elements upon any
street, sidewalk, or other public place or upon any private property.
      2.   Vacant Lots: It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, deposit,
place, leave or dump any debris, garbage, litter, rubbish or refuse on any open
or vacant private property within the city whether owned by such person or not.
   D.   Dropping Materials From Aircraft: Except as permitted by the mayor and
city council, it shall be unlawful for any person in any aircraft to throw out,
drop or deposit within the city any litter, handbill or any other object or
substance. (Ord. 47, 5-21-1973; amd. 2005 Code)
5-8-3: PLACEMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Receptacles: Persons placing debris, garbage, litter, rubbish or refuse
in public or private receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it
from being blown, carried, scattered or deposited by the elements upon any
street, sidewalk or other public place or upon private property. Such
receptacles must be tightly covered containers as specified in subsection
5-7-5A1 of this title.
   B.   Premises Maintained: The owner or person in control of any private
property shall at all times maintain the premises free of debris, garbage,
litter, rubbish and refuse; provided, however, that this subsection shall not
prohibit the storage of such debris, garbage, litter, rubbish and refuse
provided it is deposited in tightly covered containers as specified in
subsection
5-7-5A1 of this title and made available for easy collection.
   C.   Unauthorized Removal: It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or
move any receptacle for the placing of debris, garbage, litter, rubbish or
refuse from any private or public property in the city. This subsection shall
not apply to any authorized city employee or agent, or to the person owning the
property or placing the receptacle thereon. (Ord. 47, 5-21-1973; amd. 2005
Code)
5-8-4: REMOVAL BY CITY:
   A.   Notice To Remove: The city council is hereby authorized and empowered
to notify the owner of any private property within the city, including the
sidewalks, alleys and parking within the curbing, if such exists, abutting such
private property, or the agent of such owner, to promptly remove any debris,
garbage, litter, rubbish or refuse from such property. Such notice shall be by
certified mail, addressed to said owner at his last known address.
   B.   Action Upon Noncompliance: Upon the failure, neglect or refusal of an
owner or agent so notified, to properly dispose and remove such debris,
garbage, litter, rubbish and refuse within fifteen (15) days after receipt of
written notice provided for in subsection A of this section, or within fifteen
(15) days after the date of such notice in the event the same is returned to
the city undelivered, provided the same was properly addressed to the last
known address of such owner, or agent, the city council is hereby authorized
and empowered to remove such debris, garbage, litter, rubbish or refuse.
   C.   Charges Of Removal: When the city has effected the disposal or removal
of such debris, garbage, litter, rubbish or refuse, or has paid for the
disposal or removal of such, the actual cost thereof, plus accrued interest at
current rate provided by law from the date of the completion of such disposal
or removal, shall be chargeable and assessable to the owner of such property.
All such charges and special assessments, if not paid within thirty (30) days
to the city treasurer, shall be declared delinquent and may be certified to the
tax collector of Idaho County by the city clerk and collected in the manner
provided by Idaho Code 50-1008. (Ord. 47, 5-21-1973; amd. 2005 Code)
5-8-5: PENALTIES:
The violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor and
punished as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 47, 5-21-1973)
CHAPTER 9
PUBLIC NUISANCE
SECTION:
5-9-1: Nuisance Defined
5-9-2: Destruction/Removal Of Dilapidated Or Unsafe Buildings And Property
5-9-3: Maintaining Nuisance Prohibited
5-9-4: Liability For Abatement
5-9-5: Abatement By City
5-9-6: Garbage And Refuse On Streets, Sidewalks Or Public Grounds
5-9-7: Trash And Junk On Private Property; Abatement
5-9-1: NUISANCE DEFINED:
Anything which is injurious to the health or morals, or which is indecent or
offensive to the senses or an obstruction to the free use of property so as to
interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, or which
unlawfully obstructs free passage or use in the customary manner of any street,
alley, sidewalk or public park, or injures any street or alley, or disturbs the
peace and quiet, is hereby declared to be a "nuisance". (Ord. 203, 6-9-2021)
5-9-2: DESTRUCTION/REMOVAL OF DILAPIDATED OR UNSAFE BUILDINGS AND PROPERTY:
   A.   Prohibited Condition: The City of Kooskia shall have the power to
declare any building, structure or property to be a nuisance which, in the
opinion of the city council, is so dilapidated or is in such condition as to
menace the public health or the safety of persons or property on account of
increased fire hazard or otherwise; and the City council may cause the
destruction or removal of any such building, structure or waste at the expense
of the person or persons, associations, corporations or copartnerships holding,
owning or maintaining the same.
   B.   Special Assessment: The City may levy a special assessment as provided
in Idaho Code § 50-1008, on the land or premises whereon the nuisance is
situated, to defray the cost or to reimburse the city for the cost of
destruction or removal of said building, structure or waste so declared to be a
nuisance. (Ord. 203, 6-9-2021)
5-9-3: MAINTAINING NUISANCE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to create or maintain any nuisance to be
created, maintained or to exist on premises owned by him or under his control.
(Ord. 203, 6-9-2021)
5-9-4: LIABILITY FOR ABATEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the owner of any property whereon any nuisance exists
or of the lessee, manager or person in charge thereof to remove, abate or
destroy the same without delay. (Ord. 203, 6-9-2021)
5-9-5: ABATEMENT BY CITY:
The City of Kooskia is empowered to declare what shall be deemed nuisances, to
prevent, remove and abate nuisances at the expense of the parties creating,
causing, committing or maintaining the same, to levy a special assessment as
provided in Idaho Code § 50-1008, on the land or premises whereon the nuisance
is situated to defray the cost or to reimburse the city for the cost of abating
the same. (Ord. 203, 6-9-2021)
5-9-6: GARBAGE AND REFUSE ON STREETS, SIDEWALKS OR PUBLIC GROUNDS:
   A.   Any person, firm or corporation who shall willfully or negligently
throw, dump, store or deposit upon any sidewalk, street, alley or public place,
or any portion thereof, any glass, nails, tacks, hoops, cane, barbed wire,
boards, or any other substance or material which would be likely to injure any
animal, vehicle or person traveling thereon, or which obstructs or impedes the
free passage of pedestrians or public travel upon such sidewalk, street, alley
or public place, or any portion thereof, shall be deemed in violation of this
chapter.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to cast, keep or leave upon any of
the streets, highways, alleys or public grounds within the corporate limits of
the City any manure, stagnant or impure water, refuse, vegetables, decayed or
decaying substances, slops, swill, garbage, scrap iron, junk, car bodies or
filth of any kind, the same of which are hereby declared to be a nuisance and a
violation of this chapter. (Ord. 203, 6-9-2021)
5-9-7: TRASH AND JUNK ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; ABATEMENT:
   A.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or suffer to
accumulate in or upon any yard, lot, place or premises owned or occupied by
him, or for which he may be the agent, within the corporate limits of the City,
any manure, stagnant or impure water, refuse, vegetables, decayed or decaying
substances, slops, swill, garbage, scrap iron, junk, car bodies or filth of any
kind, or permit or suffer such yard, lot, place or premises to be or remain in
such condition as to cause or create a noisome or offensive smell or
atmosphere, and the existence of such condition is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and a violation of this chapter. Penalty: There shall be a one hundred
dollars ($100.00) fine per day for failure to comply with the notice
requirements under this ordinance. Provided, that no person shall be fined for
a violation of this subsection unless such violation continues for fourteen
(14) days after he has received the notice provided in subsection B of this
section. Any fine imposed by the City may be levied as a special assessment
under Idaho Code § 50-1008.
   B.   Notice And Abatement: Whenever the City shall have been informed of the
violation of any of the provisions of subsection A of this section, he shall
immediately make or cause to be made an examination of the yard, lot, place or
premises on which it is charged that such violation is suffered or permitted,
and if it is found that there is such a violation, he shall forthwith give or
cause to be given, to either the owner, agent or occupant of such yard, lot,
place or premises or to all of them, a notice in writing to abate such nuisance
and to remove such manure, stagnant or impure water, refuse, vegetables,
decayed or decaying substances, slops, swill, garbage, scrap iron, junk, car
bodies, or filth of any kind, and if the same is not so removed within fourteen
(14) days after such notice, the City may cause the same to be removed, and the
expenses of the removal thereof shall be paid by the City in the first
instance, but the same shall be taxed under Idaho Code § 50-1008 as part of the
costs of such removal. (Ord. 203, 6-9-2021)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Streets, Sidewalks And Public Ways   1
Sewer Regulations   2
Water Regulations   3
Utility Bills   4
Trees And Shrubs   5
Cross Connection Control   6
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Sidewalk Construction
6-1-2: Removal Of Snow And Ice
6-1-1: SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Specifications: The material and method of constructing sidewalks shall
conform in all respects to the specifications of the Idaho standards for public
works construction, which specifications shall be on file with the city clerk.
(Revised Code 1959; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Responsibility For Construction: It shall be the duty of every property
owner, upon notification by the governing body, to construct or repair
sidewalks as such is prescribed in said notice.
   C.   Failure To Comply: If such property owner shall fail, after
notification, to construct or repair any sidewalk, the governing body may order
same constructed or repaired. The costs of said work shall be assessed against
the property owner for which said sidewalk was constructed or repaired and said
cost shall become a lien upon the property, as provided in Idaho Code 50-1008.
(Revised Code 1959)
6-1-2: REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE:
   A.   Responsibility For Removal: It shall be the duty of the owner or tenant
of any premises abutting or adjoining any public sidewalk to remove all snow
and/or ice from such sidewalk.
   B.   Notice: It shall be the duty of the city to give notice to any owner or
tenant of any property to remove snow and/or ice, which notice shall be sent by
registered mail to the last known address of such owner, tenant or occupant.
The owner or occupant shall have not more than twenty four (24) hours from and
after receipt of such notice, within which to remove the snow and/or ice as set
forth in said notice.
   C.   City May Remove: Upon failure of an owner or tenant to comply with the
provisions of this section, the city shall have the right to remove such snow
and/or ice and assess the cost thereof against the premises abutting the
sidewalk. Such assessment shall be certified to the county assessor or other
proper official having charge of the making of the assessment roll and such
charge shall be placed on the assessment roll and collected in the same manner
as other municipal taxes are collected, as provided in Idaho Code 50-1008.
(Revised Code 1959)
CHAPTER 2
SEWER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Definitions
6-2-2: Use Of Public Sewers Required
6-2-3: Private Sewage Disposal
6-2-4: Building Sewers And Connections
6-2-5: Use Of The Public Sewers
6-2-6: Protection From Damage
6-2-7: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
6-2-8: Penalties
6-2-9: Fee Collection And Rate Schedules
6-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
BOD (Denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in parts per
million by weight.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (5') outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food, and
from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
INDUSTRIAL WASTE: The liquid wastes from the industrial processes as distinct
from sanitary sewage.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface or ground water.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per
liter of solution.
PLUMBING INSPECTOR: The person duly appointed by city officials to inspect,
approve or disapprove, any additions or modifications to the sewage works.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") in dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
SEWAGE: A combination of the water carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITY: Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating and disposing of sewage.
SEWAGE WORKS: All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of
sewage, including building service sewers.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
STORM SEWER OR STORM DRAIN: A sewer which carries storm and surface waters and
drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
SUPERINTENDENT: The public works superintendent of the city, or his authorized
deputy, agent or representative.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids; and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (Revised Code 1959)
6-2-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in an insanitary manner upon public or private property within the
city, or any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal
excrement, or other objectionable waste.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sanitary sewage,
industrial wastes, or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage. (Revised 1959 Code)
   D.   The owner of all houses, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, or other purpose, situated within the city and abutting
on any street, alley, or right of way in which there is now located or may in
the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the city, is
hereby required at his expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein,
and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within sixty (60) days after
the date of official notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer shall be
installed by the city to the owner's property line. This subsection shall not
be construed so as to require that the city reinstall sewer lines in areas
which were hooked up to the city's sewer system prior to the enactment of the
ordinance requiring the sewer to be installed by the city to the owner's
property line. However, the city shall be responsible for maintenance of such
sewer lines, regardless of when they were installed, up to the owner's property
line. (Ord. 75, 4-21-1980; amd. 1983 Code)
6-2-3: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of subsection
6-2-2D of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this section. (Revised
Code 1959)
   B.   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
superintendent. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the city, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the
superintendent. (Revised Code 1959; amd. 1983 Code)
   C.   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
superintendent. He shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within seventy
two (72) hours of the receipt of notice by the superintendent. No underground
portions of the work shall be covered up prior to final inspection and approval
by the superintendent.
   D.   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the state department of public
health. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is
less than fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet, except by written permission
by the superintendent. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any sewer or natural outlet.
   E.   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in subsection
6-2-2D of this chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer
in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material.
   F.   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
   G.   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the health officer.
(Revised Code 1959)
6-2-4: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the superintendent.
   B.   There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permit:
      1.   For residential and commercial service.
      2.   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes. (Revised
Code 1959)
In either case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a special form
furnished by the city. The permit application shall be supplemented by any
plans, specifications, or other information, considered pertinent in the
judgment of the superintendent. (Revised Code 1959; amd. 1983 Code)
   C.   All costs and expense incidental to the installation and connection of
the building sewer to the public sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner
shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   D.   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer.
   E.   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   F.   Specifications for sewer mains and their connections shall be as
provided in the latest Idaho standards for public works construction.
   G.   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection to the public sewer shall be made under the
supervision of the superintendent or his representative.
   H.   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city. (Revised
Code 1959; amd. 2005 Code)
6-2-5: USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water or
unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   B.   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers
or to a natural outlet approved by the superintendent. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, upon approval of the
superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
   C.   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to
be discharged, any of the following described waters or wastes to any public
sewer:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F).
      2.   Any water or waste which may contain more than one hundred (100)
parts per million by weight, of fat, oil or grease.
      3.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      4.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded.
      5.   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastic, wood, paunch manure or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works.
      6.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.0
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works.
      7.   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or create any hazard in the receiving waters of
the sewage disposal facility.
      8.   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character
and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such
materials at the sewage disposal facility.
      9.   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance.
   D.   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand and other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the superintendent, and shall be located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Grease and
oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of
withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall be of
substantial construction, watertight, and equipped with easily removable covers
which, when bolted in place, shall be gastight and watertight.
   E.   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his expense, in continuously efficient operation at
all times.
   F.   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes having a
five (5) day biochemical oxygen demand greater than three hundred (300) parts
per million by weight, or containing more than three hundred fifty (350) parts
per million by weight of suspended solids, or containing any quantity of
substances having the characteristics described in subsection C of this section
or having an average daily flow greater than two percent (2%) of the average
daily sewage flow of the city, shall be subject to the review and approval of
the superintendent. Where necessary, in the opinion of the superintendent, the
owner shall provide, at his expense, such preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to three hundred (300) parts
per million and the suspended solids to three hundred fifty (350) parts per
million by weight, or reduce objectionable characteristics or constituents to
within the maximum limits provided for in subsection C of this section or
control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or wastes. Plans,
specifications and any other pertinent information relating to proposed
preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval of the
superintendent and of the health department of the state and no construction of
such facilities shall be commenced until said approvals are obtained in
writing.
   G.   Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any waters or
wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the owner at his expense.
   H.   Where required by the superintendent, the owner of any property served
by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense,
and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Revised Code 1959)
   I.   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in subsections C and F of this section
shall be determined in accordance with current state and federal standards, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided for in subsection H of this
section, or upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event
that no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be
considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the
point at which the building sewer is connected. (Revised Code 1959; amd. 2005
Code)
   J.   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the
industrial concern. (Revised 1959 Code)
6-2-6: PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works. Any person violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under the charge of
disorderly conduct. (Revised 1959 Code)
6-2-7: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
The superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter upon all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (Revised 1959
Code)
6-2-8: PENALTIES:
Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except
subsection
6-2-4A of this chapter, shall be served by the city with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations. Any person who shall
continue any violation beyond the time limit provided for in this section shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become liable
to the city for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the city by reason of
such violation. (Revised 1959 Code)
6-2-9: FEE COLLECTION AND RATE SCHEDULES:
   A.   Sewer fees shall be carried on the same bill as water and garbage, and
the same shall be paid with the water and garbage bill. The water and sewer
department is authorized to discontinue service to any premises if the entire
water, sewer, and garbage bill is not paid. Sewer charges become delinquent and
are subject to penalties as provided for water charges in subsection
6-3-6A of this title.
   B.   The monthly rates for sewer service shall be in accordance with a
schedule of sewer fees adopted by the city council. Rate changes shall be made
by majority vote of the council at a regular meeting of the council under the
following conditions: 1) rate changes must be an agenda item; 2) rate changes
cannot be made at the same meeting at which they are proposed; 3) rate changes
must be recorded in detail in the minutes; and 4) the city clerk must maintain
a current rate schedule at all times, which must include the date the fees were
last changed. If the rate change is a rate increase, the rate changes must be
adopted under procedures specified in currently applicable Idaho law.
   C.   Sewer hookup charges will be set under the same procedure used to set
monthly rates. In no case will the sewer hookup charge be less than the actual
cost of material and labor. (Ord. 129, 5-27-1998)
CHAPTER 3
WATER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Application For Water Use
6-3-2: Separate Connection
6-3-3: Water Connection Requirements; Charges
6-3-4: Water Meters
6-3-5: Rates
6-3-6: Delinquent Bills
6-3-7: Malicious Or Wilful Waste Of Water
6-3-8: Failure Of Water Supply
6-3-9: Right To Turn Off Water
6-3-10: Pipes And Hydrants
6-3-11: Ground Wire Attachments
6-3-12: Abandoned Services
6-3-13: Water Use Limits
6-3-14: Connections Outside City
6-3-15: Water Main Extensions
6-3-16: Subdivision Installations
6-3-17: Violations; Penalties
6-3-18: Water Wells
6-3-19:    Lien For Non-Payment Of Utility Bills
6-3-1: APPLICATION FOR WATER USE:
   A.   Contents Of Application: Application for use of water must be made at
the office of the city clerk on such forms as shall be prescribed by the said
city clerk. Said application must be made by the owner of the property to be
benefited in all instances, including rentals, and shall give information
indicating the lot and block on which it is to be used and he must agree to
conform to the rules and regulations established, from time to time, as a
condition for the use of water. It shall be unlawful for any person to make any
connection to any water main or service pipe through which water is supplied by
the city to water consumers or to interfere or tamper in any manner with such
mains or pipes or to use any water supplied by the city without first having
made said applications.
   B.   Use Stated: No persons supplied with water from the city mains shall be
entitled to use it for any purposes other than those stated in the application,
or to supply it in any way to other persons. Should the owner or occupant of
any premises desire additional outlets or fixtures or desire to use water for a
purpose not stated in the original application, a new application must be made
and a new permit obtained from the city clerk. (Ord. 105, 3-14-1990)
6-3-2: SEPARATE CONNECTION:
Every separate premises supplied with city water shall have its own separate
connection with the city line, and every separate premises not complying with
this requirement shall be made so to comply within thirty (30) days of the date
of notice sent by the city clerk. Should a single connection with the city
water line continue to serve more than one premises, the public works
superintendent shall cause the service of water to be discontinued by shutting
off the service valve until separate service connections are made. In this
context, a separate premises is a dwelling, a business building, an apartment
building, or a mobile home court. Service will be restored to all premises
previously served by said single connection upon said premises obtaining
separate service connections and upon payment of fees established by the city
council for opening and closing the service. Said fees shall be established by
majority vote of the council at a regular meeting and may be amended from time
to time by the process set forth in subsection
6-2-9B of this title and section
6-3-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 129, 5-27-1998)
6-3-3: WATER CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS; CHARGES:
It shall be the duty of the public works superintendent, upon receipt of the
proper permit in writing from the city clerk, to make or cause to be made all
connections with and from the water mains to, and including, a stop cock to be
placed as closely to the property line as to be practical. The applicant shall
pay to the city clerk a water hookup charge determined and set by the city
council in the same manner that water and sewer rates are determined and set;
provided, that the water hookup charge shall in no case be less than the actual
costs of material and labor. All service pipe shall be of material approved by
the public works superintendent, and shall, together with all stop cocks,
connections and fixtures thereon, including meters, be and remain the property
of the city, and shall be kept and maintained by and under the exclusive
control and supervision of the city. (Ord. 129, 5-27-1998)
6-3-4: WATER METERS:
   A.   Meters Required:
      1.   The city shall install meters on all services requiring measurement
of water consumed for billing purposes.
      2.   Each separate premises shall have its own water meter and each
separate building on the same lot and/or under the same ownership shall have a
separate meter. (Ord. 105, 3-14-1990)
      3.   Where an individual consumer is supplied with water through more
than one meter, service charges shall be computed separately for each meter.
(Ord. 129, 5-27-1998)
      4.   Where more than one individual consumer is supplied with water
through one meter, the owner who applied for services shall be responsible for
all charges.
      5.   All meters shall be and remain the property of the city and shall
not be removed from the service except for test or repair, replacement,
abandonment or discontinuance of service. All meters shall be so located and
maintained as to be readily accessible at all reasonable hours for reading,
inspection or repair.
   B.   Damage By Occupant; Repair: In cases where a meter has been lost,
injured or broken by or through the carelessness or negligence of the owner or
occupant of the premises served, such meter shall be properly repaired or
restored under the direction of the public works superintendent, and the cost
thereof shall be charged against the owner or occupant of the premises. In case
of nonpayment of such charges, the water shall be turned off, and not turned on
until the cost of repairs and the penalty for shutting off and turning on the
water has been paid plus late charges.
   C.   Meters Out Of Order; Estimate Of Water Used: In the event of a meter
falling out of order or failing to register properly, the consumer shall be
charged on an estimate made from the amount consumed in the same month in the
preceding year, or from an average of the consumption of the three (3) months
last preceding the meter reading, or from the most reliable data in the
possession of the public works superintendent. (Ord. 105, 3-14-1990)
   D.   Testing Meters:
      1.   Tests; Deposit Required: Where the accuracy of the record of a water
meter is questioned by a consumer, it shall be removed at his request, and
shall be tested by the public works superintendent or by an impartial company
which specializes in such tests and a report shall be made thereon to the city
clerk. Both parties shall accept the findings so made. For making such tests,
the consumer at the time of filing his request, shall deposit with the city
clerk the sum established by the city council, in the same manner that water
and sewer rates are established, for such testing.
No meter shall be removed or in any way disturbed, nor the seal thereof broken,
except in the presence or under the direction of the public works
superintendent. (Ord. 129, 5-27-1998)
      2.   Results Of Test; Costs And Adjustments: If a test so made discloses
an error against the consumer of more than one percent (1%) in the meter's
registry, the excess of such readings as applied to the three (3) readings last
preceding the test shall be calculated, and the amount of money due the
consumer thereon credited to his water account, and the city shall bear the
entire cost of the test and the deposit of the consumer shall be returned to
him. If no error in excess of one percent (1%) against the consumer has been
found, the consumer shall pay the costs of the test out of his deposit. (Ord.
105, 3-14-1990)
6-3-5: RATES:
The monthly water rates for water supplied to all persons within the corporate
limits shall be in accordance with the schedule of fees adopted by majority
vote at a regular meeting of the city council. Said schedule of fees shall be
filed with the city clerk of the city, and shall be available for examination
by interested parties during regular business hours of the city clerk. Said
schedule of fees may be amended or altered from time to time by the city
council by majority vote with these conditions: a) rate changes must be an
agenda item; b) rate changes cannot be made at the same meeting at which they
are proposed; c) rate changes must be recorded in detail in the minutes; and d)
the schedule of fees maintained by the clerk must include the date the fees
were last changed. If the rate change is a rate increase, the rate changes must
be adopted under procedures specified in currently applicable Idaho law.
All services rendered to users outside the corporate limits shall be one and
one-half (11/2) times the rate set forth in said schedule to be adopted by the
city council. (Ord. 129, 5-27-1998)
6-3-6: DELINQUENT BILLS:
   A.   Date Of Delinquency: All bills for city utilities are due and payable
on or before the fifteenth of the month in the month which they are issued, and
shall be delinquent at the close of office hours on said day; except if such
fifteenth day of the month falls on a legal holiday or a nonbusiness day, then
such bill shall be delinquent at the close of office hours of the next
succeeding business day. If not paid before delinquency, a penalty established
by the city council in the same manner that water and sewer rates are
established shall be added to said amount due on each individual delinquent
account.
   B.   Water Service Discontinued; Payment Agreements:
      1.   When city utility bills become sixty (60) days overdue (2 months
from the date the account became delinquent as specified in subsection A of
this section), the city clerk shall notify the owner of the premises to which
service has been furnished, and also the tenant if the premises are rented, in
writing of such delinquency. The owner or tenant will be given fifteen (15)
days to either pay in full or to negotiate a payment agreement with the water
commissioner or other city council member designated by the mayor to negotiate
such agreements on behalf of the city. If the bill is not paid in full within
fifteen (15) days and no payment agreement has been negotiated, the water will
be shut off.
      2.   The water commissioner, or other city council member designated by
the mayor to negotiate payment agreements on behalf of the city, may extend the
payment period beyond a date specified by the city council for the total bill
or any part of the total bill that is ninety (90) days overdue (3 months from
the date the account became delinquent as specified in subsection A of this
section).
      3.   Payment agreements which extend the payment period beyond ninety
(90) days from the date the account became delinquent as specified in
subsection A of this section must be in writing and must be approved by
majority vote at a regular meeting of the city council. In the event of default
on such an agreement, the water will be shut off.
      4.   The monthly penalty for nonpayment specified in subsection A of this
section will continue to be added to all accounts shut off for nonpayment until
payment is made in full.
      5.   Fees for opening and closing water services identical to those
required under section
6-3-2 and subsection
6-3-4B of this chapter will be added to accounts shut off for nonpayment and
then returned to service after payment is made. (Ord. 129, 5-27-1998)
6-3-7: MALICIOUS OR WILFUL WASTE OF WATER:
It shall be unlawful for any water user to waste water or allow it to be wasted
by imperfect water stops, valves or leaky pipes that are not under the
jurisdiction of the city, or to permit the malicious or wilful consumption of
water, having no beneficial use. The city, based on meter readings, will make a
determination of where water has been wasted and shall notify the user of that
determination. It shall then be the user's responsibility to make the necessary
repairs, or to institute actions that will correct the situation within thirty
(30) days of the city's notification to the user. All costs incurred, including
costs of wasted water and any repairs shall be the responsibility of the user.
(Ord. 105, 3-14-1990)
6-3-8: FAILURE OF WATER SUPPLY:
The city shall not be liable under any circumstances for a deficiency or a
failure in the supply of water whether by the shutting off of the water to make
repairs or connections, or for any cause whatsoever. (Ord. 105, 3-14-1990)
6-3-9: RIGHT TO TURN OFF WATER:
The city reserves the right at any time to shut off the water supply for
repairs, extensions or nonpayment of rates or charges, or for any other
reasonable causes; and the city shall not be responsible for any damage from
bursting pipes or boilers, fixtures, stoppage or interruption of water supply,
or any damage resulting therefrom by reason of the shutting off of water. (Ord.
105, 3-14-1990; amd. 2005 Code)
6-3-10: PIPES AND HYDRANTS:
Pipes and hydrants within any premises shall be kept in good repair and free
from freezing, at the owner's expense, and such owner shall be responsible for
any damage occurring to any leak, break or freezing. (Ord. 105, 3-14-1990)
6-3-11: GROUND WIRE ATTACHMENTS:
All persons are forbidden to attach any ground wire or wires to any plumbing
which is or may be connected to any service connections or main belonging to
the city; and the city will hold the owner of the premises liable for any
damage to the property of the city occasioned by any such ground wire which is
now or may hereafter be attached. The water supplied to such premises may be
disconnected after notice in accordance with subsection
6-3-6B of this chapter until such connection is removed. (Ord. 105, 3-14-1990)
6-3-12: ABANDONED SERVICES:
All service installations connected to the water system that have been
abandoned or that have not been used for five (5) years, or that for any reason
have become useless for further service shall be disconnected at the main by
the city, and all pipe and appurtenances removed shall be the property of the
city. (Ord. 105, 3-14-1990; amd. 2005 Code)
6-3-13: WATER USE LIMITS:
In time of, or in anticipation of scarcity, or when the plant is unable to
furnish a sufficient supply of water for all purposes, the mayor may, by
proclamation, limit the use of water to such extent as may be necessary for the
public good. (Ord. 105, 3-14-1990)
6-3-14: CONNECTIONS OUTSIDE CITY:
There shall be no water lines outside the city limits connected to the city
water mains, except by special permit granted by the city council. (Ord. 105,
3-14-1990)
6-3-15: WATER MAIN EXTENSIONS:
   A.   Extensions Made Other Than By City:
      1.   All water mains to be extended from any existing city water mains to
serve any lot, dwelling or structure shall be installed at the cost and by the
person desiring to obtain water service at said location. Such installations
shall conform in all respects to the specifications and material requirements
of Idaho law.
      2.   No installation shall be deemed complete until inspected, approved
and accepted by the public works superintendent; provided, however, that the
public works superintendent will not accept as final any such installation for
one year after water under pressure has been introduced into the line.
   B.   Ownership And Control: Unless deeded to the city, all existing
extensions of water mains and appurtenant equipment installed by persons other
than the city, shall be and remain the property of such persons and of their
heirs, successors or assigns, and shall be maintained by them. Any repair or
maintenance work done by the city as an accommodation shall not place ownership
in the city. In case a property owner desires to have a water service line
installation, and to be supplied with water through such a privately owned
main, a permit must first be obtained from whomever owns or maintains such
water mains and such permit shall be filed with the city. In case such a permit
cannot be obtained, due to there being no recognized owner or authorized
person, the applicant for service line installation and for water services
shall be obligated to perform his part in maintaining the main and to having
water service discontinued after notice, as provided in subsection
6-3-6B of this chapter, if the main is not properly maintained. (Ord. 105, 3-
14-1990)
6-3-16: SUBDIVISION INSTALLATIONS:
   A.   Whenever any person subdivides, develops, or builds upon any property
within the city and the proper development of the property shall require the
installation of water mains, such person seeking approval of the subdivision or
development of the property shall have installed such mains at the cost of the
person requiring the installation of water mains, and shall conform in all
respects to the specifications and material requirements of the Idaho standards
for public works construction.
   B.   No installation shall be deemed complete until inspected, approved and
accepted by the public works superintendent; provided, however, that the public
works superintendent will not accept as final any such installation for
maintenance for one year after acceptance of the subdivision by the city. (Ord.
105, 3-14-1990; amd. 2005 Code)
6-3-17: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Violations: It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Violate any provision of this chapter.
      2.   Tamper with, alter or injure any part of the city waterworks or
water supply system, any meter or shutoff box.
      3.   Use any water for sprinkling or commercial purposes during the
progress of any fire in the city, and such sprinkling and commercial uses shall
be immediately stopped when an alarm of fire is sounded in any part of the
city, and shall not be begin again until the fire has been extinguished.
      4.   Reconnect to the city water system after having been shut off for
any reason, without first paying any required hookup fee, reconnection fees,
past due water bills or any other charges levied by the city.
   B.   Penalties: Any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be
punishable as a misdemeanor, and upon conviction any such person shall be fined
as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 105, 3-14-1990; amd. 2005 Code)
6-3-18: WATER WELLS:
   A.   Definition: For purposes of this section, "domestic water" means water
for household needs, watering of animals and water for irrigation purposes.
   B.   Applicability: This section shall be applicable in the city after its
effective date.
   C.   Prohibitions:
      1.   New Wells: It shall be unlawful for any person to dig, drill or to
have dug or drilled a well or otherwise procure domestic waters for consumption
of themselves or others or irrigation, within the city after the effective date
hereof.
      2.   Existing Wells: Any person owning property upon which there exists
an already existing domestic water well will, at no time, connect any piping
from that well to piping which is connected to the city's municipal water
system.
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating the terms of this section after it
becomes effective, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished in
accordance with the punishment terms as are specified in the Idaho Code for
general misdemeanors. Furthermore, the city shall be permitted to seek
injunctive relief to prohibit continued use of any cross connected well, or to
stop the use of any newly dug well; or to stop continued digging thereof; and
to require mandatory capping and sealing of any well dug in violation of the
terms of this section. (Ord. 156, 10-12-2005)
6-3-19: LIEN FOR NON-PAYMENT OF UTILITY BILLS:
Lien: All charges for applications, permits, service connection charges and
water, sewer, wastewater and garbage service provided for by the City of
Kooskia, together with penalties and interests thereon, shall be an automatic
lien upon the property to which such application or permit applies, or to which
such water, sewer, wastewater and garbage service is rendered, respectively,
and shall be superior to all other liens and encumbrances whatsoever except for
general taxes and local special assessments. For any delinquent accounts for
utility services, including water, sewer, wastewater and garbage the City of
Kooskia shall have the legal right to record a lien on the real property
serviced by said delinquent utility user. Said lien shall be valid and
enforceable against the real property serviced by said delinquent utility user.
(Ord. 202, 10-14-2020)
CHAPTER 4
UTILITY BILLS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Property Owner Responsible For Utility Charges
6-4-1: PROPERTY OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR UTILITY CHARGES:
Any charges for use of municipal utilities shall be the legal responsibility of
the property owner of record. From the effective date of this code provision,
each municipal utility account shall be the responsibility of the owner of the
property served by the city. Each property owner shall execute such
documentation as may be required by the city as a condition of receiving
continuing utility service. The city may allow the party responsible for
payment of such utility charges on the date of enactment of this code provision
to remain responsible therefor until payment is deemed uncollectible or until a
new primary payor is proposed. For utility accounts which have been paid by a
tenant, the owner of said property may continue to have the tenant continue to
pay so long as the owner agrees to serve as guarantor of such accounts in the
event of nonpayment by the authorized tenant. If a tenant becomes delinquent in
payment of a utility account such that service is discontinued by the city, no
subsequent tenant shall be authorized to initiate service at such location or
address until all delinquent charges and assessments have been paid in full.
The city clerk is authorized to take such steps as may be necessary to
implement the provisions of this section. (Ord. 136, 11-24-1999)
CHAPTER 5
TREES AND SHRUBS
SECTION:
6-5-1: Obstruction To Public Ways
6-5-2: Injury To Trees And/Or Shrubbery
6-5-3: Trees Outside Of Property Line
6-5-1: OBSTRUCTION TO PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Trees To Be Trimmed: Any owner or occupant of any real property shall
trim all trees on property owned or occupied by him, overhanging any public
thoroughfare, so that the branches thereon will not interfere with pedestrians
or public travel. The height clearance shall be no less than eight feet (8').
(Revised Code 1959; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Hedges And Shrubbery: Any owner or occupant of any real property shall
maintain all hedges and shrubbery adjacent to public sidewalks so that no part
of said hedges and/or shrubbery shall extend over any part of a public sidewalk
in the city. (Revised Code 1959)
6-5-2: INJURY TO TREES AND/OR SHRUBBERY:
It is hereby declared unlawful for any person, not the owner thereof, or
without lawful authority so to do, to wilfully injure, deface, disfigure or
destroy any tree or shrub, or to injure, destroy, cut or pick any flower or
plant, located either on private ground or on any public place or thoroughfare.
(Revised Code 1959)
6-5-3: TREES OUTSIDE OF PROPERTY LINE:
The city council is hereby provided full and complete control over all trees
which are outside the property lines of privately owned real property as
provided in Idaho Code 50-1008. (Revised Code 1959)
CHAPTER 6
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
6-6-1: Purpose
6-6-2: Applicability
6-6-3: Definitions
6-6-4: Cross Connections Prohibited
6-6-5: Installation Of Backflow Prevention Assemblies
6-6-6: Plan Review
6-6-7: Types Of Backflow Prevention Assemblies Required
6-6-8: Location
6-6-9: Installation
6-6-10: Approval Of Assemblies
6-6-11: Termination For Services; Criminal Penalties; Civil Remedies
6-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter, in conjunction with IDAPA 16.01.08 Idaho rules for
public drinking water systems, and section 1003 of the uniform plumbing code,
is to protect the public health by the control and prevention of actual and
potential cross connections by requiring the proper installation and
safeguarding of service lines leading to premises where cross connections exist
or are likely to occur, by periodic inspection and by regulating plumbing
within premises or to the public water system itself. An additional purpose is
to provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross connection
control which will systematically and effectively prevent the contamination or
pollution of all potable water delivered by the water systems of the district.
(Ord. 173, 2-13-2013)
6-6-2: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter applies throughout the city to every premises and the owners and
occupants thereof served by the water system of the city. It applies to all
systems installed prior to or after its enactment, and every owner and occupant
of any premises to all systems installed prior to or after its enactment. Every
owner and occupant of any premises covered by this chapter is responsible for
compliance with terms and shall be strictly liable for all damage incurred as a
result of failure to comply with the express terms and provisions contained
herein. The water operator will administer the provisions of this chapter. Any
deviation, modification, or changes from approved standards must be approved by
the Kooskia city council. (Ord. 173, 2-13-2013)
6-6-3: DEFINITIONS:
AIR GAP (AG) SEPARATION: The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water
to tank, plumbing fixture, or other device and the flood level rim of the
receptacle must be at least double the diameter of the supply pipe measured
vertically above the flood level rim of the vessel. In no case may the gap be
less than one inch (1").
AUXILIARY SUPPLY: Any water source or system other than the city of Kooskia
water system that may be available in the building or on the premises.
BACKFLOW: The flow other than the intended direction of flow, of any foreign
liquids, gases, or substances into the distribution of the public water system.
   Back Pressure: Backflow caused by a pump, elevated tank, boiler, or other
means that could create pressure within the system greater than the potable
water supply system.
   Back Siphonage: A form of backflow due to a negative or subatmospheric
pressure within the water system.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY: An assembly to counteract back pressures or
prevent back siphonage.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical arrangement whereby a public water system,
sewer, drain, conduit, pool, storage reservoir, plumbing fixture, or other
device which contains, or may contain, contaminated water, sewage, or other
waste liquid of unknown or unsafe quality which may be capable of imparting
contamination to the public water system as a result of backflow. Bypass
arrangements, jumper connections, removable sections, swivel or changeover
devices, or other temporary or permanent devices through which, or because of
which, backflow may occur are considered to be cross connections.
DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY (DCVA): An assembly composed of two (2) single,
independently acting check valves, including resilient seated, tightly closing
shutoff valves located at each end of the assembly and equipped with properly
located resilient seated test cocks for testing the water tightness of each
check valve.
PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER BACK SIPHONAGE PREVENTION ASSEMBLY (PVBA): An assembly
containing an independently operating internally loaded check valve and an
independently operating internally loaded air inlet valve located on the
discharge side of the check valve. The assembly is to be equipped with properly
located resilient seated test cocks and tightly closing resilient seated
shutoff valves attached at each end of the assembly. This assembly is designed
to protect against a back siphonage condition only.
REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY (RPBA): An assembly
incorporating two (2) or more check valves and an automatically operating
differential relief valve located between the two (2) checks, two (2) resilient
seated shutoff valves, one located at each end of the assembly and equipped
with properly located resilient seated test cocks for testing. The assembly
must operate to maintain that the pressure between the check valves must be
less than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check valve the
differential relief valve must operate to maintain the reduced pressure by
discharging to the atmosphere thereby providing an atmospheric zone between the
two (2) check valves. (Ord. 173, 2-13-2013)
6-6-4: CROSS CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED:
   A.   All cross connections, whether or not they are controlled by automatic
devices such as check valves or by hand operated mechanisms such as gate valves
or stopcocks, are prohibited.
   B.   Any reinjection of water by individual, commercial, or industrial uses,
to the public water system is specifically prohibited. Water to water and water
to air heat exchangers are considered a cross connection because of health
risks. Any modifications allowing reinjection are prohibited.
   C.   Failure on the part of persons, firms, or corporations, to discontinue
the use of all cross connections is sufficient cause for the immediate
discontinuance of public water services to the premises. (Ord. 173, 2-13-2013)
6-6-5: INSTALLATION OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLIES:
Backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed at the service connection or
within any premises where in the judgment of the water operator the nature and
extent of activity on the premises, or the materials used in connection with
the activities, or materials stored on the premises would present an immediate
and dangerous hazard to health should a cross connection occur, even though
such cross connection does not exist at the time the backflow prevention device
is required to be installed. This includes:
   A.   Premises having auxiliary water supply.
   B.   Premises having internal cross connections that are not correctable or
intricate plumbing arrangements that make it impractical to ascertain whether
or not cross connections exist.
   C.   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross
connections do not exist.
   D.   Premises where materials of a toxic or hazardous nature are handled
such that if back siphonage should occur, a serious health hazard may result.
   E.   The following types of facilities require mandatory service protection,
including, but not limited to:
      1.   Hospitals;
      2.   Laboratories;
      3.   Sewage treatment plants;
      4.   Food or beverage processing plants;
      5.   Chemical plants using a water process;
      6.   Metal plating industries;
      7.   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
      8.   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors;
      9.   Car washes;
      10.   Hot water and steam boilers for individual, commercial and
industrial uses;
      11.   Others specified by the district manager. (Ord. 173, 2-13-2013)
6-6-6: PLAN REVIEW:
All backflow prevention assemblies, which are required to be installed shall be
shown and specified on all required building and engineering plans. Water
operator approval of the intended assembly installation is required prior to
water service being provided by the city. (Ord. 173, 2-13-2013)
6-6-7: TYPES OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLIES REQUIRED:
The type of prevention device required depends on the degree of hazard that
exists:
   A.   An air gap separation or reduced principle backflow prevention assembly
shall be installed where the water supply may be contaminated by sewage,
industrial waste of a toxic nature or other contaminant, which could cause a
health or system hazard.
   B.   In the case of a substance which may be objectionable but not hazardous
to health, an air gap separation or a reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention assembly, or a double check valve assembly shall be installed.
   C.   Lawn sprinkler systems, which are supplied by city water only, shall be
required to have a double check valve backflow prevention assembly, or a
pressure vacuum breaker assembly depending on the design of the sprinkler
system and potential risk to the potable water supply. Backflow prevention
assemblies larger than one inch (1") will submit design and any approval will
be made by the water operator. All backflow prevention assemblies shall be of a
type approved by the Idaho department of health and welfare, division of
environmental quality. (Ord. 173, 2-13-2013)
6-6-8: LOCATION:
Backflow prevention assemblies required by this chapter must be installed at
the meter on metered accounts, at the property line of the premises when meters
are not used, or at a location designated by the water operator so as to be
readily accessible for maintenance and testing, where no part of the device
will be submerged or hidden from proper inspection. (Ord. 173, 2-13-2013)
6-6-9: INSTALLATION:
Backflow prevention assemblies required by this chapter must be inspected and
approved by the city council.
   A.   Acceptable Types: Any protective device required by this chapter shall
be inspected and approved by the city council. A double check valve assembly or
a reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly will be approved if
it has successfully passed performance tests of University Of Southern
California, Foundation For Cross Connection Control And Hydraulic Research, or
other testing laboratories satisfactory to the city council. Backflow
prevention assemblies which are in service but are not listed shall be
permitted to remain in service provided they:
      1.   Were listed on the current approved cross connection control
assembly list at the time they were installed,
      2.   Are properly maintained,
      3.   Are commensurate with the degree of hazard, and
      4.   Are tested and successfully pass the test annually.
When these assemblies are moved, or require more than minimum maintenance, they
shall be replaced by an assembly that is on the current list of approved
assemblies. To maintain their approval status all assemblies must be delivered
to the job site and be installed with the shutoff valves 1 and 2 and test cocks
which are supplied by the device manufacturer. (Ord. 173, 2-13-2013)
6-6-10: APPROVAL OF ASSEMBLIES:
The term "approval assembly" shall mean any backflow prevention assembly, which
has satisfactorily completed laboratory and field test by an independent
laboratory recognized by the department of environmental quality. A backflow
device shall be of the correct type as required by the Idaho department of
environmental quality. A backflow device shall be of the correct type as
required by the city and be selected from the state approved list.
   A.   Testing And Maintenance Of Assemblies: Each backflow prevention
assembly shall be tested to ensure that it functions properly:
      1.   Upon installation.
      2.   After repairs.
      3.   After being relocated, moved, or reinstalled.
      4.   Annually.
The assembly owner shall be notified one month prior to the date for annual
testing. It is then the assembly owner's responsibility to acquire the service
of a certified tester to test the assembly and provide the city a copy of the
test results. If the test indicates the assembly must be repaired, a record of
the repair work and a report of satisfactory final test must be sent to the
city. The annual testing of backflow prevention assemblies must be done prior
to any repair work or flushing of the relief valve, to properly reestablish its
operating status. Failure to test and maintain backflow prevention assemblies
is grounds for the district to discontinue water service. Failure to test and
maintain backflow prevention assemblies is grounds for the city to discontinue
water service. (Ord. 173, 2-13-2013)
6-6-11: TERMINATION FOR SERVICES; CRIMINAL PENALTIES; CIVIL REMEDIES:
The failure of the customer to cooperate in the installation, maintenance, test
or inspection of backflow prevention assemblies required by this chapter is
grounds for termination of water services to the premises. Reconnection of a
service which has been disconnected from the Kooskia city water system for
noncompliance with this chapter shall be a misdemeanor. Each day of a violation
shall be considered a separate offense. Each offense may be punishable by a
fine of up to three hundred dollars ($300.00) and/or one hundred eighty (180)
days in jail. This chapter may also be enforced by appropriate civil action in
a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 173, 2-13-2013)
TITLE 7
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
General Traffic Provisions   1
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Adoption Of State Motor Vehicle Laws
7-1-2: U-Turns Prohibited
7-1-3: Truck Parking
7-1-4: Motor Vehicle Parking
7-1-5: RV Parking
7-1-1: ADOPTION OF STATE MOTOR VEHICLE LAWS:
For the purpose of extending rules and regulations for the use of all streets
and public thoroughfares and all areas of the City, that certain document
identified as the Idaho Motor Vehicle Laws, more particularly, Idaho Code title
49, published by the Department of Law Enforcement, is hereby adopted and the
same is incorporated as an ordinance of the City as fully as if set forth at
length in this section. Copies of said Motor Vehicle Laws shall be kept on file
with the City Clerk. (1983 Code; amd. 2005 Code)
7-1-2: U-TURNS PROHIBITED:
No U-turns shall be permitted upon the streets, alleys and highways within the
City limits, except at intersections. "U-turns" shall be defined as turning a
moving vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction of travel. (Ord. 116,
1-25-1995)
7-1-3: TRUCK PARKING:
   A.   Definitions: The following words and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
      PICKUP TRUCK: Every motor vehicle ten thousand (10,000) pounds gross
weight or less which is designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
      SEMITRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power, designed for carrying
persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed
that some part of its weight and that of its load rests upon or is carried by
the towing vehicle.
      TRUCK: Any vehicle designed and used solely for the purpose of
transporting refuse. Every motor vehicle exceeding ten thousand (10,000) pounds
gross weight designed, used or maintained primarily for the transportation of
property.
      TRUCK TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for
drawing other vehicles but not so constructed as to carry a load other than a
part of the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
   B.   On Street Parking Of Trucks:
      1.   Loaded Trucks: No person shall stop, stand or park a loaded truck,
truck tractor, semitrailer, logging truck or logging truck trailer upon any
City street. Loaded trucks may temporarily park while making deliveries to any
location within the City when such parking is necessary to load or unload, or
to provide any other service, in an expeditious manner. Nor shall any loaded or
unloaded truck, truck tractor, semitrailer, logging truck or logging truck
trailer stop, stand or park on any City streets within the Kooskia City limits
except for the purpose of loading or unloading or when necessitated by an
emergency.
      2.   Stopping, Standing Or Parking Of Trucks, Prohibited In Specified
Places: Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic in
compliance with the law, the directions of a peace officer or traffic control
device, no person shall, stop, stand or park:
         a.   Within forty feet (40') of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         b.   Within twenty feet (20') of a public or private driveway, except
for the owner's driveway;
         c.   On any City street for any longer than twenty four (24) hours at
any one time;
         d.   To park upon a street in such a manner or under conditions that
would prohibit the free movement of other vehicular traffic in said vehicle's
respective traffic lane;
         e.   For the purpose of changing oil, greasing or repairing such
vehicle except for repairs necessitated by any emergency;
         f.   Park more than two (2) tractor-trailer combinations, whether
attached or detached, on a residential lot in a Residentially Zoned District,
provided that parking of said vehicles is accomplished completely off public
right-of-way and entirely on private property, that the vehicles are unladen;
and provided, that the parking thereof is not in violation of any other
ordinance of the City.
   C.   Enforcement, Obedience And Penalty: Any person violating this chapter
shall, for their first violation, be issued a warning.
      Any violation of this chapter for a second or subsequent violation shall
constitute an infraction and be punishable by a fixed penalty of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for each conviction of that infraction hereunder.
      The registered owner of a vehicle, or the person claiming responsibility
for a vehicle, parked in violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be
considered prima facie evidence of the intent to commit a violation of this
chapter.
      Any person violating this chapter including a first offense shall be
given a warning of twenty four (24) hours to move the vehicle off of the City
street. Any registered owner of a vehicle not removed within twenty four (24)
hours is subject to a subsequent violation.
      Vehicles parked in violation of this chapter may be towed pursuant to
provisions of State law or local ordinance. The registered owner of record is
liable for the costs incurred in the removal, storage and disposition of the
vehicle. (Ord. 177, 8-13-2014)
7-1-4: MOTOR VEHICLE PARKING:
   A.   Definitions: The following words and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
      INSURED: Shall mean that the motor vehicle is validly insured according
to Idaho State law.
      LEGALLY REGISTERED: Shall mean that the motor vehicle is validly
registered according to Idaho State law.
      MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled, and for the purpose
of titling and registration meets Federal motor vehicle safety standards as
defined in section 49-107, Idaho Code. Motor vehicle does not include vehicles
moved solely by human power, electric personal assistive mobility devices and
motorized wheelchairs or other such vehicles that are specifically exempt from
titling or registration requirements under title 49, Idaho Code.
      OPERABLE: Shall mean that the engine starts and the motor vehicle can be
moved by the use of engine power.
   B.   On Street Parking Of Motor Vehicle: No person shall park a motor
vehicle upon any City street right-of-way or State road right-of-way within the
City limits of the City of Kooskia unless said vehicle is operable, legally
registered and insured.
   C.   Enforcement, Obedience And Penalty: Any person violating this section
shall, for their first violation, be issued a warning.
      Any violation of this section for a second or subsequent violation shall
constitute an infraction and be punishable by a fixed penalty of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for each conviction of that infraction hereunder.
      The registered owner of a vehicle, or the person claiming responsibility
for a vehicle, parked in violation of the provisions of this section shall be
considered prima facie evidence of the intent to commit a violation of this
section.
      Any person violating this section including a first offense shall be
given a warning of twenty four (24) hours to move the vehicle off of the City
street. Any registered owner of a vehicle not removed within twenty four (24)
hours is subject to a subsequent violation.
      Vehicles parked in violation of this section may be towed. The registered
owner of record is liable for the costs incurred in the removal, storage and
disposition of the vehicle. (Ord. 186, 10-12-2016)
7-1-5: RV PARKING:
   A.   Prohibited: No travel trailer, tent trailer, motor home, fifth wheel
trailer, or recreational vehicle, occupied or to be occupied, except as herein
otherwise provided, shall be parked outside of an established trailer court or
a mobile home subdivision in the City.
   B.   Emergency Or Temporary Parking: Emergency or temporary stopping or
parking is permitted on any street, alley or highway for a period of not more
than twenty four (24) hours, subject to any other and further prohibitions,
regulations or limitations imposed by traffic and parking regulations. This
shall also include visiting friends or relatives wishing to park their travel
trailer, tent trailer, motor home, fifth wheel trailer or recreational vehicle
on someone's private lot, the time limit for such parking not to exceed two (2)
weeks.
   C.   Storage Of Unoccupied Unit: One unoccupied camper, camp trailer, travel
trailer, tent trailer, motor home, fifth wheel trailer, or recreational vehicle
may be stored by the owner thereof on his residence lot. The unoccupied unit
may be parked along the right-of-way in front of the owner's residence as long
as it is at least four feet (4') from the edge of the traveled portion of the
roadway. Subject to removal for maintenance upon request of the City.
   D.   Storage Of Occupied Unit: Upon application and approval by the Kooskia
City Council, one occupied camper, camp trailer, travel trailer, tent trailer,
motor home, fifth wheel trailer, or recreational vehicle may be stored by the
owner thereof on his residence lot. However the occupied unit must be their
primary residence and such unit must be hooked up to City water and sewer.
   E.   Exemptions From Provisions:
      1.   These provisions shall not apply or affect new or used travel
trailers, tent trailers, motor homes, fifth wheel trailers, or recreational
vehicles stored or placed on lots that have been previously approved by the
Kooskia City Council. Said units shall be considered "grand-fathered" in.
      2.   These provisions shall not apply or affect new or used travel
trailers, tent trailers, motor homes, fifth wheel trailers, or recreational
vehicles stored or placed on sales lots that do not pose a safety hazard.
   F.   Penalties: Any violation of the provisions of this section shall be
punishable as a misdemeanor, and upon conviction any such person shall be fined
as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 191, 1-10-2018)
APPENDICES
Vacating Streets   A
Miscellaneous Ordinances   B
APPENDIX A
VACATING STREETS
Ordinance 3, passed November 3, 1959
Section 1: It is hereby ordered that the said street between block sixteen (16)
and twenty five (25) of the Riverside addition to the city of Kooskia, as shown
by the recorded plat in the recorder's office of Idaho County, state of Idaho,
more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the southwest corner of lot seven (7), block sixteen (16),
Riverside addition to the city of Kooskia, thence along the southern boundary
of said block sixteen (16) to the southeast corner of lot twelve (12) of said
block sixteen (16) of the Riverside addition; thence at right angles in a
southerly direction a distance of sixty feet (60') to the northeast corner of
lot one (1) of block twenty five (25) Riverside addition to the city of
Kooskia; thence at right angles along the northern boundary of said block
twenty five (25) to the northwest corner of lot six (6) of said block twenty
five (25), Riverside addition to the city of Kooskia; thence at right angles in
a northerly direction a distance of sixty feet (60') to the southwest corner of
lot seven (7), block sixteen (16), Riverside addition to the city of Kooskia,
which is the place of beginning;
be and the same is hereby vacated and the vacated property to revert to the
property of the abutting property owners.
Ordinance 13, passed November 8, 1962
Section 1: It is hereby ordered that the said street known and designated as
Park Avenue from the east side of Idaho Street to the west side of Fountain
Street, as shown on the recorded plat in the office of the recorder of Idaho
County, state of Idaho, more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the southwest (SW) corner of block sixteen (16), Riverside
addition to the city of Kooskia, thence east (E) along the southern (S)
boundary of block sixteen (16) and block seventeen (17) to the southeast (SE)
corner of block seventeen (17); thence at right angles, south (S), a distance
of sixty (60) feet to the northeast (NE) corner of block twenty four (24);
thence at right angles in a westerly (W) direction along the northern (N)
boundaries of blocks twenty four (24) and twenty five (25) to the northwest
(NW) corner of block twenty five (25); thence at right angles in a northerly
(N) direction a distance of sixty (60) feet to the southwest (SW) corner of
block sixteen (16), which is the point of beginning;
be and the same is hereby vacated so that the vacated property reverts to the
property of the abutting property owner, saving and excepting that the said
city retains a permanent easement and right of way to the city's water tank at
all times.
Ordinance 17, passed November 19, 1963
Section 1: It is hereby ordered that said street known and designated as Hill
Street, in the First addition to the city of Kooskia, shown by the recorded
plat in the office of the recorder of Idaho County, state of Idaho, more
particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the southwest corner of lot 15, block M, First addition to the
city of Kooskia, thence in a northerly (N) direction along the western
boundaries of lot 15 through 27 to a point where the eastern boundary of the
said Hill Street intersects the southern boundaries and the public road running
east and west through lot 27, block M of First addition to the city of Kooskia;
thence at right angles along the southern boundary of the said public road a
distance of 60 feet to a point where the said public road intersects the
eastern boundary of lot 2, block N, of the First addition to the city of
Kooskia; thence at right angles in a southerly direction down the western
boundary of lots 2 through 9, block N, First addition to the city of Kooskia,
which is also the western boundary of Hill Street, to the southeast corner of
lot 9, block N, First addition to the city of Kooskia; thence at right angles
in an eastern direction a distance of 60 feet, to the southwest corner of lot
15, block M, First addition to the city of Kooskia, which is the point of
beginning;
be and the same is hereby vacated and that portion of Hill Street above
described being so vacated, reverts to the property of the abutting property
owners.
Section 2: That the mayor and council of the city of Kooskia be hereby
authorized and directed to execute the necessary deed of conveyance to said
property owners.
Ordinance 19, passed September 1, 1964
Section 1: It is hereby ordered that the following described portion of
Fountain Street, to-wit: that portion which lies south of Winter Street and
north of Pine Street, Riverside addition to the city of Kooskia, according to
the plat thereof, now of record in the office of the county recorder of Idaho
County, Idaho, be and the same is hereby vacated.
Section 2: It is hereby ordered that the following described portion of the
alley existing and platted between Fountain Street and Clearwater Street, to-
wit:
The west 125 feet of said alley in block 6 which alley lies east of Fountain
Street and west of Clearwater Street, Riverside addition to the city of
Kooskia, according to the plat thereof, now of record in the office of the
county recorder of Idaho County, Idaho,
be and the same is hereby vacated.
Section 3: That the mayor and clerk of the city of Kooskia be, and they are
hereby authorized to execute and deliver an instrument of conveyance thereto,
to abutting property owners.
Ordinance 20, passed November 16, 1964
Section 1. It is hereby ordered that the following described portion of the
alley in block 27, Riverside addition to the city of Kooskia, to-wit:
That portion of alley, which runs east and west, between Jackson Street on the
east and Main Street on the west, in block 27, Riverside addition to the city
of Kooskia, Idaho, according to the plat thereof now of record in the office of
the county recorder of Idaho County, Idaho,
be and the same is hereby vacated.
Section 2. That the mayor and clerk of the city of Kooskia be, and they are
hereby authorized to execute and deliver an instrument of conveyance thereto,
to all abutting property owners.
Ordinance 31, passed June 2, 1969
Section 1. It is hereby ordered that the following described portion of the
alley in block 19, Riverside addition to the city of Kooskia, to-wit:
That portion of the alley which runs east and west, between State Highway No.
13 and Clearwater Street in block 19, of Riverside addition to the city of
Kooskia, according to the plat thereof, now of record in the office of the
county recorder of Idaho County, Idaho,
be and the same is hereby vacated, which vacation is deemed expedient for the
public good.
Section 2. That the mayor and clerk of the city of Kooskia be, and they are
hereby authorized to execute and deliver an instrument of conveyance thereto,
to the adjacent property owners, one half to each side thereof.
Ordinance 32, passed July 7, 1969
Section 1. It is hereby ordered that the following described alley in block 20
of Riverside addition to the city of Kooskia, Idaho to-wit:
The alley which runs east and west between West Street, and State Highway 12
Alternate, in block 20, of Riverside addition to the city of Kooskia, according
to the plat thereof, now of record in the office of the county recorder of
Idaho County, Idaho,
be and the same is hereby vacated, which vacation is deemed expedient for the
public good.
Section 2. That the mayor and clerk of the city of Kooskia be, and they are
hereby authorized to execute and deliver an instrument of conveyance thereto,
to the adjacent property owners, one half to each side thereof.
Ordinance 51, passed April 1, 1974
Section 1. That a portion of the Riverside Avenue of the city of Kooskia,
situated between the west boundary line of Idaho Street and the west boundary
line of Fountain Street, be and the same is hereby vacated, provided however,
the city of Kooskia does hereby reserve and retain for its use and public
benefit an easement and right of way ten feet (10') in width along and across
said vacated street to its water wells located north of the north boundary line
of said Riverside Avenue.
Section 2. Those property owners contiguous to the boundaries of the portion of
Riverside Avenue, so vacated, shall pay to the city the cost of publication and
recordation of this ordinance.
Ordinance 58, passed March 15, 1976
Section 1. That a portion of an alley which runs east and west between
Clearwater Street and State Highway U.S. #12, Alternate, in blocks 21 and 22,
of the Riverside addition to the city of Kooskia, according to a plat thereof,
now of record in the office of the county recorder of Idaho County, Idaho be
and the same is hereby vacated.
Section 2. Those property owners contiguous to the boundaries of the portion of
the alley, so vacated shall pay to the city the cost of publication and
recordation of this ordinance.
Ordinance 60, passed April 5, 1976
Section 1. That a portion of an alley which runs east and west between
Clearwater Street and Fountain Street, all in block 18 of the Riverside
addition to the city of Kooskia, according to a plat thereof now of record in
the office of the county recorder of Idaho County, Idaho be and the same is
hereby vacated.
Section 2. Those property owners contiguous to the boundaries of the portion of
the alley, so vacated, shall pay to the city the cost of publication and
recordation of this ordinance.
Ordinance 61, passed June 7, 1976
Section 1. That a portion of an alley which runs east and west between
Clearwater Street and Hill Street in block 10 of the Riverside addition to the
city of Kooskia, according to a plat thereof, now of record in the office of
the county recorder of Idaho County, Idaho, be and the same is hereby vacated.
Section 2. Those property owners contiguous to the boundaries of the portion of
the alley, so vacated, shall pay to the city the cost of publication and
recordation of this ordinance.
Ordinance 69, passed February 5, 1979
Section 1. It is hereby ordered that the portions of real property previously
plotted as certain streets and alleys to the city of Kooskia, in the Riverside
subdivision thereof, be vacated and returned to the property owners, adjacent
thereto, which parcels are particularly described as follows, to-wit:
   A.   Highland Avenue from the east right of way line, of State Highway No.
13 eastward to the east right of way line of Idaho Street, such road being
sixty feet (60') in width.
   B.   The alley bisecting blocks 25, 26 and 27 of said Riverside addition,
starting on the east right of way line of Highway No. 13, continuing eastward
to the east right of way line of Idaho Street, such alley being fifteen feet
(15') in width.
   C.   Park Avenue, from the east right of way line of State Highway No. 13,
thence easterly to the east right of way line of Idaho Street being sixty feet
(60') in width.
   D.   The alley bisecting blocks 14, 15 and 16, of said Riverside addition
starting with the east right of way line of State Highway No. 13, then easterly
to the east right of way line of Idaho Street being fifteen feet (15') in
width.
   E.   Jackson Street as follows:
      1.   From the north right of way line of Highland Avenue northward to the
south right of way line of the alley bisecting blocks 25, 26 and 27;
      2.   From the north right of way line of the alley bisecting blocks 25,
26 and 27 to the south right of way line of Park Avenue;
      3.   From the north right of way line of Park Avenue to the south right
of way line of the alley bisecting blocks 14, 15 and 16 Riverside addition; all
of the portions of Jackson Street being sixty feet (60') in width.
   F.   Idaho Street as follows:
      1.   From the north right of way line of Highland Avenue northward to the
south right of way line of the alley bisecting blocks 25, 26 and 27;
      2.   From the north right of way line of the alley bisecting blocks 25,
26 and 27 to the south right of way line of Park Avenue;
      3.   From the north right of way line of Park Avenue to the south right
of way line of the alley bisecting blocks 14, 15 and 16 Riverside addition; all
of the portions of Idaho Street being sixty feet (60') in width.
Section 2. That the mayor and city clerk of the city of Kooskia, are hereby
authorized and directed to execute the necessary deed of conveyance to the
adjacent property owners, as are shown on the deed records of Idaho County,
Idaho, as of the date of the passage of this ordinance, such conveyance to be
subject to permanent easements and rights of way for existing city water and
sewer systems.
Section 3. The petitioners shall pay to the city the cost of publication and
recordation of this ordinance.
Ordinance 73, passed January 7, 1980
Section 1: It is hereby ordered that that certain alley which runs east and
west between Fountain Street and State Street, all in block 17 of the Riverside
addition to the city of Kooskia, according to the recorded plat thereof be and
the same is hereby vacated.
Section 2: That the mayor and city clerk of the city of Kooskia, are hereby
authorized and directed to execute the necessary deed of conveyance to the
adjacent property owners, as are shown on the deed records of Idaho County,
Idaho, as of the date of the passage of this ordinance, such conveyance to be
subject to permanent easements and rights of way for existing city water and
sewer systems.
Section 3: That all ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are
hereby repealed.
Section 4: That this ordinance shall take effect and be in full force and
effect upon its passage, approval and publication.
Section 5: The petitioners shall pay to the city the cost of publication and
recordation of this ordinance.
Ordinance 74, passed January 21, 1980
Section 1: It is hereby ordered that Mill Street which runs between block 21
and block 22, from Park Avenue to Highland Avenue, all in the Riverside
addition to the city of Kooskia, according to the recorded plat thereof be and
the same is hereby vacated.
Section 2: That the mayor and city clerk of the city of Kooskia, are hereby
authorized and directed to execute the necessary deed of conveyance to the
adjacent property owners, as are shown on the deed records of Idaho County,
Idaho, as of the date of the passage of this ordinance, such conveyance to be
subject to permanent easements and rights of way for existing city water and
sewer systems.
Section 3: That all ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are
hereby repealed.
Section 4: That this ordinance shall take effect and be in full force and
effect upon its passage, approval and publication.
Section 5: The petitioners shall pay to the city the cost of publication and
recordation of this ordinance.
Ordinance 76, passed June 2, 1980
Section 1. It is hereby ordered that certain portion of Idaho Street from
Broadway Street south to the alley which bisects lots 15 and 16, Riverside
addition to the city of Kooskia, Idaho County, Idaho, according to the recorded
plat thereof be, and the same is vacated.
Section 2. That the mayor and city clerk of the city of Kooskia, are hereby
authorized and directed to execute the necessary deeds of conveyance to the
adjacent property owners, as are shown on the deed records of Idaho County,
Idaho, as of the date of the passage of this ordinance, such conveyance to be
subject to permanent easements and rights of way for existing city water and
sewer systems.
Section 3. That all ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are
hereby repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in full force and
effect upon its passage, approval and publication.
Section 5. The petitioners shall pay to the City the cost of publication and
recordation of this ordinance.
Ordinance 82, passed March 24, 1982
Section 1. It is hereby ordered that certain portion of Mill Street that lies
between block 19, Lot 12, and block 20, Lot 7, from Park Avenue to alternate
Route 13, in east Kooskia, Riverside Addition to the City of Kooskia, Idaho
County, Idaho, according to the recorded plat thereof be, and the same hereby
is, vacated.
Section 2. That the Mayor and City Clerk of the City of Kooskia, are hereby
authorized and directed to execute the necessary deed of conveyance to the
adjacent property owners, as are shown on the deed records of Idaho County,
Idaho, as of the date of the passage of this ordinance, such conveyance to be
subject to permanent easements and rights of way for existing City water and
sewer systems.
Section 3. That all ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are
hereby repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in full force and
effect upon its passage, approval and publication.
Section 5. The petitioners shall pay to the City the cost of publication and
recordation of this ordinance.
Ordinance 86, passed May 25, 1983
Section 1. That a portion of Riverside Avenue of the City of Kooskia, Idaho,
situated between the west boundary line of Idaho Street to the west boundary
line of State Street; thence from the east boundary line of State Street to the
west boundary line of Fountain Street, be and the same is hereby vacated.
Section 2. That the Mayor and City Clerk of the City of Kooskia are hereby
authorized and directed to execute the necessary deed of conveyance to the
adjacent property owners, as are shown on the deed records of Idaho County,
Idaho, as of the date of the passage of this ordinance, such conveyance to be
subject to permanent easements and rights of way for existing City water and
sewer systems.
Section 3. That all ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are
hereby repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in full force and
effect upon its passage, approval and publication.
Section 5. That the City shall pay the cost of publication and recordation of
this ordinance.
Ordinance 102, passed June 1989
Section 1. It is hereby ordered that that certain portion of Park Avenue that
lies between block 20, Lots 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12, and block 21, Lots 1, 2 and
3, from Business Highway 12 to West Street in east Kooskia, Riverside addition
to the City of Kooskia, Idaho County, Idaho, according to the recorded plat
thereof be, and the same hereby is vacated.
Section 2. That the Mayor and the City Clerk of the City of Kooskia, are hereby
authorized and directed to execute the necessary deed of conveyance to the
adjacent property owners, as are shown on the deed records of Idaho County,
Idaho, as of the date of the passage of this ordinance, such conveyance to be
subject to permanent easements and rights of way for existing City water and
sewer systems.
Section 3. That all ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are
hereby repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in full force and
effect upon its passage, approval and publication.
Section 5. The petitioners shall pay to the City the cost of publication and
recordation of this ordinance.
Ordinance 178, passed April 8, 2015
Section 1. That a portion of an alley located between Pine Avenue and Winter
Avenue east off of Clearwater Street between Lots 4, 5, and 6 of block 7 and T-
20, Riverside addition to the City of Kooskia, Idaho County, State of Idaho, be
and the same is hereby vacated. Said vacated alley shall be deeded by the City
of Kooskia to the property owners, Gail Guetschow, Cleo Sue Bennett and Dena
Rae Jurries.
Section 2. Those property owners contiguous to the boundaries of the portion of
the property so vacated, shall pay to the City the cost of publication and
recordation of this ordinance.
Ordinance 183, passed May 31, 2016
SECTION 1. The City of Kooskia does hereby vacate those partial streets of
First Avenue, First Street and Esther Street, within the Original Town of
(Stuart) Kooskia (Book of Plats page 42) and Sunnyside Addition (Book 2 of
Plats page 9) all within section 5, T 32 N, R 4 E, B.M., City of Kooskia, Idaho
County, State of Idaho. Said partial streets being described in the attached
exhibit "A". Said vacated partial streets shall be deeded by the City of
Kooskia to the property owner, Mark Trenary. However, the City of Kooskia does
hereby reserve and retain for its use and public benefit an easement over said
above described partial streets for any utility purposes, including water and
sewer.
SECTION 2: Pursuant to an agreement the City of Kooskia shall pay the cost of
publication and recordation of this ordinance.
Ordinance 187, passed June 14, 2017
SECTION 1. That the following streets and alleys located in the City of
Kooskia, Idaho County, State of Idaho, be vacated. Said streets and alleys
being more particularly described as follows, to wit:
See Exhibit "A" attached hereto and incorporated herein as if set forth in
full. See Also Exhibit "B" which is a map illustrating the streets and alleys
to be vacated.
The City Council hereby declares said streets and alleys vacated described in
exhibits "A" and "B".
The City Council deems it to be in the public interest to vacate said streets
and alleys.
SECTION 2. Provided however, the City of Kooskia does hereby reserve and retain
for its use and public benefit an easement over each said street and alley
described in exhibits "A" and "B" for any utility purposes, including water and
sewer.
Ordinance 192, passed February 10, 2018
SECTION 1: That the City of Kooskia hereby deeds its interest in a portion of
South Avenue adjacent to Lot 14 block M, Kooskia First Addition to the
petitioner/property owner, LeaDee Miller and Cody Miller of 513 Suttler Creek
Road, Kooskia, ID 83539.
SECTION 2: Those property owners contiguous to the boundaries of the portion of
the property so vacated, shall pay to the City the cost of publication and
recordation of this ordinance.
Ordinance 193, passed March 14, 2018
SECTION 1: That the City of Kooskia hereby deeds its interest in a portion of
"A" St. (currently "A" Avenue) from the south side of block "E" Lot #26 to the
north side of block "F" Lot #15 according to the official plat of the Town of
Stuart (Kooskia) to the petitioner/property owner, Clonco, Inc.
SECTION 2: Those property owners contiguous to the boundaries of the portion of
the property so vacated, shall pay to the City the cost of publication and
recordation of this ordinance.
Ordinance 197, passed May 8, 2019
Section 1: That the City of Kooskia hereby deeds its interest in the following
property to the petitioners, David and Amy Woods of Kamiah, Idaho, to wit:
Vacated alley located in Block J of the First Addition to the City of Kooskia,
Idaho County, Idaho, as shown by the recorded plat thereof.
Section 2: Those property owners contiguous to the boundaries of the portion of
the property so vacated, shall pay to the City the cost of publication and
recordation of this ordinance.
Ordinance 200, passed December 11, 2019
Section 1: That the western half (30 ft) portion of Jackson Street (Stub) from
south right-of-way line of Highway 13 (Business Loop) to the south right-of-way
line of the Alley bisecting Blocks 14, 15 and 16 Riverside Addition to the City
of Kooskia, Idaho County, State of Idaho, be and the same is hereby vacated.
Said vacated property shall be deeded by the City of Kooskia to the property
owner, BRANDT LIVING TRUST, R. SKIPPER BRANDT. However, the City of Kooskia
does hereby reserve and retain for its use and public benefit an easement over
said prope1ty for any utility purposes, including water and sewer.
Section 2: The property owner submitting the petition to vacate shall pay to
the City the cost of publication and recordation of this ordinance.
Ordinance 208, passed October 12, 2022
Section 1: That portion of Fountain Street located in the Riverside Addition to
the City of Kooskia, adjacent to Lots 1 and 12 of Block 17, and Lots 6 and 7 of
Block 18, Kooskia, Idaho County, State of Idaho, be and the same is hereby
vacated. Said vacated property shall be deeded by the City of Kooskia in the
following manner, to wit:
   Half to Michael S. Dominguez, the property owner of Lots 1 and 12 of Block
17, and
   Half to Bryan D. Medsker, the property owner of Lots 6 and 7 of Block 18.
   However, the City of Kooskia does hereby reserve and retain for its use and
public benefit an easement over said property for any utility purposes,
including water and sewer.
   Providing reciprocal access easements between the property owner of Lots 1
and 12 of Block 17 and the property owner of Lots 6 and 7 of Block 18.
Section 2: The property owner submitting the petition to vacate shall pay to
the City the cost of publication and recordation of this ordinance.
Ordinance 212, passed December 13, 2023
Section 1. Part of Road Avenue adjacent to Lot 14, Block L, First Addition to
Kooskia located in the northwest one-quarter of the southeast one-quarter of
Section 5, Township 32 North, Range 4 East, B.M., City of Kooskia, Idaho
County, Idaho described as follows:
Commencing at the intersection of Depot Street centerline and Road Avenue
centerline marked by a brass capped centerline monument; thence South 87°06'21"
West, along the centerline of Road Avenue, a distance of 164.00 feet to the
TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING; thence South 87°06'21" West, along said centerline, a
distance of 74.00 feet to a point of curve to the right having a radius of
40.00 feet and a central angle of 90°00'00"; thence Northwesterly along the
arc, a distance of 62.83 feet to the southwest comer of Lot 14, Block L, marked
by a rebar; thence North 87°06'21" East, along the south line of said Lot 14, a
distance of 114.00 feet to the southeast comer of said Lot 14, marked by a
rebar; thence South 02°53'39" East, a distance of 40.00 feet to the TRUE POINT
OF BEGINNING of Block 17 and the property owner of Lots 6 and 7 of Block 18, be
and the same is hereby vacated. Said vacated property shall be deeded by the
City of Kooskia in the following manner, to wit:
   All to Three Amigo's Development, LLLP, the property owner of real property
   However, the City of Kooskia does hereby reserve and retain for its use and
public benefit an easement over said properly for any utility purposes,
including water and sewer.
Section 2. The property owner submitting the petition to vacate shall pay to
the City the cost of publication and recordation of this ordinance.
APPENDIX B
MISCELLANEOUS ORDINANCES
Ordinance 89, passed February 22, 1984
Section 1. Pursuant to Idaho Code 50-1403 the city hereby declares an intention
to sell certain real property described as follows:
Beginning at the SE. corner of lot 20, block F, city of Kooskia, Idaho County,
Idaho, thence west along the south line of said lot 20, 170 feet to a point
along the south fork of the Clearwater River; thence south 24 feet to a point;
thence east 170 feet to a point; thence north 24 feet to the SE corner of lot
20, the true point of beginning.
Section 2. Said real property is not now nor has it been used for public
purposes.
Section 3. Said real property is subject to all existing easements and rights
of way for water, sewer and other utility services described and identified on
the recorded plat.
Section 4. Said real property shall be sold at public auction to the highest
bidder pursuant to Idaho Code 50-1404.
Section 5. The sale of the above described real property shall take place on
April 25, 1984 at the Kooskia, Idaho, city hall at 7:30 P.M.
Ordinance 94, passed July 15, 1986
An ordinance providing for the exchange of land between the city of Kooskia and
Abie O. Welch and Mary Welch, husband and wife, and Lawrence L. Lyons and Jenny
Lyons, husband and wife, all of Kooskia, Idaho, providing for the city of
Kooskia to receive the property as described in this ordinance.
Ordinance 106, passed May 8, 1991
An ordinance of the city of Kooskia, of Idaho County, Idaho, specifying and
adopting a plan for the acquisition, construction and installation of
improvements and betterments to the wastewater treatment facilities of the
city; declaring the estimated costs; authorizing the issuance and sale of its
sewer revenue bond, series 1991, in the principal amount of $175,000; providing
for the registration of said bond; providing for the collection, handling, and
disposition of revenue; specifying the date, form and maturity of said bond;
establishing and adopting certain funds and accounts; providing for redemption
of the bond; providing for additional bonds; approving the sale of the bond to
the United States; providing certain covenants with respect to federal tax law;
providing for the effective date of this ordinance; and providing for other
matters properly relating thereto.
Ordinance 107, passed May 8, 1991
An ordinance declaring an intent to sell real property belonging to the city of
Kooskia.
Ordinance 109, passed February 12, 1992
An ordinance of the city of Kooskia, of Idaho County, Idaho, specifying and
adopting a plan for the acquisition, construction and installation of
improvements and betterments to the wastewater treatment facilities of the
city; declaring the estimated cost; authorizing the issuance and sale of its
sewer revenue bond, series 1992, in the principal amount of $175,000; providing
for the registration of said bond; providing for the collection, handling, and
disposition of revenue; specifying the date, form and maturity of said bond;
establishing and adopting certain funds and accounts; providing for redemption
of the bond; providing for additional bonds; approving the sale of the bond to
the United States; providing certain covenants with respect to federal tax law;
providing for the effective date of this ordinance; and providing for other
matters properly relating thereto.
Ordinance 112, passed May 11, 1994
An ordinance declaring an intent to sell real property belonging to the city of
Kooskia.
Ordinance 120, passed January 10, 1996
An ordinance of the city of Kooskia, Idaho County, Idaho, pursuant to Idaho
Code 67-6526, adopting a map identifying the area of city impact with the
unincorporated area of Idaho County, Idaho, providing for severability;
providing a savings clause; repealing all ordinances and parts of ordinances in
conflict herewith; and providing an effective date hereof.
Ordinance 121, passed January 10, 1996
An ordinance defining and establishing a geographical area of city impact for
the city of Kooskia, Idaho, identifying the comprehensive plan that shall apply
within the established area of city impact; identifying the subdivision and
zoning ordinances that shall apply within the established area of impact;
identifying methods and procedures for application, administration and
enforcement of the comprehensive plan and ordinances that shall apply within
the established area of city impact; establishing an effective date pursuant to
Idaho Code 67-6526.
Ordinance 124, passed August 14, 1996
An ordinance of the city of Kooskia, Idaho County, Idaho, providing for the
exchange of certain real property between the city and Robert E. Lee and
Roberta Joy Lee, husband and wife, as described in this ordinance, and
providing for an effective date hereof pursuant to Idaho Code 50-1405.
Ordinance 125, passed August 14, 1996
An ordinance of the city of Kooskia, Idaho County, Idaho, providing for the
exchange of certain real property between the city and Raymond L. Wohlsein and
Pamela J. Wohlsein, husband and wife, as described in this ordinance, and
providing for an effective date hereof pursuant to Idaho Code 50-1405.
Ordinance 131, passed November 11, 1998
An ordinance creating local improvement district no. 1 of the city of Kooskia,
of Idaho County, Idaho; describing and setting forth the boundaries of said
district; providing for the improvements to be made therein; authorizing the
advertising for bids for said work as provided by law; providing for the
payment of costs and expenses of said improvements to be assessed against the
property within the district benefited thereby and the method of assessment;
providing for the issuance of local improvement district bonds and warrants;
providing for the publication of a summary of this ordinance; providing for a
suspension of the rules; and providing for other matters properly relating
thereto.
Ordinance 137, passed July 12, 2000
An ordinance of the city of Kooskia, Idaho County, Idaho, desiring to sell
property described in exhibit "A" attached to ordinance 137 and commonly
referred to as the "Riverview" property.
 
Ordinance 138, passed July 12, 2000
An ordinance of the city of Kooskia, Idaho County, Idaho, placing restrictions
on the use of property described in ordinance no. 137 and commonly referred to
as the "Riverview" property.
Repealed by Ord. 206, 6-30-2022
Ordinance 139, passed August 9, 2000
An ordinance of the city of Kooskia, Idaho County, Idaho, approving and
confirming the assessment roll of its local improvement district no. 1 for the
construction and installation of certain street improvements within the limits
of local improvement district no. 1; providing for assessments and for the
issuance of bonds; creating certain funds and accounts and providing for
certain covenants with regard thereto; providing for the appeal procedure;
providing for the publication of a summary of this ordinance; and providing for
other matters properly relating thereto.
Ordinance 141, passed September 27, 2000
An ordinance of the city of Kooskia, Idaho County, Idaho, declaring the cost of
making certain street, sidewalk and storm water improvements within the
boundaries of local improvement district no. 1 of the city; authorizing the
issuance and sale of local improvement district no. 1 bonds, series 2000, in
the aggregate principal amount of $148,090.47; providing the form, terms,
rates, maturity, conditions and covenants of said bonds; providing for the
disposition of the proceeds of their sale; providing for optional redemption of
such bonds prior to maturity; approving the offer to purchase the bonds;
confirming the sale of such bonds; providing for the effective date of the
ordinance; providing for the publication of a summary of the ordinance; and
providing for other matters properly relating thereto.
Ordinance 172, passed August 8, 2012
An ordinance of the city of Kooskia, Idaho County, Idaho, amending ordinance
no. 148, electric franchise, with Avista Corporation, d/b/a Avista Utilities, a
Washington corporation, to include a franchise fee, and providing an effective
date thereof.
Ordinance 194, passed May 9, 2018
An ordinance of the City of Kooskia, Idaho County, Idaho, desiring to sell
property described in the attached exhibit "A".
Ordinance 198, passed August 14, 2019
An ordinance of the City of Kooskia, Idaho County, Idaho, calling a special
election to be held on November 5, 2019; and providing for the submission to
the qualified electors of the City a proposition authorizing the issuance of
sewer revenue bonds in the principal amount of not to exceed $1,750,000, for
the purpose of acquiring, constructing, replacing and installing certain
additions and betterments to the City's wastewater treatment and collection
system at an estimated total cost of $5,027,000; for public notice of said
election; providing for the appointment of the County Clerk to conduct the
election; providing for the effective date of this Ordinance; and providing for
other matters properly relating thereto.
Ordinance 206, passed June 30, 2022
An ordinance of the City of Kooskia, Idaho County, State of Idaho, repealing
Kooskia City Ordinance No. 138 pertaining to placing restrictions on the use of
property described in Ordinance No. 137 and commonly referred to as the
“Riverview” property; providing that all ordinances in conflict with this
ordinance shall be repealed; providing that the ordinance shall be effective
upon approval and publication as provided by law.
Ordinance 217, passed January 8, 2025
An ordinance of the City of Kooskia providing for its official newspaper, that
being the Idaho County Free Press. providing for the repeal of ordinances or
parts of ordinances in conflict herewith: providing for the ordinance becoming
effective upon its passage, approval, and publication.
